Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Director
Doug Caldwell, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
Eilard Friese, Chairman & Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Michael van Wegen, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst
Steven A. Haywood, Analyst
William Hawkins, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to NN
Group's Analyst Conference Call on its First Quarter 2016 Results. The telephone lines will
be in listen-only mode during the company's presentation. The lines will then be open for
a question-and-answer session. Before handing this conference call over to Mr. Lard
Friese, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of NN Group. Let me ﬁrst give the following statement on
behalf of the company.
Today's comments may include forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding
future developments in NN Group's business, expectations for its future ﬁnancial
performance and any statements not involving historical fact. Actual results may diﬀer
materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and NN Group
assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information or for any other reason. Furthermore, nothing in
today's comments constitutes an oﬀer to sell or a solicitation of an oﬀer to buy any
securities.
Good morning, Mr. Friese, over to you.

Page 1 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yes. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for being on the call. I will start oﬀ today's
presentation by looking at the highlights of the ﬁrst quarter results, as well as discussing
how we are progressing in terms of the strategic priorities that we set ourselves at the
time of the IPO.
Delﬁn Rueda, our Chief Financial Oﬃcer, will then talk you through the ﬁnancial details of
the results at group level and for the individual operating segments, as well as our capital
position. And I will conclude the presentation with a wrap up, after which, we will open
the call for Q&A. We also, as customary, have Doug Caldwell here, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer,
who will help to answer your questions.
Let me now move to slide number three, with some highlights. NN Group's operating
result for the ﬁrst quarter of 2016 was €305 million, which was broadly stable on the same
quarter in 2015. The operating performance of the individual segments showed in next
picture, which Delﬁn will elaborate on later.

Bloomberg Transcript

But let me summarize now by saying that we saw continued strong investment
performance at Netherlands Life and improved results at NN Bank. And this was oﬀset by
lower results at Netherlands Non-Life, Insurance Europe and Asset Management.
Our continuing eﬀorts to drive eﬃciency realized a further reduction in administrative
expenses in Netherlands in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016. Our capital position remains strong,
despite the volatile market conditions in the ﬁrst few months of the year. NN Group
Solvency II ratio was 241%, and free cash ﬂow to the holding was €403 million in the ﬁrst
quarter of 2016. Delﬁn will talk in more detail about our capital position in his part of the
presentation.
Shortly after quarter end on April 14, ING completed its divestment of NN Group with the
sale of its remaining stake. This transaction marked the completion of our journey to
become a stand-alone company. And ﬁnally, I'm pleased to announce today a share
buyback program for up to €500 million to be executed during the coming 12 months.
Let's turn to slide four. A critical component of our stand-alone future is the creation of our
own identity and our brand. We have clearly articulated our purpose, which is to help
people to secure their ﬁnancial futures, and we have deﬁned our values which are; we
care, we are clear, and we commit. These values are commitments not only to our
customers, but to all our stakeholders. The values are embedded in our key processes
and they guide the actions of all our employees throughout the entire organization.
We've spent the past year rebranding our businesses to NN or Nationale-Nederlanden.
And while it takes time for a new name to become an established brand, we've already
seen an increase in our brand awareness in most countries since the new name was
introduced.

Page 2 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

Sponsorships give us the opportunity to engage our clients in our NN brand. One of our
sponsorship areas is sport, with running as the main theme. Running reﬂects our values
and our aim to contribute to people's general health and ﬁnancial well-being. Sponsored
running events so far this year included the Rotterdam Marathon, the City-Pier-City Run in
The Hague, as well as the Urban Trails in Belgium, and the International Alexander the
Great Marathon in Greece. We will be sponsoring a total of 46 running events this year in
Europe and Japan, involving more than 300,000 participants.
On the following slides, I will talk about developments in the various businesses. Slide
number ﬁve. In the Netherlands, our strategy is centered around providing digital,
personal and relevant services with the aim of enhancing customer experience, and let
me give you some examples.
Based on our knowledge of a customer, we can proactively oﬀer services or products that
we believe will ﬁt their needs. We call this, next best actions. Last year, we included
150,000 of these next best actions in our customer conversations, and we are on track to
reach 0.5 million this year. The result is higher satisfaction, lower customer losses, and
increased sales. We followed a similar strategy in pensions, where our new online service
pension assistance provides personalized pension information to customers and noncustomers alike.

Bloomberg Transcript

In non-life, we have recently piloted our Smart Home product that was initiated by our
innovation lab and allows home owners to keep an eye on their houses and also receive
advice on burglary prevention.
We also launched a segmented online campaign for motor insurance oﬀering prospects –
a range of propositions based on price, brand and quality. The campaign is aimed at
customers who are not only interested in low premiums, but also in a quality product. This
is a good example of the ongoing measures we are taking to improve the results of the
non-life business such as the better pricing of risk in the form of diﬀerentiated premium
increases, lowering costs, as well as capturing selected growth opportunities. We
continue to work hard to improve the combined ratio of the non-life business towards our
target of 97% by 2018, and we expect these measures to yield results over time.
Finally, NN Bank is achieving healthy growth in both mortgages and customer savings,
and is now one of the top ﬁve mortgage originators in the Netherlands. Overall, as well as
our ongoing focus on cost and capital management, we continue to innovate and invest
in enabling our Dutch businesses to provide excellent customer experiences, something
we think is essential to the interest of all our stakeholders.
Let's turn to the next slide. The same is true outside of the Netherlands where we
continue to innovate and develop customer propositions. For example, in the last quarter,
we launched our online health product in Greece and our account protection product in
Turkey. In Japan, we continue to see strong sales from the term and income protection
products we launched in 2015.

Page 3 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

We aim to serve our customers through multiple channels. And so, we continually look to
expand and diversify our distribution network. Last week, we announced the acquisition
of Notus Financial Advisors in Poland. This acquisition will further strengthen and diversify
our distribution network in that country with over 350 of Notus' own agents as well as
franchises giving access to 600 ﬁnancial advisors.
Another distribution initiative is the paperless sales process for tied (07:47) agents in
Spain, which has been very successful in increasing customer experience and reducing
new business processing cost. We have recently launched similar digital solutions in
Poland and in the Czech Republic, and we will be launching similar platforms in other
European countries in the coming months.
Our asset management continues to develop and focus on investment propositions in
which it has a competitive advantage, launching its ﬁrst dedicated Green Bond fund this
year and experiencing strong demand for its Dutch residential mortgage fund.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's move to the next slide. Slide number 7 shows our balance sheet metrics. And as
I already mentioned, our capital position remains strong, with NN Group's Solvency II ratio
at 241% and holding company cash capital at €2.1 billion at the end of the ﬁrst quarter of
2016. We believe in disciplined capital management and are committed to our dividend
policy which states that excess capital is expected to be returned to its shareholders in the
most eﬃcient way unless it can be used for value-creating corporate opportunities.
Let me remind you that so far since the IPO and including the proposed 2015 ﬁnal
dividend, we have returned a total of over €1.4 billion to our shareholders in the form of
dividends and share buybacks. In addition, we have announced today that we will execute
an open market share buyback program for a total amount of up to €500 million over the
next 12 months. We intend to cancel all of the shares acquired under this program.
This share buyback program demonstrates our disciplined capital management, as well as
our commitment to returning excess capital to our shareholders. At the same time, we
believe it is essential to maintain a robust capital position and a ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to be
able to pursue value-creating corporate opportunities.
And with that, I would like to hand you over to Delﬁn Rueda.

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Good morning, everyone. NN Group reported a stable operating result
of the ongoing business of €305 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016. The operating result
excludes the result of a Closed Block Variable Annuity business in Japan. As Lard already
mentioned, the operating performance of the individual segments shows a mixed picture.
We saw higher results on Netherlands Life, driven by higher dividends, as well as
improved results on NN Bank. On the other hand, Insurance Europe results were
impacted by regulatory pressures, lower interest rates and equity market depreciation.

Page 4 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

The non-life business was hit by an unfavorable claims experience in disability and
accident. And the asset manager reported lower fees on lower average assets under
management. The decrease in the net result that you can see in the right-hand chart can
be explained by the fact that the ﬁrst quarter last year included a capital gain on the sale
of a large public equity investment. While the current quarter reﬂects a negative result for
Japan Closed Block VA due to higher market volatility. I will cover this last point later in
the presentation.
Before going through individual operating segments, please turn to slide 10, which gives
more details on the cost savings in The Netherlands. As we announced last year, we have
set ourselves a new cost base target in The Netherlands. We aim to reduce the annual
administrative expenses of Netherlands Life, Netherlands Non-life and the holding
entities to €700 million by the end of 2018. This is a reduction of almost 15% compared
with the annual cost base at the end of the third quarter of 2015, when we set this new
expense target.
The expense reduction program is on track. In the ﬁrst quarter 2016, we realized €11
million of additional cost savings, which brings the cost base in the Netherlands down to
€792 million on a last 12 month basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please note that the progress in realizing cost savings may not be linear from quarter-toquarter due to project-related expenses, regulatory pressures, and the need to invest in
our businesses. Improving eﬃciency in The Netherlands remains our priority, and we will
continue to implement a range of initiatives to achieve our target cost savings.
Let's now look at the ﬁrst quarter performance of each individual segment, starting as
usual with Netherlands Life on slide 11. The operating result of Netherlands Life increased
to €177 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016, from €152 million a year earlier. In line with the
long-term trend we have previously ﬂagged, fees and premium-based revenues were
down, due to lower margins in the pension business, as well as individual closed book
run-oﬀ. This was more than oﬀset by a higher investment margin and higher technical
margin.
The current quarter investment margin includes an exceptional dividend of €30 million
from an indirect (13:13) stake in ING Life Korea and private equity dividends of €29 million.
The higher technical margin was supported by a higher mortality result. The current
quarter also reﬂects a €25 million addition to the unit-linked guarantee provision due to
the decrease in interest rates. Finally, as already seen on the previous slide, administrative
expenses decreased compared with the ﬁrst quarter of 2015, supported by lower staﬀ
cost.
I will now turn to slide 12 for the results of Netherlands Non-life. The operating result for
Netherlands Non-life decreased to €9 million, from €24 million for the ﬁrst quarter of
2015. This was due to lower results in disability and accident. The combined ratio
increased to 104%. As mentioned in previous quarters, the results of non-life activities are
volatile by nature, as claim incidents and severity can ﬂuctuate in any quarter.

Page 5 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

Let's look at the two business lines within NN Non-life separately. The ﬁrst quarter
operating result in disability and accident decreased to €11 million from €28 million in the
ﬁrst quarter of 2015. This was largely caused by unfavorable claims experienced in the
individual disability portfolio in the ﬁrst two months of the year. In addition, the ﬁrst
quarter of 2015 included a €9 million positive impact from an IBNR update related to
better expected recovery experienced in the group income protection portfolio. The
disability and accident combined ratio was 103%, compared with 93% in the ﬁrst quarter
of 2015.
The ﬁrst quarter operating result in Property & Casualty improved to a loss of €2 million
from a loss of €5 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015. This improvement reﬂects a higher
operating result in the Fire portfolio due to fewer, larger and weather-related claims in the
current quarter. The operating result in the motor and miscellaneous portfolios decreased
due to the impact of claims from prior accident years. The P&C combined ratio improved
to 105% from 106% in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now have a look to the results of Insurance Europe. Insurance Europe reported a
lower operating result, at €34 million for the ﬁrst quarter of 2016. That compares with €40
million for the same quarter in 2015. This reﬂects a lower investment margin due to lower
investment rates, as well as lower invested volumes.
In addition, the current quarter includes a $4 million provision related to the terrorist
attacks in Belgium. Let me also remind you of the tax on assets of insurance companies
that became eﬀective in Poland as of February 2016. The impact of this tax, which is
reported under administrative expenses, is estimated to be around €5 million on a fullyear basis. The cost/income ratio increased on lower income in combination with higher
administrative expenses.
Moving now to Japan Life on slide 14. The operating result of Japan Life was €67 million in
the ﬁrst quarter of 2016, down from €72 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015. The investment
margin decreased due to lower interest rates on reinvested assets, while DAC
amortization and trail commissions were higher due to higher premium income and
higher surrenders. These were partly oﬀset by higher fees and premium-based revenues,
driven by larger in-force volumes. The cost income ratio improved as a result of the higher
income.
I will turn now to slide 15 and the asset management segment. Total assets under
management increased to €190 billion at the end of the ﬁrst quarter of 2016 compared
with €187 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The increase reﬂects a positive
market impact of €6 billion, partly oﬀset by net outﬂows of €3 billion, mainly in other
aﬃliated and third-party assets. The operating results decreased to €29 million in the ﬁrst
quarter of 2016 from €36 million in the same period last year.
Fees were down on lower average assets under management in the quarter as well as due
to a shift to lower margin assets. Expenses went down, reﬂecting lower volume driven
ﬁxed service fees as well as lower staﬀ expenses. The cost/income ratio is higher, mainly
reﬂecting the lower income.

Page 6 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

The segment Other, which comprises the holding company, their insurance business and
NN Bank is set out on slide 16. The total operating result of the segment Other improved
from a loss of €20 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015 to a loss of €11 million in the ﬁrst
quarter of 2016. This segment mainly comprises the three elements shown in the graph in
this slide.
Let me go through this individually. The improved holding result was mainly driven by
lower cost. The result of NN Bank increased to €30 million in the ﬁrst quarter of this year
from €4 million in the same quarter last year. This increase reﬂects a higher interest
margin and a lower addition to loan loss provisions, partly oﬀset by higher administrative
expenses as we continue to make investments to support the bank's growth. Finally, other
insurance business, the operating result remained relatively stable at €3 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now move on to slide 17 to cover our last segment, Japan Closed Block VA. The
Japan Closed Block VA segment reported a loss before tax of €69 million, down from a
positive result of €16 million in the ﬁrst quarter of 2015. This negative result was mainly
due to a hedge-related loss of €66 million due to the impact of higher global market
volatility in the quarter. As we have mentioned before, this hedge results tend to ﬂuctuate
from quarter-to-quarter and have a negative bias in volatile markets.
As a reminder, the ﬁrst few months of 2016 saw the highest realized volatility for Japanese
equities in the ﬁnancial crisis in 2008 and 2009. Even in this changeable market, the
hedge program that we have in place has remained eﬀective. The ﬁrst quarter of this year
also reﬂects a €16 million increase in technical provisions following a reﬁnement in lapse
assumptions, as well as lower fees and premium-based revenues due to the lower
account value as the portfolio continues to run oﬀ.
That completes the results of our operating segments. On the following slides, I will take
you through the free cash ﬂow and capital position.
On slide 18, you can see the movement in the holding company cash capital during the
ﬁrst quarter of 2016. This increased from almost €2 billion at yearend 2015 to €2.1 billion at
the end of March 2016, and this is despite the €250 million share buyback in January
2016.
The free cash ﬂow during the quarter was €403 million, which included dividends of €390
million received from several subsidiaries, of which €150 million from NN Life and €107
million from NN Non-life.
And ﬁnally, on slide 19, let's look at the developments in NN Group's Solvency II ratio. On
this slide, we show the movement of NN Group's Solvency II ratio, the Own Funds and the
SCR over the ﬁrst quarter of 2016. The left-hand side of the chart ﬁrst shows the impact of
the designation of NN Group as a ﬁnancial conglomerate, meaning that we exclude NN
Bank from both Own Funds and the Solvency Capital Requirement from the 1st of January
2016. This had a positive impact of 6 percentage points and means that NN Group's
Solvency II ratio was 245% at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015 on a pro forma basis.

Page 7 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

The Solvency II ratio reduced to 241% at the end of the ﬁrst quarter mainly due to the
impact of the €250 million share buyback that we executed as part of the ING sell-down in
January. As you can see, in the middle of the chart, there were a number of oﬀsetting
impacts, and I will talk you through each of these, starting with the 2 percentage points
positive impact of the operating return of the Solvency II entities. This column includes the
expected investment spreads over the Solvency II discount rate. The release of the risk
margin and the impact of new business, partly oﬀset by the unwind of the UFR. Any
operating variances from the development of our portfolio versus underlying assumptions
is also included here.
For all these items together, Own Funds increased by approximately €200 million in the
ﬁrst quarter. The main component of this number is the expected investment spreads.
However, this quarter, it also includes beneﬁts of approximately €100 million relating to
the transfers from the separate account to the general account of Netherlands Life which
typically happen in the ﬁrst quarter of the year. The Solvency Capital Requirement
increased due to the shift to higher-yielding assets, partly oﬀset by the runoﬀ of the Japan
Closed Block VA.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next column shows that market variances had a negative impact on the Solvency II
ratio of 6 percentage points, reﬂecting the drop in interest rates, leading to a higher SCR
which was only partly oﬀset by an increase in own funds. The total impact of the
movement of creditor spreads over the quarter was positive which was partly oﬀset by the
negative impact of equity market performance. These movements were more or less in
line with the sensitivities we disclosed with our fourth quarter 2015 results. There were no
material model changes in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016.
The movement of non-life Solvency II entities in the next column mainly reﬂects the
performance of Japan Life in the quarter, net of the change in non-available own funds.
The result of Asset Management is currently only reﬂected once a year after approval of
the annual accounts in the second quarter.
The column level Other shows a positive impact of 2 percentage points on the Solvency II
ratio in the quarter. It includes the impact of using transition as in Belgium and in Spain,
for which we received regulatory approval in the ﬁrst quarter of the year and the change
of both non-available own funds for the Solvency II entities and non-eligible own funds.
Finally, in the last column, you can see that the €250 million share buyback in January had
an impact of 4 percentage points to the ratio.
With that I will pass you back to Eilard for the wrap up.

Eilard Friese
Thank you, Delﬁn. The operating result for the ﬁrst quarter of 2016 remained broadly
stable on last year, even in the challenging environment of low rates and volatile markets.
However, I think it's fair to say that there are several areas that still need more work. We
remain committed to further improving performance within the business and in particular
Page 8 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

at the Non-life and Asset Management units. And at the same time, we will continue to
increase eﬃciency by reducing the cost base in line with our target.
Our capital position is robust and held up well despite the volatile market conditions in
the ﬁrst few months of the year. This strong capital position in combination with a healthy
holding company cash capital allows us to embark on our ﬁrst open market share
buyback program for an amount up to €500 million during the coming 12 months. This
demonstrates our disciplined capital management as well as our commitment to
returning excess capital to shareholders while maintaining a robust capital position and
the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to be able to pursue value-creating corporate opportunities.
I would now like to open the call for your questions and can I kindly request you to limit
the number of your questions to two per person so that everybody gets a chance to
speak. And of course, feel free to come back with a second round of questions if they
have not yet been dealt with.
So with that operator, I'll ask you to open for questions.

Q&A
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Mr. Friese. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now start the question-and-answer
session. The ﬁrst question is from Mr. William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you very much. I think you know guys the capital management message is
great, but there are concerns about your operating performance. So my two questions are
your underlying life invested margin, if I strip out the dividends, seems to be below 95
basis points which is way oﬀ your 105 basis point targets and seems quite materially
weaker than the underlying performance last year. Can you talk about that a little bit? Are
there any negatives that sort of mitigates the highlighted qualities that you've given us?
And what is the risks to the outlook for your Dutch Life investment margin?
And then secondly on slide 19, annualizing the operating capital generation seems to
come up with the ﬁgure that is visibly lower than your basic guidance of the free cash
ﬂow. I think most people are expecting the net operating results to be either side of €1
billion. Annualizing this ﬁgure on slide 19 would be signiﬁcantly lower than that and even
worse if I strip out the €100 million exceptional that Delﬁn just referred to. So at least on
the Solvency II basis, it doesn't look like your capital generation is anything close to the
guidance you've been giving us on an IFRS basis. So could you try and say something to
sort of bridge the gap between those two ﬁgures? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thank you, William. Delﬁn, I think it's – can you take them?

Page 9 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, William. Thank you very much. The guidance that we provided with investment
margin for NN Life was always very carefully and cautious because we said that we were
aiming as a consequence of the lower interest rates to invest prudently into higher
yielding assets and that with that we were intending to compensate the pressure on the
IFRS investment return related to this decrease. And what we said is that we were aiming
to be around the same level as it happens in 2013. And that was, I think if I recall, more
around the 100 basis points, about 105. But nevertheless, every quarter has a slightly
diﬀerent impact and you will see ﬂuctuations on a quarterly basis.
Also, we like it or not, the volatile returns coming from equity, private equity, real estate is
also a part of our investment margin. And as a consequence that's going to drive that
investment return up and down from one quarter to another. So I would not normalize
that much the investment return as you suggested.
Then the question about the capital generation is tricky and complicated one. But I will try
to, if not give you a very precise guidance on the run rate, at least to help you on how to
think about it.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, let me remind everyone that the guidance that we provided was the free cash ﬂow
generation to be in the range of the operating result after tax of the ongoing business and
that we have always said it is an over time target. And we emphasize this again and again
that from one period to another, there's going to be deviations from that.
Nevertheless, I clearly understand they needed to have some understanding on the kind
of normal run rate. So indeed, another probably point of caution that I will make here is
that the movement in the market, particular interest rates, have quite an impact into what
is the capital generation that happens the following quarters. So in Q1, the decrease in
interest rates has obviously – have some negative impact in our solvency ratio, but also
has increased the UFR drag that will be coming in the next quarters.
So that means that, every quarter, if you were to normalize the situation based on that
quarter, that annual rate, or run rate, assuming everything stays the same as that quarter,
changes from one quarter to another. And that can be signiﬁcant, as we have seen with
the decrease of interest rates, is the impact of that will be lower in the quarter to come. In
any event, were I were to look at the ﬁrst quarter, you have around €200 million from
market – from operating return, of which indeed €100 million is something that happened
in the ﬁrst quarter because of the movement of the separate account to the general
account. And that's something that typically happens every ﬁrst quarter. So, you should
take that into account, from that amount in the quarter.
So you take, let's say, the €200 million in the ﬁrst quarter and maybe, as I said before, with
all the caveat, normalizing the ﬁrst quarter of €100 million, I guess you'll get around €500
million coming from the Solvency II entities. But again, I'm saying that already, we have
seen that due to the decrease in interest rates, there is a further drag of the UFR that will
decrease that ﬁgure. And that, again, will change quarter-per-quarter.

Page 10 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

On top of that, you need to add, of course, the capital generated from the non-Solvency II
entities. And this, we have given some guidance that, for investment partners, the capital
generation is expected to be around the net proﬁt of the entity. And then, from Japan
Life, it is slightly more complicated, but you could take both together, maybe, to be
around €150 million or so. There is some contribution, as well, coming from the pension
funds that will come over that period of time.
So, I hope that maybe I gave a very long explanation, but hopefully help you understand
how to think more about the run rate going forward.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

It does. May I just come back? That was very clear. Thank you. But it does still lead to the
concern that what you just had summarized is, €500 million plus €150 million, is €650
million of capital generation, which barely covers your ordinary dividend, let alone the
buyback as well. So, still have that concern in my mind from that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, I guess, that I mean you could add also pension funds. Maybe that's around
€40 million a year. But in any event, keep in mind that we come from a very strong
solvency position and that, when we talk about the generation of free cash ﬂow to the
holding, and we also mentioned that in the last presentation of results with Q4, is that a
part of the cash ﬂow in some instance, from some legal entities, might come from the
return or the decrease in the surplus capital in these entities. So, in terms of the cash ﬂows
or dividends from the subsidiaries to the holding company, you have to take into account
both things, the capital generation in that period of time, as well as what is the starting
position, in terms of solvency of those entities.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Great. I'll leave it there. Thanks for your time, Delﬁn.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, Delﬁn. Good morning, Lard. So just couple of question. I mean, what –
how should we think about P&C and Asset Management? You have some targets with
respect to combined ratio and with respect to some growth in Asset Management. Do
you still believe that we should stick with that target, or are those targets looking a bit
tough now? So, that's the ﬁrst one.
Secondly is, can I get some sense about the slide number 19? Again, this operating return,
the SCR increase of €31 million, what is driving the SCR increase here? Because, if I
understand correctly, I mean, a large part of your business is kind of running oﬀ, or

Page 11 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

wherever you're going is very, very capital light. So, why is your SCR going up on an
underlying basis? So that would be good. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Eilard Friese
Okay. Ashik, thank you very much for your questions. I will ﬁrst start with the combined
ratio and Asset Management questions, and then Delﬁn will take the point around the
SCR. On non-life, the non-life combined ratio target of 97% or below by the end of 2018 is
still something that we are committed towards. If you look at the – let's say, if you take a
step back, we saw in the ﬁrst quarter of this year, in the ﬁrst two months, individual
disability claims with higher inﬂows and lower outﬂows, and that was basically driving the
results of this quarter while P&C slightly improved. So, if you take a step back, I would say
that, over the years, we have seen the disability and accident business providing good
returns. At this point in time, we don't – I can't predict the future, obviously, on this, but it's
not an area of major concern to us.

Bloomberg Transcript

The key thing here is the property and casualty side, where last year we saw, for the ﬁrst
nine months, quite some large buyers in Fire, that's the ﬁrst nine months. We haven't seen
them for a while, at least not in the same amount as we had last year. So we – and also
including a number of management actions we've seen that actually also this quarter, the
Fire results have improved. Then what remains is the motor book, and that's where we do
have a concern. We have a number of management actions that we're putting in place
there, but there's a market context here as well.
So, if you look at the overall car insurance market in The Netherlands, I think that the
proﬁtability is under pressure, of that segment, and that is something that we, of course,
doing our bit to improve, which is a combination of diﬀerentiated pricing, actions that we
take, so ongoing rate adjustments. And as we said before, we terminated the large
(39:05) and all of these contracts, stage one (39:08) have been done. They're still giving
some negative run-oﬀ results here and there, but this actually will take some time to
become fully visible. We improve the fraud detection claims, the fraud detection, et
cetera. So we continue to have a number of things in place to improve that. So that's how
I would like to end the discussion on the combined ratio for this moment.
For the entire non-life company, I'd like to add that it's basically three main things that
we're doing. One is improving the expense reduction by – improving the expense ratio by
driving expense reductions as part of the €700 million target that we have. Secondly,
improving the underwriting results by a number of measures that I just mentioned and
more. And then there is some selective growth opportunity that we see. For instance, in
the group disability side and for instance in home and ﬁre insurance in Belgium, which is
also represented in this line.
If we then go to your question regarding Asset Management, with Asset Management, I'd
like to start out by saying that there is a backdrop, a market backdrop on active – on the
active management industry where you saw certainly due to the volatility at the beginning
of the year quite some institutional investors move their assets away from risk into a lower
risk products or even risk-oﬀ in – as a whole. And we're seeing the entire industry

Page 12 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

reﬂected – this entire industry, the asset management industry. And also, we are not
immune to that, and we saw that happening as well.
We launched in the fourth quarter last year, a program, as we mentioned last time called
focus, simplify and optimize. And what we do there is a set of initiatives that are being
implemented to address these challenges. Focus on products in selected growth areas
like income, multi-asset, emerging markets and private debt. Simplifying the product
range, so we have about 40 funds that are being reviewed for potential closure or merger
into – to create more scale and lowering expenses and simplifying the footprint – let's say
the overall platform. And then focusing the distribution network to increase the
eﬀectiveness, especially designed at speciﬁc plant and distribution groups, and making
sure that we emphasize the strategies that we are winning relative to competition. We
have some cost control as well in place there, and that is coming through in this year, but
also, next year to the full eﬀect. So that's the way we address the Asset Management side
of the business.
Now, with those two questions answered, I think we go to Delﬁn on the SCR movement.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. I think – so the solvency capital requirement increased by €31 million. That mainly
reﬂects, ﬁrstly, the higher volume of invested assets. So when you look at the total
investments, it has increased by around €4.7 billion, and if you exclude the amount of
cash, the increase is €3.7 billion. In addition to that, there is certain shift from a more – a
less capital-intensive investment assets to higher-yielding assets and that is partially
compensated due to the decrease of the Japan Closed Block VA, but basically reﬂects the
higher invested assets (42:17) for the most part.
I don't know, Doug, if you have anything to add to that.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

No. And just one thing is higher invested asset, is it because of some growth in Dutch Life
business or is it just like mark to marking of assets?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah. It's just the movement. The majority of it is the move of mark to market, and then,
obviously, some new investments. But the valuation of the assets has increased as well.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Ms. Nadine van der Meulen from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Page 13 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning. With regard to M&A, you said it is essential to keep capital position very
robust and to have ﬂexibility to pursue value-creative opportunities. Does it mean that this
is getting increasingly likely? I just have the feeling that your language around M&A is
changing a little bit. Maybe if you can elaborate on your appetite.
And then the second question is on the €390 million dividend. I believe you said €150
million from NN Life and €107 million from NN Non-life. Can you specify where the rest
was coming from? Thank you very much.

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

So, Nadine, thank you very much for your questions. So, Delﬁn will take the dividend
question. I will comment ﬁrst on M&A. Nothing has changed in this respect since the IPO.
We've always said that our dividend statement and our priorities are on improving the
earnings and driving cash generation in the platform that we have, and that's what we do.
And then when we generate cash, we make that available as a base case to our
shareholders unless there is a value creating corporate opportunity that we can invest in.
We said it at that time few years ago, we say it today. So in that sense nothing changed,
and that's all. So if you look at what we've done so far, we, I think, have demonstrated
again today also with the buyback announcement that we take our dividend statement
very seriously. And at the same time, we do want to keep a robust capital position which
we feel is only appropriate and prudent, and at the same time, maintain some ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility.
So, with that, I'd like to hand over to Delﬁn for your dividend question.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, Nadine. As you can see in the – only page in the appendix is that we have a good
dividend upstream. So you can see there that you brought (44:51) from NN Life €160
million. This €150 million as dividend and the other €10 million is related to the coupon on
the subordinated bonds that are owned by NN Group. Then NN Non-life is €107 million.
From Europe, there is €6 million this quarter that's coming from Poland; NN Re is €75
million and the other is coming, the €41 million is coming from our insurance company in
Ireland.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Morning, gentlemen. Just two questions, if I may. Firstly, just a follow-on on slide 19. My
questions really relate to the scope and speciﬁcally how we take kind of slide 19 from kind
Page 14 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

of Solvency II type scope to group. Speciﬁcally, could you just clarify how the holding
expenses, NN Bank and the Japan SPVA book are being captured? I think NN Bank is
obviously outside the scope of slide 19. I think SPVA is actually in slide 19, a big part of that
SCR movement, but I'm slightly less clear on the holding. So, really, just a sense of how
we're go from slide 19 through to the group without missing anything would be very
useful.
And then just on – kind of second question is really just a slightly forward-looking
question. Can you give a sense of the incremental drag from the UFR that you expect to
emerge Q-on-Q which is that interest rate is down presuming that has a slight impact?
And also, actually, as you're kind of slightly re-risking the book, should we expect any kind
of oﬀsetting improvement in the kind of excess return will be coming through as well?
Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Okay, Farquhar. Delﬁn, I think it will be good if you start with this.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, Farquhar. So, the holding expenses are part of the bucket other. NN Bank is not
included at all on the slide 19, so starting this quarter because Solvency II numbers now
exclude NN Bank because of the denomination as a ﬁnancial conglomerate as it is already
the case for our competitors in the Netherlands. And the Japan Closed Block VA is
captured within the operating return.
In terms of incremental drag from UFR in the coming quarters, that it is probably around a
€100 million on an annual basis. So it would be around €25 million in the quarter. But
keep in mind that also this is also compensated by also an increased release of the risk
margin also due to the decrease in the interest rates.
And I'm not sure if I have answered all your questions or you have something else? And
yes, there was something on the movement in the excess return. Is that, obviously, also
when the interest rates change, there is also the expected return is impacted somehow.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much indeed.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Matthias de Wit from KBC Securities. Please go
ahead, sir.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Good morning. Two questions, please. First on the fees and premium-based revenues in
Dutch life. You stated that the decline is due to lower margins in your pension business. Is
there anything you could share on the proﬁtability of your Dutch Group life business, both
Page 15 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

for back-book and on the renewals in the new production? So maybe there is also
something you could say in terms of pre-tax margin on the reserves in group relative to
individual life.
And then secondly, on your capital position and cash position. You continue to operate
with a lot of excess capital, which is kind of diluting returns. And so, I just wondered if
there is any room to execute that €500 million buyback program more rapidly than the 12
months you mentioned. And also wondered whether you would be looking or you might
look at additional returns on top of that €500 million buyback, considering that your
holding cash is €1 billion ahead of your – the midpoint of the target. That's it. Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Thanks, Matthias. This is Lard. I will take the second question and Delﬁn will take your
question on – then after me maybe the question on the NN Life fees and premium-based
revenues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, as I've said, we are committed to our equity story to improve earnings, to generate
cash, and to make that cash available for distribution to shareholders unless we can invest
it in value-creating opportunities. Let me remind you that, in 2015 we have returned €850
million in the form of buybacks and dividends, combination of both. And if you look at
2016, may I remind you that we had €250 million in January. We have, next week on the
agenda at the AGM, the approval for €341 million dividend.
We've launched a buyback this morning of €500 million to be executed in the next 12
months. And then there is of course an interim dividend, which we of course still need to
decide on, but there's also something. So if you add that all up, I would argue that, we
demonstrate that we are taking our equity story and our dividend statement seriously and
that we also aim for capital returns that are sustainable over time, over a longer period of
time.
We ﬁnd it important to maintain, as I said earlier, a robust capital position to deal with
market volatility and market uncertainties and such. And yes, we also want to maintain
some ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to invest in value-creating opportunities. So, we think that – we do
hope that the actions that we have demonstrated in the last two years are demonstration
of our commitment to our equity story.
With that, I think I'd like to hand over to Delﬁn, for your point around Netherlands Life.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Okay, Matthias. I think that when thinking about the fees and premium-based revenues of
NN Life, there are obviously two trends there. I mean, there is the trend of the individual
life business of which the book is (52:01). And as a consequence, as it decreases, the fees
and premium-based revenues there keeps decreasing, and we have ﬂagged that in the
past.

Page 16 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

And also, no surprise that, for group pensions, as the trend is – continuous trend is
moving from deﬁned beneﬁt to deﬁned contribution, the margins there decrease. And as
a matter of fact, the margins in some of the deﬁned contribution products in the PPI
arena, basically, are not reﬂected in – only in Netherlands Life, because it's a small
contribution there, but is in the increase of assets under management and fees for asset
management going forward. So, that is the two trends explaining the proﬁtability.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

And could you maybe share how important individual closed block is, in terms your Dutch
life earnings?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah. Let's say that approximately 70% of the operating result relates to the pension
business.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Mr. Michael van Wegen from Bank of America. Please go ahead,
sir.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Morning, guys. One quick follow-up, unfortunately on slide 19 again. The €31
million increase in the SCR, in one of the earlier questions, you explained that that's a
combination of growth in SCR because of re-risking, growing the assets, but also, there's
a component that is driven by the fair value change in the investment portfolio. Can you
separate the two to get a better feel for what the underlying development in the SCR is?
Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. So Doug, I think you wanted to add.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yeah. I think – I think, just to clarify a bit, I think the change due to interest rates and the
higher balance sheet comes under market variances and it's nice (54:06). I think primarily
the focus, as Delﬁn said, is on the fact that we do have – we do continue to move away
from government bonds into some corporate bonds, into some mortgages. And these
were the types of assets, as we've been communicating for a long time in Netherlands
Life, that has some incremental capital that we need to hold.
We think the returns are good against that, and of course there is a – it's one quarter. So
the VA book runs oﬀ, but it runs oﬀ one quarter at a time. So I think these two, in this
Page 17 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

particular quarter, resulted in a slight increase, but that should ﬂuctuate as long as we're
kind of adding additional risky assets, that should ﬂuctuate close to zero for the – I would
think.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. So, normalized level, in your view, would be around zero?

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

I don't have exactly a number to give an exact forecast, but I think you're going to see
both of those things continuing over the coming quarters.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everybody. I wonder if you could provide us with a bit of an update on
what's going on with the unit-linked cases, particularly the outcome of a couple of the
KiFiD cases, and whether NN is going to (55:26) one of the courts, whether it's going to
appeal against the individual case, and when it's likely to hear back from the other cases
that are currently going on at the courts?
And then the second question is, I wonder if you can comment about the potential review
that DNB is doing into the motor market, particularly about the competitive level (55:45)
of the motor market? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
I will take the ﬁrst question, Steven, although I think, can you – your second question is on
the DNB review of the motor market, is that what we understood you to say, or the markto -market, I don't...

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Sorry, that was on the motor market, yes. Sorry about that.

A - Eilard Friese
Okay. The motor market. Okay. Thank you. So, let me take both. So ﬁrst on the unit-linked
ﬁle. As you know, we're helping customers. Our priority is to help customers with an
outreach program that we have, and that we work on everyday very hard to ensure that
we reach every customer and that we assess with them, whether they are still satisﬁed with
the product that they have, and if not, that we will help them to take opportunity of the
Page 18 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

FINAL

many options that we give to change the product, so that it gets – that ﬁts their
appropriate need.
At the same time, we are confronted in the entire industry. By the way, we're not alone in
this. Confronted with some legal proceedings and also proceedings against us on
individual cases at the KiFiD. Recently – that's what you're referring to, the KiFiD in the
individual case – came to a conclusion and ruled in favor of the plaintiﬀ in that particular
case. First of all, it's an individual case, so each claim needs to be assessed on its own
merits. And therefore, no generic conclusions can be drawn from a ruling in the ﬁrst
instance by the KiFiD in this individual case.
More importantly, we believe that the information obligations assumed by the KiFiDs, do
not meet the criteria that were set out in the ruling of the European Court of Justice of
2015 in April. In our opinion, these information obligations cannot be reconciled with the
conscious choices made by the Dutch legislature at the time, and those were widely
endorsed by society. Therefore, we have appealed the KiFiD ruling that was rendered
recently on an individual case, in ﬁrst instance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, that's where that stands. By the way, there are also other rulings that are being
rendered in the market. Also, I think this is – all these proceedings are in ﬁrst instance, so I
think it will take some time before the legal clarity, if you will, or clear path, will start to
establish itself. We really think that will take time. So we'll just have to await that.
When it comes to timing of when the appeal on this individual case of the KiFiD is going
to be ruled upon, we don't know; we simply don't know. Usually these things take time,
but we don't know what the exact timeframe will be.
When it comes to the comments of DNB, well, on the motor, the car insurance market,
well, as I mentioned earlier, there is indeed a market backdrop in The Netherlands that
needs to be recognized, and that is that the car insurance market in The Netherlands is,
let's say, seeing quite some proﬁtability pressures. We are not immune to that, as you
know, from our own numbers. And we have a range of management actions that we are
putting in place to ensure that we improve the overall picture of our motor book against
that diﬃcult market backdrop. So expense reductions, diﬀerentiated pricing, et cetera,
and all the things that I've listed before and more to ensure that we improve the proﬁle of
that motor insurance business.
With that, I think next questions.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
There is a follow-up question coming from Mr. William Hawkins from KBW. Please go
ahead, sir.
Page 19 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. Thanks. Sorry to drag the call up. Just very brieﬂy. On the disability book again, I'm
worried that when we see actual versus estimate running ahead that it is a harbinger for a
reserve review. But I think you said when you were giving your formal remarks that those
issues were speciﬁcally in the ﬁrst two months; and therefore, implicitly marches back to
normal. And so, we shouldn't be worried about this on a forward-looking basis. Can you
just conﬁrm that was what you said and that was your intention to say that?

A - Eilard Friese
On the disability book – let me be clear, William, here. On the disability book, the ﬁrst two
months of the year we saw these claims coming in. These were on this year's premiums,
these were not claims of past years or something like that. So, this is on this year's
premiums.
So bottom line, at this point in time, the disability book has demonstrated over the last – I
think for a longer period already, quite a substantial proﬁtability proﬁle, which is pretty
good. And this is ﬁrst two months of this year we saw on existing – on this year premiums,
we saw some additional claims. That's how you have to look at it.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Okay. So the implication is that third month was just normal.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. The implication is, in the third month we indeed saw a normal pattern.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Thank you.

Operator
There are no further questions. Please continue. Sir, you may continue.

A - Eilard Friese
Okay. If there's no further questions then let me conclude this call by saying that, while
the ﬁrst quarter operating result was broadly stable on last year, we are fully aware there's
still more work to do to further improve the performance of our businesses, and we are
committed to doing so.
Given our strong capital position and healthy holding company cash capital, we have
today announced an open market share buyback program, and this demonstrates our
Page 20 of 21



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-05-26

disciplined capital management as well as our commitment to returning excess capital to
shareholders, while maintaining a robust capital position and the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to be
able to pursue value-creating corporate opportunities.

FINAL

I want to thank you all to be on the call today with us. (1:01:52) I want to thank you for your
questions, and I wish you a good day.

Operator
This concludes the NN Group conference all. You may now disconnect your line. Thank
you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

