Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q1 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alain Lessard, Senior Vice President-Commercial Lines
Charles Brindamour, President, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director
Darren Godfrey, Senior Vice President-Personal Lines
Don Fox, Executive Vice President
Louis Marcotte, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Senior Vice President, Finance
Patrick Barbeau, Senior Vice President-Claims
Samantha Cheung, Vice President-Investor Relations

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Leandra and I will be your conference operator today. At this
time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Intact Financial Corporation First Quarter
2017 Earnings and OneBeacon Acquisition Conference Call. All lines have been placed on
mute to prevent any background noise. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ms. Samantha Cheung, VP of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Samantha Cheung

{BIO 19462616 <GO>}

Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Background information for the call is posted
on our website at www.intactfc.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Before we start today's call, I'd like to advise you that this call and presentation do not
constitute, reform and oﬀer to sell or a solicitation of an oﬀer to buy or subscribe to
securities, nor shall it or any part of it, form the basis of or be relied on in connection with
or if any inducement to enter into any contract or commitment whatsoever.
For purposes of inclusion and completeness, I'd also refer you to the detailed disclaimer
legends contained in the front of our investor presentation with respect to additional
matters, including the disclaimer with respect to non-IFRS measures, which is also
reproduced in our press release.
In addition to the foregoing matters, I'd also like to reference the forward-looking
statement contained in our press release of today's date and the forward-looking legend
and disclaimer contained in our presentation material, which will apply to any forwardlooking information we may discuss today, as part of this call.

Page 1 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Finally, I'd like to point out that we are currently in a period of distribution under
applicable Canadian security laws and accordingly, we may be limited in what we can say
on this call.

FINAL

With respect to this call, we will be reviewing our ﬁrst quarter earnings ﬁrst, followed by a
review of our proposed acquisition of OneBeacon Insurance Group. Given the concurrent
securities oﬀering, we will not hold a question-and-answer period on this call.
Joining this call from Intact are Charles Brindamour, CEO; Don Fox, Executive Vice
President; Louis Marcotte, CFO; Darren Godfrey, SVP of Personal Lines; Alain Lessard, SVP
of Commercial Lines; and Patrick Barbeau, SVP of Claims.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Charles to review our ﬁrst quarter 2017 earnings.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for taking the time to join our call on what
is clearly a short notice. Earlier today, we released our ﬁrst quarter 2017 earnings and
simultaneously announced the acquisition of OneBeacon, a pure play specialty insurer
operating in the U.S. We'll discuss the acquisition in a few minutes but before we do so,
I'd like to review our ﬁrst quarter earnings.
So, we announced ﬁrst quarter net operating income of CAD 0.90 per share driven by
solid underlying – underwriting results and strong distribution income, oﬀset by elevated
cat losses and weather-driven frequency in personal auto. Our ﬁnancial position at the
end of the quarter was very strong with over CAD 1 billion of excess capital and our book
value was up 8% from last year to CAD 43.14.
I'm pleased to see our top line growth 4% in the quarter on the back of growth initiatives,
despite our pricing and risk selection actions across the country. Top line growth was
muted in commercial lines due to the ongoing diﬃcult economic conditions in the West
and competitive pressure, but we're seeing positive momentum in specialty lines as our
initiatives are paying oﬀ.
The combined ratio was 98.2% in the quarter after absorbing 4.5 points of cat losses well
above historical levels for the ﬁrst quarter. When looking at our underlying results, I see
sound performances in all lines of business, particularly in personal and commercial
property. Personal auto results were impacted by higher weather-related losses and lower
prior year development. Overall, I see improvements in our underlying performances in
all lines, a clear sign that our corrective measures are gaining traction.
Our operating return on equity was 10.6% at the end of the quarter, keeping in mind that
three out of the last four quarters included unusually high levels of cat losses. In 2016, we
also outperformed the industry by a margin of 580 basis points above our target of 500
basis points.

Page 2 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

So, let's look at our ﬁrst quarter results in a bit more detail. Personal auto grew 3% on a
combination of early rate actions taken across the country and customer-driven growth
initiatives. The combined ratio deteriorated 6.2 points to 102.6% on higher weather losses
and lower prior year development. When excluding the weather impact, our underlying
performance improved by about 2 points, which is consistent with the actions we've taken
so far, and there are more improvements in the pipeline.
Our written premiums reﬂect rate increases of nearly 5%, while our earned rates have only
risen by 2% on average. This gap will continue rising for another quarter and be earned in
over 12 to 18 months. Beyond that, we expect beneﬁts from the 2016 Ontario reforms and
our claims action plan.
We therefore remain conﬁdent in our ability to deliver mid single-digit improvement and
personal auto's combined ratio. We continue to anticipate a rational, competitive
environment in personal auto with low to mid single-digit growth in the coming 12
months, as cost inﬂation will be compensated by rate increases.

Bloomberg Transcript

In personal property, premiums grew a healthy 8%, as new products and continued rate
increases were deployed in favorable market conditions. This line of business continues to
perform well, with a combined ratio of 92.8% after absorbing 12 points of cat losses,
primarily from severe windstorms. With healthy top and bottom lines, personal property
continues to be well-positioned going forward.
In terms of the industry outlook for personal prop, we see no change there. We expect
ﬁrm market conditions continue as the industry adjusts the changing weather patterns
with mid to upper-single digit growth over the next 12 months.
Our commercial P&C business is also performing well, with a combined ratio of 95.8%
after absorbing 7 points of cat losses. Commercial auto premiums grew 9% in the quarter
on the back of multiple initiatives in specialty lines, including products for the sharing
economy. The combined ratio improved by 1.3 points to 96.2%, as higher weather-related
claims frequency was upset by higher favorable prior year development.
We remain on the right path to reach our low-90s% target in this segment. We expect
low-single digit growth in the coming year for commercial lines, as markets continue to be
competitive across Canada and economic conditions remain diﬃcult in Western Canada.
In summary, the 98.2% combined ratio for the quarter is disappointing, but it does include
4.5 points of cat losses, well above our expectations. All our lines of business are
performing well or improving on an underlying basis and I'm conﬁdent the actions we're
taking in personal auto will have a positive impact over the next few quarters.
With that, let me turn the call over to Louis, our CFO, to provide us a view on the quarter.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Page 3 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

Thanks, Charles. For the ﬁrst quarter, net operating income was CAD 123 million, lower
than last year as elevated catastrophe losses and higher non-cat weather claims frequency
obscured a solid underlying performance, especially in the property lines of business. We
saw a strong growth in our distribution income and stable investment income. Book value
per share increased 8% from a year ago to CAD 43.14, thanks to our resilient operations
and a signiﬁcant appreciation in the value of our equity portfolio.
We experienced elevated catastrophe losses of CAD 88 million net of reinsurance due to
windstorms in Central and Atlantic Canada and to two commercial ﬁres. This is
approximately 4 times higher than our historical averages for Q1, and thus, triggered our
pre-announcement on April 5. In addition, there was challenging winter weather in the
metropolitan areas of Western Canada where heavy snowfall led to spikes in auto collision
frequency and water damage to properties.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our expense ratio improved by 1.5 points on lower commissions and general expenses.
The recent softer underwriting performance translated into lower proﬁt-sharing
commissions and lower variable compensation, while our cost saving initiatives also
reduced general expenses. Our distribution activities delivered CAD 24 million to our pretax operating earnings in the quarter, CAD 10 million higher than last year, primarily due
to the growth in our broken network and improved margins. We continue to expect
distribution income to grow north of 15% in 2017, albeit with seasonal variations.
Our investment portfolio delivered consistent investment income at CAD 105 million,
slightly above last year. Our Q1 non-operating results improved by CAD 89 million in the
quarter, driven by realized gains on our equity portfolios. Our unrealized gain position
increased CAD 44 million in the quarter to CAD 313 million, with all portfolios in a gain
position.
In summary, we reported quarterly EPS of CAD 1.8, 3% lower than last year as our
operating results declined on the back of cat and non-cat weather, while our nonoperating results improved materially on higher investment gains. Our balance sheet
remains very strong, with total excess capital exceeding CAD 1 billion and our MCT
spending at 223% at quarter end, a good position to be in as we announced an
acquisition.
Back to you, Charles.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, Louis. It's probably worthwhile to ask Darren to give us his perspective
on the personal automobile performance but more importantly, the actions we're taking
and his expectations for the remainder of the year.

Darren Godfrey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. I was disappointed with the results in personal auto, with a 102.6%
combined ratio, particularly when we have a 6.5-point deterioration in PYD and a 0.9%
Page 4 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

increase in current accident year compared to Q1 of 2016. With respect to prior year
development, a meaningful proportion of this deterioration was driven by short tailed
physical damage claims. We do not expect any further impact from this in the remainder
of the year.
Looking at the current accident year results, we see 3 points of combined ratio explained
by a tough weather – tough winter, namely, in Alberta, impacting frequency in the quarter.
This suggested our underlying performance improved in the quarter once you look
through the noise from weather.
We can see that our action plans are starting to show traction. Our right momentum
continues to build, as Charles said, with a gap in written to earn rate increases in Q1 of 3%.
The gap will continue to grow for another quarter. All rights are now implemented or
about to be implemented across the country, giving us conﬁdence that we will generate 3
points of loss ratio improvement due to rate activity in our segmentation strategy alone.
Our additional actions, namely, improvement in our risk-selection models, claims action
plans, as well as ongoing Ontario reform impact are gaining traction and are expected to
contribute a further 1 to 3 points of loss ratio improvement. Although our Q1 personal
auto results were disappointing, we remain conﬁdent that our actions will deliver 4 to 6
points of improvement with majority of the beneﬁts to materialize in the latter half of the
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Darren. We've talked about whether. We've talked about reforms in
Ontario. Patrick, it would be good to get your perspective in those – and provide some
color on these two areas.

Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Sure. Weather certainly aﬀected our results in Q1, the elevated amount of catastrophes,
totaling CAD 88 million in Q1, was almost entirely in property loans primarily caused by
severe winds. But winter storms and variations in temperature have also signiﬁcantly
aﬀected driving conditions in automobile results. The volume and size of claims in
automobile has been higher than expected for the major part of the winter, starting in
early December until mid-March.
With regards to the auto Ontario environment, the reforms are, so far, producing the
beneﬁts that we were expecting, and we'll start to have full impact in Q3 this year. The
Ontario government continues to be proactive in trying to reduce costs in the automotive
system and the provincial budget released last week refer to speciﬁc recommendations
coming from the recently introduced Marshal report, aiming at making the Ontario auto
system more cost-eﬃcient. There are positive recommendations in this report and
consultations should start in the coming month.

Page 5 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

In the meantime, we remain focused on executing our own plan to improve our auto
results, including rate increases, segmentation, risk selection and claims cost containment.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Thanks, Patrick. Alain, we've been working on the commercial auto for some time.
It would be great to get your perspective on our performance.

Alain Lessard

{BIO 17592535 <GO>}

Yes, Charles. So, the strong growth we saw of 9.2% in the quarter was aﬀected positively
by the sharing economy product. As we mentioned a few times in the past, the premium
for this product is closely related to usage and the popularity of right sharing and car
sharing is still very strong. This was partially oﬀset by the proﬁtability action we are taking
on our trucking portfolio where we are still taking double-digit rate increase on the least
proﬁtable business. We also saw some impact from the weak economic condition in
Alberta, but overall, the growth was strong in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the proﬁtability side, we are pleased with the improvement in the combined ratio,
considering the seasonality of the ﬁrst quarter and the fact that we still have 2 to 3 points
of rates to be earned. We're in a good position to operate this line around 90%.
Most of the increase we saw in the underlying current year loss ratio was due to increased
frequency from weather-related event, mostly in Western Canada, the level of large losses
remained the same as last year. This increase was partially oﬀset by an improvement in
PYD where we saw a 4.6-point improvement despite 1.7-point more large losses. The 2017
level of PYD is more in line with what we would normally expect for our ﬁrst quarter. So
overall, I'm quite conﬁdent that this line is trending in the right direction to operate
around 90%.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, good. Thank you, Alain. This concludes the earnings part of our call, and hopefully,
while brief, we try to hit the points which we felt were important and where you'd like to
have color. And it probably makes sense now to move to the other news of the day, our
acquisition of OneBeacon.
So, we really have taken an important step today to building a world-class P&C insurer,
and I'm thrilled to announce that we've entered into an agreement to purchase
OneBeacon, a leading U.S. specialty insurer for a total consideration of $1.7 billion.
Combined with our own specialty lines division here in Canada, we're creating a leading
North American specialty insurer focused on small to mid-sized businesses, with over
CAD 2 billion in specialty lines premium.
As you know, we've been looking to grow our business outside Canada and identify the
U.S. small to mid-sized commercial and specialty market as an attractive entry point. And
the key was ﬁnding the right company, not only from a strategic, operational and ﬁnancial
Page 6 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

perspective but also for overall ﬁt, and I'm very pleased to see that OneBeacon checks all
those boxes.
These guys had built a really high quality organization, thanks to their commercial and
specialty lines expertise, strong broker relationships and the depth of their team, led by
their CEO, Mike Miller. Mike and I ﬁrmly believe that combining OneBeacon's deep
commercial and specialty lines expertise with Intact's track record in commercial lines and
strengths in data, claims and digital will create a formidable platform to serve brokers and
customers and to capture growth opportunities. There's no doubt in my mind that we're a
great ﬁt. Together, we have the scale, the people, the technology and the expertise to
build a leading North American specialty insurer.
And while we continue to be well-positioned to participate in the consolidation of our
industry here in Canada, the acquisition of OneBeacon also opens up new and signiﬁcant
growth opportunities for Intact. It bolsters Intact's Canadian business with new products
and cross border capabilities. It allows us to deliver broker and customer experiences that
are second to none and better positions us to compete with international insurers in
Canada and in the U.S.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our business proﬁle improves as well once you add the two businesses together, with
commercial and specialty lines representing nearly half of our total premiums. Our
business mix is more balanced and we've increased our geographic diversiﬁcation.
The ﬁnancials, I think, are compelling. The transaction is neutral to net operating income
per share in the ﬁrst year and generates mid single-digit accretion within 24 months. The
IRR is attractive in excess of 15% due to multiple top and bottom line opportunities and a
strong ﬁnancial position to start with.
It is also conservatively structured. Our ﬁnancial leverage will be below 20% within two
years. And at closing, we'll have purchased CAD 200 million (19:52) of downside
protection against adverse reserve development. Our balance sheet remains strong and
well protected, allowing Intact to capture future opportunities.
We built a strong track record of successful M&A transactions to become the largest P&C
insurer in Canada, ensuring one out of four small to mid-sized businesses. And working
alongside our new colleagues at OneBeacon, I'm conﬁdent that we can leverage our track
record to grow our organization further by consolidating a fragmented market. This is an
exciting time for both our companies. And I'll ask Don to provide a bit more color on the
transaction.

Don Fox

{BIO 19993241 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. Appreciate that. So, OneBeacon is a unique pure play specialty
insurance company operating in the United States and writing approximately $1.2 billion
in annual premiums. It's publicly listed on the New York Stock Exchange, domiciled in
Bermuda and headquartered in Minnesota. It oﬀers a wide range of specialty insurance
products and is focused on small to mid-sized customers as we are.
Page 7 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

OneBeacon is a company with a strong focus on underwriting. It's licensed in 50 states,
has diﬀerentiated distribution channels and strong values, very similar to ours. I've been
particularly impressed by their very experienced management team as well as their
ﬂexible and scalable technology platform.
This acquisition is consistent with Intact's strategy. We have, for some time now,
communicated our interest in growing outside of Canada, particularly in the U.S. and
particularly in the small to mid-sized commercial and specialty lines businesses. This
market is attractive because it's still quite fragmented. It's more proﬁtable in personal
lines and we can leverage our strengths as the largest writer of insurance for small to midsized businesses in Canada.
The combination of our businesses will bolster our Canadian operations and drive cross
market synergies. We expect to use the expertise of OneBeacon's management team,
combined with our own capabilities in Canada, to serve our customers and brokers
better. This will certainly help get our Canadian specialty lines premiums to our targeted
CAD 1 billion level within a few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

The strategic merits of this transaction are very clear. The ﬁnancial merits are also quite
clear, which is particularly important as we complete our ﬁrst major acquisition outside of
Canada. This deal is the right ﬁt and it's a manageable size while making a meaningful
impact.
The price oﬀered for the shares of OneBeacon is $18.10 for a total purchase price of $1.7
billion. This represents a price to book value ratio of 1.6 times based on OneBeacon's
latest balance sheet, and about 15.8 times 2016 earnings. The IRR is in excess of 15% and
we expect the transaction to be immediately accretive to book value per share by
approximately 5%.
Charles already mentioned that the acquisition is neutral to net operating income per
share in the ﬁrst year and mid single-digit accretive within two years, as the combined
ratio improved and the synergies materialized. These numbers are especially compelling
for a company entering a new market. We look forward to working with Mike and his team
to operate our specialty lines businesses with combined ratios in the low-90s%.
I'll now let Louis provide some insights on the synergies and the ﬁnancing structure.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Thanks, Don. We believe this acquisition creates signiﬁcant value for shareholders as
evidenced by the expected returns and accretion levels Don highlighted earlier. Our plan
to create value is very clear and it's built on the following six levers: growing OneBeacon's
industry leading lines of business is the ﬁrst; improving underperforming lines, the
second; leveraging impacts, risk selection, analytics and claims expertise across
OneBeacon's platform; capturing expense synergies in all our businesses; bolstering our
Canadian business by adding OneBeacon's products to our shelves and expanding our

Page 8 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

cross border capabilities; and ﬁnally, pursuing consolidation opportunities in both
markets.
With regards to synergies, we see opportunities in three main areas. Supply chain
management, where we will leverage our Canadian experience and combine the
purchasing power to drive savings. Secondly, we expect eﬃciencies from leveraging best
practices in claims, in IT, operations and shared services, as well as for managing our
investment portfolio internally and delisting the company. Lastly, we see beneﬁts from
reinsurance through combining the OneBeacon programs with our own. This brings me
to the ﬁnancing of the transaction.
We are paying approximately CAD 2.4 billion for the acquisition, including costs.
OneBeacon's existing debt remains outstanding. Our proposed ﬁnancing structure is
consistent with what we've been telling investors for some time now. It also takes into
consideration the needs of regulators and rating agencies. This is a great opportunity to
deploy the excess capital we've been accumulating.

Bloomberg Transcript

We plan to use approximately CAD 700 million of our excess capital and still remain well
capitalized with MCT estimated above CAD 200 million at close. We plan to use a
combination of debt and preferred share instruments up to CAD 1 billion with a goal of
maintaining debt to capital below 25% at closing. We will use the signiﬁcant cash ﬂows
generated by the combined businesses to bring that leverage ratio below our target level
of 20% before the end of 2019. Accordingly, we are temporarily halting purchases under
our normal course issuer bid.
The remainder, being CAD 700 million, will be ﬁnanced by the issuance of subscription
receipts, CAD 340 million of which have already been sold on a private placement basis,
a strong testament to the merits of the transaction. The rest is being issued as we speak.
The subscription receipts are convertible into common shares at close of the transaction,
which is expected to take place during Q4 2017 subject to regulatory approvals. We
hedged the U.S. dollar purchase price to avoid any material change to its Canadian dollar
equivalent between now and closing.
A quick word on the assets of OneBeacon. Their investment portfolio is conservatively
managed with over 80% of total invested assets and ﬁxed income securities, and their
overall portfolio has a similar risk proﬁle to ours. We plan to manage these assets
internally along with our existing investment portfolio.
In summary, our ﬁnancing plan is conservative and our balance sheet strength is
maintained. This is important to us as we believe the consolidation of the Canadian P&C
market will continue and we want to be in a strong position to capture those opportunities
as they arise. The acquisition is not a pivotal (27:19) way from the Canadian markets but
one step on the path to building a world-class insurer. Charles?

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Page 9 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Well, thanks, Louis. Alain, you've been quite involved in this transaction. You're the
commercial lines guy really here. So, it would be great if you could share with the
investors your view on the opportunities that this transaction brings, but also the ﬁt
between our company.

FINAL

Alain Lessard

{BIO 17592535 <GO>}

Happy to do so, Charles. First, I'd like to say I've had the pleasure of meeting with the
senior management team of OneBeacon and I was impressed, impressed by their
expertise in specialty lines. They've build from ground up a very strong specialty insurer
with leading position in the niche area where they operate.
I would like to say Intact has its own strength in specialty lines. Over the past two years,
we've had developed a portfolio which has a volume just north of CAD 600 million and
operates at a high proﬁtability margin. We also have leading position in lines that are
complementary to OneBeacon's lines of business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In my mind talking about the ﬁt, both companies share the same philosophy. We believe
that our employees are the competitive advantage. In specialty insurance, proﬁtability is
attained by risk selection and segmentation and growth is generated by the quality of
product and broker relationship. Both of these elements require a strong underwriting
team. Over the years, OneBeacon has attracted top talent with expertise and deep
technical knowledge. I'm very excited to be joining forces and leveraging the talent in
both organization.
Going forward, we've established a plan on our best to leverage the acquisition of
OneBeacon to maximize growth both in Canada and in the United States. Don, Charles
and Louis have already mentioned the opportunity for cross border business but there are
also other avenue by which we intend to accelerate our plan to achieve CAD 1 billion of
premium in specialty lines within Canada.
We will utilize OneBeacon expertise and bring some of their product into the Canadian
market. Products such as technology, entertainment and environmental insurance would
be some examples of the many possibilities. The same opportunity also exists in reverse.
We believe that our leading position in certain lines such as contract, surety, farm could
be used to expand their own oﬀering in the U.S.
In addition, we will also leverage Intact's capability in data, claims and digital to support
the operation of OneBeacon in the United States. As an example, we believe that the
digitalization trends we are seeing in personal lines and small commercial lines will also
spread to specialty lines. We intend to use those to infuse Intact's web capability to stay
ahead of this trend.
It's clear for me that between OneBeacon's strong team, Intact's proven track record, we
have all the ingredients necessary to build a leading North American specialty insurer that
will operate with high proﬁt margin.

Page 10 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, thanks, Alain. So in summary, the OneBeacon acquisition is, we think, an important
step on our path to be a world-class P&C insurer. The deal provides a scalable platform to
grow organically both in the U.S. and in Canada in specialty lines. It also provides an
opportunity for us to leverage our M&A track record to consolidate another fragmented
market. These avenues of growth are substantial and we have the team to pursue them.
On the operational side, we're clearly bolstering our capabilities in specialty and
commercial line. Between the deep expertise of both teams and Intact's strengths in data,
claims and digital, we're building a powerful engine to serve small to mid-sized
businesses on both sides of the border.
From a risk point of view, we've been very careful. Our ﬁnancing is conservative and
consistent with past acquisitions. We've maintained the strength of our balance sheet and
protected ourselves against signiﬁcant adverse development potential by partnering with
a reinsurer. And I believe the diversiﬁcation of our business mix, with better balance
between commercial and personal lines and our extended geographic footprint, reduces
our overall risk proﬁle.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the ﬁnancial side, the numbers speak for themselves. We're entering the largest
commercial P&C market in one of its most attractive segments while driving near-term
accretion and creating value for shareholders.
So on behalf of my colleagues and all the employees at Intact, I'd like to take this
opportunity to welcome the entire crew at OneBeacon. They've build an outstanding
organization based on their expertise and strong values, and we're quite proud to join
forces with them as we continue building a world-class P&C insurer.
On that, I'll return the call to Samantha.

Samantha Cheung

{BIO 19462616 <GO>}

Thank you, Charles. Please note that a telephone replay will be available for a period of
one week, while the webcast will be archived on our website for one year, and a transcript
will also be available on our website shortly after this call.
We also invite you to listen to our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders which will take
place tomorrow at 10:30 AM Eastern Time or 11:30 AM Atlantic Time at the Lord Nelson in
Halifax, Nova Scotia. Our Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Call is scheduled for August.
Thanks again for your time today.

Operator
This concludes today's conference.

Page 11 of 12



Company Name: Intact Financial Corp
Company Ticker: IFC CN Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Samantha Cheung

{BIO 19462616 <GO>}

We're done.

Operator

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

Page 12 of 12

