Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

S1 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Inga Beale, Chief Executive Officer
John Parry, Chief Financial Officer
Jon Hancock, Performance Management Director
Unidentified Speaker

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker
Good afternoon. Thank you for joining this webcast on Lloyd's 2017 Interim Financial
Results. We are joined today by Inga Beale, Lloyd's Chief Executive Officer; John Parry,
Chief Financial Officer; and Jon Hancock, Performance Management Director.

Bloomberg Transcript

Inga Beale will begin the presentation by taking you through Lloyd's strategic and financial
highlights. John Parry will then take you through the components of the results in more
depth. And Inga will conclude by providing insight into Lloyd's plans and focus for the
remainder of 2017. And Jon Hancock will be on hand during the Q&A session.
You are invited to ask questions at any point throughout the presentation using the submit
a question icon available on the toolbar. We ask that you provide your name and
organization, along with your question, and these will be answered by John, Inga, and Jon
at the end of the presentation.
Please note, this presentation is being recorded and will be made available on our
website for audio playback.
I would now like to invite Inga Beale to begin the presentation.

Inga Beale
Thank you and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. First of all, I thought I would
just kick off, before we get into the results, on a progress update on what we've decided
to focus on for 2017.
We did announce this at the beginning of the year that these would be our five key
strategic priorities. Without a doubt, market conditions has to be helped there. We all
know what the competitive environment is for insurance at the moment, and this is really
on a global basis. And we're also aware that there are -- not all our lines within the Lloyd's
market are profitable. So, we've really had a focus within the performance management
team of looking at maintaining underwriting discipline.
Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

We want to balance that protection of the market with growth. So, the team have been
really focused on discussing the syndicates, what profitable lines there are that can
actually -- we can encourage to grow, but also take a look at those underperforming lines
of business. And this is before we get into talk of some of the loss activity that we've just
been experiencing.
Then moving on to Brexit, we've made significant progress on our project. It's all running
to time. We are in the process of submitting our formal application to the Belgian
regulator. The plan is that by the middle of next year, so the middle of 2018, we will have
a locally-capitalized subsidiary in Brussels, and it'll be therefore up and running prior to any
exit from the EU.
We want that to give reassurance and confidence to the syndicates, managing agents,
customers, policyholders, cover holders, brokers who want to get them the confidence
that there is a solution for an ongoing -- on an ongoing basis for the Lloyd's market to
continue to provide the same type of coverage that it's been able to do up until now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to Solvency II & Capital, you'll see when we go through the numbers the strong
position, strong capital position that Lloyd's is in. But you'll also be aware that we're in the
Solvency II regime and that a big piece of work this year has been around looking at our
internal model. And as one would expect with models, they've always got to be
continuously looked at, checked, tweaked, enhanced, so we have submitted a major
model change application to the PRA and that's with them at the moment for their
assessment. And we hope to have heard from them by the end of the year.
We also had a successful Tier 2 subordinated bond issuance at the beginning of this year,
and as I said, we'll go through the capital numbers later when I hand over to John Parry.
On the London Market Target Operating Model, it feels to me as though we've got a lot
of momentum around this. There are several key work streams under this initiative. We
have the electronic placing piece, that's PPL, for those of you in the know, run by a PPL
team as part of the TOM program, and we are about to be launching next month a
release of that tool. This will be a significant enhancement of the previous system.
It will also include the ability to place facilities through that system, and we will also be
migrating some of the old electronic placing platforms onto it. So, it will provide a much
more seamless and modern system for underwriters and brokers to utilize, and therefore,
we will be planning to roll out some of the other insurance lines on it when it starts up and
live.
We've also been doing work behind the scenes, in terms of the automated premium and
claims processing with the central services refresh. We got another module that will be
rolled out later this year, but that's all coming through and on plan and, importantly, within
budget.
There are other key initiatives such as looking at structured data capture. So once we've
got some electronic submission -- it doesn't really matter what form the contacts being
Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

submitted in, it can be in some PDFs and Word format -- we've got now technology rolled
out, and several market players have already adopted it, to then read all of that and put it
into some structured data format that can be then fed into people's operating systems.
So great step forward in that modernization of the market.
Then looking internally, we committed last year that we would be looking at the
corporation operating model, and we want to ensure it's efficiently set-up, our processes
are streamlined. We have gone through a big organizational redesign that is going to be
effective from 1 October.
We will be letting some of the employees go. The consultation period has now been
completed and people have been informed of their new roles going forward. And the
implementation will start to take effect in the fourth quarter and then continue throughout
2018. So, again, good progress on that initiative.
Moving on to the next slide, slide four, this captures on one page the key financial
highlights for the year. Now, of course, everyone is aware that it's a real year of two very
different halves. First half-year very benign loss activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second half of the year a series of events that have been occurring. Lots of wind storm
activity throughout the Caribbean and the US, but we also shouldn't forget that we've got
Mexican earthquakes going on or have taken place. We've got flooding in Asia. We've had
some typhoons in Asia. So, there's actually been quite a lot going on in the second half,
so it's going to be a very different situation for the next six months.
But focus just for a moment on the first half-year, you'll see a strong profit there, a solid
profit, GBP1.2 billion. Down a bit on 2016, but once you've stripped out the FX impact,
you'll see that's accounting for a lot of the impact and that actually it would be equivalent
to the same period last year stripping out the FX impact.
So, I won't go into any more detail on any of those numbers because I'll be handing over
to John Parry, who will take us through all these financials. Thank you. Over to you, John.

John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Thank you, Inga. Good afternoon, everyone. So, looking at the movement first between
the six months to June '16 result of GBP1.5 billion to the GBP1.2 billion reported for the half
year to June '17, the first thing to point out is the exchange gain that came through in the
2016 results following the EU referendum result.
Lloyd's holds assets in the currency in which it writes business and we have a small surplus
of US dollar assets over liabilities with the fall in sterling towards the end of June 2016.
Overall, that gave us a significant exchange gain. That's not prevalent in the results in
2017. That's the biggest single movement year on year. On the underwriting result, there's
an improvement in the combined ratio and the total underwriting profit of GBP160 million.

Page 3 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

On investment return, another solid and reasonable performance, returning 1.5% on the
total assets held within the Lloyd's market (inaudible) just the GBP52 million year on year.
And that gives us the overall profit of GBP1.2 billion, again a significant proportion derived
from investment return and a moderate underwriting profit.
So, looking at the slightly fuller income statement, you've got the last two full-year results
and the half year '16 and '17. On gross written premiums, the Lloyd's market reported
growth in premiums to just under GBP19 billion for the first half of 2017. Approximately
two-thirds of that increase is from foreign exchange, as we translate the business written
in overseas currency, particularly US dollars, back into sterling. The next slide will show you
that breakdown.
You see the increase in claims. That's largely also following the foreign exchange
translation and also operating expenses. But, overall, a small improvement in the
underwriting result as at June, but obviously it's still a sign of the intense price and trading
competition given an underwriting result of GBP366 million on that GBP19 billion of
premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net investment income remaining over GBP1 billion. The other line of other expenses, that
is the net costs of the corporation, small increase year on year as we continue to invest in
strategic initiatives, particularly the modernization of the London market under the Target
Operating Model, but it also reflects that we have paid interest on an extra debt issue in
that when we issued the debt in January 2017, that enabled us to refinance and redeem
at the 10-year data in June the Tier 1 debt. So, you have actually got debt costs for both
issues in the first half, which you wouldn't see in the second half.
So, premium growth. Looking at the various steps, first thing on pricing. So this is the -- on
a risk-adjusted basis, on renewal business, a movement in pricing across the whole
account of a fall of 2%. That is actually less than anticipated by the market when setting
their business plan expectations that we reviewed looking into 2017. So the rate of price
reduction has been falling or slowing.
Then you have the biggest single movement, which is from foreign exchange. Remember,
we are translating business at the average rate during the period, and in 2016, up until the
referendum, sterling was slightly stronger at an average rate of $1.43 to the pound,
whereas in 2017 that's an average rate of $1.26. So, approximately two-thirds of the
increase in converting sterling from foreign exchange.
In terms of underlying growth, you've got a 1% attributable to new syndicates, those that
joined the Lloyd's platform in 2015 to 2017, and the 6% increase from more mature or
existing syndicates. That growth is weighted towards the better performing syndicates. It
is also on those lines which have relatively more margin, particularly US binder business
operating through delegated authority, both on property lines and professional casualty
lines, and also includes new products as we develop our cyber offering to continue to
offer the products that clients require insurance for. That gives us a total premium volume
GBP18.9 billion.

Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

Looking at the combined ratio, the first tower is the accident year performance, excluding
major claims and performance on back years. That's a total of 96.6% with a loss ratio,
excluding major claims, of 57.4%. Acquisition costs at 26.3% and admin expenses at 12.9%.
That's slightly down on the same period last year and we are aware that there are
significant cost control initiatives in place for all managing agents as it is for the
corporation. But we've also seen some impact from foreign exchange there, in that a
significant part of our cost base is in sterling, and that's being compared about an
increased premium base where a lot of that exposure is written in US dollars. And that
must account for some of that reduction in the admin expenses.
But a total of 96.6% does show that there is no reason to relent on the underwriting
discipline approach, and the market oversight from Lloyd's are looking at all aspects of
the combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second bar is major claims. You see that contributed just 1.9% to the combined ratio in
the first half of 2017. There were very limited major loss activity in the period up to June. In
fact, no claim larger than GBP70 million which is from Cyclone Debbie in Australasia. Same
period last year of major claims did include the fires in Alberta, Canada, so there was a
reduction year on year in major claims.
Then you look at the performance on prior years and the reserve setup for future claims.
We have seen very significant surfaces generated by the Lloyd's market in recent years.
That has been based on actual experience coming in much better than projections. What
we have seen in the first half of 2017 is that that experience hasn't been as good and we
are down to a more -- much more modest level of release of 1.6%.
We have long flagged this and we do not anticipate that those higher levels of release
that we saw in 2016 and the previous four or five years would be sustainable. We are
confident in the Lloyd's markets reserving practices and the adequacy of reserves, but
around -- to get to that level of release that we saw in previous years, you do need actual
experience to be significantly better than expected. And that wasn't the case in first half
of 2017, so a much more modest release: total combined ratio 96.9%.
The next slide, as with a few others, we try to put in some longer-term chart of
performance and that we really see just the impact of major claims year on year and of
prior-year reserve releases. And certainly on prior-year reserve releases, you can see the
very strong performance 2012 to 2016. Remember, 2017's results are being compared
against a very good performance in the past.
For major claims, you can see that Lloyd's does have an exposure to major claims. Back in
2012 it added 10 points to the combined ratio; 2016, 9 points. It is the one 1.9% that is
remarkably low and I'm sure all this -- of course, that is based on the performance to
June.
Looking at our results by line of business, these are pretty high-level groupings. For
example, reinsurance covers a whole series of property and casualty lines of business,
Page 5 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

GBP3.9 billion of premium, and in the second bar, which is the accident year, benefiting
from the lack of cat activity in the first half.
They are ordered by size of premium, but towards the right-hand side you will see motor
and it does also affect casualty for excess of loss motor, where we are still being
impacted by the announcement of the change in the Ogden rate for UK liability claims,
which is added to reserve strengthening on the back years. Clearly, we are aware that
there's been a recent announcement that that Ogden rate is subject to change, and as
and when legislation is put through, we may see an improvement in the second half of
2017.
Generally though, across all of the book that Lloyd's writes, we see pressure on pricing
and on overall market conditions in coverage, and that is why we remain absolutely
focused on underwriting discipline.
This again is a slide showing a longer-term performance of the accident year ratio,
showing that for the first half of '17 it did fall back below 100%. We are aware, though, that
the biggest reason for that reduction is that small band in the middle with four major
claims of adding just 1.9 points to the combined ratio for the first half of 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then looking at how our combined ratio compares against competitors. We have adjusted
the competitive group for 2017 and adjusted all prior years to make sure that it does
continue to best -- actually match up against the type of business that Lloyd's writes. So, in
aggregate, a reinsurance and insurance marketplace.
We do actually look at it in the round and have also check this with the rating agents as
these are the competitors that they would consider Lloyd's is a peer of. As you can see in
the first half of 2017, Lloyd's combined ratio of 96.9% exceeds that of the average of
competitors by 1.6%.
We think the single biggest differential between us and the competition is the expense
base. So with approximately 40% of net premiums being taken up by acquisition and
admin expenses that cost differential is proving a very difficult hurdle to get over on risk
selection, despite our better loss performance. That is again why, on the strategic
priorities, the Target Operating Model and operational efficiency remains a priority.
So turning from underwriting to investment return. In the first half of 2017, we reported an
investment return of GBP1 billion, or 1.5%, across all assets held at Lloyd's. They are held in
syndicates trust funds as premiums received ready to pay future claims, the capital put up
by members in funds at Lloyd's, and in the central fund. Overall, it is a conservative asset
disposition with just 13% held in equity and risk assets.
You will see there has been a modest increase from 12% to 13%, but I see most of that is
from the strong performance on risk assets in the last year. So, that's an increase in
reported values.

Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

The central fund's return of 2.6% reflects the longer-term horizon that the central fund is
able to take, given its exposure is after syndicate assets and funds at Lloyd's.

FINAL

So on capital, it remains a very strong balance sheet, highly liquid with over GBP65 billion
cash and investments and over GBP100 billion in total assets. Net resources remain stable
at GBP28 billion. A small increase in central assets up to GBP2.9 billion, and that's with that
refinancing of our subordinated debt in the first half of 2017.
That's enabled us to report our solvency coverage ratios in excess of our risk appetite.
So, on the central fund, we have a risk appetite to cover our SCR twice over, so 200%,
and we stand at 211%, and on a market-wide basis, a target risk capital at 125% and, again,
a stable ratio of 147%. Just to emphasize, there have been no central fund hits in 2017.
I'll close with the another longer term look at Lloyd's performance, where the return on
capital in the first half of 2017 on an annualized basis was 8.9% with a 10-year average
over 10%. That shows the attractiveness of the Lloyd's market to participants and is also
one of the reasons we think why capital is in excess in the insurance industry. And
obviously, that's leading to some of the pricing and competitive pressures to the market,
but at very attractive return on capital to date.
So, with that, I'll hand back to Inga to summarize.

Bloomberg Transcript

Inga Beale
Thank you. Thank you, John. So, in summary, we believe it's a solid set of results, but
obviously, we do face a difficult second half of the year. It's not going to be the same.
We've got a series of events. We've got another three months to go. Anything can
happen, right up until the last day of the year. So, very second -- very different second half
of the year to the first.
The focus on underwriting discipline will continue. We have the loss activity, but the
underlying work that we're doing about addressing unprofitable lines of business that will
continue. We are not going to change our focus on that, that must continue throughout all
of this.
But, clearly, a lot of our focus and a lot of our time and attention right now is supporting all
of our policyholders who have been affected by these tragedies. We've already paid out
claims already, Florida and Texas, and we are committed to fulfilling our promise and what
Lloyd's has always delivered over the years in being very, very prompt, particularly when
disaster strikes.
We will also continue to look at developing new products. So, cyber often gets the
headlines, and certainly for Lloyd's this has been one of our fastest growing product lines.
We estimate we got at least a 25% global market share, with syndicates planning to write
about $1 billion -- sorry, GBP1 billion -- no, sorry, $1 billion of premium this year.

Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

And the London Market Target Operating Model will still continue. We've got great buy-in
from the market. Several of the work streams are led by CEOs in the market. We've got
great momentum going and increasing adoption, so that work will also continue.

FINAL

So with that, I will cease the formal part of the presentation and open it up to some
questions. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Inga. Thank you, John. Rebecca Clemens [ph] from Lloyd's Communications
Team, is now going to read out the questions that have been submitted online.
Good afternoon. The first question -- we have four actually -- from Rotger Franz, Director
of Credit Research Insurance at Societe Generale.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first is, can you please give some indication of what to expect from Hurricane Maria?
Are losses for Lloyd's likely to be similar to Harvey and Irma? And related, do you see a
risk that the three hurricanes and other events year-to-date could bring the MWSCR ratio
close to the 125% appetite level? Please, explain how the MWSCR ratio will be restored, in
this case, and how quickly this will be executed.
The third question is, do you have any indications or do you expect any syndicate to tap
the central fund following the recent events? If yes, please give details. And in the interim
report, you mentioned the reserve strengthening in property and motor business. Can
you give some more details and quantify the deficiencies [ph]?

A - Inga Beale
Okay. So, thank you for those questions. I'll let John Parry answer the ones about capital
and reserve strengthening. But, first of all, I'll turn to Jon Hancock -- welcome, Jon -- just
to talk about Maria. Thank you.

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Well, obviously we've announced some numbers earlier for Harvey and
Irma. As regards Maria, like the rest of the industry actually, we're saying it's just too early
to make a call on what those losses will be. There is very, very few estimates around the
market from any of the modeling firms or any of the brokers or the carriers.
What we are doing, of course, is assessing it and talking to the market and understanding
what exposures we have got, but until the situation becomes clearer over the next days
and weeks, it's just simply too early to put a sensible number on potential losses.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Page 8 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

Thank you. So, your question I think was about the market-wide SCR. Clearly, yes, a net
claims for Irma and Harvey of up to $4.5 billion will impact that. We have to remember that
the Lloyd's market has profits that we have to the end of June, this GBP1.2 billion in the
system, so one of the actions we have taken is to suspend release of profits to the
market, pending assessment of the claims estimates for Irma and Harvey.
The Lloyd's market in terms of recapitalization has a well-established and good method
for doing so. We have a full distribution model, so when capital and profits are held in
excess of requirements we have a 100% release. And equally, when there are claims that
reduce capital below that level, we are for recapitalization.
We've got a very strong central fund at over GBP3 billion. That does give the market time
to recapitalize. In view of this, though, we will be looking to two members to come back
into line before trading in 2018 based on the storm losses.
In terms of specifics [ph], you ask about the central fund. There is no impact on the central
fund from these storms. Obviously, we are still in the very preliminary stages of loss
assessment. It's still very early to be able to give out reliable estimates. We have given
the information out based on what we are aware of at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

For Lloyd's, the exposure is spread across a number of syndicates and we hold significant
capital for US windstorm. It is our single-largest natural catastrophe peril and the single
largest event for which we hold capital. So actually, this loss has been matched up well
against the capital that we hold. At the moment there is no threats to the central fund or
to that market-wide SCR.
Just changing slightly, you asked about property and motor. For property, when we drilled
into it, you ended up at quite specific syndicate issues for small tens of millions, rather
than being anything systemic across the market and, overall, it is a pretty small amount of
deterioration in aggregate. But nothing systemic that we saw.
And for motor, it's quite a small premium base and, again, it's being exposed from that
movement in Ogden, where some syndicates have booked that in the first half of 2017,
having closed their books for '16 prior to the announcement of the rate change.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. The next question is from Marcus Rivaldi, Executive Director at Twelve Capital.
There are three questions. Do you think the combination of events seen in second half
are equivalent to a market-turning event? The second is, would you agree with the
Hurricane Maria loss estimate range announced by AIR? The third is, do you expect the
Mexico earthquakes be material events for Lloyd's?

A - Inga Beale
Okay. Thank you, Marcus. Let me just answer that market-turning event question before I
hand over to Jon Hancock on Maria and Mexico. We did quite a considerable amount of
work towards the end of last year across the market. Brokers were involved, Lloyd's
Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

syndicates were involved, company market participants were involved in looking at what a
market-turning event could be and what the implications of that could be. This was
released in a report earlier this year.
The culmination of that research said that actually very, very unlikely these days, with the
amount of capital that is there, that one single event could be market turning. It said there
have to be at least two, maybe a series of events, and they said that these should total
$200 billion. So when we look at the modeled output from some of the events now, we -they don't total $200 billion, so we are basing our views at the moment on that. So, that's
our assumption. So, no concern at the moment that we've got this market-turning event
situation.
So, over to you, Jon.

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, two specific questions there. One on the number, the ranges that were released by
AIR two days ago. I think one thing we should remember is there are very few loss
estimates in the public domain at the moment. The number that was published by AIR
was obviously considerably higher than the number they were previously talking about,
which was more in the $15 billion to $25 billion range. So, that number was a surprise to us
and many.
So what we're doing, we attempt to ascertain the drivers behind that number and we're
still working through that. We are also waiting and talking with the other modeling firms to
see what different views or similar views they come out with. And, in the meantime,
obviously doing a lot of work internally across the Lloyd's market to understand exactly
what our exposures are.
Obviously, we already tracked the exposures. We've got good data to understand what
exposure we've got where, and waiting at the moment to translate that into some
accurate loss estimates. So, we're taking it seriously. We're very watchful of it. We're also
waiting to see some other industry loss estimates as well.
And on the second question on the Mexico earthquakes, yes, of course, Lloyd's does
have some exposure there. And as Inga said on the other catastrophes around the world,
our focus is absolutely on handling claims and getting people and businesses back up and
running. That -- those two events will be significantly smaller to Lloyd's and to the market
than the storms.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. The next question is from Joanna Parson, Director at Stockdale. And the question
has disappeared. So, we will move to Barrie Cornes, an insurance analyst at Panmure
Gordon.
And he said, you've indicated -- something's not right. We will go back to Joanna. I'm not
sure what's happening here. No, we're back with Barrie. You have indicated that you don't
Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

think the Q3 cat losses are market moving. How much surplus capital do you feel needs to
be withdrawn before rates across the board will finally start to go up?

FINAL

A - Inga Beale
Okay. Well, I'll just go back to the research that was done as a market-turning event. So, a
series of losses giving rise to events totaling $200 billion. That would be the estimate.
And that's why we're taking the view we are at the moment.
However, let's bear in mind, pricing for reinsurance is based fundamentally on three
things. You're looking at the past experience, you're looking at the current exposures
you're taking on, and you're looking at future exposures and future likely-to-claims. So,
therefore, anything that's been affected by a claim in the normal throws of pricing and
renewal, underwriting, and all of that, you're taking into account experience. So, we
shouldn't come across as being naive about pricing. I mean these things has to be taken
into consideration.

Bloomberg Transcript

What I would say, though, is the global insurance market is really far-reaching now. And I
was just out in China, it's got a thriving, growing insurance market there. Lloyd's now
writes nearly GBP0.25 billion of premium in the Chinese market out of our Chinese
company.
So, the world is very different with many, many regions of the world growing and with
many regions having big, big domestic markets. And, therefore, I think the whole
dynamics of the global insurance arena has changed a lot over the years. And as I said,
we've got an abundance of capital out there at the moment. Hence, we based our
comments on the research and that's feeling that you know the old way of thinking about
cycles and insurance, I think are behind us to a certain extent.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. And the final question we have is back to Joanna Parson, Director at Stockdale,
which is what is the overall Lloyd's catastrophic budget for a normal year?

A - Inga Beale
I think this might mean what do we have or what the syndicates hold in their reserves for
what might come up, so the amount that you put out for catastrophe losses, and of
course, each quarter this has -- an element of it has to be earned. So, I guess that's what
you're talking about, because, of course, what we do have as we run all our RDSs, our
realistic disaster scenarios, and we have peak exposures. We also have the syndicates
modeling their exposures on an annual basis. Quite sophisticated modeling goes on, and
we're not necessarily adding up all of those and then capitals held to that level.
But, I'll hand over to John also for a view. John Parry.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Page 11 of 12



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2017-09-28

FINAL

Thank you. Thanks, Inga. Thanks, Jon. There is never is an average cat year, is there? If you
look at -- I think on our modeling we would say that every other year, you would have at
least $2.5 billion to $3 billion of net claims for catastrophe for our book. And on average,
over the long period, it's been approximately 10% added to the combined ratio. I think
last year it was 9%, which was the closest thing we've had to an average year.
So, $4.5 billion is not so extreme that we haven't seen it before. For example, in 2011. We
incurred nearly $8 billion of catastrophe claims in today's money. If you go back further to
2005, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma, well over $7 billion. So the Lloyd's does -- Lloyd's does
hold very significant capital for these events.
It looks certainly, even with three months ago, it may be an above-average year with $4.5
billion for Harvey and Irma, but certainly nowhere near the levels we do test for on the
RDS regime, as Inga said.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

As there are no further questions, we will now conclude today's presentation. Thank you
for joining us.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

