Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

Q2 2017 Earnings Call - Pre Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Luigi Lubelli, Group Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Donnet, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone, and a warm welcome to our First Half Results Review. We have
had a strong performance over the first six months of 2017. We increased profitability in
what is still a challenging environment. We are executing our strategy with discipline and
will complete our industrial turn-around plan by the end of next year, fulfilling our
commitments to the financial community.
I will present you with a progress report in a little while. We are a uniquely positioned
group, largely thanks to our geographic base as well as our strong distribution network.
We have deep European roots and are present in some 60 countries around the world.
However, to optimize our footprint, we are proactively reviewing and exiting from nonstrategic markets. We pride ourselves on one of the strongest proprietary distribution
networks in the industry. It is one of Generali's true competitive advantages, and we
continue to innovate. For example, we are implementing our important digital agent
program to ensure the relationship between Generali and our clients becomes even
more efficient.
Today's results are underpinned by our outstanding in-house technical and operational
capabilities. Thanks to this internal know-how, we are successfully rolling out our new asset
management strategy across Europe and have seen robust growth in our capital-light
products. And finally, our on-going efforts to innovate and transform, where we always
strive for best practices.
Generali's commitment to innovation was recognized during the first half of this year
when the Group won the prestigious Global Innovator Award given by EFMA and
Accenture. The award highlights the company's commitment to changing and
transforming the industry. It is recognition of the Group's drive to find new ways and new
best practices to help grow the business and improve the client experience.
Now, let me give you some high-level numbers. Our financial performance in the first half
was strong. Thanks to the management team and our international employee base, we
delivered €2.6 billion of operating profit, and over €1.2 billion of net income, both up by
4% year-on-year.

Page 1 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

Furthermore, the Group's operating return on equity stood at 13.6% in the first half, above
our target of 13%, a result of which we are very proud.

FINAL

Our balance sheet is sound. Our solvency has become even stronger, standing at 207%
based on our full internal model, up by 13 points since the year-end. We are able to
deliver these results thanks to the strength of our core insurance business.
In Property & Casualty, while we have experienced a negative cycle in a few countries,
where we have seen increased frequency and at times severity, Generali still boasts an
impressively low combined ratio of 92.9%. This confirms our strong pricing, underwriting
and claims management capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Life, the careful management of our in-force portfolio and our innovative product
offering are bearing fruit. Our new business margin improved significantly in the first half
of the year, driven by actions on product design and product mix. Even where we still sell
traditional guaranteed products, the guarantees we offer have continued to decline to
just 17 basis points in the first half of 2017 in the Euro area, remaining far below the risk
free rate.
These strong results and the trends in our technical performance are no coincidence.
They are aligned with and the result of our strategy. Let me remind you of the six strategic
key pillars of it. The first pillar is to optimize our international footprint. We want to redirect
our resources so that we reinforce the markets where we can or could have a stronger
performance. Where we don't see any possibility to achieve this aspiration in the mediumterm, we are releasing capital and resources. Just recently, we announced our exit from
Colombia after Guatemala and Liechtenstein. We have a target of achieving at least €1
billion of cash proceeds.
Secondly, our operating machine itself. We have made good progress, but there is more
to do. We are aiming to streamline processes and to integrate platforms and entities. This
will have a positive impact on our performance as well as on the costs. The overall aim is
to cut costs by a total of €200 million in mature markets, in an effort to eliminate
inefficiencies. We are on target and expect to have it completed by next year.
Third, we will further enhance our core insurance capabilities and our technical excellence,
thanks to our tradition and experience of nearly 200 years in the business. Our goal is to
have the best combined ratio in the industry. In Life, we will go beyond improving the
quality and profitability of our new business. We will bring our guarantees down to 0% by
next year. And as you saw in the previous slide, we are already down to just 17 basis points
in the first half.
These three areas share the common goal of improving our overall operating
performance. In order to secure longer-term value creation, there are three further key
areas where we have already made progress.
First is the structure of our business portfolio. We are transforming this so that we
become more resilient and be in a position to increase our growth potential. Our
Page 2 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

commitment is to lower the average portfolio guarantee by 30 basis points to 1.5% by the
end of 2018.
Regarding asset management, three months ago, we announced our new asset
management strategy. The new asset management business unit will become a greater
profit center going forward. The objective is to add at least an additional €150 million to
the group's bottom-line by the end of 2020. We are confident in the potential of this
business for Generali.
Second, customer and distributor innovation. We are experiencing a revolution in
customer behavior and technological innovation. We will continue to be focused on these
trends. We will become simpler, smarter and faster, not only in our internal processes and
operations, but also in the way we interact with customers and understand their needs.
We are committed to modernizing the triangle among Generali, its vast distribution
network and our clients.
We are a global leader in the connected insurance arena, and we intend to strengthen
this position. To do this, our goal is to increase client retention by 2 percentage points. We
will accomplish this by leveraging innovative technology to engage today's social, mobile
customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, our brand. We have a very strong brand, built on quality, excellence and
heritage. We have yet to unleash the full potential of the Lion of San Marco. We aim to
grow the mature market brand preference, as we increasingly shift from traditional
marketing to digital.
I would like to do a short deep dive on one of these topics, the life insurance portfolio
mix. We continue to innovate our portfolio to enhance Generali's overall technical
performance. We are strongly steering our new production so that it is more focused on
capital-light products such as unit-linked, hybrid or an evolution of the traditional
guaranteed savings.
We will continue to build new and innovative concepts for unit-linked and further increase
the group's focus on protection and health. In fact, in the first half of this year, all the net
inflows we have generated are already unit-linked and protection. This same kind of work
is behind the rapid increase in new business margins which I mentioned before. And we
are successful not only in new business production. We are working hard on the in-force
liabilities of the group, for example, by recycling high capital intensity products into lower
capital intensity, and carefully working on demand driven liability management.
As a result of all these actions, our mix of liabilities is moving exactly as planned. We have
added €23 billion to capital light reserves in the past 18 months, which has increased their
weight on total reserves by 3 percentage points, exactly on track for the 6 percentage
point swing we promised to deliver over the three years to 2018.
Based on the results we have delivered, we are confident and committed to delivering
the financial targets announced in 2015. We will achieve more than €7 billion of net
Page 3 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

operating cash between 2015 and 2018, of which we already delivered €3.5 billion by the
end of 2016, mid-way through the plan.

FINAL

Cumulative dividends will reach at least €5 billion between 2015 and 2018. And again, we
are well on track, having already paid €2.4 billion half way through the plan. The operating
return on equity will be above 13%. As of June 30, it stood comfortably above the target
at 13.6%.
To summarize, based on today's results, our strategy is the right one. We are over
halfway there, and with focus, determination and discipline, we are delivering the results,
some faster than anticipated. However, we are still hungry for change. We will continue to
push forward to ensure that our operational performance on the one hand, and creation
of long-term value for the group, on the other, will continue.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the managerial talent that we have
around the world that has made these results and this industrial turn-around a reality.
Whether it be in the information technology area where we are driving innovation or the
leadership of the newly-created asset management business unit, we all have a mission.
And our management has been given the mandate to be part of a transformation
process, a process where we continuously strive for excellence in everything we do, every
day, everywhere.
We have implemented a fast board roll-out program so that all business units are
equipped with industrial and strategic KPI's to monitor their progress and objectives. We
have also strengthened our management team with a number of new hires in key
strategic positions throughout the group. All of these serve as cornerstones for a simpler,
smarter and faster governance as we work to complete the industrial turn-around.
Again, I am very proud of the results we have achieved thus far. So, I would like to extend
my gratitude to all our stakeholders for their unfailing support and to the managers who
have the power, the will and the professional capabilities to execute the plan.
I would now like to pass the floor to Luigi who will give you more details on our first-half
financials.

Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Hello, I am Luigi Lubelli, Group Chief Financial Officer of Assicurazioni Generali and I have
the pleasure of guiding you through the main figures of our half-year results for 2017.
Let me begin by joining Philippe in saying that the figures for this first half are strong and
confirm the successful execution of our strategy.
I will dive into the details in a moment, but let me recap the main financial highlights. Our
top-line continues to reflect our selective underwriting policy: P&C is confirming its return

Page 4 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

to growth path in both Motor and Non-Motor, and Life net inflows are at a high level and
came entirely from the sale of unit-linked and protection products.

FINAL

The operating result posted a robust 4.1% growth, reaching almost €2.6 billion and
positioning our rolling operating return on equity at 13.6%, once again above our target
level. Our net result also improved in a similar fashion, up 3.7%, to more than €1.2 billion.
The very strong improvement of the Life new business margin demonstrates a relentless
effort to redirect our new production towards more profitable business lines. This is what
we told you we would do a year ago, and that's precisely what we are doing. Here, as you
can also see, we are changing our main metric to the margin of new business value on the
present value of new business premiums. I will explain to you later why.
This excellent momentum is of course also reflected on the APE basis we used before,
where the margin rose to 40.5% in the first half, up to (sic) [from] 25.5% in the first half of
2016. The new business value we wrote in the first six months of this year is twice as large
as the amount we were reporting only two years ago at the same close. I find this a
remarkable development.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Solvency II ratio further strengthens, due to the strong contribution of normalized
capital generation, which this year was complemented by positive financial market trends.
It reached 188% on the regulatory view and 207% based on our full internal model, up by
10 percentage points and 13 percentage points, respectively from the year-end level.
Let me get straight into the details, starting with a look at the operating results by
segment. The 4.1% increase of our operating result has been achieved primarily thanks to
good development of the Holding & Other Businesses segment and was complemented
by a resilient and strong P&C result. The Life operating results decreased by almost 3%,
due to some negative foreign exchange effects, as well as higher expenses, primarily
driven by business development in Asia.
Moving from the operating result to net profit, we start with the non-operating investment
income, which had a neutral contribution to the bottom-line, compared with a €45 million
negative balance last year. In both years, realized gains substantially offset impairments,
although I must note that, on each side, gains and impairments, the figures were about
€100 million lower this year. Hence, the main driving factor of the year-on-year variation
was the minor, albeit positive, development of assets held at fair value through profit and
loss.
Non-operating holding expenses decreased €14 million to €392 million. Interest expenses
on our financial debt decreased by €31 million, mainly due to a double counting effect we
had last year, without which they would have been substantially stable.
Other non-operating expenses increased by €14 million, reflecting a reduction in
restructuring expenses, but on the other side, a larger appropriation to a fund for future
payments to the so-called Solidarity Fund in Italy, which is also related to our restructuring
efforts.
Page 5 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

The overall income statement effective tax rate was 32.5%, 0.9 percentage points higher
compared to last year, due to lower tax-exempt income sources and a positive effect of
tax recoveries, primarily in Germany last year. Minority interests were €25 million higher
and mainly linked to the good performance of Banca Generali.
Let us now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity decreased by 3.4%, to
€23.7 billion. The positive contribution from the net result of the period has been more
than offset by the 2016 dividend paid in May and by the €0.7 billion negative impact that
rising yields had on government bonds within the available for sale reserve. Sensitivities
remain essentially unvaried both directionally and in amount.
Turning now to our solvency ratio, we can see that it further strengthened, reaching a very
comfortable 188% level on regulatory view, and 207% from a full internal model
perspective.
Looking into the roll-forward of the internal model ratio, we can see that normalized
capital generation further increases, reflecting the very strong underlying technical
profitability of the P&C business and the improved economics of the new business in Life.

Bloomberg Transcript

It has already added 9 points to the ratio during the first month of the year, 1 percentage
point more than a year ago. Financial variances and other movements were positive this
year by 7 percentage points, driven primarily by interest rates and spread movements.
We also had a 1 point positive impact arising from the difference between our preliminary
estimate of own funds as published with the year-end results, and the final number that
you have subsequently seen published in our solvency and financial condition report.
Finally, as I mentioned last quarter, from 2017 onwards, we are making an accrual for
dividends during the interim periods of each year, at a pro-rata based on the last dividend
paid. There will then be a true-up in the fourth quarter to whatever dividend will be
proposed in our full year numbers. This treatment reduces the solvency ratio by 3
percentage points, taking the closing number to 207%, up to (sic) [from] 194% at year
end.
Now I will turn to look at the business segments, starting with Life. As we told you a year
ago, we have continued to take steering actions to improve our business mix, limiting or
ending sale of products not meeting our risk-adjusted profitability requirements. These
actions translated into a margin improvement which by far outweighed a slightly negative
development in volumes.
Overall new business value came to €942 million, up by more than 50% from last year. I
strongly believe in this strategy and these numbers prove it is the right one. It is not by
chance that now also our Life business margins reached best in class levels compared to
the European industry, as was already the case with P&C.

Page 6 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

Let me start with the drivers of the Life operating result, which posted a 2.8% reduction
overall. The technical margin recorded a €20 million increase, mainly driven by France,
where management fees have been revised and the business mix shifted into higher fee
products. Germany also performed well, while in Italy, the very positive result we had
related to some group Life contracts last year, did not repeat itself.
The investment result decreased by €33 million. This was a function of foreign exchange
translation effects, and in particular the US dollar, arising primarily from the collateral
backing some reinsurance contracts and the US exposure of our Generali Employee
Benefits business. Therefore, we usually do have some impact from the euro/dollar
exchange rate over time, which are more noticeable this year due to the particularly sharp
move of the currency. Losses were €19 million, as compared to a gain of €10 million last
year, and explain almost entirely the movement in the investment result.
The expense result decreased by €33 million, largely driven by the development of our
Asian businesses, including the opening of new branches in China. Other than that, the
figure would be quite balanced with increased acquisition costs in Italy and France, offset
by a fall in CEE.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our net inflows closed the semester at almost €5.8 billion, €1.8 billion below prior year's
level. You can see the very strong swing in mix I mentioned before. For the first time, our
net inflows are completely driven by unit-linked and protection. This is a trend that, with
different magnitudes, can be seen in each of our major operations.
In Italy, net inflows decreased from €3.9 billion to €3.1 billion, with a halved contribution
from traditional savings and a booming unit-linked component, driven by particularly
strong hybrid production, which almost doubled year on year.
In our main European markets, we also see the same trend consistently repeating as in
recent quarters; strongly positive net inflows in unit-linked and protection business, offset
by increasing outflows in traditional savings business.
Lastly, in Asia, the decline in net inflows is explained by the strong but lower margin
bancassurance production we experienced in China during the first quarter of last year,
which was subsequently stopped and replaced with higher margin products. Overall, Life
technical reserves increased 2.8% to €397 billion, with a particularly good development of
the unit-linked component, up 7.5%.
Now moving to new business value, and as I anticipated at the beginning, we are
changing the way we report new business premiums and margins, to the present value of
new business premiums measurement. This metric we believe more properly reflects
margins, following the move in calculation of new business profits to accommodate for
the so-called contract boundary rules under Solvency II.
In fact, we were already publishing this metric in the backup before, but from this report
onwards, it will become the main focus. We will continue to publish the old APE measure in
the backup material, just for your reference.
Page 7 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

In terms of the contract boundaries and their impact on new business value, it is relatively
minor: We published a new business value of €656 million last year, and the re-stated
numbers adjusting for contract boundaries is €627 million, so a difference of €29 million or
just 4%.
What we are also showing you for the first time is the trend by line of business, in addition
to the usual split by country that I will show you in a moment. This new analysis should
enable you to better understand how our strategic business decisions on mix are
translating into value creation.
Overall present value of new business premiums declined by 1.6%, but as a result of
opposing trends. The theme is consistent. We had a 23% drop in the savings component,
mostly counterbalanced by a strong rise of unit-linked, up 44%, and protection up 8%.
The margin increased very strongly indeed to 411 basis points, up from 144 basis points
year on year. As you can see, a small negative impact of financial market inputs was
negligible compared to the strongly positive effect of management actions on business
mix, guarantees and product design.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall new business value consequently reached €942 million, up by 52% from the first
semester of last year, and in fact double the level of the first semester two years ago. So
we really have had some remarkable momentum. Each business line had a positive
development from a value perspective, even in the savings component where the margin
expansion significantly overcompensated the strong reduction in volumes.
Looking at the country perspective, there is a margin expansion in all territories, like we
saw at the end of 2016, but it was not yet the case a year ago. This is testament to the
consistency of the execution around the world. Conversely, the development in volumes
was more muted due to our disciplined underwriting approach.
In Italy, for example, we had a 7.7% reduction in the present value of new business
premiums, driven by a decline of 25% in the savings business, which was the major
component. However, protection rose 35%, while unit-linked doubled. The 1.5 percentage
points margin improvement as a consequence of this led to a 37% increase in new
business value.
This particularly high new business margin in CEE has been reached, thanks to a high
weight of protection businesses in these countries.
As a last example, in Americas and Asia, we refocused our Chinese business, which is by
far the biggest contributor to this area, launching new and more profitable products. This
led to a volume contraction, including the reduction of bancassurance business I
mentioned before, accompanied by strong margin and value improvements.
Let's look now to the Life investment portfolio. Life general account investments
increased slightly, reaching €351 billion, with a mix which is quite consistent with the one
Page 8 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

you saw at year-end. Overall, current investment returns were broadly stable at 1.6% not
annualized. In absolute terms, the equity returns in 2016 included some private equity
income which was not repeated this year. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, the volume of
dividend received in the second quarter was comparatively larger in 2017. The new money
reinvestment rate in Life amounted to 1.9%, against 2.1% in 2016.
Turning to Property&Casualty, in summary, gross written premiums increased by 1.5% to
€11.3 billion. The combined ratio worsened slightly, but is still excellent at 92.9%. The
overall P&C operating result marginally improved, to almost €1.1 billion.
Looking in more detail at the components of this operating profit, we see the technical
result has fallen by €36 million, explained by the combined ratio, which I will return to, in a
moment. The investment result was broadly stable, while the result from Other improved
by €50 million, and this was mainly due to a lower net allocation to risk provisions.
Let's look now at premium and combined ratio developments by geography. What we can
see from a high-level perspective is that premium growth is driven by most markets, with
the exceptions of Italy and France.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, the 0.5 point combined ratio worsening is concentrated in Italy, the Americas
and our international operations, outpacing positive evolutions in other countries, primarily
France which continues to improve at a good pace, CEE and EMEA.
But let's now have a deeper look at our main countries. Italy's top-line is down 4.4%, at
€2.7 billion. Motor decreased by 4.9%, still affected by the decline in average premium,
but also by a reduction in the number of policies, due to our strict underwriting criteria.
Primary Non-Motor is down 4.6%, particularly driven by the evolution of Global
Corporate&Commercial business, and especially by lower writing of Casualty business.
The other Non-Motor business was down a more modest 2.3%. In terms of profitability,
Italy again confirmed its outstanding level, with a 90.5% combined ratio. The 1.9%
deterioration from last year is explained by 2 percentage points impact from nat cat,
which were absent in the first half of last year.
In Germany, premiums increased by 2.2%. This was driven in particular by the Motor
business, which rose 4.2%, still benefiting from a stable pricing environment. Primary NonMotor posted a more modest 0.7% growth. The combined ratio recorded an excellent
91%, an improvement of 0.4 percentage points, mainly driven by a lower nat cat burden.
France declined by 1.2% to €1.35 billion, but with Motor finally turning to a positive 0.8%
growth rate, despite the ongoing pruning activities. Primary Non-Motor decreased by
0.5%, due to the competitive market environment in commercial business and the
continuation of strict underwriting guidelines.
The combined ratio in France improved once again, by 1.9 percentage points to 98.3%,
also helped by 1.3 percentage points lower nat cats that were exceptionally high last year.
Page 9 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

CEE continued on its growing path, showing a 5% growth with a positive development
across all main countries in the region. The combined ratio remains excellent at 89.2%,
falling 1.6 points mainly due to the abnormally high combined ratio in Poland in the first half
of last year. Also, EMEA confirmed a positive topline trend, with premiums up 2.1% to €2.7
billion. The combined ratio performed well across most markets, improving by 1.1
percentage points overall to 93.6%.
In the Americas, we had a strong topline growth on a like for like basis, partially inflation
driven, but a negative evolution of the combined ratio, due to Argentina. There, we had a
specific issue caused by the emergence of a gap between inflation rates and the
reserving discount rates, which created the actuarial need for a reserve strengthening. We
believe this should be a temporary effect, as such a deviation between inflation and
interest rates is unlikely to persist in the long run. Nonetheless, we have made the
provision on the grounds of prudence, and this explains the large change in combined
ratio which you see there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me provide you now a closer look to the drivers of the combined ratio movement at
group level. The loss ratio remained stable. A slightly worsening current year result, which
was affected by a number of mid-sized weather-related events and some large claims in
Motor insurance in Germany, was compensated by lower Nat Cat experience. Prior year
development remained stable at 4.4 percentage points, even if it does include the impact
of the reserve charge in Argentina, which I mentioned before.
The expense ratio increased by 0.6 percentage points, due to the higher acquisition
expenses linked to specific actions aimed at increasing the penetration of the Non-Motor
business in our retail and SME client base, in particular in Italy. The admin expense was
slightly lower by 10 basis points compared to last year.
P&C investments remained stable, compared to the end of last year, at €39 billion. In
terms of asset allocation, there has been a slight decrease in corporate bonds and other
fixed income, with an almost corresponding increase of cash instruments. Total P&C
current returns were overall broadly stable at 1.6% on a six months basis. The average
reinvestment rate in P&C during the first half 2017 was 1.5%, marginally higher than the
1.4% achieved last year.
Let me finally turn to our holding and other businesses segment, whose overall
contribution to the group operating result improved from €102 million loss at the first half
of 2016, to a €30 million profit this year.
As I mentioned before, this result has been mainly driven by a good performance of
Banca Generali, which increased its contribution by €47 million, and by higher profits from
private equity and real estate investments. Also, the other financials, which includes the
asset management business, performed strongly with operating results growing following
increased fees.
Holding company expenses were modestly lower at €230 million, an €8 million
improvement from the prior year figure reflecting our efficiency efforts.
Page 10 of 11



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2017-08-02

FINAL

Lastly, other businesses produced a positive result of €16 million, compared to a €37
million loss last year. Around half of the swing is explained by gains related to some
private equity holdings, which tend to emerge not consistently over the quarters. In
addition, we had slightly improved results from some real estate companies.
Let me now wrap up with some final remarks. Our excellent combined ratio and the
particularly strong performance of our new business value and margin are proof of a
successful implementation of the right strategy. Life net inflows are at a high level with an
improved mix, and P&C premiums are beginning to accelerate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Operating ROE once again exceeded our target level. And finally, our solvency has
strengthened even further, to 188% on regulatory and 207% on full internal model view, a
level that I consider to be very robust. Thank you for your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 11 of 11

