Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

Business Update Call - Second Information Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Nampei Yanagawa, Group Chief Risk Officer & Head-Compliance
Shiro Fujii, Group CFO, Director, EVP, Head-IR & IT Planning
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President, Group CEO & Representative Director

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Hello everyone. My name is Yasuyoshi Karasawa and I'm President and CEO of MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings. Thank you for joining us at our Information Meeting today.
In fiscal year 2017, the global economy has continued to recover gradually. The Japanese
economy has also brightened with the Nikkei average achieving the ¥22,000 after the
ruling coalition won a sweeping victory in last month's Lower House general election.
This fiscal year, the world experienced natural catastrophes. My thoughts are with
everyone who has been affected by these catastrophes, and I sincerely hope for the
earliest possible recovery of the disaster-stricken regions. Natural catastrophes are
increasing causing serious damage, the likes of which has never been experienced before
all over the world.
I have always said that insurance is a component of social infrastructure, and I believe that
the role of insurance is becoming increasingly important. This fiscal year, the non-life
insurance industry including the MS&AD Group found itself paying many claims. It is,
however, our duty to support customers affected by catastrophes around the world in
rebuilding their lives and resuming business activities and to contribute to the stable
growth of the world economy.
The MS&AD Group aims to continue contributing to the stable growth and development
of the global economy by working to resolve such social issues while at the same time
Page 1 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

striving to further stabilize its profitability through a further enhancement of ERM.

FINAL

I will start today's presentation. Now, please turn to page 1 of the handout. This page
shows the main points of today's presentation. I would like to start by explaining fiscal
2017 interim results and our full-year forecast announced the other day.
I would then like to talk about progress under our current medium-term management
plan, Next Challenge 2017 which is now in its final year, and our understanding of issues
still to be addressed based on this progress. I will then touch on our next medium-term
management plan, which is currently under examination including our goals and the
direction of strategies. Finally, I will outline shareholders' returns for the current fiscal year.
Please turn to page 2 of the handout. As I mentioned in the beginning, the group core
profit for fiscal 2017 is estimated to be ¥115 billion, mainly due to the successive
occurrences of large-scale natural catastrophes in Japan and overseas. The full-year net
income projection on the financial accounting basis is ¥145 billion, excluding these
transient factors, the full-year projection is ¥220 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 3 of the handout. A breakdown by business segment for full-year
shows year-on-year profit decline of ¥4.3 billion in domestic non-life insurance business,
reflecting large-scale natural catastrophes in Japan such as typhoon number 21. However,
profit in the domestic non-life insurance business is expected to hit ¥4 billion higher than
the initial forecast of the year and the domestic non-life insurance business is expected to
reach its group core profit target.
In the domestic life insurance business, MSI Aioi Life is also steadily increasing the amount
of new policies and the group is expected to reach the numerical management target for
increase in EEV. Also at MSI Primary Life, although gross premiums written are slightly
down year-on-year, group core profit is projected to rise and domestic life insurance
business is also expected to exceed its group core profit target.
In international business, we now forecast a sharp decline in profit this fiscal year mainly
because of the large-scale natural catastrophes that have occurred all over the world, and
also because there is no longer any prospect of the ¥21 billion gain on the exchange of
shares of Max Life.
Please refer to page 4 of the handout for details of the expected impact of natural
catastrophes in Japan and overseas on full-year results. Unfortunately, the impact of these
natural catastrophes were to decrease the group profit. However, the degree of negative
effects of the global natural catastrophes on ESR in fiscal year is as low as approximately
minus 3 percentage points. In other words, this is not a risk management issue that would
exceed the risk tolerance level for the group.
We consider ERM to be a pillar of the current medium-term management plan and have
pushed forward with ERM enhancement by consolidating the holding company and
strengthening the holding company's risk management functions. The holding company
will control the risk tolerance level throughout the group, including MS Amlin and head
Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

office main insurance business of ADI, which have been significantly affected in this fiscal
year and through capital allocation to group companies and the monitoring of the risk
tolerance amount.
From view point of cycle management, we can expect expansion of revenues and profit
by continuing proper underwriting when premium rates enter the rising phase following
these series of natural catastrophes. We will continue to control the level of risks for
natural catastrophes while taking risks to a certain degree and we'll aim to ensure
increased earnings in the next fiscal year and onward and stabilize earnings within a
certain period of time.
Next, I would like to talk about progress under the current medium-term management
plan, Next Challenge 2017, which is now in its final year, and about our understanding of
the challenges still to be addressed based on this progress.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 5. The group's management vision is to create a world-leading
insurance and financial services group and we have set ourselves medium-to-long-term
targets in the five areas of financial soundness, profitability, capital efficiency, geographical
dispersion (sic) [diversification] (07:14) and risk assets, and have steadily implemented
initiatives to achieve them.
First, look at the earning power of our domestic non-life insurance business. It is safe to
say that we have achieved the target to maintain combined ratio of 95% or less stably.
Also, as for ESR, in terms of financial soundness, we largely achieved our target of 200%
level. Based on our understanding, our commitment to the improvement of capital
efficiency must also be continued from the perspectives of geographic dispersion (sic)
[diversification] (07:54) and reduction in the rate of risk assets.
Please turn to page 6 and 7 of the handout. Here is a summary of progress made in the
four areas during Next Challenge 2017.
Firstly, we have improved earnings power in domestic non-life insurance business.
Insurance underwriting profit before reflecting catastrophe reserves a measure of our
actual ability shows we believe that our profitability is number one in the industry.
Our second achievement is sustainable growth. Ordinary revenue has grown from ¥3.4
trillion when the group was founded to around 1.6 times that figure amounting to ¥5.3
trillion at the end of fiscal 2016.
The third achievement is securing financial soundness. ESR which was 144% at the end of
fiscal 2010 has steadily improved throughout the periods, covered by the previous
medium-term management plan and the current medium-term management plan and we
have succeeded in achieving a level close to our target of 200%.
Our fourth achievement is improvement of capital efficiency. Unfortunately, capital
efficiency is expected to decrease in fiscal 2017 mainly due to the impact of large natural
Page 3 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

catastrophes such as the hurricanes in North America and others. However, ROE was low
until midway through the previous medium-term management plan, but we succeeded in
raising both ROE on the financial accounting basis and group ROE around 8% level by the
end of fiscal 2016. At the same time, we believe that there are four issues which still need
to be addressed under the next medium-term management plan, namely maintenance
and increase of earnings in the domestic non-life insurance business, enhancement of
earnings power and the improvement of stability in other businesses beside domestic
non-life insurance business, sustainable growth through business portfolio diversification
and finally improvement of capital efficiency.
Please turn to page 8 of the handout. As shown in the graph, improvement in the
profitability of the domestic non-life insurance business during the current medium-term
management plan has been driven by improvement in the underwriting profit of
automobile insurance and the solid earning structure has been put in place.

Bloomberg Transcript

To maintain stable high profitability and to expand profits in the domestic non-life
insurance business in the future, we believe it is necessary to strengthen other business
lines besides automobile insurance and to establish the next profit drivers. In particular, it's
important to improve the profitability of fire insurance and make it into a business line that
can be expected to reliably generate profit in years when occurrences of large natural
catastrophes are within the scope of initial forecast and to expand the casualty insurance
sector by developing the SME market and improving ability to address new risks.
Please turn to page 9. Further improvement of productivity is also a key to maintaining and
expanding profits in the domestic non-life insurance business. The group has taken
reorganization by function as an opportunity to focus on improving the efficiency including
integrating basic systems and consolidating back office functions and has reduced the
expense ratio from almost 35% in fiscal 2010 to around 32% level.
We will promote further improvement in business productivity through measures including
integrating claims service systems, reforming online systems, and introducing AI and
robotics. And we would like to lower the expense ratio to 30% level in the future.
Please turn to page 10 of the handout. Thus far, the improvement in the group's
profitability has been driven by the domestic non-life insurance business. In the future, we
would like to increase the earnings of other businesses and first achieve a ratio of
earnings in domestic non-life insurance business to other businesses of 50% versus 50%,
and in the future, achieve a ratio of earnings from domestic business to international
business of 50% versus 50%.
The full-year forecast of international business unfortunately was revised downward
significantly from initial forecast largely due to the major natural catastrophes experienced
in fiscal years 2016 and 2017. In business lines where a huge cycle for rating trends exists
such as natural catastrophe risks, we intend to ensure, as part of cycle management, that
profits are reliably generated in phases during which market conditions improve.

Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

We also intend to strengthen initiatives to improve profitability in other general business
lines. In the domestic life insurance business, we will seek improvement of profitability and
profit stability by flexibly reviewing our products and sales strategies from the viewpoint
of return on risk.
Please turn to page 11 of the handout. The domestic insurance market does not promise
significant growth because of Japan's shrinking population, and growth of the
international business thus will play an important part in driving the group's growth.
The Asian market, which the group sees as its strength, is expected to grow significantly
compared to the rest of the world. We believe it is important to leverage such organic
growth and promote through new business investments and other means both business
diversification through entry to the non-life and life insurance businesses and the
geographic diversification and to achieve sustainable growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 12 of the handout. We also believe that most important issue to be
addressed in the next medium-term management plan is improvement of capital
efficiency. We have succeeded in raising ROE from less than 1% at the time of group's
formation to around 8% level. But we believe that further initiatives are necessary to
achieve our target of 10% level. We plan to explain the next medium-term management
plan in detail at the information meeting in May next year, but today I would like to give a
brief outline of the plan and our aims under the next plan.
Please refer to page 13 of the handout. We established a long-term scenario for the next
medium-term management plan and formed our understanding of the business
environment and identified risks and opportunities. While growth in the Japanese
economy and the world economy are expected to remain slow in the future, our
understanding is that the development of digital technologies and innovation will
transform society, and based on this understanding, we plan to conduct business
operations that tap into the risks and opportunities that will accompany this
transformation.
Please turn to page 14 of the handout. The next medium-term management plan will
cover the four-year period from fiscal years 2018 to 2021. This is positioned as a period in
which we will look toward achievement of our management vision of creating a world
leading insurance and financial services group and as a plan for putting in place a structure
that will enable flexible adaptation to environmental changes and we have named it Vision
2021.
Our aims are to achieve our goals for capital efficiency and financial soundness and to
maintain a scale of business operations that puts us among the world's top 10 non-life
insurance companies and groups ranked according to ordinary revenue.
Please turn to page 15 of the handout. We are currently reviewing methods used to
calculate group core profit and group ROE, although, we are not able to indicate target
values yet today. We will discuss it including profit and loss of reserves and capital gain

Page 5 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

and loss of strategic equity holdings, taking into consideration constructive opinions
received from investors to date.
We would like to restructure our business portfolio to achieve a ratio of domestic non-life
insurance business to other businesses of 50% versus 50% as indicated at the mediumterm target previously. We will also continue to actively reduce our strategic equity
holdings, planning to reduce them by ¥500 billion over five years including the current
fiscal year so that they account for less than 10% of consolidated total assets and less
than 30% of the group's integrated risk amount in line with our reduction targets.
Please turn to page 16 of the handout. ERM will also be an important theme underpinning
the next medium-term management plan and we will seek to further strengthen ERM.
Over the period of the current medium-term management plan Next Challenge 2017,
we've had much success in improving financial soundness and profitability. Under the next
medium-term management plan, we will continue working to further improve capital
efficiency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding profitability, we will seek to improve ROR through the monitoring of individual
businesses and individual operating companies. Regarding financial soundness, we will
manage ESR at a reasonable and appropriate level. And on the premise that ESR is kept
stable at that level, we will control capital to achieve the target level for ROE.
Please turn to page 17 of the handout. We're also carefully examining our shareholder
return policy so that we are able to talk about it in May next year. However, our basic goal
is to continue to pay stable dividend and to repurchase our own shares flexibly. Lastly, I'll
talk about shareholder return for the current fiscal year.
Please turn to page 18 of the handout. As announced the other day, we have resolved to
pay an interim dividend for fiscal 2017 of ¥65 per share. We will consider full year
shareholder return in fiscal 2017 including share buyback with consideration for the new
shareholder return policy in the next medium-term management plan.
Although we lowered our full year group core profit forecast for the current fiscal year
due to the frequent occurrence of natural catastrophes, we forecast a full year dividend
of ¥130 per share which is an increase of ¥10 from the previous year in accordance with
our shareholder return policy of returning approximately 50% of group core profits for
shareholders in the medium run and our basic goal of paying stable dividends.
This year, unfortunately, due to a record number of natural catastrophes since the year
2011, we forecast a sharp decline in profit at international business where we expected to
expand. However, excluding such transitory factors, we believe we have steadily achieved
the target under Next Challenge 2017 and have succeeded in achieving sustainable
growth and improvement in profitability and capital efficiency.
Under the next medium-term management plans starting in fiscal year 2018, the group
will set its sights on realizing its vision of creating a world-leading insurance and financial
services group. We will maintain increased stable profits in the domestic non-life insurance
Page 6 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

business while, at the same time, significantly expanding the domestic life insurance
business and international business in seeking improvement in capital efficiency through a
certification of ERM. We ask for your ongoing support as we continue to make efforts to
live up to the expectations of investors and all the shareholders.

FINAL

This concludes my presentation. Thank you.

Q&A
Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Muraki, Deutsche Securities. I have two questions. The first one relates to international
business and the second one shareholder return. The right-hand side of page 10 refers to
the changes made in underwriting portfolio composition of international business. As we
reduced the natural catastrophe risks, non-natural catastrophe business underwriting was
increased. But this time non-natural catastrophe related portfolio showed significant
increase in loss ratio. How does or real risk management department of a holding
company or MSI monitor the process while the underwriting of general business lines is
being increased? So, could you share with us the monitoring process in that regard?
The second question relates to shareholder return. I would like to seek your confirmation
on what you have showed us as the direction of the medium-term management plan of
the next period? This upper-left part of the definition of page 15 that relates to definition
is your consideration of catastrophe loss reserve provisioning or capital gains on
strategically held shares oriented toward increasing the resource for shareholder return
as some of your peers are doing.
And when the definition is changed, is target payout ratio of 50% going to be studied as
well? As you know when your peers change the definition, there are cases where
percentage itself was modified and another factor relating to this 50% relates to ESR
which is very close to 200% which is your target. It's almost there. Does this allow you to
consider potentially increase of 50%? Whether my understanding of the definition is
correct and based upon that definition, how should I consider this payout ratio which
stands currently at 50%?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

First, let me respond to your question about international business. MS Amlin's stance to
reduce natural catastrophe risk as much as possible from the viewpoint of a cycle
management, including the environment that continued to get softer was based upon a
shared recognition and awareness with MSI and its executives – executing department
since natural catastrophe risks have been consolidated in MS Amlin and MS Frontier Re
that was consolidated with Amlin. And so the reduction, the reduce in (24:22) orientation
was assured with MSI.
Amlin, as a company, that generated on average around ¥30 billion in profit in the past 10
years or so, about half of MS Amlin's earnings come from natural catastrophe business
with investment income accounting for a little less than 40%, and the general business
Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

risk, a part where the company incurs expenses accounting for a mid to 10% level. Its
business model therefore has been one of making profit mainly from natural catastrophe
and investment income. In this context, recognizing that natural catastrophe business
faced a softening business conditions, the company tried to reduce this part while taking
general business risks. And underwriting, of course, was left to MS Amlin, but with respect
to actual monitoring, the policy is producing bad results and the causes were discussed
mutually by both companies.
And we were already in that part of the cycle where we do away with; that is we organize
poorly-performing general reinsurance businesses, non-life insurance being a short-term
policy based business, while it takes a year or so to eliminate adverse policies, but since
MS Amlin's business model is not structured to generate substantial earnings from
general business risks. So long as the causes are identified, we assumed that we could
easily restore profitability in a year or so by eliminating those bad accounts. Based on this
assumption, we are reviewing our underwriting policy. In this regard, unlike in Japan, the
parties to a contract does not have ties of obligation. And so, if a policy produces bad
result, naturally rates go up or party can easily decline to underwrite a business. Allowing a
year or two to sort out adverse policies in general line risks, we can make a general line
business healthier.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to dividend, it is now under consideration. As described here, the two
factors you've mentioned are included. We are also mindful of the fact that IFRS does not
have a concept of reserve or catastrophe losses and we are also discussing whether or
not it is appropriate to include capital gains and equity sales in dividend sources. So that's
what we are discussing and our discussion includes those aspects.
Are we going to keep 50% without any change? Answering all these would divulge a
future dividend policy, so we would keep some flexibility in that regard. In addition, you
referred to ESR of 200%. We are not yet at a stage in which ESR is stably at 200%. So,
right now, we are studying a review of both its range and the current dividend policy
based on the assumption of keeping and increasing it as much as possible. Since our CFO
is responsible for this matter, I'd like Mr. Fuji to supplement what I have just mentioned.

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

As Mr. Karasawa mentioned, I feel sorry for not being able to give a complete or full
answer. For example, if we use figures before reflecting the catastrophe loss reserve, in
our case, volatility will be much higher than in the past. Earnings and core profit will
become much more volatile. When we think about that, is it right to keep 50% or is it
better to set a range instead of a single point? For instance when the profit increases, the
ratio may be smaller, but when profit decreases, a level may be somewhat higher.
Such an approach is also put under study. I wish I could be more articulate. One other
point in relation to international business discussed earlier, in addition to MS Amlin and
natural catastrophe, including Aioi Nissay Dowa's inward overseas reinsurance business,
how the holding company is monitoring this risk can be further elaborated by Mr.
Yanagawa, our CRO since he is with us today.

Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

A - Nampei Yanagawa

{BIO 19390245 <GO>}

FINAL

Yanagawa is my name. Since it was discussed in conjunction with Amlin, I'd like to refer you
to pages 40 and 41 of the slides or handout. These two pages showed the interim
financial results of Amlin business and cycle management on the bottom of the page, so
there are two pages covering those. Overview of interim financial results were already
explained through a conference call or when the financial results for the medium-term
was announced, so please refer to those table.
Allow me to focus on the bottom page, characteristics of Amlin business is to earn profit
by taking natural catastrophe risks and the keyword here is cycle management. and on the
left-hand side, you'll see A, B, and C. The phase A, emphasis is placed on underwriting
profit. Underwriters need to downsize portfolios in phases of falling premium rates; and
phase B strictly underwrite highly profitable policies; and phase C take action for growth in
the next cycle. Such is the pattern of behavior of reinsurers or insurance companies that
have natural catastrophe as main revenue sources.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aioi Nissay Dowais shown on page 45. The slide on page 45, International Business and
International Non-Life Insurance Business and Head Office Reinsurance Business in
parentheses. This refers to ADI's business. Net premium written and net income in fiscal
2015 appear very small, standing at ¥18.1 billion and ¥0.4 billion respectively, but fiscal
2014 (sic) [2017] (31:22) forecasts are as shown. You see top line forecast there with net
income is in the negative.
Moving on to Head Office Reinsurance Business features, the AD as the reinsurance
business is characterized by partnership in inward reinsurance on the premise of
maintaining business relationship in both inward and outward reinsurance over the
medium-term. Basically, ADI does not act as a reinsurance player in the open market. Its
business is conducted within closed partnership comprising known business partners.
The second bullet point head office reinsurance is mainly inward comprehensive quota
share treaty business ceded by leading reinsurers or Lloyds syndicates underwritten on
strict standards and guidelines, and therefore it is not reinsurance of a group of direct
policies put together and head of is under rights business ceded by professional
reinsurers.
Shown on the right hand side are risk management and governance cycle and formulation
of reinsurance businesses policy, examination and judgment of underwriting or postunderwriting monitoring are conducted with ADI's risk management and holding
companies in risk management working together. And this is how the cycle is managed.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Then the lady on the third line from the front, please?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Tsujino of JPMorgan, thank you very much for the opportunity. Recent news reports
indicate that you are once again interested in an acquisition in North America. You've had
Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

this sort of experience with Amlin and after having that experience, what sort of stance do
you have, vis-à-vis, a large-sized acquisition going forward? I don't want to sound
overbearing, but what sort of things are you implementing in order to reinforce your due
diligence framework for future acquisitions? What sort of things are you thinking in order
to solidify those due diligence? Can you share with us what you can do in that regard?
And another point and here, again, I'm not sure whether or not it is appropriate to put it
this way but Amlin and (34:18) has been visible to us since the first quarter. We've seen
some addition to reserves and profits were quite low and already since 2016, it tended to
be hit by all the natural catastrophes, so we were aware of that. And then, the second
quarter saw what actually happened and therefore, internally, the issue must have been
recognized much earlier in the current fiscal year. But while that was going on, you made
rather ambitious investments in summer of this year. So, I'm somewhat under the
impression that you may have become a bit too aggressive in this regard. So what sort of
control was in place or was exercised? That's what I would like to be enlightened on.
And lastly, also in relation to acquisition or investment, some of the more recent deals
included acquisition of a partial interest rather than 100%. So does this show any change in
your stance or while you being open to taking a partial stake such an opportunity has just
happened to be brought to your attention?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So, it is about M&A, overall. Am I right in understanding it in that way? First of all, with
respect to North America and other geographies, as I mentioned at the outset, we
continue to believe we need to further diversify our business portfolio, including life
insurance and international businesses because the domestic non-life insurance still
occupies a very large weight in the profit.
In the non-life insurance business, we need to achieve geographic diversification of the
risks which is concentrated in Japan. So, from that perspective, we would like to continue
investing including acquisitions.
In this context as we have been indicating, Asia has been our priority geography as we
have been saying and followed by Lloyd's market where we acquired Amlin. In North
America, if there is a good deal, not that anything is going on right now but we will take
action in North America. So, we've already indicated that.
You imply that Amlin indicates a failure of our due diligence, and we may have a separate
occasion to explain that. But relating to natural catastrophes, from a perspective of cycle
management, some might think that a business with such a risk model should be
purchased when the market is about to harden. We, however, are aware that such a risk
could manifest itself, fully recognizing the cycle management. Even then, so long as an
entity has know-how in underwriting such business or cycle management capability, we
believe earnings or know-how in this area is worth acquiring over at medium- or longterm, and so it was within certain expectations.

Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

MSI or MS&AD on the other hand thought that business portfolio need to be diversified as
the company reduces general business-aligned risks, which accounts for smaller portion
of a profit in Amlin's business model and Amlin share the same views.
Amlin tried to expand casualty business but because of some poorly-performing accounts
included there, a failure of underwriting was the biggest factor. Causes for such poor
results, however, were already determined and by parting from those policies, I think this
business model can be revived within the range of our expectations.
Just for your reference, with respect to reinsurance, we have our own reinsurance
subsidiary called MS Frontier Re. It used to produce annual profit of between ¥5 billion to
¥10 billion and this company was consolidated with Amlin's reinsurance company, and its
risk management policy was re-examined. If it had been left as MS Frontier Re as it had
been, it would have incurred a loss of a little shy of ¥20 billion. But included in Amlin's
underwriting scheme, it's loss was controlled to around ¥8 billion. In this regard, risks that
could have become manifest have been curtailed quite a bit, including measures to
reduce reinsurance rate, so we positively evaluate such aspect.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other hand, poor result (39:43) policies in the general business line on the other
hand were somewhat concentrated in European continent. But the causes, for instance, a
specific channel is producing bad results have been determined by improving on them. I
think we can realize the corporate value that we had originally expected and we'd like to
do that by, again, what I think, (40:09) experiences.
They have urged us to upgrade our due diligence ability through a series of M&As. I do
believe that due diligence was properly done on MS Amlin as well, making best use of our
experiences including business model MS Amlin operates with, we'd like to enhance our
due diligence capabilities and conduct further M&A with such enhanced capabilities. So I'd
like you to understand that we are reinforcing the structure for that.
The other question was on our investment in ReAssure or Challenger in Australia. With
regards to minority investment, in the case of non-life business, geographic diversification
may be a part of the rationale since we already have expertise in operating the business
through direct underwriting.
In the case of life insurance, while we try to capture growth of business, it is an extremely
locally-based business. We have been investing to gain approximately 30% stake, joining
hands with influential local partners. The percentage was determined not out of
trepidation but rather when we invest in life insurance business and the like, more often
than not, a local company or a company with expertise takes the majority stake with us in
a minority position.
We have been selectively choosing those with whom we can build partnership relationship
to bear fruits. For instance in the case of life insurance in Malaysia, our stake is 30%; 25%
in India; and 50% in Indonesia. And in the case of ReAssure, we're aiming at 15% basically
and in the case of Challenger, initially aiming at 10%. In the next step, we're aiming at 15%
so in line with types and conditions of business, when we gain know-how, we would have
Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

a minority stake, but in the case of non-life insurance business, basically, we will invest and
acquire 100% in principal. So, that's our basic stance, vis-à-vis M&A.

FINAL

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Our policy is producing bad results. What part of general buying
policies are you going to replace? And also that might result in having to sack some
underwriters. So from that perspective, would you be able to increase the more favorably
performing businesses? Could you supplement on that aspect?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

In this particular case and in the case of Amlin, basically as it reduced natural catastrophe
risks, it conducted a variety of casualty businesses using a headroom made in risk
tolerance level.
Newly-conducted businesses however contain some poorly underwritten policies in some
specific channels, and to eliminate these accounts would mean the company is back to
the previous base.

Bloomberg Transcript

For that part, the profit from general business risks, which used to be over 10% of ¥30
billion, that is ¥5 billion to ¥6 billion. So, we'll be able to stabilize earnings at such levels by
removing bad result accounts.
We are going to review various manner of risk taking and reorganize underwriting policies
for expansion. Also we'll exclude channels with adverse performance. By doing so, we'll
gradually expand the business through better channels. And this is a sort of business
model we are jointly discussing.
As for Continental Europe, we have our own subsidiary on the continent called MSIGEU
through a closer collaboration between Amlin and the European subsidiary. Improvements
in those areas will be made. I understand. Did I answer your question?
Next, the person in front of the previous question.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Watanabe with Daiwa Securities. I have two questions. The first one relates to page 17 of
the handout and relates to the thinking of shareholder returns during the period covered
by the next management plan. And the last part of bottom right-hand side says, the level
of a return is being considered to maintain the same level as that under the current
medium-term management plan. And also earlier you made a comment that you might
revise the total payout ratio to a range including 50%. Even under the change, the total
amount of return is kept at or above the current level. Is this how it should be interpreted?
Second one relates to domestic non-life insurance profit forecast in the next mediumterm plan. I think there are various factors including reduced premium for automobile
insurance or consumption tax increase. Can you envision increase in earnings from
Page 12 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

domestic non-life business for the next four years? Is profit level from domestic non-life
business with the next four years expected to be higher or lower than the current level?

FINAL

And also the bottom left of page 15 describes target business portfolio and it says 50% is
made from domestic non-life business. Does this mean 50% of newly revised or newly
defined group core 00:46:21 profit?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Could you supplement me later on? The first one, what being considered to maintain the
same level implies is to allow more flexibility in our thinking even with these additions as
was asked earlier by Mr. Muraki. In that sense, what I wanted to say here is that we have
no intention of lowering it from the present level at a minimum rather than keeping the
current level. By saying this here, I wanted to show our ambition without making too
excessive promise. That's how I would like to understand. Is that right, CFO?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second point, I also explained domestic non-life profit level in the presentation, I
believe. We expect underwriting profit of automobile insurance to gradually diminish. On
the other hand, underwriting profit of fire insurance, especially that of fire insurance, has
been in the negative since fiscal 2013. The Residential segment has been showing
improving trend thanks to rate adjustment in fiscal 2015 and termination of long-term fire
policy of over 10 years.
Fire insurance, however, continues to have negative underwriting profit mainly in
Commercial segment. We're endeavoring to improve the segment as we embed ERM in
our operations. During the next medium-term plan period, I think we can increase
domestic non-life profit by reinforcing underwriting our business lines where underwriting
profit now is in the negative or lines in need of improvement through stronger ERM
exercise.
As for the top line, the automobile insurance now has a bit lower premium. And as the
coverage has expanded, what sort of premium revenue is envisioned and increasing tone
of revenue we saw in the past may not hold. At the same time, we're going to envisage
maintenance and expansion of domestic non-life insurance underwriting profit by
cultivating SME business or offering coverage for new risks especially through expanding
Casualty segment. And with this assumption, the medium-term – next medium-term plan
is being formulated.
Is there another question? Did I answer your question?

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

It says 50% of profit is made domestically. Does the profit here mean newly defined
group core profit?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

My apologies, there are two aspects I'd like – I'd be troubled if you say we changed the
criteria or definition to change this. New definition would reflect such thinking, and even
with the existing definition, we would like to have the target met. So, either old or new
definition of a group core profit, we'll make sure that the target will be met. So, definition
will not be changed to simply hit the target.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Is there anybody else wishing to ask a question? The person by the window in the back of
the room.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Majima of Tokai Tokyo Research Center. In terms of the page – in the earlier page,
expense ratio target to be 30%, it was mentioned, although any specific fiscal year was
not mentioned. But your group has two non-life insurance companies, and the number of
employees are very high, and the number of agents twice as many as others; and the
other peers originated from the first and second companies. Whereas in the case of your
company merged a third ranking with sixth or seventh ranking companies and I suppose
agent productivity is not high either. You already have disadvantages in reducing expense
ratio compared with the peers above you. Do you have any means to bring it down to
30% or so to merge them into one company may be possible way but that would also
mean that top line will come down as well. So do you have any scheme to achieve 30%?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So your question is only one on this expense ratio?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

You compared three groups in terms of expense ratios and I wouldn't venture to mention
more specifically. But in comparing expense ratios of three groups, our group is
positioned in the middle of the group and almost the same level. I don't think the ratio is
outstandingly high. And obviously, expense ratio at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance with the
lowest expense ratio in the group, it is at 30% level. As a group, as a whole generate
synergy 30%. In my view, it's not an unattainable level.
And furthermore, as I mentioned at the outset, the expense ratio was 35% when the
group was formed. Reorganization by function and other initiatives brought it down to the
present level of 32%. Under the next plan, claim services will be made more efficient
through common claims service systems. And renewal of online systems will further
enhance efficiency. The use of advanced digital systems and reform of business

Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

processes will improve efficiency further. With these improvements, the prospect of 30%
expense ratio is in sight.
On the other hand, investment in IT system is needed as we move toward a new era.
Assuming that we need to overcome increased investment in IT systems, 30% may not
be attained during the next plan partly due to factors you mentioned. But excluding those
additional (53:12) investment under the next plan, operation will be made more efficient
to bring 30% into site. Use of common claim service systems would be conducive to head
count reduction in claim services and common products and business processes will
proceed at an increasing speed. Our CFO will make supplementary remarks.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Well, excuse me a little more but I wanted to ask about was, I'm not saying it's low. No,
but you reduced it from 35% to the current level. This must have required substantial
efforts compared with other two companies. A further reduction from the current level
maybe more easily achieved by the other two companies, so including that in your growth
with these two non-life companies and your group must have overstretched themselves
to lower expenses to the current level. Aare you going to reduce it further? Do we have
room to reduce it further?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

Allow me to respond to that question. Fujii is my name. True. Looking at corporate
expenses and agent commission, including agent commissions, partly due to our business
line mix, they tend to be higher at our group. And therefore, the difference attributable to
business line mix stems from business lines with very high ROR such as residential, fire,
and automobile insurance. So, we can tolerate it even though we're a bit behind.
With regards to corporate expenses, as you mentioned, we worked hard to reduce it,
overstretching efforts or not. But here, we think there is a room for further improvement.
As was mentioned earlier, the common claim service system is being built. It will become
operative in fiscal 2019. On the production front, we will begin to introduce common
products in mainstay business lines in fiscal 2019. So once these are launched, good
progress can be made.
And also, with respect agent, as I mentioned, far-reaching business reform is carried out
at the present. And therefore, combining all those, as Mr. Karasawa mentioned earlier, we
cannot show you now whether the plan reformulate can reduce it to 30% as described
here, but aiming at that, we would like to push ahead with those initiatives. To put it
differently, there is enough room for further improvement.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

So does this mean 30% is going to be achieved while keeping two companies?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

Of course, all possibilities are included in the option as it has been to-date. So, that's how
I would like you to understand our situation.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

And then, other questions? The person on the farthest back of the room, maybe third line
from the back.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Niwa of Citigroup Securities. I have two questions. One relates to your thinking on ESR and
the other, your thinking on reinsurance rate. And the first one is a bit detailed and
technical. The level of ESR currently is at 200% and you said that it is not that stable.
However, the stock market has improved since the end of September and I think it seems
more stable than otherwise. But even then, you have concerns, what aspect of ESR are
you concerned about? So, that's the first question relating to ESR.
And secondly, when considering the next medium-term plan, is there any room for
changing capital and risk exposure or risk volume for ESR? That is to say, could this level
move up or down, or is it based upon existing rules? So, please share with us your thinking
here. And the other one relates to international insurance, and you shared with us about
the cycle management, but how should we consider the margin of increase in the
premium next year? Is it 10% or 20%? What do you envision in this regard?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So, first let me start with the reinsurance premium. It just so happened that last week, I
made a business trip to Switzerland, and I had a chance to exchange views with a top
executive of a Swiss Re. And from the perspective of cycle management, how would
rates evolve especially in the cat loss area in North America? At this point, his thinking or
understanding was more or less the same as ours. Since Swiss Re is a leading player in
the class, his view I thought was quite likely to materialize. What the market is telling us is
a 10% plus or minus 5% including some wishful thinking. And here again, we also share the
same understanding.
With respect to ESR, I'll have CFO to elaborate later on. But it is currently shown at 199%.
At the end of fiscal year, if a variety of acquisition deals are finalized, the ESR will come
down once again to around 195% or 196%. So, it will take a while before 200% can be
restored as things stand now. But in the meantime, we will continue to reduce strategic
equity holdings to improve capital efficiency. So, we have in mind a level measuring 200%
steadily. But we are thinking of some revisions with respect to the thinking of ESR in the
context of our next medium-term plan. So, I'll have Fujii, CFO, to elaborate on that.

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

I have to ask you to wait until May for details, but a various points and opinions have been
presented and currently we use figures before tax currently. And we are – various
approaches including the calculation on after-tax basis. We have shown 200%, and we
already discussed this earlier is a reference to a single level as we do now a good
method or would it be better to describe it in the range including those the study is now
underway. And in this material, as we study and consider capital control, we are discussing
and examining various options.
In terms of the formula or criteria, we would also like to use after-tax figures as others do.
Coefficient use for risk calculation is reviewed every year, so they could be reflected as
well. So that's how I'd like you to understand our thinking here. Would that be all right?

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

May I ask additional question? Looking at page 57, I feel that during the next medium-term
management plan to put it directly is the company going to enter a phase of viewing
capital policy to return surplus capital or is it in the phase of a preserving growth through
acquisition as was discussed in relation to M&A? Which stage is the company going to be
in? My focus of interest is that in this long-term vision, a stage of quantum expansion
seems to be the period covered by the next medium-term plan. So, that's what I would
like to be elaborated on.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Basically, we're not just pointlessly seeking top line alone. That's not our intention.
Naturally, we first consider profitability and then look at M&A deals including whether or
not the deal is conducive to better capital efficiency. And that's how we have done in the
past. But the outcome was not always in line with their expectations which makes me feel
embarrassed and frustrated. But basically that's the policy that we have been operating
by as was mentioned in the initial presentation.
We have no intention of stop growing going forward but when there are fewer
opportunities for growth, how should the capital be used? From the viewpoint of
improving efficiency, returning capital is going to be included as an option. You've asked
which stage the company is in right now. It could be on either stage, the basic orientation
however is to achieve robust growth to increase the absolute amount of profit.
Yes. The person behind that. The man behind that.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Thank you. Sasaki of Merrill Lynch Securities. I have one question. In considering your
company or your group, the ASEAN market is very important. We've been explaining that.
But in the Chinese market, the foreign owned insurance companies will be more and
more allowed to enter the market through deregulation. What sort of approach are you
taking with the mainland China or what sort of approach are you going to take going
forward? What is the thinking on the part of the management?

Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-11-28

FINAL

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

With his back to our initiatives in China's market, actually in the context of financial
reorganization there are two geographies where a functional reorganization of ADI and
MSI has not been completed and they are China and Thailand. Although our thinking is
aligned with respect to a basic direction partly because of the relationship with each
company's partnerships, the progress has been slow to date. In the case of MSI, it has
allied with the Pacific which is the third ranking company in China and in the case of
automobile insurance the Pacific undermines the risk and we take a certain share of that.
In the case of ADI, it has allied with (01:04:19) which ranks the second and the relationship
very similar. And in our case our local subsidiaries mainly underwrite the Japanese
corporations and both of these companies are generating profit although ADI has been
profitable with occasional losses and amongst foreign-owned companies, those
company's profit levels are very high. However, even today, a combined market share of a
foreign-owned companies in the Chinese market is less than 2%. As the market becomes
more deregulated, we continue to cultivate and develop business of local risks leveraging
those partnership, Mitsui Sumitomo with the Pacific and ADI with (01:05:07) And so those
local risks would be cultivated through the context of those collaboration or partnership
with those local entities.

Bloomberg Transcript

What about the chance of additional investment in the next five years? Is there any chance
of making additional investment?
In terms of additional investment, MSI is a minority shareholder of the Pacific insurance
including the capital increase there or are we talking about the investment in Chinese
market, we will act flexibly when capital needs to be increased in line with business
development or when such equity investment is needed.
Thank you.
[Abrupt End]

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

