Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Matteo del Fante , Chief Executive Officer & General Manager
Roberto Giacchi, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Anna Adamo, Analyst
Elena Perini, Analyst
Emanuele Borghetti, Analyst
Gianluca Ferrari, Analyst
Giovanni Razzoli, Analyst
Manuela Meroni, Analyst
Matija Gergolet, Analyst
Michael Werner, Analyst
Michael van Wegen, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Poste Italiane 2017 Interim Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Matteo del Fante,
CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm pleased to report a solid set of numbers for
the half of 2017. Let me start by stating that in the first half of 2016 last year, the results were
impacted by a positive one-off related to the Visa Europe disposal for €121 million, while during the
first half of 2017, some accruals were posted in the financial segment that would be further
explained later on.
Negative effect; the first half of 2017 EBIT would be €912 million versus €722 million of the first half
of 2016, posted an increase of 26%. More specifically, stated result show revenue for the period
up €347 million, plus 2% of last year reaching €18 billion. EBIT has grown €4 million, 0.5%, to €847
million, fully compensating the decrease reported in the first quarter of this year.
Net profit is down €55 million, minus 10%, to €510 million, mainly as a consequence of the already
mentioned accrual, plus the (01:47) Atlante write-off for around €70 million impact at the tax level.
Excluding the above-mentioned one-off effects, the net profit would be €624 million with an
increase of 38% versus €451 million posted last year. The solid set of figures generated robust
funds from operation for €293 million that we will further explain in the following charts.
Looking more into the details and the key numbers. Revenues and operating profit were up
respectively, up to €347 million plus 2% and €4 million 0.5% plus over the period. And this is mainly
due in our segment reporting. Financial Services were operating profit decreased by €95 million,
minus 20% from €485 million to €390 million. This is mainly due to higher capital gains realized
from active management of BancoPosta asset portfolio for about €147 million versus last year, that



FINAL

more than compensated the Visa Europe one-off positive impact of €121 million for the first half of
2016. And then negative impact coming from additional provisions, mainly on real estate funds for
around €100 million. In light of these non-recurring items, the first half EBITDA would have been
substantially flat versus last year in Financial Services.
Insurance and Asset Management revenues increased by approximately €400 million plus 3% from
€12.9 billion to €13.3 billion. And operating profit posted a robust 37% growth year-on-year. This is
mainly due to the ongoing positive performance of life gross written premium and an initial
contribution of non-life and asset management products.
Let me add that as of last week, I am personally the new CEO of Poste Vita and we are completing
our management team in this strategic company.
Mail & Parcels. Revenues were down €72 million, 3.8% down to €1.812 billion. And this expected
reduction mainly relates to the client in traditional mail volumes, partially compensated by increase
in parcel revenues that will be better explained later on in this presentation. The first half EBIT is
slightly better versus last year, thanks to the operating cost reduction that compensated the both
mentioned effect on the revenue side.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please bear in mind that as in the past, we hold account for our accruals on voluntary personnel
reduction (05:28) schemes only in the final quarter of the year where we have a strategy on the HR
schemes for the following period.
Before moving into specific business unit analysis, let me have a quick look with you of how our
clients' asset break down.
Volume increased by €7 billion which is a plus 1.4%, reaching for the first time the remarkable target
in total asset of €0.5 trillion versus €493 billion at the end of 2016. The mix continues to remain
well balanced with a slight reduction in total savings, collection, and a material increase for about
€5 million, both in our current account deposit and in net debt in excess (06:28).
In 2016, both the (06:32) in market share in all the asset classes. The strength (06:38) is a singular
customer base, as well as our other range of simple and safe products continue to deliver an
increasing asset base and profitability for the group.
Let me now introduce and hand over to Roberto Giacchi, who's the new group CFO that will
comment on each specific business unit.

Roberto Giacchi

{BIO 20101579 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. And good evening, everybody. Starting with our Financial Services revenues
evolution on slide number 5. The revenues are substantially in line with the previous year despite
the one-off Visa Europe 2016 effect that has been more than compensated by the active portfolio
of capital gains realized in the first half 2017.
As a general overview, let me also confirm that for the full year 2017, we expect to generate return
on current account deposits in the region of €2 billion, as a combination of capital gains and
portfolio yield. Within this framework, please note that in the first half of the year, we had already
realized nearly all the capital gains expected for the full year.
In more detail in slide number 6, it provides you with the breakdown of the Financial Services
business units' revenue. The major key point here are the following: Returns on current accounts
deposits. Higher revenues are mainly due to the already commented higher capital gains, along



FINAL

with the increase in our average deposit. Fees from postal savings collection, substantial in line with
last year, recovering the decline posted in the first quarter 2017.
Fees from transaction banking, the 3.1% reduction is mainly due to the lower revenues from
payment slips. Distribution fee recorded a decrease of around 2% due to a slow down in the
growth of personal loans and a decrease in Banca del Mezzogiorno revenue. Payment card fees,
net of the Visa effect, we posted an increase of 26% year-on-year due to the result of the
consolidated success of the Postepay Evolution card.
At the end of June, Postepay Evolution card issue reached €4.3 million with around 800,000
distributed in the first half 2017. Let me also remind you once again that on this business unit, we
keep or remain fully focused on stability of revenues, profitability and return on equity.
Let's now move to slide number 7. On active portfolio management, let me point out the following
major item: an increase in average deposits of BancoPosta accounts moving to €55 billion from
€48 billion in 2016, up almost 14%. We have unrealized capital gains amount to about €1.4 billion
versus €2.9 billion, a rough year end 2016. This is mainly due to the spread and interest rate
dynamics, as well as the realized capital gain in the first half 2017. At the end of July, the unrealized
capital gain reached around €2 billion, most due to the decrease in the spreads.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move to BancoPosta regulatory framework. As much as BancoPosta capital adequacy is
concerned, let me stress four major key points: BancoPosta regulatory framework continues to be
fully aligned to European Union standard. First half 2017, CET1 ratio reached 16.9%, substantially
doubling the minimum regulatory requirement.
First half 2017, leverage ratio stands at 3.1%; 3% is the minimum regulatory leverage ratio, due to
BancoPosta recapitalization decided at the end of 2016 and executed in April 2017 as a
consequence of higher asset under management, with no impact on our dividend policy. First half
profitability recorded a remarkable 27% return on equity.
Let's now move to the Insurance and Asset Management on slide 9. Gross written premiums
increased by €0.5 billion, up 5% driven primarily by the continued growth of our life business and
reversing the decrease posted in the first quarter, confirming Poste Vita as the number one life
insurer in the Italian market. Group technical reserves increased by €5 billion, up 4%, benefiting
from the continual growth of our life business and delineated (12:32) but double-digit growth of
non-life premiums, whose performance I'm going to comment in the next slide.
With regards to our investment portfolio breakdown, the increase of investments in most of the
assets fund, which move from 14% at year end 2016 to 17% in the first half 2017, confirm our
diversification of strategy towards a more adequate return profile. This continues to be fully
aligned with our capital requirements.
Let's now move to slide number 10. On non-life business and asset management. In our non-life
business, we have benefit from double-digit gross written premiums growth, even if from a small
(13:28) whose results will become more and more material going forward.
As much as asset management operation are concerned, let me underline that asset under
management increased by close to 24% year-on-year, reaching €8 billion, confirming this area as
one of our key strategic growth pillar. Like we say that we remain extremely focused on asset
management and aim to maximize shareholder's value and retain investor interest across current
and future partnership. The group's new strategic plan will specify the details of our future
strategy.
Let's now move to slide number 11, Mail & Parcels business unit. On volumes, let me highlight here,
as already indicated from the beginning of 2016, Poste has decide to drop the service for



unaddressed mail, which is characterized by high volumes but very low size. As the result of this, in
order to correctly represent the structural decline in traditional mail volumes, unaddressed mail has
to be neutralized.

FINAL

Negative effect in the first half 2017, volumes show a 7.6% adjusted decline versus first half 2016.
On the other hand, Parcels volumes increased by almost 20% year-on-year, confirming the positive
momentum mainly driven by the growing of e-commerce penetration in Italy.
Let's move to slide number 12. Let me remind you that infrasegment revenues increased by
approximately 1%, mainly due to higher revenues, driven by capital gains, recorded by the Financial
Services business unit as well as higher gross written premiums collection. Mail & Parcels total
revenues instead posted a decrease of €72 million, down 3.8%.The Parcels revenues increased of
€28 million, about 9% was not able to fully compensate the decline in Mail revenues. At the same
time, operating costs have decreased by 1.4% period over period, thanks to a decrease in labor
cost and continued cost management actions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to slide number 13. Overall, group operating cost fell by €87 million, down by almost
2% versus last year as a consequence of our continued cost management actions and lower labor
cost. With regard to cost management actions, we have streamlined the group's organization with
the reduction of the number of legal entity. Specifically, we have closed Postecom and we are in
the process of closing other minor legal entities. This process is generating structural savings which
are decreasing the group cost base. We expect the new strategic plan to focus on additional
efficiency and cost optimization.
Moving to slide number 14. Labor costs fell by almost 2% year-on-year mainly as a consequence of
about 5,700 people that left the group in 2016 according to our voluntary prepayment plan. For
2017, we expect around additional 4,000 people to leave the group through this plan. As of the
end of June 2017, about 3,100 people have already signed up to the pre-retirement scheme and
they will leave the group by year-end. We will therefore see the full impact in 2018 in line with our
plan.
Slide 15. Let's now run through with our P&L evolution below the EBIT line. Net income for the
period is equaled €510 million versus €565 million in first half 2016. On top of the already
commented EBIT evolution, this performance is related to net financial losses equal to €75 million,
composed by positive net financial income for €19 million and Alitalia and Atlante write-offs of €94
million. Taxes for total consideration of €252 million corresponding to a tax rate of about 34% inline with the first half 2016. For the full year 2017, we expect a normalized tax rate of around 38%.
Let's move on slide 16, commenting on CapEx. In first half 2017, group CapEx was €183 million, up
€32 million or 21%. The increase is specifically related to information technology and digital
platforms with the concentration of some licensing contracts in the first half 2017 and a selected
upgrade of facilities, data center, and postal logistics operation.
Finally, let's focus on the industrial net financial position on slide 17. First, let me highlight the
positive contribution of our funds from operations as a result of the already commented operating
performance. On the other side, negative change in working capital is mainly due to the cash out
related to the early retirement plan finalized in 2016 and the ordinary seasonality of our working
capital variation which usually worsens in the first half of each year. On top of our recurring CapEx in
first half 2017, we recorded a cash out for around €278 million related to the payment of the
(21:04).
On the dividend and equity movement fronts, the €42 million outflow is the result of €466 million
coming from our BancoPosta ring fenced capital and dividend from Anima, compensated by the
payment of the dividends to our shareholders for an amount equal to €509 million.



Thank you for your attention. And let me hand over to Matteo for some closing remarks.

Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Roberto. From the beginning of mandate, which is now exactly three months today, the
two principal areas of my attention has been implementation of my management team and a very
specific focus on drafting strategies to deliver value growth for our stakeholders.
I can say that now, the team is basically in place. The team is busy on the day-to-day operations
and working on a new strategic plan, which we aim to present as we committed to the market at
the beginning of 2018.
The main focuses of the plan are going to be on the insurance and asset management sector, we
aim at broadening our product offering as well as enhancing opportunities to create value to offer
unique distribution network, also strengthening our partnership in the asset management space.
In Financial Services, we aim at concentrating and reinforcing our payment system focus,
leveraging on our client base and our recent acquisition of the SIA stake. Furthermore, we will give
more impetus in developing innovative services for the public administration.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Mail and Parcels, we will continue to strengthen our Parcel business using the e-commerce
accelerator and constantly improving postal services quality through the design and
implementation of a new delivery system.
All these will continue to strengthen the group cash generation in support of our 2017 dividend
policy which we confirm to be in line with the last two years.
And now I think we are ready to take questions from investors. Thank you.

Q&A
Operator
Certainly. Thank you. We'll now take our first question for today which comes from Gianluca Ferrari
of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Gianluca Ferrari

{BIO 15042989 <GO>}

Yes. Hi. Good evening, everybody. I have three questions. The first one is on the insurance
business. I was wondering if you have any indication on the Solvency II at the end of the first half,
what were the moving parts behind that and why you are so successful and much better than the
market in terms of collecting premiums. I think you are certainly on the opposite side compared to
what the Italian markets are dealing in the second quarter?
Second question is on the merger of BancoPosta Fondi with Anima. I was wondering if you are
confirming that the full paper deal is still what you are working at or you might reshape that deal
announced a few months ago.
The third and final question is on the pressure I see on the price per unit in the Parcel business. If
I'm not wrong, price per unit was down 10% year-on-year, which is a bit above what I was
expecting. Can you comment a bit about the competition in the Parcels segment and what is
outlook for margins going forward? Thank you.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}



FINAL

Okay. I would take the second and the third and leave to Roberto the Solvency and the Mail and
Parcels question. On the growth of our Premia, we're clearly going a bit against the market, but I
believe that this is structural faster related to the client base and our ongoing and, if I may say,
traditional commercial strategy. The number of clients that we're reaching with our retail network is
extremely large and any new commercial initiative will need to take the right amount of time to be
channeled through the retail network.
So every change has to be managed with time and a lot of care. So given the very meaningful
success of penetration of like products, we let that momentum going and slowly we will add
additional products as long as our clients can bear the risk.
In terms of the potential partnership with Anima, as we stated that we're working with a new plan
and all options are on the table, and we have a specific focus on this partnership given we aim, as
we stated, to reinforce our asset management guidance. And that is done with the aim of
refracting the maximum value for our retail network. Bear in mind also the changes that MiFID II is
bringing into place. And bear in mind also the specific experience or inexperience of our clients in
the space.
Roberto, do you want to answer on Solvency II and then on Parcel?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roberto Giacchi

{BIO 20101579 <GO>}

On Parcel. Yeah. Regarding Solvency II, quantified with the same methodologies used for the full
year 2016, at the end of the first half 2017, eligible owned funds might (28:31) equal to €8.4 billion,
up €314 million from the previous period. On the other side, Solvency capital requirement
increased by €135 million to €2.9 billion at first half 2017 due to the growth of the business and
before the underwriting risk. As a consequence, the Solvency II ratio at the end of June 2017 is
equal to 292%, almost in-line with the 295% registered at the end of 2016.
Then the question about Parcel, first of all, let me say that we have introduced a strong discipline
on parcel pricing. The volumes that I described to you before show a situation where the B2C
parcel is growing strongly and the unit price is lower than the B2B market. So as a consequence,
we are reducing our price per unit, but this more a consequence of the volume mix than the
competitive environment effect.

Q - Gianluca Ferrari

{BIO 15042989 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our next question which comes from Giovanni Razzoli of Equita. Please
go ahead.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Good afternoon to everybody. A couple of questions on my side. The first one, if you can please
just clarify the amount of realized trading profits at the BancoPosta unit in the first half ? I may have
missed them. If I'm not mistaken, they were something like €397 million in the Q1. So if you can
clarify this point.
And from a strategic point of view, I was wondering whether it's your aim as the part of the
business plan, the medium, long-term perspective to substitute with, I would say, volatile
component of your P&L with the more stable contribution from the recurring business of the asset
management. Whether this is going to become a kind of a strategic priority business, change in
the mix of revenues?



FINAL

And the second question, instead related to the seasoned postal savings, if I'm not mistaken, the
second Q, you have recorded the significant pick up of the fees which were in excess of €400
million, implying an average margin of deposit of 50 basis points. You have partly anticipated this in
the Q1 conference call. I was wondering whether this €400 million-plus level is sustainable going
forward if there is some one-off in the average margin of the fees on the postal savings. Thank
you.
And sorry, follow-up question if you can update us with the sensitivity of the unrealized capital
gains of the BancoPosta you need to rising sovereign strength. Thank you.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

If we heard correctly, the first question was how much we realize in our portfolio of BTT (32:29) in
the first half of 2017, and the answer is €500 million. The second question is in the plan, and by the
way, as we've stated, this is more or less all we intend to do for the full year of 2017. As far as the
second question is in doing the plan, how we are planning to support and eventually slowly replace
this item. I can call it the double the share price question or the €1 billion question, that is exactly
what we are working on. We haven't found the (33:24) but it will be a combination of action on the
revenue and on the cost side, but this is actually the focus of the new plant.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third question on cost of savings is I think misunderstood the potential impact of the new
agreement with CDP because there is no new agreement in place so we are still working with the
same distribution agreement. And the next three months up to the summer in parallel with the
new plan will tell us what we can count on for the strategic plan we'll present in January.
On the sensitivity, you ask for the BTT (34:36) spread, i.e., for the difference in (34:46) in between
the Italian and German sovereign for around 10 basis points was taking around €400 million
spreads, mark-to-market impact.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question which comes from Matija Gergolet of Goldman
Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Yes. Hello and good evening. Two questions on my side. Firstly, with regards to, say, SIA, I will be
quite interested to know if you can give us a bit more color about your, say, longer-term thinking
about the stake. Would you consider potential increase in that stake in the future or are you happy
with the current stake?
Secondly, I'm talking about distribution as a follow-up to one of the questions. So the distribution
fees in BancoPosta are down 2%. Well, they used to grow quite nicely in the past. You mentioned
that this is due to lower revenues from Banca del Mezzogiorno. What was, so to say, the organic
growth in distribution fees? Is that still a growing business or was this still growing in the first half of
the year? And if you could quantify, how much? Thank you.

A - Roberto Giacchi

{BIO 20101579 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your questions. In terms of SIA, it's a bit premature, but I believe that it's
going to be one of our key pillars in the new business plan in terms of development of our future
strategy in payments. You know that the space is very tough at the moment with very interesting
multiples and we recently created a new business unit last month which we focus specifically on
this. It's going to be a spin-off of the BancoPosta payments or secured system with a focus on
mobile. Many payments were now in this space, will come from the mobile space, and we have an
interoperating space. Our digital efforts and our payment effort to create a vertically integrated



FINAL

offer for our clients, and this will touch SIA at the bottom of the chain with the unique, I would say,
expertise in development and processing that SIA is bringing to the table.
This new business unit will mark also on the opportunities and in the trending in our space also in
the new environment of the new PSD2 directive that, as you know, will slowly come into play
starting from January 2018. And we believe that SIA will play an important role as a technological
accelerator and partner for us in this space, but I need to ask you to wait for our plan to have more
details on what we're going to do with the stake, also in conjunction with our shareholders CDP
that is jointly controlling SIA with Postepay at the moment.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Operator
In terms of the second question on distribution fees being slightly down. We stated that the
Postepay and Postepay Evolution card provided a stronger growth to the system so we have a
bottom line. And the distribution of loans also has supported the activity and we see it growing and
we have plans to widen that business with a stronger process. Certainly the Banca del
Mezzogiorno loss of contribution played a role in the bottom line marginal reduction.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Are we still talking about double -digit growth for the revenues ex-Banca del Mezzogiorno in
the division approximately?

A - Roberto Giacchi

{BIO 20101579 <GO>}

You mean...

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

The distribution fees. Yeah.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

We haven't looked at that specific figure, but if you want, we can take this question offline with our
operator that is listening.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Sure. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question which comes from Michael van Wegen of Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Good evening. A couple of questions. First of all on the Mail business. Looking at the first
half of the year, revenues are down about 10%. I think you indicated that excluding sort of the
unaddressed Mail part that you're stepping away from, it's about minus 7.5% year-to-date. Can you
talk about what the outlook is for Mail revenues for the full-year? That's question number one.
Question number two, on the Insurance business, your Q2 profit makes quite a noticeable jump
versus either Q1 or Q2 last year. Can you talk us through what the moving parts are there and to
what degree does this have to do with operating leverage and how fixed issue or cost base in the



Insurance business? And I would like also to put in a request. On insurance accounting that you or
disclosure that you provide, would be very much appreciated with the new management team
now in place if we could get for the Insurance business more conventional Insurance disclosures.
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I'll start with the insurance. I fully agree on your final request as one of our aim to have more
readable and in line with market practice insurance business disclosure. We believe with the
standard results (42:35) there is also some accounting directive that is going in that direction. And
ideally, we should try to do that in conjunction with the launch of a new plan. This is the aim. And
we'll do our best to do it, but it's also depends from the general accounting framework.
In terms of the increase in profit, is mainly due to the ongoing increase in premium that we have
for the last few years consistently generated. And I believe that's the main factor. There have been
less at the same time accruals on the reserves side and on the expense side. We had also a
margin of increase in profits generated by (43:56). So all in all this is justifying the increase in
profitability in this level of our Poste Vita, and Roberto will take Parcel.

A - Roberto Giacchi

{BIO 20101579 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Mail and Parcel. For the Mail business, we expect for the full year 2017 to maintain more or less the
same trend that we have seen in the first half. Of course, this is due to mainly the key substitution
of paper-based communication by electronic makers. By the way, we expect the rate of each
substitution to slow gradually over the next year.
For what it may concern Parcel, we are seeing a robust growth in the e-commerce business. And
we forecast for the second half of 2017 the same kind of growth that we have had in the first half
with the very positive December month.
And as I stated in my final remarks, obviously, the revenues of the size of the parts of business
cannot compensate for the reduction in volumes of the traditional Mail. But we call it an accelerator.
We use it as the mean to push in our retail distribution network a more efficient reorganization
leveraging by using the support of the new businesses coming to Poste. And that, technically is
basically separating part of the cost that we have on the traditional business.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question which comes from Elena Perini of Banca IMI. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon and thank you for taking my questions. Actually, I have one last question
which is about the amount of premiums that you had (46:54) in the first half of the year if you can
give us some details on the figures. Thank you.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Sorry, Elena. (47:20) We have, at the moment, an outstanding of €232 million in the (47:38), and
worth noticing that we launched at the 27th of June 2017, the (47:47) the individual plans or setting
that in the first few days of distribution raise in excess of €33 billion is going extremely well.



Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from Mike Werner of UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Werner

{BIO 4790902 <GO>}

Good evening and thank you. Two questions. One, I guess, somewhat of a follow-up on that one. I
just wanted to confirm I heard it correctly that you issued a newly – a new unit-linked product to the
PIR funds, was that – did I hear that correctly? And then tied to that, are there plans to offer PIR
fund to clients separately as part of a traditional investment management product in the second
half ?
And then secondly, I do believe that there was a tariff increase in the beginning of 2017, and I was
just curious as to what you expect in terms of additional revenues this year, and if any of that was
recorded in the first half ? Thank you.
(49:07-49:14)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I'm not sure I got the second question. But as far as the first question is concerned, we are offering
here the selling individual products to all our clients that have been identified by our specialized
sales network in conjunction with all the other products of Asset Management and Life space.
We're not allowed to sell PIRs in the general teller positions but this is showing anyway a very
promising outlook for the first few days and July is also going extremely well.
Then, I think the second question is additional revenues on, I'm sorry...

Q - Michael Werner

{BIO 4790902 <GO>}

Sorry, I believe there was – was there a tariff increase with regards to the Mail business in 2017?

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

The Mail business?

Q - Michael Werner

{BIO 4790902 <GO>}

Yes.
(50:35-50:41)

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. At the beginning of 2017, there's actually been an increase in tariffs for the Mail business. And
due to the tariff increase, we have had a positive impact of around €20 million in the first half of
2017. For the full year 2017, we expect a total positive impact from the tariff increase to be around
€35 million to €40 million.

Q - Michael Werner

{BIO 4790902 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you very much.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}



You're welcome.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. We'll now move to our next question which comes from Anna Adamo of Autonomous
Research. Please go ahead.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is on Asset Management. Can you please
share with us the profitability of Poste (51:35) in the first half of the year? Should we assume that
the business will be classified as held for sale in the next couple of quarters ahead of the disposal
to Anima?
The second question is on real estate funds provisions. You mentioned during the call that you
have taken €100 million extra provisions on close end of real estate funds. Should we assume that,
from memory, you have sold roughly €500 million of this fund. So should we assume that the rest
will also impaired in the next couple of years?
And finally, on Insurance, can you share with us what was the embedded value of the Insurance
business in June and how much of this was value of enforced (52:19) business? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

(52:24-52:31)

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Let me start with a few easy answers. On the management (52:40) share, BancoPosta Fondi,
we usually don't give the bottom line. But as you know, the company is mainly managing our fixed
income technical reserves of Poste Vita.
So we're talking figures that are not very relevant for the year for the bottom line. In terms of the
embedded value, the company practice which I have not been reviewing, but we know that our –
to give that figure once a year and not today.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

The other two question in terms of the real estate funds that we provisioned in the first half of
2017, additional €65 million, and we believe we've been very cautious on this provision. So, we
believe that we will not had to come to the board to ask for more funds. So, it's €65 million, the
provision this first half that brings the total provision on the two funds that we had out in the
market at €105 million.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from Manuela Meroni from Banca IMI. Please go
ahead.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}



Yes, good evening. I have a couple of questions remaining. The first one is on the early retirement
cost. I'm wondering if you can provide us with a guidance for full year 2017 on EBITDA. And the
second question is on the industrial financial position. Again, I'm wondering if you can give us a
guidance for December this year?

FINAL

(55:15-55:22)

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

If you can repeat the second question. Sorry.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes. The second question concern the industrial financial position. I'm wondering if you can give us
a guidance on the net financial position for full year 2017?

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. I answer first on the industrial net financial position guidance. We expect to have at year end
2017, a net cash for around €800 million, taking into consideration the change in working capital is
effect to move from the first half 2017 absorption of €652 million to a cash generation at the same
level as last year or around €300 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the early retirement cost and the provisions, we are targeting for 2017 additional 4,000
people to leave the group. So, the €500 million provisions that we posted at the end of 2016 are a
conservative assumption at this point in time.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question which comes from Emanuele Borghetti of
Intermonte. Please go ahead.

Q - Emanuele Borghetti

{BIO 19118661 <GO>}

Yes, good evening. A couple of question from my side as well. First one regards the trend in
current accounts. If you could provide us with a bit more color on the trend and I think it was
because, if I'm not wrong, I saw a slowdown in second quarter. And if I was wondering if it is just
the seasonal effect of – or if there is any other element beyond that?
And second one regard to the National Labour agreement that – if you could provide us with any
update on the ongoing negotiation with the labor force?
And finally, third one is probably I missed that, if you said that is regarding the realized capital gains
in the insurance segregated funds. If you could update us on that number of the realized capital
gains at the end of July? Thank you.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. I'll start with the National Labour contract. We are in the process of restarting the
negotiations. We have signed in July the 2017 agreement with unions in terms of results-based
incentive, which is a positive contract. We believe that there is ground to be able to sign this
agreement just after the summer in the following few weeks. We hope and we have accounted for
the potential increase in the labor cost already in the figures of the first half of the year and in our
budgeting process. This is the second question.



In terms of the first question, if I understand correctly, you are pointing to the interest – the
average interest that we have on our deposits, on our current deposits. And I can confirm that
there's been a marginal decrease in the first half of 2017 versus the first half of 2016.

FINAL

And the last question was on unrealized capital gains in the Poste Vita portfolio. And we can state
that the end of June unrealized capital gain was €7.9 billion, which is lower than the €9.5 billion end
of 2016 but is higher than the €7.6 billion of the end of Q1.

Q - Emanuele Borghetti

{BIO 19118661 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I'm sorry. If we take July to consideration, the €7.9 billion of end of June due to the spread
compression on Italian (01:00:57), the annualized capital gain has grown to 8.3% end of July.

Operator
Thank you. This will now conclude today's Q&A session. I would now like to hand it back to our
speaker, Mr. Del Fante, for any further additional closing remarks.

A - Matteo del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you everybody for the time of this call and the time you spent analyzing our company and
obviously we are all available for direct and one-on-one follow-up questions. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

