Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

QBE Insurance Group Ltd Annual Shareholders Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

John D. Neal, Group CEO and Executive Director
John M. Green, Deputy Chairman
Kathryn M. Lisson, Independent Non
Michael John Wilkins , Independent Non
Patrick C. Regan, Group CFO, CEO of Australian & New Zealand Operations and
Executive Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
William Marston Becker, Chairman of the Board

Other Participants
Ian Graves , Analyst
Joyce Yong, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Good morning. We appreciate your joining me and my fellow directors here today at the
2017 Annual General Meeting of QBE. For those of you I've not met, my name is Marty
Becker. And as the Chairman of QBE, I'm pleased to welcome you, our shareholders,
together with all our fellow directors, the corporate executive team and all employees
who are with us today.
The initial part of the meeting is being webcast live. And I also welcome those joining us
via the web. We would ask that you please turn off your mobile or video devices during
the meeting. There being a quorum present, I hereby declare the meeting open.
Let me now introduce my fellow directors who are here on the podium with me. To my
immediate right is our Group CEO, John Neal; then our Group CFO, Pat Regan; then Rolf
Tolle; Sir Brian Pomeroy; and Jann Skinner. And on my immediate left is our Deputy
Chairman, John Green; then Mike Wilkins; Kathy Lisson; Stephen Fitzgerald; and our Group
General Counsel and Company Secretary, Carolyn Scobie. Representatives of our share
registry, Computershare Investor Services, are also present. Partners from our external
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Roy Clark and Scott Hadfield, are also in attendance.
If there is no objection, the Notice of Meeting, which was sent to shareholders on 30
March, will be taken as read. And additional copies are available from the foyer if you
Page 1 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

should need one.

FINAL

The minutes of the 2016 Annual General Meeting being in order was signed by me and is
tabled for the information of shareholders. Details of how the proxy votes were cast in
relation to the proposed resolutions will be advised when we move to the formal
business part of the meeting. Following the consideration of each resolution, the results
of the voting for it will be set out on the screen in front of you.
Like other companies in recent years, we've decided to go to a poll on each resolution. A
poll recognizes the votes of those shareholders present in person today and those who
have voted by proxy. The directors believe that a poll gives all shareholders an equal
voice in determining the matters before the meeting. Each share in QBE carries one vote.
And a poll reflects those voting entitlements better than a show of hands. The poll votes
will be conducted using the electronic Lumi device, which you would have received when
you registered as a shareholder for today's meeting. Maria Dzopalic of Computershare
Investor Services will act as returning officer for the purposes of conducting and
determining the results of the poll.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I mentioned, I'm pleased to be with you this morning for QBE's AGM. In addition to
myself, you're going to be hearing from our Group Chief Executive Officer, John Neal, as
we discuss QBE's performance and achievements over the past year and our strategy
and plans for the future.
In 2016, your company recorded a net profit after tax of $844 million and an adjusted
combined operating ratio of 93%. This result was at the better end of our target range
and an important milestone in our journey to delivering steady increases in QBE's
fundamental value. Most notably, this was QBE's best financial performance since 2010
and a direct reflection of the significant improvement in QBE's underwriting, the quality of
our balance sheet, our strength and talent pool and our reset cost base.
In May 2016, we provided an update to investors to illustrate how we believe we can
further improve underwriting performance and return on equity. As we continue this
journey, I can assure you we are always striving to find ways to improve the performance
of our business and to deliver improved results for all our shareholders.
It is important in considering this annual result and our expectations for the future to make
reference to the market conditions and trends in the insurance industry. I'll share some
thoughts on the market before highlighting the achievements of our operating divisions
during the year. And finally, I'm going to provide some insights into the board's priorities
for 2017 and our role in guiding QBE's strategy before John Neal provides you a more
detailed overview of operational performance and the strategies that underpin our
confidence in the outlook for QBE.
The external conditions that insurers have been grappling with for several years were
maintained in 2016, with the market continuing to be characterized by surplus capital,
which in turn placed downward pressure on pricing across most of the globe, particularly
in commercial lines. These trends have been able to persist for an extended period as
Page 2 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

industry underwriting profits have generally been maintained by relatively low catastrophe
claims, declining reinsurance costs, coupled with continued prior accident year claims
releases and cost efficiencies.
We expect pricing in 2017 to be a bit more stable, with the near-term pricing outlook
broadly flat in most territories other than Australia, where insurance market pricing started
to improve in mid-2016 following a period of unsustainable price declines coupled with
claims inflation.
This means that as we execute our plans for the current year and beyond, we will be
doing so in a market where generating underwriting profits remains challenging but is
nonetheless essential to our ability to continue to improve our operating performance.
And as a consequence, we will be maintaining our focus on high-quality underwriting,
efficiency and cost reduction.

Bloomberg Transcript

The outlook is a little bit brighter in relation to investment returns. The language of central
bankers across the major western economies has changed in recent months, signaling the
early stages of a transition from extraordinary monetary stimulus to policy normalization in
the form of higher interest rates. We have seen the U.S. Federal Reserve increase interest
rates this year, while language coming from the European Central Bank and the Bank of
England increasingly recognizes that inflation will place upward pressure on interest rates.
Intertwined with these inflationary pressures is the increased anti-globalization sentiment
and concerns over immigration that contributed to the Brexit vote and that is credited with
playing a part in the recent presidential elections in the U.S. We continue to monitor all of
these dynamics closely for their impact on our business from both an underwriting and an
investment perspective.
While the impact of Brexit on the economy of the United Kingdom will take some time to
become clear, with Article 50 now having been triggered, the 2-year period for the U.K. to
formalize its exit is underway. And we need to prepare our business for this reality. And
we are doing so on the assumption the existing access arrangements enjoyed by U.K.domiciled insurers to the other 27 European Union countries will not be preserved. This
impacts our London-based QIEL and QBE Re companies in addition to our Lloyd's
business, which will be subject to a separate Brexit response plan being put in place by
Lloyd's itself.
I'm pleased to be able to report to you that we are well advanced with our plans and
negotiations for the establishment of a new location for our EU business and expect to
have a solution in place for 2008 (sic) (2018) renewals and obviously announced later this
year.
While in years gone by, it might have been appropriate to limit a discussion of the
insurance marketplace to the pricing environment and investment returns, this is no longer
the case in our industry. As we highlighted in the annual review and again in the video that
played as you were entering the room this morning, our business environment is changing

Page 3 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

at an accelerating pace. Technological, social, behavioral and demographic changes are all
playing a part.
This changing environment is creating both opportunity and challenge for insurers the
world over. On the positive side, there's a clear demand for new products. Cyber
coverage and new products relating to the Internet of Things are just 2 examples. We are
also taking the opportunity to harness digital technology and big data to bring increased
science to our underwriting process and a more sophisticated approach to providing
holistic risk management services to our clients.
However, we are also mindful that some applications of technology in society may have a
far-reaching impact on the insurance our customers require in the years to come. An
example is the possibility that autonomous vehicles will be less prone to collision.
Meanwhile, there are scores of insurtech start-ups looking to build a business by attacking
components of the traditional insurance value chain.

Bloomberg Transcript

As an incumbent insurer operating in this changing environment, we can do no better than
continue to be guided by our vision for QBE to be the insurer that builds the strongest
partnerships with our customers. If we have the mindset and capabilities our customers
are looking for, they're going to continue to value their partnership with QBE.
Tapping into these new technologies to get closer to our customers is essential to
delivering on this objective. And we are working hard to do so right across the business.
Our Group Digital Innovation Lab is experimenting with emerging technologies while
embedding data and analytics into all our decision-making. And this is one of the 6
strategic themes that forms the strategy for QBE.
Our challenge is to harness the benefits that we have of incumbency. While insurtech
start-ups have raised more than $4 billion in early-stage funding over the last couple of
years generally with the goal of bringing smart technology to the market, many of these
companies lack a holistic product offering or a clear path to market. This is where QBE
comes in. Earlier this year, we started a formal and a rigorous process to comb the
insurtech landscape for early-stage businesses that would add the greatest value to our
business and to our customer relationships with a view to partnering with and investing in
the businesses with the greatest potential. QBE is planning to invest up to approximately
$50 million in these opportunities in 2017.
And while we are planning for and investing in the future, this needs to be balanced with
an unrelenting focus on delivering results today. I'm pleased to report that thanks in no
small part to the quality of QBE's underwriting DNA, our performance in 2016
demonstrates that we are striking the right balance. Pleasingly, each of our operating
divisions once again produced an underwriting profit.
Analysis of underwriting risk and a preparedness to make tough decisions underpins the
turnaround that commenced in our Australian & New Zealand Operations in the second
half of this year. After years of pricing declines in our Australian business, coupled with
heightened claims inflation in several short-tail classes, exacerbated by the deterioration
Page 4 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

in the New South Wales compulsory third-party scheme, it was clear at the half year that
prompt action to restore pricing to more sustainable levels was required in our operation.
While it will take more than a year for the full impact of the comprehensive actions
undertaken by Pat Regan and the Australian and New Zealand management team to be
seen in our financial results, the board is encouraged by the meaningful improvement in
the division's combined ratio that was achieved between midyear and end of year.
Our North American Operations welcomed Russ Johnston as CEO during the year in what
was a very seamless transition from Dave Duclos' midyear retirement. And this division
continued its trajectory of performance improvement. Portfolio rationalization and a
tighter focus on core businesses, together with the ongoing growth of Specialty, have all
played important roles in our North American recovery.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our European Operations, under Richard Pryce's strong leadership, had another good
year in a marketplace that is increasingly difficult. And our Emerging Markets business, led
by David Fried, continues to make progress, adding meaningfully to our future growth
opportunities. One of our top priorities is assuring our Emerging Markets growth also
delivers a satisfactory enhancement in the division's profitability.
Looking to the future and your board's primary focus is on providing governance,
stewardship and accountability in relation to setting and delivering on QBE's strategy. In
the middle of last year, management announced 6 strategic themes that build on our
company's differentiated position as one of only a handful of insurers that operate on a
truly global basis. In his address, John Neal will provide an update on progress in relation
to each of the 6 themes. We are focused on ensuring the board has the right blend of
skills and experience to oversee the execution of this strategy.
To this end, we recently accepted with regret Margaret Leung's decision not to stand for
reelection as a director. We want to thank Margaret for her service and contributions to
QBE.
Fortuitously, we have made 2 outstanding appointments to the board in the last 12
months. Kathy Lisson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September, while Mike
Wilkins joined the board in November. You will have the opportunity to hear from both of
our new directors later in this morning's proceedings before shareholders have the
opportunity to vote on their election to the board. You will hear that Kathy and Mike each
bring a wealth of knowledge and particular experience relating to QBE's business and
strategy.
Kathy Lisson, who is based in Canada, has a rare skill set spanning digital technology,
cyber security, IT risk and data analytics that is essential across our 6 strategic themes but
with particular application to our focus areas of data and analytics and operational
efficiency. Recognizing the growing importance of these areas, Kathy is chairing a new
board committee focused exclusively on technology and operational transformation.
Mike Wilkins is known to many of our Australian shareholders due to his prominent role in
the insurance industry in Australia and Asia over the last 2 decades. As Managing Director
Page 5 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

and Chief Executive Officer of Insurance Australia Group and, before that, Promina Group,
Mike made an exceptional contribution to the insurance industry in Australia and
internationally during his executive career. He has a well-earned reputation for
strengthening the fundamentals of each of the businesses that he has led.
Your board is confident that we have the right strategy in place to enable us to
appropriately reward you, our shareholders for the support that you provide to QBE. We
have already substantially increased the dividend as QBE returned to more stable and
predictable earnings over the last three years. In 2016, our new dividend policy to pay out
up to 65% of cash profits became effective. This supported an increase in the dividend
from $0.50 per share in 2015 to $0.54 per share in 2016. Our dividend policy is designed
to ensure we reward shareholders relative to cash profit while also maintaining an
appropriate level of capital for further investment and growth in the business. Pleasingly,
QBE's performance in 2016 supported a further improvement in all of our capital metrics.

Bloomberg Transcript

Recognizing both the quality of our balance sheet and our confidence in the business, the
board earlier this year established a 3-year AUD 1 billion on-market share buyback facility,
which was announced with our full year results in February. This buyback facility will be a
useful additional tool because insurance stocks, by their very nature, periodically trade
below their intrinsic value due to market conditions, interest rate fluctuations or other
events. We intend to use this facility opportunistically to deliver maximum value to
shareholders if and when these opportunities arise.
It is pleasing for QBE to be in a position to reward shareholders both through an
increased dividend and the buyback facility while continuing to balance returns to
shareholders with the needs of the business.
One further area where QBE continues to innovate is in the way we go about making a
real, sustainable difference to our communities. Just last month, we announced a QBE
Green Bond that will give other institutional investors the opportunity to finance QBE's
investment in securities that are focused in areas such as renewable energy, energy
efficiency, green buildings and sustainable forestry. As far as we are aware, QBE is the first
global insurance company to issue a green bond. And we are delighted to be at the
forefront of initiatives to direct more institutional capital to projects that make a positive,
sustainable difference. This is an area of continuing focus for the board. And I look forward
to reporting on our progress at future Annual General Meetings.
In closing today, I would like to acknowledge that since the start of 2016, there have been
a number of catastrophic events that have caused enormous suffering and hardship for
our policyholders and all those affected. The insurance industry has responded quickly to
Cyclone Debbie in Queensland, the earthquake in Ecuador, Cyclone Winston in the South
Pacific. Insurance has enabled these communities to rebuild following catastrophes. And
its core to our purpose as an insurer. And our commitment to assist policyholders in their
time of need is something that everyone at QBE takes extremely seriously.
Finally, I would like to thank John Neal, John's leadership team and all of the 14,000
people who work for QBE around the world for the results delivered in 2016. As I said, it

Page 6 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

was our best year since 2010. And their commitment to delivering on our future plans is
unsurpassed. I thank my fellow directors for their dedication and the significant time
commitment they make to QBE. And we thank you, our shareholders, for your ongoing
support.
What I'd like to do now is to invite our Group Chief Executive Officer to talk about our
results in more detail and to describe the strategic themes that together form the
blueprint for QBE's ongoing success. John?

John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Thank you, Marty. Good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased to be speaking to you after
a second successive year where QBE performed well against our targets, delivering our
best underwriting result in six years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Those of you who have attended these meetings in previous years will recall that my
address typically includes a detailed discussion of the financial result and an update on the
progress we have made to remediate and transform your business. Today, I will be taking
a slightly different approach. Remediation and transformation won't be a big part of
today's presentation as I believe QBE is well through that phase. We've done the hard
yards to realign our activities around our core business, global commercial specialty
insurance and reinsurance. And to embed the principles of operational excellence into our
day-to-day operations.
Our success is reflected in a transformed balance sheet and underwriting account that
has the respect of our peers, our business partners and, indeed, our customers. With our
restructuring complete, today, I will be talking to you about a QBE which has a clear
strategy that builds upon our position of one of only a few truly global properties and
casualty insurers.
So there are 3 main topics that I'd like to discuss today: I'll share with you some of the
feedback we received following the full year 2016 result announcement; then I will provide
an overview of our medium-term targets and the strategies we intend to deploy to
achieve these targets. And then I will summarize our 2017 targets and comment briefly on
our 2017 First Quarter performance.
So over the last 9 weeks, we've met with a range of key stakeholders in your business.
What these people think of QBE is important to all of us in this room. It doesn't matter
how good I think QBE's strategy is if key stakeholders, both large and small, aren't
confident in what we're doing then it's inevitably going to be much more difficult to deliver
attractive returns for you, our shareholders. But not only that, every stakeholder also
brings a perspective on our strategy and performance, whether that's through personal
experience as a policyholder making a claim or well-respected and well-researched views
on strategy and performance of both QBE and our major global competitors.
I'm pleased to report that following three years of solid and consistent progress towards
delivering predictable and consistent returns, our 2016 performance and positioning for
Page 7 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

the future have both been well received. While there will always be some variation in
perspectives, I'll try and summarize these messages for you.
After 5 consecutive halves of prior year reserve releases, you can be positive about the
quality of QBE's claims reserves. Our commitment to operational efficiency is delivering
cost reductions as well as setting the business up for future scalability. Our credibility with
all of our strategic partners increases as we continue to deliver on our targets. Many have
viewed positively our success in reducing the cost of our reinsurance program by more
than $350 million for 2017 without adding significant risk to our portfolio. Likewise, the
strength and quality of our balance sheet and capital position and the resultant
announced share buyback was positively received.
Our operating divisions have each contributed to this positive feedback. So talking about
our operating divisions, we've been able to quickly show improvement in our Australian
and New Zealand division. And I have every confidence that assisted by increases in price,
2017 will see further improvement to provide a meaningful contribution to the group's
profit margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our North American Operations, legacy issues have now largely been addressed. And
our focus turns to our core Property & Casualty business and continued profitable growth
in Specialty. Following our first underwriting profit in 2015, we were pleased -- for five
years, we were pleased to report a further 2% improvement in the insurance margin for
this division in 2016. And indeed, we are forecasting further improvements in 2017 and
then again in 2018.
European Operations has shown strong resilience in the most challenging of markets. The
quality of this business is evidenced by this division producing the group's best
underwriting result for a second year in succession.
Our Emerging Markets business operates in 22 of the world's emerging economies in
both Asia and Latin America and continues to contribute positively to the group.
And as a result, you will have seen a marked improvement in the fundamentals of your
company. The QBE global insurance and reinsurance franchise is attractive, operating in all
of the major insurance hubs around the world. And this, coupled with our strong
distribution and customer relationships in our Australia home market, positions us well for
future growth. We have demonstrated that we can improve our operating performance in
areas such as underwriting and claims, driving greater efficiency in the way in which we do
business. Our management and performance and cash flow are allowing us to increase
our dividend payment. We have positioned our balance sheet not only to be strong in
absolute terms but also to be resilient to downside scenarios, whether these come from
insurance or market investment risk.
Now I want to talk to you a bit about our medium-term focus. Whilst it is pleasing that our
strategy has resulted in improved performance in 2016, there is undoubtedly more we
can do. As the Chairman referenced, in May 2016, we gave the market direction on what
we believed we could achieve by 2018. Our goal is to grow premium revenues at a
Page 8 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

compound annual growth rate of 3% across the pricing cycle. We also see the opportunity
to consistently achieve a combined operating ratio of 93% or better. By achieving these,
we believe we can generate a return on equity of greater than 10%, positioning us to
further reward shareholders with continued increases in dividend payments as well as
capital initiatives, such as the share buyback we announced with the annual result.
While these objectives were described as medium-term targets when they were first
announced in May 2016, we are now talking about goals for the next 1.5 years.
Nonetheless, while the timeframe is getting closer, the targets remain as valid today as
when they were first announced.
We have established QBE as a distinctive top 20 global property and casualty insurer with
operations in all of the major insurance hubs, a focus on commercial and specialty lines
and an integrated business that allows our global capabilities to be delivered locally.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we believe we can deliver on our financial targets by focusing on 6 strategic themes
that build on this differentiated market position. First, QBE is built on the strength of
underwriting performance. And underwriting excellence will always remain our overarching
focus. While tremendous progress has been made, we have more work to do. In the near
term, we will continue to execute on our improvement plans in Australia and New
Zealand, continue our improvement in our North American Property & Casualty lines and
be robust in the actions we take to reduce risk in our Emerging Markets business,
particularly in Latin America.
While the competitive environment did not support significant growth in 2016, we believe
that strong customer and partner relationships are key to success in achieving our
premium growth target of 3% and an important focus for future business development.
Thirdly, we see an enormous opportunity to think smartly about how we develop worldclass talent. This is an area where, in the past, the insurance industry has lagged the
broader financial services sector. But we are thinking differently. It's four years now since
we launched our Leadership Academy in partnership with Duke University. And since then,
over 2,350 of our leaders have participated in academy programs. And we continually
refresh our academy modules to support leadership development. Following pilot
programs in 2016, this year will also see the full launch of our Underwriting Academy. Our
aim is for every QBE underwriter to be accredited by our academy, resulting in a
qualification that is recognized by many of the insurance bodies around the world.
Achieving operational efficiency is essential if we're going to deliver improved profitability
in a challenging underwriting environment. We met our target of $150 million of expense
savings in 2016 and remain on track to deliver a further $150 million in expense savings by
the end of 2018, with some of these savings to be reinvested in technology.
Claims excellence also has a big part to play in reducing costs across QBE. We've set a
target of $200 million in claims run rate savings for the end of 2018 and expect half of this
goal to be met this year in 2017. Initiatives to combat claims fraud are an ongoing focus as

Page 9 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

well as targeting improved efficiency in claims management through the sharing of global
standards.

FINAL

Finally, data and analytics were established as a global function in 2016. And in 2017, our
focus is directed towards projects that support customer service and risk analysis,
improving claims anti-fraud techniques and portfolio optimization.
I'd also like to outline our plans to partner with early-stage insurtech companies. The
Chairman has already shared some thoughts on our positioning in this area. But let me say
that it's a fascinating journey that we commenced in earnest a few months ago.

Bloomberg Transcript

We screened over 200 companies with solutions that looked beneficial to our business.
Now our bias is towards analytics, digital and the Internet of Things, where we believe
value can be added to our underwriting and claims processes, providing efficiency and
service benefits for QBE and, of course, for our customers. Detailed discussions with our 7
short-listed companies have been well received. This comes as no surprise. As the
Chairman noted, many of these companies are not well placed to disrupt any element of
the insurance industry on their own, requiring knowledge, experience and expertise of
established players to succeed. So over the coming months and following due diligence, I
expect we will form initial partnerships with 3 or 4 insurtech companies. And I look forward
to sharing more detail of our progress at the Annual General Meeting next year.
So turning now to our 2017 targets. When you look at this slide, you could be excused for
thinking we are paddling hard without making much forward progress. So starting with the
top line, while we're expecting to see modest growth in premiums, we also recognize
that there are some currency headwinds particularly with respect to weaker sterling, the
British pound. As a consequence, we're expecting 2017 gross written premium to be
relatively stable in U.S. dollar terms. In this challenging market environment, we will
continue to focus on providing excellent service to our current clients and retain the
business we have. And we will seek selectively and carefully managed growth from
Emerging Markets and targeted pockets of our European Operations and North American
Operations.
Whilst our target combined operating ratio of 93.5% to 95%, which excludes the one-time
impact of Ogden discount rate changes in the U.K., superficially implies no improvement
on the 93.2% figure recorded in 2016, our business is now configured to deliver a higher
quality result.
One further area of clear improvement is in our investment return, where our target
range of 2.5% to 3% is higher than the 2.4% recorded in 2016. Whilst we don't provide
formal quarterly updates, our internal review of the First Quarter performance continues
to indicate our ability to execute against these targets for 2017.
So looking at each of our divisions, the good progress made in the latter part of 2016 in
Australia and New Zealand has continued into 2017. So we remain confident that by 2018,
we will have completed the job of restoring profitability to the level that we would expect
in our home market. The major contributor of this turnaround has been achieving rate
Page 10 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

increases of 6% or more across large parts of the portfolio, with customer retention
broadly unchanged.

FINAL

In North America, we doubled underwriting profit in 2016 and are expecting a third
consecutive year of improvement in underwriting performance this year in 2017. And by
2018, we expect this business to be performing in line with our major divisions and
contributing meaningfully to ongoing performance improvement at a group level.
For the second year in succession, European Operations produced our best underwriting
performance in 2016, demonstrating the quality of our underwriting in one of the most
challenging markets in the world. We believe this performance will continue in the near
and the medium term.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe there is value in being a participant in the high-growth emerging economies of
the world and that we have struck the right balance of control whilst also pursuing carefully
managed growth.
So in closing, we have executed effectively on our targets and plans since the second half
of 2014. We are confident in our ability to meet the performance targets we've set out for
2017 and, importantly, in our ability to continue to improve our business through the
medium term. The 2016 result represented our best underwriting performance in six
years. And QBE's balance sheet stands in comparison to any of our global peers. We
continue to buy reinsurance protections against the downside risks of running an
insurance company. And our claims reserves have shown consistent improvement for 5
consecutive reporting periods. Your company has made and continues to make a
substantial investment in the building, development and maintaining of the very best
talent. Our people will continue to deliver the best outcomes for our customers and for
you, our shareholders.
The board's confidence in our forward plans is now being reflected in both a healthy
increase in dividend payment in 2016 and the announcement of an on-market share
buyback facility. I believe there is a great deal to look forward to as a shareholder in QBE.
And I'd like to echo Marty's thanks to all of our stakeholders, our customers, our people,
our business partners and, of course, you, our shareholders, for your continued support
and trust.

William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much, John. We're now coming to the formal part of our annual meeting.
When you registered for the meeting, you would have been given a white plastic smart
card. If you have not already done so, please insert your card into the slot at the top of
the handset with the bar code at the bottom and facing towards you. Please refer to the
screen behind me, which shows how to insert the smart card where
(technical difficulty)

Page 11 of 41



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Please refer to the screen behind me, which shows how to insert the smart card, or
alternatively, just raise your hand and you will get some assistance. When inserted
correctly, a welcome message will appear briefly on the screen then you will be returned
to the holding screen where your name will now appear at the top of the display. Once
voting begins, your voting options will appear on the handset screen. To vote for a
resolution, press 1; to vote against, press 2; or if you wish to abstain, press 3. Your
selection and the word Received will appear on the screen confirming your vote has been
cast. If you wish to change your mind prior to the poll closing, simply select a new option
by pressing 1, 2 or 3. Your original vote will be canceled and your new selection will be
counted. If you wish to cancel your vote prior to the poll closing and have no selection
recorded, press the button marked an X. Once a poll is closed the results will be
displayed on the screen showing the combination of votes cast in the room and the
proxies received prior to the meeting.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are a number of procedural matters to which I must also draw your attention. This is
a shareholders meeting. And therefore, only shareholders, their attorneys, proxies and
authorized company representatives are entitled to speak or vote. I ask that questions be
confined to the business of the meeting and shareholder issues. Each item of business
will be discussed in turn and shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions on
that item. Please save your questions on individual items until we reach that item.
Directors and members of senior management will be available after the meeting to
answer more individual questions you may have. Proxy holders should note that all
directed votes have been accumulated and recorded. Only proxy holders with open votes
are asked to record a vote in favor or against a resolution or an abstention.
As set out in the notice of the meeting, as the Chairman of the meeting, I will be voting all
available proxies in favor of each item of business, except resolution 2 on the adoption of
the remuneration report per the Corporations Act. If you need to leave this meeting early
but would still like to lodge a poll vote, please speak to the Computershare staff at the
reception desk who will be able to assist you in recording your vote. This year, we again
asked shareholders to submit questions prior to the meeting. While we have not provided
individual responses, the key themes within the questions have been answered through
mine and John's addresses. We thank the shareholders for taking the time to submit
questions as we really do value your views. Shareholders entitled to ask questions and
vote have been issued with a Lumi device. In order to assist me, I request that you display
the Lumi device to the microphone attendant before speaking on a resolution. Other
attendees may have a blue, green or a white card. A blue card means that you are a joint
shareholder. That is the second holder on a jointly registered shareholding. You can speak
to a resolution. But you are not entitled to vote on a resolution. A white card means you
are a visitor. You can neither ask a question nor vote on a resolution. A green card means
you are from the media. Again, you can neither ask a question nor vote on a resolution.
During question time, I would ask shareholders to kindly use the microphones that are
placed strategically throughout the auditorium so that we can all hear you clearly. Please
show either your Lumi device or a blue card and give your name and any organization
which you represent to the microphone attendant who will introduce you to the meeting. I
will select the microphone from which I will take the next question.

Page 12 of 41



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

All right, item 1 on the agenda is to receive and consider the financial statements. I would
propose that the meeting receives the financial reports and the reports of the directors
and auditors for the year ended December 31, 2016. In accordance with the Corporations
Act, I will allow a reasonable opportunity for shareholders as a whole to ask questions
about or comment on the management of the company. Also, in accordance with the
Corporations Act, I will allow a reasonable opportunity for shareholders as a whole to ask
the auditors who are present at this meeting question relevant to the conduct of the
audit, the preparation and content of the auditor's report, the accounting practices
adopted in the financial statements and the independence of the auditor. I invite any
questions from shareholders on the accounts and reports only. Any questions related to
the remuneration report should be raised when we come to that portion of the meeting.
In fairness to all shareholders, could I ask that you restrict yourself to no more than 2
questions at any 1 time?
So we will now open it up for questions.

Questions And Answers
A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Looks like microphone 2 has a question.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Graves from the ASA.

Q - Ian Graves

{BIO 17086377 <GO>}

Mr. Chairman, as you know, I'm from the Australian Shareholders Association. I'm here
today representing our members. And I have proxies for -- that represents votes for
1,450,000 shares. My question today about the accounts, Mr. Chairman, is that over the
last few years, we have benefited quite substantially from the release of reserves and the
claims reserves. Last year it was 43% of the net profit. Do you see these releases and
also the outcomes sustainable? And if so, what is the company doing to change the focus
so that they are able to achieve these on a regular basis?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. We feel very good that we've been able to release reserves, as
John mentioned in his report, for the last 5 reporting periods. As you know, that's not
always the case. Sometimes you have adverse development in your reserves and you're
adding to reserves. And if you look at the industry right now, you're really starting to see a
significant slowdown in reserve releases as pricing over the last few years and claims
inflation is starting to catch up with results. And in fact, you've actually had adverse
development being reported by some companies in particular lines of business. I think the
great thing that QBE has going for it at the moment is not only our underwriting DNA but
we have paid rigorous attention to making sure that we are carrying adequate reserves
for our liabilities. Last year, we released about 3% of our reserves. That's a higher norm -a higher number than normal. Interestingly, it compares roughly with what AIG released
and what Suncorp released. But I think that's probably a higher level than you would
Page 13 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

expect on a routine basis because our job is not to carry excess reserves or to understate
our reserves. Our job is to carry the right reserves. And that's what we're really trying to
do. So we would be hopeful that we'll continue to have some reserve releases. But I think
to expect them at the level that we had last year would be overly optimistic.

FINAL

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So you're assuring the meeting that in fact, the reserves are
adequate in your opinion.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

We very much believe our reserves are adequate or we wouldn't have published the
financial reports we published.
Other questions on the statements? Do you have a question at microphone 1?

Q - Unidentified Participant
I would like to introduce Mr. Kevin (inaudible), shareholder.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Oh, I'm sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd just like to make a comment. In the annual report,
there was a 15-page explanation in your financial results which I found extremely useful.
Generally, I'm confused by insurance company accounting. And it's not really the
company's fault, it's the nature of the business they're in, with the various delays that
occur in the processes that they're involved in. Now I would like to ask a question. Also, in
the annual report, there was mention of 2 underwriting hubs that you've set up. I'm just
wondering if you could give a bit more detail about the activity of these hubs, exactly what
they do. And why you located them in Miami and Singapore rather than, say, in London
and Sydney?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

I'm not sure I fully understood the question. Did you get it, John?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes, (inaudible) no, it is now. Just to be clear, the hubs I think you're talking about are in
support of our emerging markets business. So in Asia, the central part of the business is in
Hong Kong, in Latin America we've chosen Miami. The reason we've done that is to
ensure that the underwriting standards that you'd want to see deployed universally across
a range of geographies can be done so consistently and that we can have the right risk
framework and audit frameworks that supervise the activities of that division, which just by
reference of the number of geographies we're in is complex. So we made the decision to
set up 2 centers of excellence in Miami and Hong Kong for that purpose. In terms of hubs
Page 14 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

then to your broader question, yes, of course, we're well-represented in London, New
York, Bermuda and of course, in the home market here in Australia.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, ma'am?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Microphone 2?
I would like to introduce (inaudible).

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. Thank you. I just have 2 questions.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Be sure and pull the microphone down so we can hear you.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

I have 2 questions, really. The first one is just talking something about Brexit and you're
going to move your operations to mainland Europe. Is that right? Can you give me more
detail on that please?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Rates in mainland Europe? Oh, Brexit.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

No, no, operations.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well Brexit is probably going to end our ability out of London to have passporting across
the whole continent in terms of our ability to conduct business and issue policies, et
cetera. So we'll be setting up a Continental Europe operation in addition to the operation
we have in London so we can continue to serve our whole customer base.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. The second question is now I have noticed that you do have a travel insurance
business. And I'm just wondering do you have any strategies about that in Asia? Like we
know that a lot of people are traveling from China in particular. And do you expand your
travel insurance business, in particular, to the Chinese population?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Page 15 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

It's probably a better question for you or Pat.

FINAL

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

So we write some travel and personal accident insurance in Australia. We write none in
Asia. So the focus in Asia is all on commercial and specialty lines of insurance. I might just
pick up on your first question because I think it's been topical for 1 or 2 with discussions
around Brexit and what that means for our workforce plans in Europe. We write about EUR
700 million of business in Continental Europe, which is in France, Germany, Italy, Spain,
Ireland and Scandinavia. We employ about 600 people in Continental Europe. So the
U.K.'s decision to exit the European Union just adds a little bit of complexity from a
regulatory point of view and from a supervision perspective. It doesn't involve the
meaningful movement of staff. So the fact that we have established operations in Europe
means that we see certainly no reduction as a result of Brexit of our workforce in the U.K..
And no meaningful need to increase the workforce in Europe. So certainly from a
policyholder's perspective, they won't see any change in the way in which we do business
with them.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I get it. So you're just going to have to open an office in mainland Europe, is that what
you're saying?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you. Number 1?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to introduce shareholder, Mr. (Young Doug).

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. The French company, AXA, confirmed in last week's AGM that they would
no longer underwrite companies most exposed to coal-related operations. Last week,
Westpac confirmed a complete halt to the lending for new coal basins and for coal listed
in a specific quality criteria. Given the stated move towards sustainable capital, new
technologies and within a framework of a rapidly declining global coal market, will QBE
commit to divesting from the existing coal operations and commit to precise restrictions
on underwriting future coal mining operations?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Page 16 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Appreciate very much your question. And QBE as you heard in the Chairman's address is
doing quite a bit in the sustainability area. But as respects specifically our underwriting
appetite, why don't I let John address that?

FINAL

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. We don't actually give specific detail by industry of where our business is derived
from. So if I look at the broader energy sector, which includes coal, includes natural
resources, about 2% of our income is derived from that particular sector of the market,
which is broadly unchanged actually from where it was 12 months ago. Not included in that
figure are the renewable energy companies that we insure. Of course many of those
companies are the same, dare I say it. There are companies where they are doing both.
So the approach that we take is we're cognizant of a broader societal responsibility that I
think you're going to. And we would take a significant screen around risk control
mechanisms, risk management, to satisfy ourselves that it is a company that we should
partner with it. But the short answer to your question from where we were 12 months ago
is there's little difference in terms of the income we derive from energy-related players.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

I guess it's not just about income. So let's get specific. There's a huge opportunity for QBE
in a corporate social responsibility framework. Rather than risk that brand damage of
conflict environmentalism and targeted activist embarrassment recently seen by Westpac,
does QBE have any relationship with the Adani Group of Companies or the Abbot Point
Coal terminal or plan to underwrite the Adani Carmichael coal mine or any of its
associated infrastructure?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

It's a complex question at the front end and I'll answer it directly. So as you know, the
Adani Group of Companies has a significant interest in India and we insure some of their
vessels. So they run a number of boats that we happen to insure, actually out of India
through an Indian broker. So not related at all to the specific question you are asking. On
the Adani Carmichael coal mine, the answer to your question is we haven't been
approached or asked to provide insurance for the mine. I don't know whether we will or
we won't. If we were, we'd have to consider the decision at that point.

Q - Unidentified Participant
The question was yes, will there be a commitment?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think we'll have to assess the risk on merits when it's presented to us. I don't know, I've
not seen the risks. So if it is presented, we'll look at it on its merits on the day.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.

Page 17 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Number 2?

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Chairman, I would like to introduce Natasha Lee, shareholder.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, Mr. Chairman and board. I congratulate you for your performance over the last
year and I expect it to continue into the future. I've just got a question about the audit
fees. This isn't the criticism of PwC, I'm sure they did a good job. But I note that the audit
fees for the parent company have increased by 15% to 1.435 million this year and the
controlling entities too went up by 19% by 2.5 -- to 2.5 million. I think it's just a little bit
difficult to justify such large increases given that inflation running something at like 2% and
wage growth is kind of 0% to 1%. Can you explain or justify the increase in the fees?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Sure, there's a variety of components to the audit fees and the services that the auditors
provide. I can assure you the auditors would give you feedback that they're not paid
enough. You can take whatever point you want on that. But our chief negotiator there is
Pat Regan. So Pat?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Thank you, Marty. Good morning, Mrs. Lee. The actual overall fee for our audit services
went down slightly from 2015 to 2016. The core audit component would have been
relatively flat if not slightly down with the exception of a small amount of inflation added
to it.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Well Page 176 -- yes, there were various components such as taxation, advice of service,
et cetera...

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

So I see that overall it went down. But I was focusing on the actual audit components,
where there are fairly significant increases in my opinion. So...

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. The -- I think you are highlighting the amount from the Australian firm versus the
overseas firm. We will get slight -- generally, we look at the group audit fee and in the
round we'll get slight ebbs and flows between what's done by the Australian PwC firm

Page 18 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

and what's done by the overseas firm. As I say, in the round we saw a small reduction in
the overall audit fee.
Yes. As I said, I appreciate that there's been a small reduction overall. But an audit is an
audit. The complexity of the company hasn't changed significantly from year-to-year. So I
would expect that those fees to be somewhat stable or increase slightly. Obviously, with
other services that would be on a case-by-case or a project-by-project basis. In some
years there may be higher demand for advisory services, for instance and therefore, the
fees you would expect to be higher there.
Yes. And it is an area both I personally and the audit committee look at each year to make
sure that we're actually paying enough for the audit services so that they can do a
thorough enough job but also, very much as you've highlighted, the audit fee is stable,
not increasing beyond the level of inflation. The group audit fee taken in the round would
have been that. It would have been relatively stable in 2016 versus 2015. The other
services that PwC provide are actually relatively minimal as standards require them to be.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay, we'll maintain (inaudible) on that matter.

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Number 2?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Gareth Bryant, shareholder.

Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is Dr. Gareth Bryant, I'm a lecturer at the University of Sydney researching
climate-related financial risk. My question is related to the severe storm that hit Sydney's
northern beaches in June last year resulting in a dozen homes and the beach club,
Collaroy, being damaged or destroyed by the storm surge. Firstly, QBE announced at the
time that $95,000 was paid to the club in good faith for urgent make safe repairs, even
though the majority of these costs wouldn't have otherwise been claimable. Can the
board explain why the costs of the damage caused weren't claimable? And how would
QBE have responded if hundreds of insured properties were damaged rather than just a
handful, given the inevitable public pressure that would have been associated with this?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you. Would John or Pat like to...

Page 19 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. It's difficult to discuss individual claims and I'm not sure it's entirely appropriate to.
Our process is that we'll look at each claim that's made against us with the individual
circumstances of that loss and the merits of the claim in question. That does not mean
that we will literally interpret the policy wording in every instance. I think with the specific
claim you're talking about for Collaroy Beach Club, that involves an awful lot of discussion
between us and the insured and other parties. And as far as we're concerned today, that
matter has been settled and closed.

Q - Unidentified Participant
This was -- became a more public matter when you had QBE work paid up on the beach
club. So I've got a more general question then that follows on from that. So following the
storm in Collaroy, local MP and New South Wales Minister for Health, Brad Hazzard said
"Insurers must step up and go beyond the interpretations of the their policies." So what
measures are QBE taking to manage the reputational risk that could be caused as more
and more customers in low-lying coastal areas face uninsured damages as a result of the
climate change induced sea level that we will be facing and is QBE conducting any public
education in this area?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Hello, Mr. Bryant. I think I'd broadly agree with the observation. I think it's important for -the Collaroy Beach Club -- and I took a personal interest in that claim -- is an important
part of that community and that was the point that was being made at the time was that
rebuilding the club was an important part of the community and I think we would agree
with that. I back up John's comments that we shouldn't comment too much on this specific
claim but I can assure you we did go over and above the specific policy wording to
respect their place in the community and to aid their rebuilding.

Q - Unidentified Participant
As a general sort of issue, do you see it as being in the interest of shareholders that QBE
does play a bit more of a leading role in the public debates around climate change in
terms of pushing towards climate action?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. There're 2 components I'd probably add some comment on which I think is at the
heart of your question. I think we've got a responsibility to make insurance policies simpler
to understand and read. I get insurance policies the same as you do. And sometimes I
have to read them 2 times to be clear on exactly what is being covered and what isn't. So
we are actually working with the conduct regulator in Australia specifically to pilot
simplification of policy wording. So I think we have a responsibility generally, not only in this
type of example. But other examples, to improve and simplify policy wording. So that
would be 1 thing I would say. Two, on climate, it's in front of our minds all of the time. The
evidence to support climate risk and the change in the environment in which we're
providing insurance is without dispute. The frequency of catastrophe claims is 5x what it
was 30 years ago. And actually, very, very prominent here in Australia because whereas
we can assume events that are going to occur in certain parts of the world, they really do
Page 20 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

occur here and occur with regularity. So I think yes, we do have a responsibility to engage
with a number of parties including government. And we do and are we increasing that,
yes, we are. And where government does help, we would encourage them to do more
so. And my personal view is that compared to other geographies and I would use the
U.S.A. or the U.K. as an example, we lag behind in terms of, I think, government
recognition of just how important the climate risk is and what help they can do to help us,
a, mitigate the risk at the front end and support communities if and when a loss occurs.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Number 2?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to introduce (Cable) Anderson, shareholder.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentified Participant
Mr. Chair, last year, I raised an issue and so did Ian Graves. It was the cost of operation.
Last we were told was that the cost of operation would go down and it's actually gone up
1.4% %, this was your commission and expense ratio. And last year, I raised the fact that
perhaps there was a problem with a centralizing in any country a processing unit.
(inaudible) a hired hotel on occasions and talked to some lady in Minneapolis for 4 hours
and it upsets me. Doesn't matter where you put a person in the world, if they're not of
your culture it becomes a problem. People I've spoken to in the U.K. and the U.S. have the
same view in that once you talk to someone on the phone from another culture, it's a bit
difficult. Then there's a reluctance to keep dealing with those people. What I'm asking is
will the expense ratio be brought down this year because it's now 35.8%, which is hugely
expensive. And would the Board look at perhaps spreading more work back to the U.K.,
U.S. and here with a view to reducing the cultural impact. So allowing for training for staff
because it's not in processing work where staff learns the business. There's no point
learning the business in Antarctica or whatever you want to put your unit because they're
never going to underwrite, they're only going to do processing. Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Do you want me to...

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well in relation to expenses, as you heard from John earlier, it's 1 of our strategic priorities
and 1 that we've made significant progress on. We continue to feel that taking expense
out of the business is essential if QBE is going to continue to compete in today's world.
And part of our efforts in technology and data are going to help enable us to increase our
operating efficiency and continue to make us a more efficient organization. The -inevitable result is that if we don't become more efficient, we're going to have a
challenge competing because premiums are going to continue to be pressed.
Page 21 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This year, we've actually gone down in turnover, or relative to a couple of years ago. The
expense ratio keeps going up. The industry average in Australia was only 20.5%. Some of
this might be attributable to the fact that a lot of the work now is delegated out to
brokers. So instead of paying a commission of 10%, because they're doing the claims as
well, suddenly you're 30% or 40%. But I just can't see the companies doing (inaudible) so
you're saying you're efficient but in reality, you're not.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Can I -- can I give you -- there are 3 parts to the answer. And the first part is a little bit
technical. And I apologize for this. We undertook a number of fairly complex reinsurance
transactions last year to sell some of the liabilities on our balance sheet for P&L gain to
shareholders where we thought they were long tail and there was value in taking them off
the balance sheet. They show as a reinsurance transaction, which means the ratios you
are quoting look higher than they really are. So in real terms, our expenses did actually
come down by $158 million last year. So we did reduce our operating expenses and we
will do so again this year. On the other 2 parts, the total acquisition costs include the fees
we pay to brokers. And you're right, they're going up. And that is a constant battle for us
to get that balance right and ensure that brokers are not overpaid for the work that they
do. And that's part of the day job for us. On the broader theme you're saying about how
we manage costs through the business. We try and do that through 2 lenses. One is
getting an optimal balance of cost and investments. So it's not just about cutting costs for
today, it's ensuring that we've set the business up for success in the future. So when we
set up service centers and we do those both onshore and offshore, we spend a lot of
money in establishing them and on the training modules that we put in place. The second
point I'd say is we're very preoccupied on service standards. So we do an awful lot of
surveying of both customers and in the broker partners to understand where we're doing
things well and where we could do things better. So it's not all about costs, it is about
getting the service standard right. But notwithstanding all of that, I can assure you that the
operating costs of running this business are coming down year-on-year.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Nothing on the centralized processing unit, no? Too difficult?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. We tended to take a view that there are only a few sets of activities that can be run
truly globally. So most of the services that we provide are very relevant to the
geographies in which we operate. But some of that's offshore, some of that's onshore.
But it is always linked. It's 1 process that would operate whether it's onshore or offshore.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you. Number 1?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Daniel Goshen.
Page 22 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning.

Q - Unidentified Participant
How are you?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Good.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Several North Queensland politicians recently called for a government owned insurer to
offer cheaper coverage to residents in cyclone and flood-prone regions. Given that
premiums have been steadily rising in Northern Queensland, pricing many residents out of
the market, what are QBE and the industry generally doing to ensure that the government
doesn't distort the market by establishing a publicly owned insurer?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Pat will probably kick me for part of this answer in running the Australia business. I think all
options should be explored, to be honest with you. If the government thinks that the part
of the solution is some form of a mutual insurer, then that should be looked at in real
detail. The issue that everyone would need to bear in mind is that needs to be a longterm, not a short-term decision. So if the government is contemplating some form of
mutualization of insurance, that could equal subsidy. And if it equals subsidy, then the
government needs to have a long-term commitment to that. So I would say investigate it
properly but I think at the same time, let's investigate the other options. We need to
satisfy the government that we are providing an appropriate price for the risks that we're
being asked to take and they should talk to us about how we can respectively mitigate
that risk. So I think there's a lot that state and federal government could do to mitigate
what I think is becoming an increasingly apparent risk, particularly in Queensland and I
would rather see that both strings of work are pursued and pursued properly to reach a
conclusion that everybody can understand. So don't rule anything out, rule everything in
and have the debate completely. And we would support that and sponsor that.

Q - Unidentified Participant
So you'd be open to a public private partnership?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think if I was the chosen route, having looked at other options, then look at it properly.
I'm not -- if you look at models that have operated in that form previously, they've not
been successful where there is such a high exposure. They've be much more successful
where the exposure is much more remote but extreme. So if you look at pools that have
Page 23 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

supported terrorism risk, for example, they work very well. I think it's a little bit more
complex here. But the real point here is I think everyone needs to come to the table
properly and look at all of the options, determine the best solution and be really clear
about what that is and why that decision is being reached.

FINAL

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Thanks. One more question. And it might be best answered by Pat. The Insurance Council
of Australia introduced its first ever climate change policy last year but it focuses almost
exclusively on impacts of climate change and mitigation. It completely ignores carbon
pollution despite -- sorry, it has a single reference where it says the insurance industry
naturally supports policy adjustments that may assist to reduce emissions. But given the
impact that the insurance industry is already feeling from extreme weather. And John's
comments earlier about the government not getting the risk, should the insurance council
be doing more in support for policies to cut greenhouse gas emissions and actively be
cooperating to restrict underwriting to those elements of the fossil fuel industry like coal
that are clearly at odds with the Paris agreement? Sorry, I know that's very long.
That's all right, that sounds like a harder question than John got.

Q - Unidentified Participant
That's why I picked you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Quite possibly, yes. I mean, the ICA -- I mean, I've worked in a few different countries and I
do think as an industry body they are very good at cooperating with government whether
that be at the state level or a federal level so I should -- on a range of topics actually. And
they're all quite complex and insurance tends to get quite technical and complex. As you
know, the ICA has been working with the government on climate change. The impact of
climate change, how we as the industry can respond to that. Can we do that more
broadly? Probably yes. I would think if the ICA were here themselves, they would say that
the engagement is the start of the process, not the end of the process and I'm sure we
can do that much more broadly.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Do you think that public conversation needs to happen though? If the government's not
getting it, how does the insurance council push that argument?

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

I think the Insurance Council has a very effective way of getting the insurance industry to
talk with a common voice and that tends to be the best way of partnering with
governments. So yes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thanks.

Page 24 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Microphone number 2?

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Mr. Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Wilkins, shareholder.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Good morning, Chairman. One of the previous speakers partly addressed a
point that I was going to make about the significant rise in the combination of
commissions and expenses over about the last seven years, which as he rightly said, has
gone up from about 28% to nearly 36%. Is it -- and I realize you're doing a lot of work on
that and also on the claims side. But is it conceivable that in the longer term, as opposed
to the target for, say, the next 2 or three years, that you could actually get the CR back
down below 90% as it was, say, in the golden years up to about 2011?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Talking about getting combined ratio down below 90%?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Certainly, we'll be doing our part on claims and expense control. But we're going to have
to have some pricing help if the combined ratio is ever going to get down below 90%
again. And if you look at our peers across the globe, our combined ratio at present level is
actually pretty attractive in the marketplaces in which we deal. So we are on your side.
We'd love to be below 90%. But we're going to need some pricing help to be able to do
that.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Thank you. My second question, which probably has similar (inaudible), the medium term
guidance for return on shareholders' funds is approximately 10%. Is that as good as it can
get in U.S. dollar terms in the absence of a very significant rise in returns on the
investment portfolio?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Certainly, 10% is not as good as it can get. But in the present environment, again, if you
look at high-performing peers around the world, they're all about at that level. So we
would have to be doing something extraordinary to be an outlier from that level. If
investment trends continue to get better, that's certainly going to help the overall result
and be able to take us higher. It wasn't too long ago that returns were in the low teens,
mid-teens for insurers. But that was heavily driven by investment results. Underwriting
results were relatively close to where underwriting results are today. So we're going to
need some relief on that end if you're going to get materially above 10%.
Page 25 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q - Unidentified Participant
So just a follow-up. Do you think that really requires a lot of the capital, the surplus capital
in the world insurance system to depart for pricing to tighten enough?

FINAL

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

I think your question was there's going to have a decline in capital for pricing to tighten, is
that right?

A - Patrick C. Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. It seems so much (inaudible)

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

That typically has been a driver of tightening in cycles. At the moment, capital is so
abundant and new capital is so readily available to the industry that I think any material
change in pricing near term is unlikely.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Number 2?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like introduce Mrs. Yong, shareholder.

Q - Joyce Yong
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Joyce Yong
My question -- I have 2 questions, 1 relates to the change of venue of this AGM. I've
attended QBE meetings over many years. And it is very nice as a shareholder to have it
held in this much more salubrious surroundings. And also to be greeted with a very nice
repast as we came in this morning. As a shareholder, I certainly hope. And I would like you
to assure us that this does not mean that QBE is entering into a new era of extravagance.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

I have to be honest with you. I have no idea what the cost of this facility was versus the
cost of last year's facility. But the people who plan it are operating under a pretty tight
Page 26 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

budget. So I think they're going to be very careful as to how they spend the monies.

FINAL

Q - Joyce Yong
Good. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My second question relates to the QBE Code of Conduct. We
were informed recently that the CEO was penalized because he breached the QBE Code
of Conduct. At about the same time, QBE also parted company with a key executive,
Colin Fagen. We were told that he has resigned. Did he also breach the QBE Code of
Conduct?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well we issued some public statements back in February when we put out the RIM report
regarding the actions of the CEO. And it really related to wanting to be sure that we sent
the right organizational message that everybody's held to the same standard of conduct
within QBE. As respects Colin, that is not a matter that I think we should be discussing
publicly, because there are issues yet to be resolved between Colin Fagen and the
company. And we need to just let that stand as is for the moment.

Q - Joyce Yong
Are you referring to the fact that, or the allegation that we have heard, that he has since
sought legal advice?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

I'm not sure what you're referring to. But I really just don't want to get into detail on that
matter until it's fully resolved.

Q - Joyce Yong
Thank you, Mr. Chair. At that stage would we be fully informed?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well you will be informed to the extent appropriate.

Q - Joyce Yong
Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Yes, ma'am?
Thank you.
Yes, ma'am?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 27 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. (Pete Sparberry), shareholder.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks. Hello. One moment. Good morning, Chairman, board. Just referring back to the
policies and some comment in north -- the northern beaches the university lecturer
mentioned. I think one needs to be wary of -- apologies, (disclaiming), stating that an
insurance company has obligations beyond an assessed risk. As a cautionary tale, many of
you will recall the Lloyd's of London, probably the most prominent insurance market in the
world, was brought to its knees about 20 years ago through various reasons. But one of
the contributing factors was that in the U.S.A., they were forced to pay out on substantial
asbestos claims, which were not insured for. So they had not made a risk assessment. And
the premiums were not paid accordingly. This had an enormous impact on all those
members. It had nothing to do with me, I wasn't a member, thank goodness. Following the
floods in Queensland in 2011, I've noticed now that this is an example of too much
regulation, that flood insurance is now compulsory. Well I have a house. It's on a hill. It's
approximately 200 or 300 feet above the surrounding land. So I don't have a risk of
flooding. And I'll tell you what, if it did flood, you'd have much bigger problems than my
place because there's a whole town there of 13,000 people. And that rather annoys me
because I'm paying a premium for a risk which doesn't exist. But anyway, it was really just
about (inaudible) getting their (ore) in and trying to pass the buck on to private enterprise.
Thank you. So it's a comment rather than a question. Thanks.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We appreciate it.
So any more questions on item number one? Microphone 2.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to introduce (Mr. Anderson), shareholder.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. (Carl Anderson), small shareholder and ex-customer. I would like to
congratulate you on your pledge here at the top of Page two of last year's annual report
in QBE blue where you promised to deliver on your promises. And the follow-up in this
year's review, where you apparently innovate the use of drones in the Americas and the
U.K. to reduce the time it takes to handle and pay claims. Question is you didn't, by any
chance, bring any drones with you from the U.S. that you could release in Australia?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

What was that last part?

Q - Unidentified Participant
You didn't, by any chance, bring any drones with you from the U.S. that you could release
in Australia?

Page 28 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

No.

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

No, not at least at QBE's head office in Sydney?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

No. We don't have any drones, I'm sorry.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I really think you should get some.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Because I've had some bad experiences. It took me a decade to retrieve money I paid to
QBE in phase absolutely, totally (inaudible). And I've got not a problem with a 15-odd deal
on claim that I would like to possibly discuss with you later on with a brief note written
down if you care to study it and maybe give me a minute.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Just add 2 things. One, let's have a conversation afterward to your final point. I think on
your macro point, we do actually use drones quite extensively in settling losses today. A
good example I can give you was there was a devastating earthquake you might recall in
Ecuador last year. We're a substantial insurer in Ecuador. That loss cost us almost $100
million. We think we were able to settle at the time the claims 5x more quickly as a result
of using drone technology rather than conventional risk assessment. So the use of
technology is actually driven as much as improving customer service as it is anything else.
But on your personal point then, (patter), I would be happy to talk to you afterward.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you. All right. Why don't we move on to item 2 on the agenda, which is adopting
the remuneration report? I propose the meeting consider and pass the ordinary
resolution set out in the notice of meeting. The remuneration report is set out on Pages
68 to 102 of the 2016 Annual Report. The Corporations Act requires listed companies to
put an annual resolution to shareholders to adopt the company's remuneration report.
This vote is advisory only and does not bind the directors or the company. However, the
board will take the discussion at the meeting into consideration in determining the
company's ongoing remuneration strategy. Does any shareholder wish to speak for or
Page 29 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

against the motion? Anyone? Number 2, I think, is wanting to speak, microphone number
2.

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Chairman, I would like to reintroduce Mr. Graves from the Australian Shareholders'
Association.

Q - Ian Graves

{BIO 17086377 <GO>}

Mr. Chairman -- thank you for that. The -- what I was going to ask a question about is the
executive incentive plan that has been introduced in 2017. This combines the short-term
incentive and the long-term incentive into a single incentive. But it's only based on 12
months' performance and with the payments being deferred up to five years. Could you
please explain at the meeting why they will not be measured against QBE's 3-year
strategic plans? And also, how are they aligned with shareholders' interests? We're, in fact
-- even with this coming year, we've been told that the outcome is going to be relatively
the same as last -- as 2016. And yet the CEO will be able to receive a bonus of $5,005 -$5,500,000, $4.5 million of that in equity. And we want to know if this is based on solely
what happens in 2017? And how does this align with shareholders' interests?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Sure. We appreciate very much the question. Remuneration's always a sensitive topic. And
this year, it's even more highlighted because we did do a substantial revision in the
remuneration plan. Your Deputy Chairman, John Green, has probably had 50 different
meetings with shareholders, either before we amended the plan or after we amended
the plan. So John, why don't I ask you to share that information?

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

Thanks, Chairman. And thanks, Mr. Graves, for your question. Shareholders will recall that
we said in our remuneration report last year that we were going to review our plan having
regard to making sure that it remained fit for purpose with QBE's strategy and aligned
with shareholder interests. That was in the context of an operating environment, which,
over the past three years, globally, has been extremely volatile, economically, politically, a
lot of regulatory change and a lot of change within QBE itself. And so we wanted to take
stock and say does the plan still fit where QBE is today but also where we want it to be
tomorrow. So respecting both community views on executive remuneration and
shareholder concerns, we took a lot of independent advice. We consulted with our
regulators. And as Marty said, we've had a lot of very helpful meetings and discussions
with key stakeholders, including shareholders and shareholder representative groups a
couple of times during our process. In particular, I'd say that our final plan benefited very
significantly from the engagement and feedback that we had from shareholders, some of
which clearly had concern around does the plan that we're seeking to introduce cover the
issues that Mr. Graves has asked, which are the question of long-term alignment given, if
you like, 1-year measures. Our review found that on the whole, the elements -- one of the
elements within our plans -- so just to refresh shareholders, our executive plan previously
had 3 elements: fixed pay; short-term incentive, what I'll call STI; and long-term incentive,
which I'll call LTI. We found on the whole that STI was working pretty well. So what I mean

Page 30 of 41



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

by that is it showed in QBE a very strong alignment between the shareholder experience
and the employee experience, unlike, I might say, in many other companies in Australia
where STI has tended to be paid regardless of shareholder experience. In QBE, that has
not been the case. And we've had years where STI has paid 0. And we've had years
where it's paid more than that. We found, though, that our STI measures could be
improved with broader and more clearly defined performance measures. And we went
through a process to work out what we thought they might be. Our LTI, long-term
incentive, on the other hand, we felt, had not worked so well. And there were really 2 key
reasons for that. One was setting 3-year performance hurdles in a very volatile
macroeconomic climate has been extremely challenging. I wonder if anyone here could
tell me today what you think interest rates will be in three years' time. But that was the
kind of thing that we had to do when we were setting our 3-year targets for our LTI. As
well as that, one of the measures in our LTI was a comparative measure of our
performance against a peer group. And the problem with that is there are not many
companies in the world who are peers of QBE, true peers of QBE. That is global property
and casualty insurance. There are plenty of them who are restricted to one or a small
number of jurisdictions. But very few that have the scale and stretch and complexity of a
QBE. So the smaller the peer group you have, the less integrity that comparative measure
clearly has. So we found that the LTI scheme wasn't working for those reasons. It wasn't
well understood by the executives or the market. And it wasn't really valued. And we
therefore felt it wasn't driving our strategy very successfully. One element of any LTI
scheme is making employees think like shareholders so that when shareholders are doing
well, the employees do well. When shareholders are not doing well, the employees
likewise feel the pain. So there's no better way to do that, we decided, than to improve
the opportunity for our employees to actually be shareholders and to increase the level of
shareholding that our employees have. So what we did was we did blend our STI and our
LTI into a single, simpler incentive scheme with, I would suggest, a smarter mix of
measures that are very much aligned to our longer-term strategy. And we believe that this
will drive a better correlation to performance and shareholder experience and will also be
seen as more tangible for our executives. So in moving to this new plan, what we've
sought to do is to design a model that does a few things. First, it's simpler, more
understandable, more transparent to shareholders, to employees. And also more
tangible to the employees. And just by the way, on simplicity, I should add that one of our
tasks for this current year is to review our remuneration report so that next year, it will be
even more readable than it is this year. It was obviously more complex because we had to
explain a new plan and compare it to the old plan. That won't have to be the case next
year. Secondly, we've designed in features to better correlate our remuneration
outcomes to longer-term performance, even though they will be decided on each year.
And I believe that that -- we will do that better than we did before, making it more aligned
than the scheme that we had previously. And I'll give you some details about those
measures shortly. Third, we wanted a scheme that was much more resilient and
adaptable to the evolution of our strategy so that we could be more fleet of foot in
changing as we needed to, more adaptable to business cycle changes and also shifts in
the external operating environment. We've seen that we've had very significant shifts
from time to time, there run predicted good by anybody. Fourth, we had a very important
principle that the new scheme shouldn't cost QBE any more money. And in fact, we
believe it will cost us less money because it's less skewed than before. For example, the
CEO's incentive, John Neal's incentive, at both target level and maximum opportunity, is
lower in the new scheme than under our old one. Fifth, the scheme, as I mentioned,
encourages a greater proportion of our employees to hold a shareholding stake in the
Page 31 of 41



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

company and a growing, hopefully, shareholding stake in the company. So then we come
to the question about the alignment of the measures in the scheme. If you look at the
description of the scheme in the remuneration report, you'll see that 15% of the incentive
relates to strategic measures, 20% relates to a balanced scorecard and 65% relates to a
combination split between return on equity and combined ratio. So on the strategic
measures, they will change over time. We've got 2 at the moment. One is on costs. And
one is on claims improvements. They will change over time. But for this year and likely
next year, they are on those subjects. And they are not just numbers that we think are
relevant for this year. They are milestone targets that relate to our 3-year plan. So what
we are saying with these measures is we expect the management team to deliver these
because by delivering these and in doing the same thing next year and the year after, we
will have a much better chance of achieving our 3-year longer-term objectives. Just to
give you some advanced notice, next year, we may well add a third measure there that
relates to human capital. And by that, I mean important subjects like customer
engagement, customer experience and also employee engagement, staff engagement.
Now there's been a lot of debate in Australia about measures like that. Some people call
them soft measures. Other people call them very important measures that really do drive
longer-term shareholder outcomes and good performance. So we are conducting a
review this year around if we do introduce a measure like that next year, how do we make
sure that it's real, it's measurable and it will drive performance. So we will be quite
possibly talking to you about that next year. And we'll be engaging again with
shareholders and shareholder groups during the year along what our thinking is. On the
balanced scorecard, the 20%, much of that is, again, related to milestones of
achievement in our longer-term strategic plan. And you can see in the remuneration
report what some of those things were from the CEO's point of view last year. And we
will be having a smaller number of those things going forward to keep a greater focus on
what's important. As well as the measures ourselves. And I mentioned return on equity
and combined ratio, what we're seeking to do there is our plan you heard earlier on, we
have a medium-term target of trying to get our ROE up and our COR down. These are -since -- we've had quite regard to what we think we can achieve in the current year that
will move us towards those targets. Our greater focus, though, is on, as I said, owning
shares. So in our CEO's case, 80% of the incentive will be paid in shares that will vest over
four years, not cash, only 20% will be paid as cash. And that means that actually, he will
end up receiving 30% less going forward. But we think in a better aligned way. This will
provide for all of the employees covered by the scheme, a much greater potential for
increasing shareholder -- increasing shares and a focus on what we think is important in
terms of longer-term value creation. In addition, we have taken a step, a very strong step,
that we have doubled the minimum shareholding requirement for the CEO. Previously, he
was required to own 1.5x his fixed pay in shares. He will now be required to own 3x his
fixed pay in shares. And for his direct reports and other senior executives, they will move
from having a 1x fixed pay minimum shareholding requirement to 1.5x. And finally, we've
built in 2 other things. If all of that doesn't work exactly how we think it should work, the
board has a discretion. And a discretion, as you've seen, we've exercised in the past
where if the outcomes aren't what we think they should be, we can change them. And
secondly, we have retained what's called a malice clause, malice as opposed to the
opposite of bonus. And we've exercised them in the past, where if -- when we made an
award in one year, we subsequently discover that circumstances become known that
weren't known at the time, that had we known them, we wouldn't have made the award
or we would've made a different award, then we are able to make some adjustments
there. So all in all, we think that the design of this scheme is an intelligent way to allow us
Page 32 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

to step into long-term performance through annual measures. I hope that answers your
question.

FINAL

Q - Ian Graves

{BIO 17086377 <GO>}

It does, Mr. Green. From what I can remember from the start, we still didn't get around to
the reason how the -- with doing away with the long-term incentive that will actually
improve performance, neither have we learned anything about how increasing soft
measures will improve performance. It will increase the payer. And on top of that, you're
giving us advanced warning, which I thank you for, that you're even going to make it worse
next year?

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think I have answered the first question on the long term. On the soft measures, I think
most people would recognize that if your customers are unhappy and are having a poor
experience with you, in insurance terms, we will have low retention and we won't have a
customer base that will help us drive profitability. So if we can find a measure that, as I
said when I spoke about it, has integrity and is measurable and is sensible, that will allow
us to have an employee focus on improving our customer experience, then I think as
shareholders, we'd all be very, very happy in the longer term. one year by one year, we
won't see any material benefit. But longer term, we will. And the same with staff
engagement. If you have unhappy employees, you keep losing them. It's very expensive
to rehire them. They're not being productive. So I don't see these measures. I see that
some people describe them as soft, I don't see them as soft. But we are going to work
very hard that if we do introduce a measure like that, it will be as hard as we can make it.

Q - Ian Graves

{BIO 17086377 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Green. But I still need to be convinced. And I just hope that we're not
hearing the same discussion next year.

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

I'll need to be convinced, too.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Yes. We appreciate that. And I think if you look at the QBE rem committee's work over the
past 2 or three years, our discretion in the soft measures has been pretty good. And you
have not seen an easy scorecard for those. Virtually no one has achieved full benefit out
of their soft measures. Any more questions on the rem report? Yes, ma'am, number 2.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to reintroduce (Mr. Will Combs), shareholder.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, Chairman. And congratulations to Mr. Green for a very eloquent and clear
explanation of the new plans. Like Mr. Graves, I'm not entirely convinced. But he certainly
Page 33 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

FINAL

couldn't have done a better job of advocating for it. I just have one question. And I'm sorry
if I missed it in your detail. But the qualification for the minimum number of shares, in fact,
if that's gone up dramatically, is obviously very good from a shareholder point of view.
Does that exclude unvested right -- sorry, I can't remember what you actually call these
things.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Conditional rights.

Q - Unidentified Participant
The incentive shares are not included in the amount to satisfy the 1.5x or 2x base salary
until they vest?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

They're included. And what's important about this is that they roll over time. So if you can
imagine that an executive might get an award this year and then will get a quarter, a
quarter, a quarter, a quarter going forward, they will build up a -- hopefully, a considerable
level of shares going forward so that in year 1, when they get their first allocation of 25%,
they will know, subject to malice and subject to not being asked to leave with cause, they
will know that their net worth over time will have that value of those 4 tranches. The
following year, if they're lucky enough to -- because they've worked hard enough to get
another reward, they'll get the second tranche of the first year and the first tranche of the
second year. And those tranches going forward. So that will build up the minimum
shareholding requirement. So that assuming we are able to meet target, you would
expect to see some of the employees build up perhaps 3, 4 or more times their
minimum shareholding or their fixed pay.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I'm sorry, just want to clarify the point. At what stage -- let's say, somebody gets 1 million
share rights, which will vest over a period of four years, is the entire 1 million counted from
the beginning or only at the end?

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

At the beginning.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Say, roll through.

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

At the beginning.
Page 34 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

I should also point out your directors also have minimum shareholding requirements. And
you can see that in the annual report.
Any other questions on the rem report? If not, what I'd like to do is disclose the proxies
we've received in respect to this resolution. They should appear on the screen. And as
Chairman, I would now direct that the vote on the resolution be taken by way of a poll.
Please enter your vote by pressing 1 to vote for the rem report; 2, to vote against the rem
report; 3, if you wish to abstain from the rem report.
(Voting)

Bloomberg Transcript

It appears from looking at the monitor in front of me that the majority of you have already
cast a vote. Let's leave the poll open for a couple more seconds.
I would now declare the poll closed. And the results will now appear on the screen behind
me. You can see what they are. And on that basis, I would declare that the resolution
passed.
Let's move on to item 3 on the agenda: to improve the increase to the maximum
aggregate fees payable to non-executive directors. I would propose that the meeting
consider and pass the ordinary resolution set out in the notice of meeting. Details of the
proposed benefit are contained in the explanatory notes to the notice of meeting. Does
any shareholder wish to speak for or against the motion? And I should note that this is not
changing any individual director's fees. This is merely approving the pool from which
director fees are paid from.
Seeing no questions, let me now disclose the proxies received in respect to this
resolution, which will appear on the screen. And I would now direct that a vote on the
resolution be taken by way of poll. Please enter your vote by pressing 1 to vote for, 2 to
vote against, 3 to abstain.
(Voting)
It appears from my monitor that the majority of votes have already been cast. If you've
not cast it, just a few more seconds.

Page 35 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Let me now declare the poll closed. And the results will, again, appear on the screen
behind me. And on that basis, I would declare that item number 3 has passed.

FINAL

We now move to the election of directors. Since one of the directors to be elected is
myself, I will now hand over the podium to John Green, our Deputy Chairman.

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

Thanks, Marty. This is the way we execute a coup. So on the agenda, we have the
reelection of our Chairman, Marty Becker. I propose that the meeting consider and pass
the order of resolution set out in the notice of meeting. Marty was appointed an
independent non-executive director of QBE in August 2013. And he became Chairman in
April the following year, 2014. There are details of his background set out in the
explanatory notes of the notice of meeting. But I'll now ask Marty to speak to his
reelection.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much, John. And I suspect you all have heard as much as you'd like to hear
from me. But I'll add a couple of notes. First of all, I am a resident of the United States.
Being a U.S. resident is helpful in terms of the geographic diversity of our board because
we try and match up, to a great extent, where our premium base is, also being
represented through our NADs as well as their individual experience contributions. My
career has been in insurance. So I enjoy thoroughly being on the QBE board, having over
35 years of insurance experience, mostly as CEOs of property and casualty organizations.
I feel privileged to have had the opportunity to work on your behalf these past 3-plus
years. And I would hope to have the opportunity to continue. Thank you very much.

A - John M. Green

{BIO 5208912 <GO>}

Thanks, Marty. Does any shareholder wish to speak for or against the motion? No? Thank
you.
I'd now like to disclose the proxies received in respect of this resolution and in accordance
with the resolution and the Constitution, which will appear on the screen behind me.
As Chairman, I now direct that the vote on the resolution be taken by a way of a poll. So
please, as before, enter your vote by pressing 1 to vote for, 2 to vote against or 3 if you
wish to abstain.
(Voting)
I can see on the monitor in front of me that the majority of you have already cast a vote.
But I'll leave the poll open for a few more seconds.
As the auctioneer says, are we done? I'll now declare the poll closed. And the results will
now appear on the screen behind me. On that basis, I declare the resolution passed. And
I now hand the meeting back to Marty. Congratulations, Marty.
Page 36 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, John. Thank you very much.
Let's move on to item 4B, which involves the election of the Non-Executive Director Kathy
Lisson. I propose the meeting consider and pass the ordinary resolution set out in the
notice of meeting. Kathy was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2016.
Further details of her background are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of
meeting. Let us now ask Kathy to please speak to her election.

A - Kathryn M. Lisson

{BIO 7413997 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Marty. Good morning, everyone. I am pleased to submit myself for election to
the board of QBE. I joined your board in September of last year, as Marty noted. And I am
based in Canada. I currently serve as chair of the operations and technology committee
and as a member of the audit committee. I recently retired as a partner of Ernst & Young,
where I led the firm's Canadian insurance advisory practice for five years. In this role, I was
responsible for EY's FinTech implementation in the insurance sector in Canada and
advised clients on their implementation of customer data analytics, digital solutions, fraud
detection solutions and monitoring technology across policy claims and underwriting. Our
practice also included large system implementations, operational performance
improvement, cybersecurity enhancement and technology risk governance. Now prior to
EY, I was Chief Operating Officer for QBE European Operations in London with
responsibility for claims, technology and operations support function. I was also a member
-- chair of the QMS U.K. Board, which is a services board. And a member of the executive
management committee, investment committee and reserving and risk committees.
Earlier in my career, I held senior partner roles at Price Waterhouse and senior executive
roles at Bank of Montral in Canada and as well as senior executive roles in Barclays
Bank and Brit Insurance Holdings in London. I have also held 2 non-executive director
positions in the U.K., one for a check clearing corporation in the U.K. and one for insurance
exchange. And I've held various non-executive director roles in Canada.
I am delighted to have been nominated to serve on your board. QBE is a truly global
company that brings unique underwriting experience and expertise to the markets in
which it operates. I am looking forward to working with the Chairman, the rest of your
board, our CEO, John Neal. And the group executive, to assist QBE in its transformation
journey, particularly with regard to technology and operations transformation. I would be
grateful for your support in my election to your board. Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Kathy. And do we have any shareholders who wish to speak for or
against the motion? I see somebody walking up. Yes, microphone 2.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to reintroduce (Natasha Lee).

Page 37 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just getting up to say, yes, I support the election of Kathy to
the board. But I'll just make a comment that I note that QBE has a target of 30% of
women on the board. Given that over 50% of your employees are female and recent
comments by the human rights commission, I was wondering, would the board consider
increasing that target from 30% to 40% in the future?

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well I think we need to achieve 30% first and...

Q - Unidentified Participant
We're almost there.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Well we're almost there. But we're not there yet. We're very committed to diversity, both
in our senior management ranks and on the board. We've set the goal of 30% by 2020.
I'm sure we'll meet that target on or before 2020. Whether we choose to raise it from
there is a matter for further discussion.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Other comments? All right. Let's now disclose the proxies that were received in respect
to this resolution. And they will appear on the screen as the other ones have.
So let's now direct that the vote on the resolution be taken by way of poll. As we've done
before, press 1 to vote for, 2 to vote against and 3 if you wish to abstain.
(Voting)
Looks like we're almost there, a couple more seconds.
All right. I will now declare the poll closed on item number 4. The results will appear on the
screens behind me. And on that basis, I declare the resolution passed. Welcome Kathy to
the board.
Item 4c on the agenda involves the election of someone many of you know, NonExecutive Director Mike Wilkins. I propose the meeting consider and pass the ordinary
resolution set out in the notice of meeting. Mike was appointed as an independent nonexecutive director of QBE in November 2016. Further details of his background are set out
in the explanatory notes to the notice of meeting. Let me now ask Mike to please speak
to his election.
Page 38 of 41



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Michael John Wilkins

{BIO 1503760 <GO>}

Well thanks, Marty. And I think it's now good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very
pleased to have the opportunity to address you today regarding my election to the board
of QBE. I was honored to be appointed to the board of our company in November of last
year. I'm based in Sydney. And I currently serve as a member of the audit, operations and
technology and remuneration committees of QBE. I've been involved in the wider financial
services sector for over 30 years, including over 20 years in listed company Chief
Executive roles. My experience has predominantly been in Australia and Asia, including in
China and India, as well as in Europe. I've got a significant passion for and significant
experience with the general insurance industry, having most recently served as Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer of Insurance Australia Group. Prior to that, I held a
similar position with Promina Group until its acquisition by Suncorp in this country in 2007. In
the wider financial services space, I also served as Managing Director of Tyndall Australia
Limited for a period of six years. I hold a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the
University of New South Wales and an MBA from the University of Sydney. I'm also a fellow
of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, Head of Chartered Accountants,
Australia and New Zealand. I currently serve as a non-executive director of AMP Limited
and have previously held non-executive director positions with Maple-Brown Abbott
Limited and Alinta Limited.
I believe that QBE is a great Australian company that's been successful on the
international stage. Over the years, it's built a significant international business in a sector
that, in my view, is fundamental to the economic growth, development and well-being of
the countries and the communities in which it operates. I have the time, I have the
experience and I have the passion for our company and for our industry. And I look
forward to contributing to its ongoing success. I would greatly appreciate your support for
my election to the Board of Directors of our company. And I thank you for that support.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Mike. And again, do we have any shareholder who wishes to speak
for or against the resolution? Yes, sir, microphone number 1.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Chairman, I would like to reintroduce (Mr. Jan Da).

Q - Unidentified Participant
That's (Daniel Goshap). Good day, Mr. Wilkins. How are you? You wrote an article in the
GENEVA PAPERS in 2010 when you were the CEO of IAG. I'll remind you of some of the
things you said. You said the insurance industry can ensure that governments are fully
informed of the risks exposed by climate change when they exercise their powers. And
that you support the introductions of an emissions trading scheme and a target to reduce
Australia's greenhouse gas emissions in an economically efficient way. Given that you
probably understand the Australian political climate better than anyone on this board, can
you -- could you talk to why the Australian government doesn't get climate risk?

A - Michael John Wilkins

{BIO 1503760 <GO>}
Page 39 of 41



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Thank you for reminding me. I do remember that paper that I wrote and well researched,
I've got to say. My views haven't changed on that. I continue to support that as a personal
view. As to the government's attitude, I can't speak to that because I think that what
companies such as QBE and individuals such as I can do is to point out the issues, point
out what we think are some of the possible solutions, which includes, in my view, an
emissions trading scheme. But also I think that on a wider front, as we confront some of
the catastrophes that we've seen in this country over the last number of years, I think that
there's a great need for increased mitigation spends that should be put in place to relieve
the risk in the first instance. For whatever reason, governments have chosen not to make
that expenditure. And we seem to keep seeing increased catastrophe events occurring.
The insurance industry, I think, plays a very valuable role in being there to both raise the
issue in terms of premiums because the premium is purely a signal of the risk that's being
a taken. And I think the industry plays a very valuable part in doing that. But more
importantly, it plays a part in being there to help individuals, companies and communities
to actually recover from the unexpected losses that do occur. So I'll continue to advocate
for that type of thing. But back to your question, I can't speak for where the government's
mind is at on that.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks. Welcome to the board.

A - Michael John Wilkins

{BIO 1503760 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - William Marston Becker

{BIO 1450037 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Any other questions? Let me now once again disclose the proxies
received in respect to the resolution. They will also be on the screen. And we will now
direct that the vote on the resolution be taken by way of a poll. So once again, it's 1 to
vote for, 2 to vote against, 3 if you wish to abstain.
(Voting)
It must be lunchtime because the votes are coming in quickly. A couple more seconds.
We'll declare the poll closed. And Mike, welcome to the board of QBE.
That's our final item of formal business. So we will officially close the meeting. But what I'd
like to do is to specifically thank each of you for taking the time to come this morning and
attending the meeting. I'll remind you that there are going to be some light refreshments
out in the foyer. The board and management will be out there if you have individual
questions or concerns that we might be able to help you with. And I've been asked to
remind you to please hand in the Lumi device, or they're going to track you to your
homes. So please hand them in as you leave. And thank you all very much.

Page 40 of 41



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2017-05-03

Page 41 of 41

