Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Helge Leiro Baastad, Chief Executive Officer
Janne Merethe Flessum, Head of Investor Relations
Jostein Amdal, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President

Other Participants
Bengt Kirkøen, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jakob Brink, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Matti Ahokas , Analyst
Niccolò Dalla Palma, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Good morning, and welcome to this Fourth Quarter Presentation for Gjensidige. My name is Janne
Flessum, and I'm Head of Investor Relations.
We will start with our CEO, Helge Leiro Baastad, giving you some highlights from the quarter
before our CFO, Jostein Amdal, runs you through the numbers in more detail. And then we will
open up for the Q&A session.
And with that, I give the word to you, Helge. Thank you.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome from me as well.
I will start with the fourth quarter. We delivered a satisfactory result. The profit before the expense
amounting to NOK 1.3 billion, and underwriting result was NOK 700 million, corresponding to a
combined ratio of 87.7%. Growth in premiums was 3.5%, with underlying growth of 2.4% when
adjusted for currency effects and acquisitions. Underlying growth in Norway was 1.7% and 2.3% in
Private and Commercial, respectively, which is satisfactory given the slowdown in the economy and
continued fierce competition. Growth in the Nordic segment was 10.8%, driven partly by
acquisitions and partly by a strong underlying growth of 5.9%.
Competition is still fierce, but the situation is relatively stable from last quarter. Overall, Gjensidige
continues to experience good competitiveness in all markets. The loss ratio was 70.6%, positively
affected by a somewhat higher run-off gain and somewhat lower large losses than normally
expected. We faced the tough comparison this quarter, with the fourth quarter 2015 when the
underlying claims level was record strong due to a very benign weather situation.



FINAL

The fourth quarter 2016 was more normal winter quarter, with a generally higher frequency claims
level. However, we have also experienced higher claims inflation than expected, something Jostein
will talk about in more detail afterwards.
I would nonetheless like to make a few comments about development we see in the motor
insurance in particular. As you remember, in the third quarter 2016, we communicated that we saw
signs of increased claims inflation in the motor segment. The development during the fourth
quarter confirmed this and measures have been taken to mitigate higher claims inflation than
previously expected.
Going into 2017, we now expect claims inflation of around 3% to 4% for motor insurance at from
around 1% the last couple of years. We are increasing premiums, and effects will gradually feed
into our P&L. That said, the absolute profitability level for motor insurance is still very good.
In general, I would like to remind you that total premium increases should compensate for claims
inflation over time. The cost ratio was 17.1% this quarter, 16% adjusted for one-offs, reflecting
continued good cost control. The finance result was NOK 561 million, reflecting a satisfactory return
on financial assets of 1%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at the year as a whole, we once again reported a record strong result, well within our
financial targets as shown on the right. We delivered the profit before tax expense of NOK 6.1
billion. The underwriting result was NOK 3.7 billion, corresponding to a combined ratio of 83.4%.
Adjusted for one-offs as well as for run-off gains and large losses at expected levels, the
combined ratio was 86.9% which is in the lower end of the target corridor of 86% to 89%.
Based on new actuarial review, annual run-off gains are now expected to be around NOK 900
million on average over the next three to five years, still related mainly to motor TPL and workers'
comp in Norway. This reconfirms the targeted 86% to 89% combined ratio corridor for slightly
longer period. The financial result was solid at NOK 2.1 billion, corresponding to return on financial
assets of 3.9%. The return on equity was 21.4% for the full year and earnings per share were NOK
9.34.
Then based on the full year result, the board has proposed a dividend of NOK 3.4 billion,
corresponding to NOK 6.80 per share. Based on yesterday's closing price, the proposed dividend
corresponds to a dividend yield of 4.8%, which is in line with our dividend policy of distributing a
high and stable nominal dividend on regular basis and at least 70% of profits after tax.
A dividend of NOK 6.80 per share corresponds to increase in the nominal dividend of 6.3% from
2015 and a payout ratio of 72.9%. I would like to remind you that we also paid NOK 2 billion in
special dividends in November 2016. Including the proposed dividend, total dividends from
Gjensidige since the IPO in 2010 has been NOK 29 billion, equal to our market cap at the same
time of the IPO.
Of this amount, our general insurance customers in Norway have been entitled to NOK 13 billion
through our unique customer dividend model, and they have received customer dividends
corresponding to as much as 11% to 16% of premiums they have paid every year. Gjensidige's
business model is characterized by high and stable cash generation and as an investment
alternative, Gjensidige has been and will continue to be a yield story for our shareholder.
On the operational side, we are delivering on our strategy and targets. As shown on the right, we
are on track and ahead in relation to reaching our 2018 KPIs that we communicated back in
November 2014. I'm particularly proud to be able to report record high customer satisfaction once
again, as well as continued high and stable retention levels. We are making dedicated efforts in
relation to digitalization, analytics, and organization capabilities, and are comfortable that we are



well positioned to meet the gradual change in customer behavior and participation in new
ecosystems going forward.

FINAL

Gjensidige is the number two general insurance player in the Nordic region. During 2016, we have
further strengthened our already strong and leading position in Norway, as well as our position as a
challenger in the Danish market. Progress towards profitability in Sweden and the Baltics is
according to the plan.
Before Jostein gives you the details on the numbers, I would like to spend a few minutes
illustrating how we work proactively to further strengthen our position as a true Pan-Nordic general
insurance player. Looking to Denmark, we have recently taken important steps to further
strengthen our growth platform.
Firstly, last month, we acquired Mølholm Forsikring, making us number one in the market for health
insurance in Denmark with a market share of around 18%. This initiative is in line with our recently
updated and communicated group strategy to take our share of the growing personal health
insurance market. Premiums in the Nordic segment will increase by around DKK 400 million or
more than 8%, and acquisition will give us a unique platform for further developing of our product
offering, both in Denmark and cross-border.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, we recently entered into a new partner agreement with Interdan, which takes effects
from the first quarter 2017. Interdan is a large Danish car import company, and the new agreement
give Gjensidige a direct access to more than one third of the new car sales market, doubling our
previous access.
Thirdly, we had gradually strengthened our position in the growing housing market. We have
increased insurance penetration in this market through the launch of new product packages
containing all product lines. We have a leading position in change of ownership insurance and
through partnership with three large real estate brokers in Denmark, Gjensidige has started access
to 45% of the housing market.
And last but not least, this week, we have signed a long-term strategic agreement, partnership
agreement with Dansk Supermarked Group, the largest retailer in Denmark. This agreement
represents a large potential utilizing the distribution network of Dansk Supermarked. The
partnership is exclusive and will bring us a unique platform to further expand our brand awareness
and develop our digital platform and CRM activities to support further organic growth in the Danish
market.
Gjensidige's brand awareness is now higher than ever in Denmark and customer loyalty is on the
rise. In the short term, we will work on improving profitability in our Danish franchise but in the long
term, we are confident that we have strong and scalable growth platform in this market.
With that, I give the word to Jostein who will give you more details about the figures. Thank you.

Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Thank you, Helge, and good morning, everybody.
We report yet another good underwriting results of NOK 700 million. We saw a more normal
winter this quarter and thereby a more normal overall frequency claims level compared to the
corresponding quarter the previous year, which was record strong due to a very benign weather
situation.



In addition, the underwriting result was negatively affected by an underlying growth in claims
inflation, as well as one-off costs totaling NOK 67 million.

FINAL

On the positive side, large losses were lower and the run-off gains higher than normally can be
expected. The retail bank and pension and savings continued to show a positive development and
contributed a total of NOK 123 million in the quarter, mainly driven by growth. The investment
portfolio yielded a satisfactory return of 1.0% in the quarter corresponding to NOK 561 million.
The profit before tax expenses thereby amounted to NOK 1.3 billion compared with NOK 1.5 billion
in the same quarter the year before. And the profit before tax expenses for the full year is a
record high NOK 6.1 billion compared to NOK 5.1 billion the year before reflecting improvements in
all the group's business areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

The loss ratio was 70.6% this quarter or 75% when adjusted for normalized large losses and our
run-off expectations. This is a satisfactory asset level taking into consideration that the fourth
quarter is a winter quarter in the Nordic region. The reported level is 2.6 percentage points higher
than the corresponding quarter the year before. Adjusted for changes in run-off and large losses,
the underlying loss ratio was 5.5 percentage points higher. This reflects the very benign weather
situation in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to a more normal winter this quarter.
Motor and property insurance in Norway were particularly affected by more cold weather. And as
Helge commented, the development for motor insurance both in Norway and Denmark during the
fourth quarter confirmed a less benign claims inflation development than anticipated, and
measures have been taken to offset the higher expected claims inflation going forward. The
reason is more expensive repairs due to a combination of higher input costs, currency movements
and more advanced cars that contain more technology. We still expect the frequency of personal
injuries to develop positively long term due to safer cars and safer roads, but at a slower pace
than before.
All in all, this made us revise our claims inflation expectation for motor to 3% to 4%. We adjust our
premiums accordingly. Please remember that the profitability level is still very good for motor
insurance in Norway.
The underlying loss ratio for the property products in Norway were also higher compared to the
corresponding period in 2015, due to a more normal weather situation. Claims inflation
expectations are stable at around 4%. The Nordic segment recorded a high loss ratio than the
same quarter in 2015. This was mainly due to weaker underlying profitability in Denmark for
agriculture and property insurance. In addition to frequency of mid-sized claims within the
agriculture sector especially was unusually high in the quarter. Measures have been taken to
compensate for higher expected overall claims inflation in Denmark. Better risk selection and reunderwriting will be prioritized in addition to premium increases. Putting new tariffs in place and
continuously improving existing tariffs will gradually give effect.
The Swedish portfolio continues to develop in a positive direction driven by re-underwriting of the
Commercial book and a more diversified Private portfolio. We are on track to reach profitability
during 2017 in Sweden.
The Baltics recorded an improved loss ratio driven by lower run-off losses, the implementation of
new tariffs and a lower level of frequency claims. We are well on track to reach breakeven during
2017 and profitability in 2018.
We got a good premium growth this quarter, 3.5% or 2.4% adjusted for acquisitions and currency
effects. In Norway, growth was driven by a combination of price and volume. We are competitive
and continuing to strengthen our market position. The underlying premium growth was positive in
both Denmark and Sweden driven especially by growth in Private insurance in the Swedish portfolio



FINAL

and property insurance in the Danish Commercial portfolio. The negative development in the
Corporate Centre line is mainly due to the Vardia reinsurance (17:15) program which is being
gradually phased off over 12-month period from takeover.
Renewals of Commercial lines coming into 2017 have been satisfactory and over time, we still
expect growth in line with nominal GDP growth, although the growth rate for the whole insurance
market is somewhat lower at the moment. Disciplined structural growth that supports our overall
strategy is still on the agenda as witnessed by the acquisition of Mølholm, but our main focus is still
on profitability.
Cost control is still good. We continue to focus on efficiency measures to create room for investing
in the brand, technology and competencies. The increase in nominal cost is driven by the
acquisition of Vardia last year. In addition, a provision of NOK 20 million was made for the
announced increase in payroll tax from 2017. The provision is related to holiday pay and
compensation in connection with announced restructuring program, which will be paid out in 2017.
A provision of NOK 44 million was also made in connection with the restructuring program itself.
This is related to more staff reductions than initially anticipated from 190 to 230, as well as
somewhat higher average severance pay.

Bloomberg Transcript

The cost ratio excluding the Baltics and one-offs is now at 15.0% for the quarter. The cost ratio
adjusted for one-offs only was 16.0%. The annual cost ratio is unchanged at around 15%. But as we
have communicated earlier, 2016 and 2017 are affected by integration activities outside Norway,
leading to a somewhat higher ratio. It will still be in the 15%s.
Large losses amounted to NOK 182 million in the quarter, which accounts for 3.2 percentage points
on the combined ratio. The level of large losses was lower than expected and lower than the
corresponding quarter in 2015 when large losses amounted to NOK 261 million. The storm Urd
contributed NOK 75 million to large losses this quarter.
The runoff gain of NOK 314 million had a positive effect of 5.5 percentage points on the combined
ratio in the quarter compared to 4.2 percentage points in the fourth quarter of 2015. The gain is
related to motor TPL workers' comp in Norway, as well as a positive effect from Danish worker
comp this quarter. Helge has already commented that we now expect average annual run-off gains
at around NOK 900 million over the next three year to five year period. This will still be related to
personal injuries in motor TPL and workers' comp in Norway.
The investment portfolio yielded a return of 1.0% for the quarter. The portfolio amounted to NOK
54 billion. The match portfolio of NOK 35 billion continued to make a stable contribution to the
financial results with a return of 0.0% compared to 0.9% (20:13) in Q3. The portfolio at amortized
cost is a large part of the match portfolio. The running yield in this portfolio was 4.5% at the end of
the quarter, and the average reinvestment rate was 2.8% for 2016. The unrealized excess value
amounted to approximately NOK 1.3 billion.
The free portfolio of NOK 18.9 billion yielded return of 1.6% in the quarter. The result was positively
impacted by good returns on the investment in SR-Bank, properties, and more short-term tactical
allocations. This was partly offset by negative returns in particular from global investment-grade
bonds, but also to some extent from private equity funds and convertible bonds.
In the appendix, we have this time added some more detailed information about the composition
of the investment portfolio and relevant benchmark. And in January this year, we announced the
sale of a further 10 million shares in SR-Bank at NOK 61 per share, resulting in a limited realized
gain in the first quarter. The proceeds have been reinvested, so that the concentration risk in the
portfolio is now reduced.



FINAL

This quarter, we have also included Gjensidige Bank. The bank will celebrate its 10th anniversary
this year. Gjensidige Bank is a retention tool in relation to our Private general insurance customers
in Norway, enabling us to offer a combination of banking and insurance product. It is especially
important for our Gjensidige Group (21:45) customers who are among our most loyal customers.
The lending volume totals NOK 41 billion and today 76% of the bank's customers are shared
customers with insurance as measured by lending volume. And the bank is becoming increasingly
important to the group. As an example, the bank launched car financing through car dealers in
2013 which has contributed to our strengthened position in insurance market for new cars.
The bank has a relatively low risk lending portfolio, as proven by low loan losses over time. Since
breaking even three years after its establishment in 2007, the bank has strong growth combined
with good cost control. The bank's pre-tax profit was NOK 94.4 million in the fourth quarter,
totaling NOK 428.5 million for the year as a whole, and the return on equity was NOK 11.7% after
tax.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last but not least, looking at our capital position, the rating model is still the most binding
perspective with a capital surplus of NOK 1.3 billion at the end of 2016, up from NOK 0.9 billion in
the previous quarter when including the sale of SR-Bank shares in October. Available capital
increased in all three perspectives, mainly driven by retained earnings. The fair value adjustment of
bonds at maturity decreased due to increased interest rates, but that also increased the
discounting effect of (23:12) both in non-life business and in Gjensidige Pensjonsforsikring.
The capital requirement changed only slightly. Market risk is lower in all three perspectives due to
the sale of shares in SR-Bank in the fourth quarter and due to the expiry of a forward contract at
year-end reducing the property exposure. Underwriting risk is stable, but increases slightly in the
internal model perspective due to changes in some parameters for some lines of business.
Expected increase in future run-off gains is also accounted for in the rating perspective which
reduces the capital requirement there. The capital margin from a rating perspective is now 109%,
which, as already mentioned, results in NOK 1.3 billion strategic buffer. This is adjusted for the
proposed dividend. When also adjusted for the purchase of Mølholm Forsikring, which is expected
to be effective in Q2, the strategic buffer is NOK 0.9 billion or a capital margin of 106%. This is a
strategic buffer level that is regarded as comfortable in relation to the purpose it's intended to
serve and given the current situation.
The solvency margin is 147% based on the standard formula and 180% based on internal model,
both adjusted for the proposed dividend. We expect the internal model to be approved this year.
In summary, we have a solid capital position in all perspectives, and we'll continue to balance our
capital structure in a disciplined way in order to support the return on equity target, while at the
same time, having some leeway for further bolt-on acquisitions and stabilization of the dividend.
And with that, I give the word back to Helge for some concluding remarks.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you.
Then to sum up, we delivered strong full year results in 2016, and we have managed to further
strengthen our Pan-Nordic position. We have measures in place to compensate for increased
claims inflation and have pricing power and prioritized profitability before growth and market share.
We are on track to reach profitability in Sweden during 2017, and in the Baltics from 2018. Over
time, we still expect growth in line with GDP growth, and the combined ratio target corridor is



unchanged. Our capital position is strong and we are confident that we will continue to deliver high
and stable cash dividends to our shareholders.
Thank you. We will now then open for Q&A session.

FINAL

Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of Jakob Brink. The line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Thank you. I have two questions, please. The first one is regarding your comments on motor claims
inflation. I think last quarter you said that you had previously been seeing around 1% but now you're
seeing it higher. I don't think you quantified it back then. So, it basically only six months ago, we're
talking about 1% and your pricing for less than 1% as far as I recall. Now, we're talking about 3% to
4%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thinking about how long time it took to go down from 3% to 4% a few years ago, down to 1%. It
seems like a very sudden move up to 3% to 4%. And in that context, now I was thinking when
should we actually expect it to have fully implemented the price measures you're telling us you
have taken in order to compensate (27:09) 3% to 4%, i.e., will we see continued deterioration of
the underlying combined ratio during 2017 and a good way in 2018 or how should we look at that?
The second question is regarding your running yield on the total fixed income portfolio, I just the –
based at the coupons paid. What was that in this quarter? I think it's at 2.7% last quarter. I see that
in this quarter the actual return on the fixed income portfolio was 2.4% in weighted. So, basically
just to confirm that this quarter is actually pretty normal on the fixed income, please. Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Hello. It's Jostein Amdal. To your first question on the change of the motor inflation, as we
commented on the third quarter, we have at that time seen a change and didn't want to be very
specific on the numbers. I think what Helge said was – confirmed kind of the figure we had in mind
during the third quarter, and we were taking action gradually to the second half of 2016.
That said, it takes 12 months to run all the policies to renewals and also then further 12 months to
get everything reflected in the accounts. Meaning that, from accounting perspective, there will be
some delay in the increase in premiums compared to when we see the increase in claims. For new
policies, the price increases are in place quicker because we don't need to wait for the renewal
cycle. There would be a faster effect on new policies.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

On your second question, Jakob, it's Janne, here. The running yield for the total fixed income
portfolio, you're correct, was 2.8%. And looking just isolated on the bonds at amortized cost in the
match portfolio, the running yield there was 4.5%.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. So, 2.8% and standalone (29:26) 4.8%. Okay. And just to come back, sir, but so, you're
basically saying that you did price now for 3% to 4% higher claims inflation and you have been
doing that throughout the second half of 2016, or is it only now that you have increased all the way
to 3% to 4%?



A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

We did see this in the second half and have gradually improved – or increased prices to meet that
expected claims inflation going forward. It means that, as I said...

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Many thanks.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah, policies won't be getting the new price level and from there actually have the renewal date.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

No, of course.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

And, Jakob, maybe to give you...

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

...some more insight into the claims inflation, we are talking about short-tail part of the motor
product. TPL has been positive development for many years. We see a more stable – we expect a
more stabilized situation going forward. But the reason for our expectation regarding claims
inflation for motor is related to input cost, currency and technology related to the short-tail part of
the product. So, it's the frequents (30:51) part.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Operator, the next question, maybe?

Operator
Thank you. We will now move to our next question from the line of Vinit Malhotra. Your line is open,
please go ahead. Your line is open, please go ahead.
We will now move to our next question from the line of Paul De'Ath. Your line is open, please go
ahead.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Hi, there. And thanks for taking the questions, and a couple from me, please.
Firstly, going back to the motor claims inflation, is it something that you feel the rest of the market
is aware of ? I know that one of your large investors has been talking about this as well, but they
seem to suggest that some of the smaller players in the market weren't necessarily catching on to
the fact that the claims inflation in terms of the prices and the payers and stuff has been going up
and just what the market dynamic means then going forward?
And then the second question would be related to M&A. I think, you've mentioned in the slides
that you still look at potential options of the, maybe, smaller acquisition in January. But if you could
just give any thoughts on where you might still feel that you're missing anything or anywhere that
you might be looking at, that would be very helpful. Thanks.



A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. To your first question, I think, the major Pan-Nordic players have all seen the same. I would – I
don't have any specific information of companies not seeing this. But our impression is that the big
players need to take lead here and kind of (33:22) see something happening in the market. We
have done so in Norway, I think, but it has been (33:27) very disciplined than Denmark. So, this is
something that, I think, more space we'll need to adjust.
For your second question about M&A, we use bolt-on acquisitions as part of our overall strategy to
improve our total position. You can see from market geographies (33:45) that we have a smaller
position in Sweden and partly Denmark than we have in Norway and the Baltics. But we have kind
of no specific targets for M&A. We will continue to scan the market for good opportunities which
supports our strategy and within the financial targets that we have stated.
Mølholm is a good example of this. We stated that we wanted to grow in the health insurance
market. And with this acquisition, we get a leading position in Denmark, which is our number two
market. So, it fits perfectly with what we have stated.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Excellent. And I mean, just to go back on that slightly, and I know in the past at various points,
you've mentioned that potentially some of the smaller challenger players in Norway might come
under some pressure if the pricing environment changed (34:45) that kind of thing, and we're not
at that point yet presumably with the higher claims inflation?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

I don't have any information about the particular place being in the financial difficulties. But as I
stated, our main interest in growing is outside of Norway. We have (35:06) 25% market share
approximately in Norway. There is not that much we can get from buying any small player in
Norway.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yeah. Thanks a lot.

Operator
We will now move to our next question from the line of Matti Ahokas. Your line is open, please go
ahead.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Yeah. Good morning. It's Matti Ahokas here (35:35) from Danske. Two questions on the motor
insurance side since you brought it up and have talked about it quite extensively. What is the
combined ratio for the motor business overall? And also, I'm a bit puzzled when you talk about the
increasing prices to adjust for the claim inflation, at the same time talk about fierce competition.
So, how does this all kind of match together in your book? Thanks.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Hi, Matti. I can start to give you an overall comment regarding the competition and Jostein could
then handle your first part of the question. I would say that overall, we are comfortable regarding
our competitive position. It's no increase in competition. It has been fierce competition for years
actually, and we have a very strong position in Norway. As I said during my presentation, our pricing
power is strong. And with the proposed dividend now, it's 14% customer dividend back to our
customers. So, we are very confident and it's – I would not way that it's increased competition, our
confidence is even better compared to one year ago.



And then Jostein could handle the first part of the question. I don't think he will give you the
answer there, but he can say it himself.

FINAL

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

I can say no myself. But as I commented without giving specific numbers for motor as such, but
what I can say is that motor insurance in Norway is among our most profitable products this quarter
and it's been for many years. It's an extremely profitable product for us.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

So, it's fair to assume that the average combined ratio is lower than what you report for Private
overall?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

You need to make your own assumptions. But it's a very profitable line of business.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Great. Thanks a lot.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now move to our next question from the line of Jonny Urwin. Your line is open. Please go
ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, all. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two quick ones. So, first to go back to
claims inflation again. But just thinking about the loss ratio developments over the next few years,
couple of years really, I mean, it sounds like there's going to be a lag here before the pricing kicks
in to meet the higher claims inflation. So, should we think about the combined ratio drifting a little
bit from pretty strong levels?
Secondly, I mean, just thinking about it more strategically, I mean, could this be an opportunity to
take market share? You guys are better than the market especially in Norway, I mean, how are you
thinking about the growth versus margin trade off ? I mean, in theory, if everyone is putting their
prices up, then maybe you guys could see some of this as (38:31) an opportunity to grow a bit
more given your strategic positioning? Thanks. That's it.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

As you know, the pricing dynamics in non-life insurance is that there it takes some time for a price
increase to be fully reflected in the accounts. We don't guide on specific combined ratio
development. But our combined ratio targets remain firm and we are very confident that we'll
meet them. The combined ratio corridor is still 86% to 89%, and we will deliver in that range.
As regards to market share, we will not use the situation to gain market share in Norway. The
positive side, however, is that the claims inflation is a business opportunity itself. It is actually future
business volume for us as long as we're able to price it correctly. So, it's not all bad that the (39:23)
claims inflation is going up. It means that we have high growth on the top line.

Q - Jonny Urwin
Okay. Thanks.

Operator

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}



We will now move to our next question from the line of Niccolò Dalla Palma. Your line is open,
please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Niccolò Dalla Palma
Hi. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. So, my first one is on – so, coming
back to the investment results – thanks for providing slide 26, that's very useful, I just wondered
whether you would feel commenting on the outlook for the match portfolio for 2017. Would you say
it's fair to assume that, on aggregate, the match portfolio should go back to something below
2015 levels assuming that interest rates stay of course where they are?
And my second question is on the dividend. Yes, you've been growing at 6% this year, 8% previous
year. Now, the longer-term challenge I guess is that at some point, the special run-off gains will
fade off in 2020 or 2021. Do you think that it's fair to assume that that effectively puts a cap on
how fast you can grow the dividend from here, or is that the wrong way of thinking about it?
And last question is on the cost ratio, the 16% adjusted number. If you could give us some idea in
terms of the speed at which you expect improvement from here and whether still the Baltics is
most of the downturn (41:07) there? Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Your first question on the future yield of the match portfolio, it's – we do not really guide
there, but you see the composition of portfolio and in all that the (41:32) money market running
yield is much lower than the amortized cost when we've given you the information on the current
running yield of the amortized portfolio which is a large part of the match portfolio.
And you need to make your own interest rate assumptions about kind of where money market
rates going and you have the running yield on the amortized cost portfolio from us. The rates
there will not drift very fast down because it's not that much that is actually renewed every year.
So, it will have a book yield of similar levels that you're seeing now.
I think that's kind of what I can say. Yeah. The obvious point is that...

Q - Niccolò Dalla Palma
Okay. And last quarter, you gave me some idea on the current yield that you have on the current
bonds portfolio which are mark to market. So, is that still around 0% as a fair assumption? That's
what you said last quarter, I think.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. It's slightly higher now due to (42:40) general interest rates movements. I mean, if you look
at the three-month NIBOR, (42:45) slightly above 1% is a bit higher than it was three months ago, if
I remember correctly. So, you can use kind of those general money market fluctuations (42:57).

Q - Niccolò Dalla Palma
Okay. Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Your second question was on the dividend and how this is linked to the planned run-off gains. We
are very much behind our dividend policy that there will be a high and stable nominal ordinary
dividend. That's why we've kind of used special dividends to take out kind of the steam (43:21) of
the high profits we've had for periods. So, that means you should not expect the nominal dividend
or no dividend to go down, and we kind of calibrate the dividend every year, so we won't have this



FINAL

cliff effect (43:37) that when the run-off gains are over, we will have to reduce it. So, that is into our
dividend planning. Yes.
Your last question was about the cost ratio and as we said, 16.0% this quarter, a bit higher in 2016
and 2017 due to the integration efforts in Sweden and the Baltic. It will be in the 15%s also in 2017
and around 15% going forward after that. We continue to takeout underlying ordinary kind of
operating costs to make room for investment improvements on all – kind of in every area, really.
So, that is a continuous effort (44:24).

Q - Niccolò Dalla Palma
Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now move to our next question from the line of Blair Stewart. Your line is open, please go
ahead.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you and very good morning. A couple of questions left. On the run-off gains, I just wonder,
has there been a slight upgrade to your expectations there? I think, a year or so ago, you said NOK
800 million a year for three years to five years. You're now saying NOK 900 million for three years
to five years. So, the actual number has gone up, and partial timeline has been extended. Just
wondering, if you can clarify that.
Second question, just a technical one, just on the SpareBank disposals. How have those proceeds
been invested and what would you expect the (45:22) to be in the coming quarter?
And finally, just a question on your debt headroom, just an update as to what your plans are for
that in terms of your ability or willingness to use that headroom. Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. First of all, your observation is correct. We have now extended the number of years as we
this planned run-off gains. It was three to five years in Q3 2015 when we first communicated. Now,
say it's three to five years going forward from now. So, we kind of extended it kind of one quarter
a year approximately. And also the annual kind of run rate on the run-off gains is also increased
slightly. We have said around NOK 800 million before and now it's around NOK 900 million, yeah,
corresponding to around 4 percentage points of the combined ratio.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

The proceeds from the sale of the...

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

And what's driven that? Sorry. Is that just based on an updated actuarial opinion?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

That is correct. We have seen this trend on the – it's a long tail personal injuries in Norway both in
the workers' comp line and in the motor line.

Q - Blair Stewart
Okay. Thank you.

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}



A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

FINAL

Proceeds from (46:46) sale is reinvested in the ordinary day-to-day management of our
investment assets. We don't have any specific guidance on that. This is (46:58) investment
department within their mandates and their risk limits to make the best of those proceeds. The
accounting gain was kind of more or less zero. It was sold. The stake has been mark-to-market for
a long time. So, not...

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Just to – sorry – just to come back on that. So, the reinvested as per normal mandates, should we
assume that it's gone back into a basket of equities, or is it sitting in cash?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

It's an inter-basket of – diversified basket of equities, fixed income, yeah, any type of investment
that we do. We have limits around the allocation and the proceeds could be – will be changed
according to the kind of the ordinary market operations that we have, not necessarily equities, it
could be international equities, Norwegian equities, fixed income, whatever. We don't give any
guidance in that.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Debt headroom, we say NOK 1.6 billion as a theoretical capacity and as before, we say that we will
never use the full theoretical capacity for reasons that we talked about sometimes. Our thinking
around the traditions of kind of hybrid capital sub debt is that this is a tool we have. We can use it
when we feel it's a good time in the market or if we have some needs for capital. (48:32). And,
yeah, I think that's what we'll say. We'll communicate when we do something.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

So, I guess, then the question was you – or the question was intended to ask you raised debt the
last time and then used that effectively to pay a special dividend. I think that that in and of itself
was – is something that you're not going to replicate. You seem to be suggesting that it's there as
a tool if you need to raise capital for some other purpose. I think the debt equity – effective debt
equity swap is something that you're not looking to repeat at this stage.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

So, I think you kind of have a new guidance, it could be either. We (49:25). We thought of it as a
good cost of capital exercise. But will we do it the same or for some other reason next time, we
won't really guide you on that.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. Understood. Thanks very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of In-Yong Hwang. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much for taking my questions. I've got three, hopefully, quick ones.
First on the underwriting deterioration of 5.5 percentage points, could you give us an idea of how
much of that is purely down to the benign weather that we saw in 4Q 2015? I appreciate that,



given that impact is not easy to segregate, but just an idea of how you see the weather impact will
be helpful?

FINAL

Secondly, on the Mølholm acquisition in Denmark, given as a premium, is there any idea you can
give us around the profitability of the acquired business and what it might be for your Nordic
combined ratio going forward?
And lastly, on your capital position, you're saying outlook that the uncertainty around Solvency II has
largely decreased, but there's still a couple of outstanding issues. Could you give us a quick
update on that, whether that's something that we should be thinking at all for 2017? Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Kind of splitting up the 5.5 percentage points in loss ratio deterioration from fourth quarter 2015 to
fourth quarter 2016, I think you should start with that a quarter in non-life insurance is really a fairly
short period and there will be quarter-to-quarter volatility always in the loss ratio. So, one of the
reasons is that there will be volatility every quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you pointed out, the precise effect of the difference from a kind of a mild winter quarter to a
more ordinary winter quarter we had this year, I don't have that number. It is kind of one part of the
explanation, but I cannot really quantify very precisely to you.
And thirdly, as we have communicated, in Denmark, especially, and for property claims within the
agriculture sector and partly also elsewhere, we saw what we think is a volatility of kind of what you
call the medium-sized claims which are less than what we report as large claims but higher than the
kind of your frequency claim.
And there was a (52:08) kind of quarter-to-quarter, you can see that it was unusually high for the
fourth quarter of 2016. We think it's a pure volatility effect. I think there is no trend or information
that gives you a read from that going forward.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Loan (52:25) profitability?

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm going to take that one, In-Yong. We acquired the company, and the earned premiums
was around DKK 400 million. The company is profitable but the profitability is a bit weaker than our
target. But we of course aim for the portfolio to reaching or approaching our target corridor in two
to three years ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

And the last question (53:02), if there any kind of update on the outstanding issues that we have
talked about for a couple of years now?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

There has been no changes to the outstanding issues. We think the most important ones were
taken away a year ago on the Natural Perils Fund. We still have uncertainty relating to the tax
treatment of technical reserves, whether that will follow the Solvency II or the accounting
perspectives going forward.
So far, there are no change. It will still follow the accounting perspective, but there is a risk
somewhere there. That probably the main uncertainly at least on downside going forward. On
upside, we still have still the Norwegian guarantee scheme provision, which we have now kind of



taken for the last several quarters, reported as kind of the negative outcome (53:55). But we think
there's an upside there because we think the Norwegian guarantee scheme provision is really an
ordinary part of equity. If our view will somewhat prevail, then that's an upside to the capital
position of around NOK 600 million.

FINAL

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much for your details.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Haywood. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Just a couple of quick questions hopefully. The reinvestment rates you
gave for 2016 was 2.8%, but do you have the reinvestment rates for the Q4 period only? And then
on the motor and claims inflation again, can you tell us whether that's also an increasing claims
frequency as well and what sort of level increase in claims frequency this might be? Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We didn't provide this in Q4 but it is – reinvestment rates, but it's actually been fairly few
investments, that's why we provided the whole year figure. Of course, the turnover and the
amortized cost portfolio isn't really very big. Its long-term positions usually help the (55:18). On
your – so, we need to come back to that. But I think there's, if I remember correctly, three
investments on that. So, it's a bit sensitive to the specific (55:30) involved.
In terms of the motor, there is a combination of increased frequency and average size of claims. In
combination with our communication regarding run-off gains, it's still important to reiterate that
we're talking about increased inflation in the kind of the hull, motor hull damages, not personal
injuries. We see a combination where technology and the cost of imported parts are increasing. So,
it's kind of – even the Mercedes low-severity accident, you will then have quite expensive repairs,
use of sensors in all around the car, really. So, it's all kind of repairs are more expensive than they
used to be and we see that trend still on the increase.
As well as there might be a small uptick in the frequency and the speculations on our side is maybe
related to the increase in hybrid cars which have a quicker acceleration than your average-size
ordinary fossil-fuel cars. But we don't (56:36) numbers to substantiate that claim, but that's one
hypothesis.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Vinit Malhotra. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Just – I wanted to follow up on the – I do
remember that the S&P model gave you a credit of around NOK 0.5 billion for reserve in the
strategic buffer. Have you heard from S&P recently on – given the fact that the claims inflation is
picking up? So, that's my first question.
Secondly, very quick check on the investment side and apologies if this was already addressed
because I was not on the call all the time for the (57:33). But the property gain – or the property



investment income was quite big relative to recent history as well. Is there some – is there an
effect of the index that you had invested in and that gave you a leverage gain of some sort or
could you just comment on the property investment income in the fourth quarter? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

On the first question, we do speak to S&P every quarter, at least and they fully acknowledge the
way we report our capital position, although the reported capital position is our own responsibility
and our own interpretation.
So, when we increased communicated reserves or run-off gains, then that means that the effect
on the cap requirement also increase more in parallel with that, meaning that on the capital
requirement effect of the reserve run-off gains and not the run-off gains themselves are taking into
account. So, it reduces the capital requirement but it doesn't increase the capital available.
On your second, on the property investment gain, if you ask about the underlying reason, that is
that we have – that actually there is a fairly good commercial property market especially in the Oslo
area, where we have kind of the bulk of our investments. It is not specifically related to the index as
such, it's just a general insurance market – sorry, general property market in Oslo, which is – it's
fairly good.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Bengt Kirkøen. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Bengt Kirkøen
Yes. Hello. Good morning. Just a question on competition. For the last year, we have seen an
increase (59:44) higher market shares. But at Q3, I believe you said that you saw increased
competition from the larger established players. Is that the same situation now that the
competition from the large player is increasing?
And one more question, on the motor claims inflation. Isn't it a bit strange that you see this sudden
increase within, I mean, six months in claims inflation. I mean, the technology changes has been
going on for at least a few years now with more sensors and so on. Thank you.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

I can give you some comments regarding the competition, just to start with Norway and the Private
segment in Norway. As I said, we have good competitiveness. We have stable/positive customer
developments and we had pricing power. The main competitors we are dealing with, I would say,
the last few months to the last couple of quarters, is still the large players, it's If, Tryg, SpareBank1
and then we gradually see (01:01:01) and the DNB, they're bancassurance players. They're really
small ones, I do not hear that much about them compared to one, one-and-a-half years ago.
So, it's dominating among the large competitors. The rational competitors, the competitors that
see the same trends like ours.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

And the second part of your question, motor claims inflation, you could probably usefully split that
into two, what is happening kind of to the physical and motor hull damages and the personal injury
claims. The long-term trends have been there for several years. The personal injury claims have
been going down. That slow down in the personal injury claims actually kind of – was sort of that



FINAL

reduction in personal injury claims slowed down in 2016 and this probably also limit kind of how far
that we can get but there is no uptick again in the personal injury claims.
And the combination then of downtick in personal injury claims and an increase in the kind of the
physical damages is the – results in our previous communication of 1% underlying claims inflation
overall in the first half of 2016, which we down then said in the third quarter was higher without
quantifying and then this quarter quantifies to between 3% and 4% as a total. I think that is – it is a
long-term perspective on this.

Q - Bengt Kirkøen
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
It appears there are no further questions at this time. Thank you.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, everybody, for participating. Just to remind you of the roadshows we are doing
this quarter, we're going to London tomorrow and then we are doing U.S., Boston, New York,
Chicago and also Canada, Toronto and Montreal next week. So, hope to see some of you there.
Thank you and good-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

