Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

Company Participants
Lee Klaskow, Senior Freight Transportation & Logistics Analyst

FINAL

Taylor Robinson, President

Presentation
Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Thank you for joining us today. Welcome to Bloomberg Intelligence Webinar on the
Changing Energy Landscape and Location for the Railroads. We'll touch upon the impact
from coal secular decline and the disappointing growth of crude on railroads. We'll also
dive into the opportunities from shale gas projects may provide for the industry. Sorry, I
did that too quick. This is our disclaimer. So you can read that. I guess you've done reading
that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then our speakers today, my name is Lee Klaskow, and I'm Bloomberg Intelligence
Senior Freight Transportation Logistics Analyst. My team and I cover the North America
Railroad and Trucking industries as well as the Global Marine Shipping Logistics and
Airfreight market. Prior to joining Bloomberg about seven years ago, I was on the sell-side
for 12 years and most recently, I was the Senior Transportation Analyst at LongBow
Research and Prudential.
I'm excited to have with me today Taylor Robinson, President of PLG Consulting.
PLG Consulting is a bulk logistics experts, focusing on rail transportation and logistics,
energy and chemical markets. Since 2001, PLG has partnered with clients design or
improve their logistics strategy and operations, utilizing a team of 30 plus industry
veterans. Over the past five years, PLG has worked extensively throughout the
unconventional energy supply chain, providing strategic design and operational advice.
Taylor joined PLG in May of 2012, after spending over 25 years leading global supply chain
organizations and a broad range of industries. Mr. Robinson's career included times at -- in
the automotive, aerospace and the food industries with Honda, Honeywell and HJ Heinz.
He's a graduate of Bowling Green State University and is a Six Sigma Black Belt.
And we're having problems with slides, so forgive me. Just some housekeeping issues
today. It will be -- the webinar will be recorded and available for replay by using the same
link to access the live event. A copy of the slides are available upon request following the
webinar. At the bottom of the slide window, you'll notice that you can adjust time and
maximize your screen. We suggest that you maximize your screen for the best quality of
the slides. And lastly, feel free to ask questions by using the Q&A panel to the right of the
PowerPoint slides. We'll address questions at the conclusion of the presentation.

Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

So before we dive into our discussion, I want to briefly introduce you to Bloomberg
Intelligence or BI, an exciting research platform available to terminal customers.
Bloomberg introduced a new approach to industry and company analysis by putting the
data, analytics and in-house research at users' fingertips. Bloomberg Intelligence
dashboards facilitate peer comparisons, support investment analysis, and provide insights
into industries and company fundamentals.
Given Bloomberg Industries' depth and breadth, users are able to research and analyze,
complete supply chains from basic materials to consumer discretionary sectors and we're
getting deeper since we've added macro regulatory and credit research to the platform.
We have currently over 120 sectors and over 1,500 companies around the globe under
coverage. Covering these sectors are 30 teams headed by senior analysts with an
average of 15 years experience in the buy or sell-side that are accessible to Bloomberg
customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

All right, for -- and we provide research and analysis on the North American Railroad
industry as backed by our robust industry and company data libraries. Our transportation
dashboards have data from a number of third-party providers through household names
as it relates to freight economy. Some of our partners include AAR, Ajana, FTR, Internet
TruckStop, Truckloadrate.com, ATA, Data Mine, Drewry, CTS, (inaudible) SSY and many,
many more. Users are able to chart the data within Bloomberg or download the raw data
for further analysis and excel.
So then transportation stocks have outperformed the broader market over the past 18
months and year-to-date this year, which follows the group significantly underperformed
in the S&P in 2015 when truckload carriers, LTL carriers and railroads were down about athird and the great logistic providers like FedEx and UPS were down only 14%, but that was
well underperforming in the S&P, which was down about 1%.
Increased demand and improving fundamentals coupled with the new administration's
promise of increasing infrastructure spending and lowering taxes helped propel
transportation stocks higher this year. Excluding the truckload group, transportation stocks
have outperformed the broader market over the past 18 months. Year-to-date, only
railroads have outperformed the broader markets. Rails are up 18 versus the S&P, which is
up eight, and that is still not enough for truckload carriers, which were down seven. LTLs
are down -- or I'm sorry, LTLs are up 4% this year and integrated logistics providers are up
3%.
Strength in the rail group has been driven by improving volume growth and speculation
about what CSX new management team can do for the Eastern railroad and the larger
industry. Railroads and LTL carriers' EPS growth are expected to outpace truckload carriers
and integrated logistics providers this year. Increased demand should drive margins lower
from operational leverage of these asset intensive networks. Integrated logistics
providers like UPS and FedEx are facing margin compression from the mix-shift towards
less profitable B2C freight and truckload carriers are facing tepid demand and low rates
coupled with the best price for equipment sold in the aftermarket.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

After decelerating to an anemic 1.6% in 2016, US GDP growth may average just 2.2%
through 2018 based on consensus. The recovery has not been broad based and we've
seen some areas of strength and pockets of weakness in the US economy and among
various modes of transportation.
Fortunately for rails, we've appeared to emerge from the commodity depression and the
manufacturing recession. Also, inventories have been trending lower, which could spur
additional intermodal traffic. The ISM and Industrial Production Indexes have been pointing
towards a recovery in the manufacturing sector that relies on transportation industry to
deliver raw materials and managed supply chain and deliver goods to market.
Unemployment has been one of the biggest roadblocks to faster expansion, that was
expected to decline to 4.8% this year from a high of 9.6% in 2010. Despite the low
employment number, there are still questions about the health of the job market. May
payrolls fell well short of consensus expectations, as May payrolls have been prone to do,
but significant downward revisions to the prior two months added insult to injury, thereby
pushing the three month average pace of hiring to the slowest rates since mid-2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

Class 1 rails' EPS, topped estimates by medium of 4% in the first quarter. This is the first
quarter since the fourth quarter of 2014 that all peers recorded volume gains. CSX EPS
surpassed the most at 7%, rising 38% from the previous year. The results were driven by
productivity gains and pricing strength. Management expects headcount reductions to
produce annual productivity savings of about $0.12 per share after tax from its previously
announced elimination of 20% of CSX management.
Norfolk Southern at 7.3% EPSB [ph] was powered by a 21% increase in coal tonnage due to
an improved export market, higher natural gas prices in utility coal share gains. It ups [ph]
first quarter EPS expectations by $0.05, excluding a benefit from a lower tax rate.
Public Class 1 rail operating ratios improved 38 basis points in average in the first quarter
versus last year to about 65.1%. CSX delivered its lowest ever first quarter operating ratio
of 69.2%, showed the most improvement from last year. Management expects its full year
ratio to improve to the mid-60s and could reach low-60s by 2018, from 69.5 in 2016.
CSX's new management team expects 2017 productivity gains to surpass last year's 427
million, which was about $0.29 a share.
From the implementation of Hunter Harrison's precision railroading and through employee
attrition.
CP or Canadian Pacific's operating ratio rose the most among its peers. Weaker margins
were driven by difficult comparisons from milder weather and land sales and a weaker
Canadian dollar last year. CN logged the best overall operating ratio despite having an
increase of about 50 basis points.
Railroads -- carloads are up about 5.5% year-to-date as growth is accelerated into the
second quarter. Coal, metal and minerals have been bright spots, while autos and forest

Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

products are trending lower. Growth may moderate in the second half. US railroad traffic
may rise 3.2% in 2017 according to FTR, eclipsing an estimated 2.2% growth for GDP.
Commodity carloads could increase 2.1%, fueled by an expected 4.6% gain in coal and a
6.1% rise in non-metallic minerals. Intermodal should resume its long-term secular growth
for rails in 2017, after a year of inflated inventories and increased truck competition. FTR
expects US rail intermodal traffic to rise 4.7% of easier comparisons with network
investments, slightly lower inventories and weaker truck competition as fuel prices rise
and capacity tightens from new regulations at year's end. The US inventory to sales ratio
was 1.35 in March, which is 3% above the 15-year average, but an improvement of 4% to
5% from last year.
Railroad shifts away from coal carloads will continue to be a painful evolution for the
industry. Coal is one of the -- was once a reliable source of revenue and carrier above
average margins, given the efficient nature of unit trains. This helped the rails fund growth
projects outside of coal, which the industry is now leaning on more for growth.
The growth in crude and related traffic was supposed to help temper the secular decline
in coal. Energy carloads demand went from bad to worse with the collapse in oil prices.

Bloomberg Transcript

Rail could benefit from carrying additional carloads of plastic, chemicals, fertilizers and
gases resulted from new shale projects and additional downstream carloads will account
for less than 1% of rail traffic, but represent a bright spot for energy related carloads that
are facing a number of challenges.
Burlington Northern accounts for the largest share of coal carloads, about 39%, followed
by Union Pacific at 23%. The Western Rails have 62% share driven by volumes in the
Powder River Basin and market shares are mostly steady for the Group, Norfolk gained
the most and captured a good chunk of new export volumes. CSX and Burlington are the
most leveraged to coal at 18% of the revenues, while CN is the least at 4%. CN is the only
rail with declining originated carloads year-to-date. Over the last four quarters, coal
accounted for our 13% of revenues for Class 1 rails, and this is down from 16% in 2016 and
25% in 2011. The secular decline in coal has been driven by regulations in abundance of
natural gas as a cheaper alternative. Regulations from the Obama administration aimed at
coal has forced electric utilities to choose between either installing costly new pollution
controls or retiring certain coal plants. Rolling back some of these regulations under the
Trump administration might not be enough to mitigate the shift taking place towards gas
given its low cost.
Most of the electric utilities that have been retired or planned to be shut down are
concentrated east in the Mississippi, where CSX and Norfolk Southern operate. The
closure will hurt their originate and receive carloads more than the Western competitors.
Revenues and volumes at Class 1 rails should get a boost in 2017 from increased coal
carloads. Rails have been pretty optimistic about demand for the remainder of the year,
whether natural gas prices will play a major role in the level of growth. Unfortunately, the
rally in coal will likely be short-lived and will continue on its cyclic [ph] decline next year
Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

when comparisons become more difficult. FTR projects a 5% rise in US coal carloads this
year and then it begins to decline less than 1% in 2018. Coal accounts for about 11% of
originated commodity carloads.
Rails benefited from the North America energy boom during 2010 to 2014, but crude by
rail volumes declined in 2015 and 2017 due to low oil prices, tighter spreads, and fewer
rigs. Crude by rail volumes will remain under pressure as long as WTI oil prices remain
depressed. The EIA estimates that WTI crude prices could average 70% higher to about
$50.68 in 2017. Crude by rail carloads are down 23%, according to the EIA through March
versus last year.
North America rail share of Bakken oil shipments did improve to 27% in March from
February. We're getting some of the share from pipelines, despite the increased rail
shares done [ph] eight percentage points from 2016 and 48 points lower than the April
2013 high of 75%, amid pressure from tighter spreads in greater pipeline capacity. OPEC
production cuts may aid to -- may aid second half crude by rail, which may benefit from
higher oil prices and domestic productions if the cuts stick and pipelines are still the
primary motive of Bakken oil transportation at about 58% in March.

Bloomberg Transcript

After declining 19% in 2016, petroleum related carloads are 7% lower year-to-date.
Petroleum products include crude oil, refined products such as jet fuel and asphalt.
Burlington Northern remains the market share leader at 29% of the petroleum carloads
followed by CN at 27%. Kansas City Southern doesn't originate any crude carloads and
only hauls interchange loads mainly from Canadian carriers.
Fracking was supposed to be a source of carload growth for the rail industry, with
increased demand for sand chemicals, pipes and water, increased rig counts and using
more sand per rig to maximize wells has led to an increase in sand demand. Originate
stone, clay and glass production carloads fell about 18% in 2017 year-to-date. Despite
their strength, volumes remain about 6% below their peak levels in 2014 and account for
only 1.5% of the industry's total carloads. Rails like CN and CP, and Kansas City Southern
and CSX were hoping crude related carloads might mitigate coal secular decline.
Now, I'm going to hand over the presentation to Taylor Robinson, President of PLG. He will
provide us with a deep dive about the opportunities available for rails from the growth in
energy and related markets. Taylor?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Great. Thank you, Lee. Appreciate you inviting me to join today. A lot to cover in a short
amount of time. So, we'll move pretty quickly. Lee talked about PLG and you can see
some of our customers here. Let's dive into the -- first, the overview of energy from our
perspective. Secondly, and then we'll dive into a couple of commodities that are highly
energy and petrochemical related and what we see coming down the road. And then
we're going to look at another growth opportunity related to the energy industry in
Mexico.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

So as we look at crude, of course, everyone understands where it's kind of range found
45 to 55. However, there is some risk right now, downside risk, so that could change the
game pretty quickly if we head to $40 mark for an extended period of time, many folks
think there will be a downturn in production.
Of course, crude -- I'm sorry, shale oil is coming more and more competitive with the
best-in-class in the $30 to $40 range. They can be profitable in certain place and, of
course, most of the rigs have moved to horizontal for fracking. So big growth is coming in
the southern shale plays. If you look at right now, about 60% -- over 60% of the rigs are in
the Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico area. Permian is by far the leader, approaching 50% of
the rig counts. And as you can see, on the horizontal rigs, they've actually almost gone
back to where they were at the peak. What's interesting is Permian -- I'm sorry, Eagle Ford
and Bakken are the big losers. And as you can see, after Permian, it's a lot of smaller
players as far as rig counts. The reason; high productivity, low cost, and there is a
tremendous amount of big players that are still setting up shop in the Permian. It is the
place to be right now.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we look at their productivity, of course, tremendous growth of initial production out of
their wells in the Permian. They're getting better at pad drilling, they are improving high
intensity fracking methods. There are some headwinds, because of -- there will be
anticipated oilfield service price increases. Also as you get more efficient, there is less
room for productivity, but I believe these trends going to probably continue on an upward
path for the next one or two years at least. So future is all about more and more
productivity.
On the gas side, most people are locked in the $3 range in the futures due to -- there is
growing demand. However, it seems there's unending low-cost supply, especially in the
Marcellus. And as you can see over the past six years, literally, seven times more gas
coming out of the well in the first 90 days, just tremendous productivity even better than
crude oil. So the productivity of the rigs for gas if prices would spike up for any reason, the
producers can quickly bring on supply.
Let's look at the rail impact we talked -- Lee already talked about coal, of course, the
decline, when we look at, we're heavily involved in lots of industrial bulk commodities. If
we go back to the start of the coal decline, these other commodities were about 25% of
carloads, get a nice growth driven mainly by shale, and the oil price downturn, still 25% of
the cars, pretty consistent is these other industrial commodities. And we'll talk about what
could be going up and down in the coming years.
When we look at the whole supply chain around shale products upstream, it's all about
proppants or frac sand. We'll talk about a little bit about each of the petrochemical and
the petro -- the products coming out. Further downstream, we'll get into plastics and
chemicals, we will also talk a little bit about propane.
So, as you can see, a number of commodities that are going to be interesting. First of all,
we'll get the really bad news out of the way, crude by rail has come down significantly and
this little sleepy commodity of LPG, which is mainly propane and butane, has overtaken

Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

crude by rail and we see that as a slow, steady increase over time, and the crude by rail
will continue to lower.
Also, let's look at Bakken where most of the crude by rail is from. Over the last six
months, it's only gotten about a 29% market share compared to 71% at peak. So
completely flipped, we don't see that changing, we've got the Dakota Access Pipeline in
place, that will continue to erode share and import competition on the East Coast isn't
likely going to change with the current WTI/Brent spread.
Western Canada, on the other hand, has a small crude by rail window for growth. Later
this year through 2019, we think there could be 200,000 to 300,000 barrels a day
moved on crude by rail in addition to the current 125,000 level. That's due to about a 0.5
million more barrels a day being brought on in production over the next 24 months and
pipelines are at capacity.

Bloomberg Transcript

We don't see any pipelines -- additional pipelines coming on stream before 2019. So,
there is this window, it's not going to be significant as the Bakken, but hence some
increase in volume moved mostly from, of course, Western Canada to the US West Coast
and also to the Gulf Coast.
As we look at the shale operations, quite logistics intensive, led by proppants or frac sand.
Right now, we see on an average well, about 55 rail carloads and to the monster wells,
the proppants [ph] they're called up to 240 cars or over two unit trains in each well. So
quite a range, we'll talk about the growth of this high intensity. You multiply that out when
you hit truckloads by four and you are up to almost a 1,000 truckloads from the largest
wells.
So, the logistics challenges moves downstream, as well you have to move some of the
crude by truck as it's coming out of the well to get it to heater pipeline and even worse
case in some of the -- some of the shale plays, especially the Permian, you got a
tremendous amount of produced water coming out in addition to crude up to five, six,
seven barrels of water per barrel of crude. So, again that logistics challenge is growing.
I should say also in addition to adding more and more proppants, you have to have a like
amount more water and also you have to dispose of that water comes out. So again
logistic challenges continue to grow in the shale fields. As we look at, we'll shift to frac
sand which is the bright spot right now. And as you can see in three quarters, we've
basically (Technical difficulty)

Operator
Please stand by, while we get our speaker back on the line. Hello, I've got you back on the
line.

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

Yeah. Sorry about that, I'm not sure what happened there. We were talking frac sand back
to the peak of 2014, we're very close right now and projected to go higher in the coming
quarters. If we look at the frac sand handled by rail, this is not originations, this includes
transfers. As you can see right now, BNSF has overtaken UP during the downturn and has
maintained that lead and likewise, CN is having good growth as the other two carriers.
Why is it growing so quickly? It is not only the rig count growth, but it's also the efficiency,
adding more wells per rig, the lateral lengths are growing quite quickly which means more
profit. They're adding more stages of completion to each well and they're adding much
more sand per lateral foot, nearly doubled in the past three to four years.
So this is the reason for that multiplied group and the other key thing is, there's been a
shift to finer meshed sand, which means that sand can come from different places. So 100
mesh sand is in vogue right now on the high intensity wells. It's a key part, 60%, 70% of
that well might be fine mesh and it is available as we're going to see in the shale plays in
some cases.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if we look at that supply chain from Wisconsin, Illinois mainly the Northern white sand,
which was -- is the highest quality sand been traditionally used for a great majority, up to
70% to 80% of the sand, that percentage is falling and as you can see, this is the largest
cost driver and the supply chain is moving at long distance via rail. You've got quite far
ranges in each category of the supply chain and as you can see, moving from Northern
white to regional sand takes hold steps large chunks out of supply chain and lowers cost
dramatically.
So here's that kind of cost range just to get an idea, least -- the highest cost total
delivered would be northern white and Manifest with unit train of course you're going to
gain price efficiency, cycle time efficiency and improve the cost structure. Regional sand is
going to be slightly cheaper, especially from Missouri and Arkansas. We'll see some
growth, but we're going to see the most growth is regional sand and in many cases,
directly delivered from the mine to the well.
If we look at Texas, alone in the past year there were three major sand producers bought
new mines and as of this week, U.S. Silica added their second one, a much larger mine
right in the heart of the Permian hoping -- they're hoping to open it by Q4 of 2017. So it's a
real game changer. As well there are a number of other companies, actually this we can't
keep up with the number of regional mines. There are 12 we understand in the permitting
stages various places around the Permian.
So this is a game changer. As you can imagine, it's going to lower the producers' cost. The
sand now is good enough, it used to not be high enough quality. They've -- during the
downturn in order to cut costs, they tried it and it worked and they're using it. So this is the
game changer that's going to affect the whole logistics chain over the next two to three
years.
So if we look at overall frac sand volume, the consensus is there's going to be some
significant growth. We've got a couple of analysts that think it's meteoric growth, but I
Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

think that's very doubtful and it's kind of overdone. But needless to say, there is more
growth on the horizon.
Let's jump into NGLs, which of course, there is a precursor to the downstream
petrochemical market. As you can see, we've been oversupplied with NGLs due to this
production growth of the associated crude and natural gas, so prices have been
depressed. However, that oversupply is likely going to change here in the next six to nine
months, as more and more petrochemical demand with new crackers, still four more
crackers to come on stream in the near future and growing exports of ethane and
propane. And what's that going to do is, that's going to change that supply/demand
balance and the ethane prices, some folks predict they could double by 2018, which is
going to impact the key [ph]producers of polyethylene and other downstream products.
So this is a challenge, eventually I think supply is going to catch up, but there could be a
period two to three years of higher pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Shale gas is extremely efficient for the downstream petrochemical world, especially when
it comes to ethylene. Ethylene, about 80% of ethane cracks becomes ethylene in
comparison to Asia and Europe use naphtha as their feedstock or really a crude oil
byproduct and they get much lower amounts of ethylene. So our ethylene and
downstream products are quite competitive. And then, after you crack the ethane and
made it ethylene, the next cracking moves it into over 60% polyethylene, which is the
highest volume plastic in the world. This is going to make the US a polyethylene
powerhouse, starting the next several years.
So if we look at that overall, what's the impact of all the shale gas expansion, we predict
there will be about $126 billion of projects investment by 2025. As you can see, those
large ethylene crackers are the largest portion yet in the associated polymer and resins
and you've got nearly half of the investments in those areas. Also fertilizer ammonia and
methanol are a couple of other big categories and again, as you see, there's this decade,
quite a number of projects still coming on stream and more to the -- more in the next first
half of next decade.
Let's dive into polyethylene, because it is the largest and the big needle mover. Capacity
is going to grow here, over a seven, eight year period by 50% in North America. We don't
need that much polyethylene. Therefore, there is going to have to be more and more
polyethylene exports. Right now it averages about 2.5 million tons a year. We expect by
2025, that number could grow to 7,000 to 8,000 or even higher. So quite a growth. That
supply chain, that export supply chain needs to be developed. It's coming very quickly and
it's in process right now as those crackers expand in their polyethylene units. We even
expect another wave out in the middle of next decade, a number of folks are looking at
putting in crackers and TE facilities. So this is not a short-term phenomenon. This is a
longer-term good growth, very steady, once the units come online, they very seldom
shutdown. This is not going to be another crude by rail up and down and we think
(Technical Difficulties)

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Looks like we lost Taylor again. Tammy, can you connect him again.
Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

Operator
Yeah. We'll reach out to him now. Please standby.

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

FINAL

(inaudible) one more time to focus on these great charts, so just bear with us.

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Hello, this is Taylor again.

Operator
Hi Taylor, you're back on.

Bloomberg Transcript

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Okay. I'm not touching the phone. I'm not sure what's happening. Okay, so I think where
we left off, likely almost 0.25 million new annual carloads due to all these shale gas
projects. We calculate this through our SHIELD database, it's available for sale, there's lots
of detail on the project. We got over 385 projects in the database and what's unique is
we add -- we have experts that calculate the logistics output which we're able then to do
all these calculations. So shieldbyplg.com and we did a deep dive, end-to-end review of
the North American and global polyethylene market, that can be found at
polyethylenereport.com again heavy logistics, analysis and research.
Let's dive into Mexico, this is a developing story. It's been developing since 2013 when the
Pemex monopoly was ended. It impacts the whole energy value chain, moving to more of
an open market over time. Some things have already happened as you can see down
here, there's been some progress much more to come as it develops.
Pemex had a really difficult environment to say the least, in essence it's opposite of the
US, nearly everything is opposite there. You've got declining production of crude oil.
You've got an inadequate pipeline system, with rampage theft [ph], you have
uncompetitive refining. The distribution network is barely functioning, and all this with
rising demand. So it's an environment definitely open for improvements.
If look at Mexico, it has relied on petroleum products being imported to offset some of
their challenges. Even as we've seen in the chart, in the upper right, 2016 gasoline or the
green, that's up to 900,000 barrels a day of imports. So meanwhile, not only has the
shale revolution impacted crude oil production, but also has given our refiners an
opportunity to become a more of an export powerhouse and it's grown significantly as
you can see over the past four to five years.
Shale gave the refiners an abundant, low-cost supply. We have the best, some of the best
refineries in the world and we've got great pipeline infrastructure. So as we look to what's
Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

happening with exports so far, really just an early story. LPG started to grow, it's a smaller
commodity that we see that continuing to grow in exports to Mexico. As pipelines are
built, natural gas will become a significant -- will become a significant part of their natural
gas supply. So things are growing in addition to the gasoline that we talked about.
So in the petroleum products, which is mainly gasoline and distillates or diesel fuel, that's
where the big opportunity is in the coming couple of years. A solution is really needed
because there's growing demand, there is not enough pipelines, there's an over-reliance
on truck transportation and as you can see by this data here, many of these terminal
locations, product terminal locations have two or less days of supply. So it's really literally
hand to mouth.
So rail -- it looks like rail might come to the rescue here and fill that void. We see at least
12 new terminals that are announced to be built, not sure if of course all of these come to
fruition. But as you can see, highly leveraging the existing rail network with only one
product pipeline seem to be going in, in the next several years. So this network is going to
be growing. Most of the volume hasn't started because these new terminals aren't
completely built yet. There has been permitting challenges, but we see some going in this
year and more come in, in 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if we look back at the volume chart, again here's the crude by rail and LPG in the US.
Here's the other data -- or the other products such as gasoline and distillates. We see that
later this year and into the coming years growing again small at first, but good growth
opportunity as the US products get moved -- continually to get moved into Mexico via rail.
So finally, big questions, big challenges remain in Mexico around their energy supply chain.
Can they modernize their refineries, that's the first question. Where is the money coming
from and when, things just take longer in Mexico. So it could be a number of years before
that happens. And the other challenges, do they have the right crude slate. They have
more production coming online.
As we said earlier or as we saw earlier, they've already bid out offshore production. And
they are now bidding out quite a bit more onshore production to producers outside of
PEMEX. But that's going to take three to four years to come online. The key question is
going to be do those locations for crude oil matchup and is it of the right grade that
would match the refinery slate. Unanswered question, not sure, but it is going to be a
challenge for a number of years to get the refineries up to snuff.
And then secondly, really can they grow their production -- I'm sorry, their product
distribution network. One of the challenges we didn't talk about in the middle of Mexico,
you have a mountain range, which makes it difficult to take the pipelines across,
infrastructure and Mexico is going to take some time and then, can that supply network
with those terminals, can that whole supply network end-to-end compete with the US
supply chain of products that we see coming out in the next several years. When will
Mexico be able to be competitive with that supply chain. So big unanswered questions,
quite interesting and just unfolding.

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

So with that, would love to hear some questions. Hopefully, that was helpful to everyone.

FINAL

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Yeah and just as a reminder, thanks Taylor, that was great. If you have any questions, you
can use the Q&A panel to the right of the PowerPoint slides and we'll address them as
they come in. And as I guess we're waiting for any questions, let's see what we have.
We're going to wait till they queue up. And I guess, Taylor could you talk about where the
crude exports, whether they're in the US or soon to be in Mexico, where they're heading
and kind of more in the US, what ports so they're heading out of ?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Yeah, right now the crude export side mainly heading out of Houston and Corpus Christi.
See Corpus Christi growing, they have a little bit easier access for these large ships.
That's where most of the crude exports are going to come out of, there is a possibility
that the LOOP and Louisiana could grow, so that's kind of the shift.
Right now, there's not a lot of crude going into Mexico, not sure if that -- we don't think
that's really ever going to be the case, it's more about these petroleum products or
gasoline and diesel. And again, that will be rail coming out of the Houston area, as the -where the refineries are located in Texas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Okay. We have a question from the group. Do you see the share of energy and energyrelated products as a percentage of the overall rail pie increasing?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

I think it's going to have a slow increase, led by frac sand. Frac sand has overtaken what
crude by rail, was for quite a period of time. So that has been a good upside to try to
offset some of the crude by rail. The LPG and some of these other commodities,
chemicals probably will continue to have slow growth, but steady and slow growth versus
any declines.
So it's really all about how much I think frac sand can continue to grow, have -- what's the
limit of amount of sand per well, but then the other big kind of dark cloud for the railroads
right now is how much of this regional sand in the Permian and then it will -- will there be
regional sand in other plays crop up. If it works in the Permian, why can't lower quality sand
work in the other -- the other major plays. Those are the big I think question marks for
how long this frac sand growth on rail is going to last.

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Right. And our view would be that no coal is going to continue its secular long-term
decline and all the things that outside of coal that are growth areas will help mitigate that
Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

decline, but you know, net-net it probably will decline and then you have other
commodities or things that are hold by the rail like intermodal have the kind of a secular
long-term growth story. So the pie is getting bigger and our view is that, the slice that the
rails are getting are going to get a little smaller over time.

FINAL

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Yeah. That is great [ph].

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

And then we have another question, geographic. I guess, the US Mexican product
shipments, are they mostly from the Gulf or California or it does in [ph] West or essential
Eastern Mexico. I'm just sort of wondering where the stuff from US and Mexico are
heading, are they going intra-Mexico or out to the US?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Yeah, well, they're -- a majority is going to come from the Gulf Coast refineries. Those are
the most efficient, have the most capacity. I believe there is going to be some coming
from California refineries, but again, a great majority of the volume is going to come from
Gulf Coast (Multiple Speakers) and into Mexico, through the Mexican rail network.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Okay. And for the person that asked that question, if I read it wrong, please re-send it.
And then there is a question here, do you have an opinion on which of the crude pipelines
out of the Canada will actually occur and will they be delayed beyond 2019 date that you
mentioned?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Well, that's a great question. I think they all have risk in today's world. The regulatory and
the environmental push in Canada is extreme right now in some of the western provinces,
we think the Trans Mountain is going to happen in 2019, but that's definitely not a
guarantee in today's world. They are basically twinning a pipeline. So it's not like they will
cut new ground here. Yeah, there is still a few challenges left there to get that going.
The other one would be, I think the Enbridge coming in to the US. Again, it's not a major
brand new pipeline, but there always could be something to get in the way of that. Can't
guarantee, they're both going to be in early 2019. They've been delayed by three to four
years already.

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Yeah and I had mentioned now Canadian National had their Investor Day yesterday and
the day before. And they highlighted a new product that they're trying to launch where
Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2017-06-14

FINAL

they add polymer to tar sands and mix and then wraps it in a polymer, it's almost like a
hockey puck and they're going to use the -- they would like to use the coal infrastructure
to be able to export that out to the West Coast, which is something that's not -- it's not
being used yet, but it's something that they have patents on and looking to
commercialize. So that, that could be an opportunity for the rails given the delays and
pipelines going out west in Canada.
And there's a question here about regulations. Any risks from the current trends out of
Washington D.C. to I guess the energy markets as it relates to transports?

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Not any that are clear and pronounced right now.

Lee Klaskow

{BIO 16957183 <GO>}

Okay, let's see. I think that is all the questions that we have. So unless we get one in the
next couple of minutes, I just want to thank everyone for joining us today. I want to thank
Taylor for speaking with us, it was very informative. And if you have any questions or
comments, so feel free to reach out to Taylor or myself and also apologize for the
technical issues we had earlier, next time, it will be a little smooth we promise. So thanks
again for your attention and have a great day. Thanks, Taylor.

Bloomberg Transcript

Taylor Robinson

{BIO 19470118 <GO>}

Thank you, appreciate it.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

