Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc 2017 1st Information
Meeting

FINAL

Company Participants
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, CEO, President and Representative Director

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Research Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Masao Muraki, Director and Senior Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Research Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Hello, everyone. My name is Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President and CEO of MS&AD Insurance
Group Holdings. Thank you for joining us at our Information Meeting today. The Wall Street
Journal described last year as the year in which everything that couldn't, shouldn't and
wouldn't happen, happened: with Britain's departure from the EU; the election of Donald
Trump as President of The United States; the removal of Brazil's President from office;
and the impeachment of South Korea's President.
Underlying these events are the same fundamental challenges of growing inequality,
social division and injustice. And the global economic and political landscape seems to
reflect the situation leading to an even greater sense of uncertainty.
Last fiscal year was a year in which the world experienced the highest number of natural
disasters since 2011. Japan was hit by the Kumamoto Earthquake in April and 6 typhoons
over the course of the year. Overseas, there were wildfires in Alberta, Canada in May; a
hurricane in the United States in October; and an earthquake in New Zealand in
November. It is precisely in times like these that management utilizing diversity, which is
the strength of the MS&AD Insurance Group, comes into its own. And I believe it is
important to further increase management's transparency and make steady progress
toward our vision.
Now please turn to Page one of the handout. This page shows the main points of today's
presentation. I'll begin by talking about the promotion of management utilizing diversity,
Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

which is seen as a strength of the MS&AD Insurance Group. From the 3 perspectives of
establishment of the business portfolio to be achieved, digital strategy for sustainable
growth and contribution towards sustainable development of society.
Next, I'll outline progress or Next Challenge 2017, which is now in its final year starting with
progress toward numerical management targets and then moving on to the status of
each business domain. After that, I'll discuss promotion of ERM and strengthening
Corporate Governance, which the group is focusing on as driver initiatives under our Next
Challenge 2017. Finally, I will talk about shareholder returns.
Please turn to Page two of the handout. As of the end of fiscal year 2016, Domestic NonLife Insurance Business accounted for approximately 70% of group core profit as its
profitability has improved. Meanwhile, in the Domestic Life Insurance Business, MSI Primary
Life became a business that can be expected to generate stable earnings with policies in
force exceeding JPY 5 trillion. Also in International Business, although earnings were less
than expected due to a combination of factors, such as the occurrence of a large number
of natural catastrophes and the impact of exchange rates fluctuations, the inclusion of MS
Amlin laid the foundation for steady growth in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving forward, the group aims to achieve a ratio of Domestic Non-Life Insurance
Business to other business of 50:50, while maintaining earnings from Domestic Non-Life
Insurance Business at the same level. Furthermore, in the future, we intend to increase the
share of International Business to 50%.
Please turn to Page three of the handout. The first step of management utilizing diversity,
which is positioned as the group's strength, is achievement of further growth and
efficiency in domestic business through reorganization by function. The reorganization
initially planned at the time of formulation of Next Challenge 2017 has gone ahead more
or less to plan.
Firstly, we have made steady progress reducing costs and now expect to be able to just
about achieve the fiscal year 2017 target cost reduction from the fiscal year 2011 level,
which we raised to JPY 60 billion. In addition, the standardization of products and
operation procedure. And the reorganization of claims services currently underway, will
drive the group's further growth and efficiency in the next stage.
Please turn to Page four of the handout. In the International Business, with the inclusion of
MS Amlin from fiscal year 2016, we now have a global management structure under which
International Businesses will utilize each other's diverse strengths.
The merger of Amlin with MSI's Lloyd's business and MSI's reinsurance business was
completed in fiscal year 2016 and cost synergy of business integration of approximately
JPY 8 billion is expected from fiscal year 2017. Through our networks in Asia and the
United States, where we have previously provided traditional insurance products, we will
supply specialty line products under the world's leading Lloyd's brand and carefully
develop new markets.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

We also plan to pursue sophistication of ERM through increased personal exchanges with
MS Amlin.
Next, I would like to talk about our additional strategy for sustainable growth. Please turn
to Page 5. In the insurance industry, as in other industries, advances in digital technologies
such as IoT, robotics and AI are likely to bring about the kind of reforms never
experienced before in product and service development and marketing and office
operations. We see these reforms brought about by innovation, not as a threat. But as an
opportunity for business development.
As announced last fiscal year, we are making business investments of more than JPY 100
billion over four years starting from fiscal year 2016. Last fiscal year, we set up specialist
teams at group companies in Japan, Asia and Europe to examine digital strategy.
Starting this fiscal year, we are assigning staff in charge of digital strategy to a wide range
of business units. And are conducting demonstration experiments for the application of
digital ICT in various insurance operations, including product development, underwriting,
sales and solicitation, office administration, premium collection and claims services.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are also promoting worldwide the use of digital technology such as BIG's advanced
telematics technology and MS Amlin's marine insurance blockchain technology. We are
also promoting global ICT innovation by dispatching a representative as well as investing
in strategic fund of funds at Silicon Valley and researching and gathering information about
cutting-edge ICT.
Please turn to Page six of the handout. In telematics business, the group acquired the
advanced telematics technology of BIG Group, including Insure The Box Limited, a leading
telematics car insurance company in the U.K. in 2015 to demonstrate its superiority in this
field and expand its business globally.
In April 2004, the Group joined forces with Toyota to launch Japan's first mileage-linked
car insurance PAYD. In April, 2016, following its acquisition of BIG, the group teamed up
with Toyota to establish a company for providing telematics car insurance services in U.S.
The rollout of telematics insurance services in the U.S. market is now in sight. Also on and
after the second half of fiscal year 2017, the group plans to launch Japan's first Pay How
You Drive or PHYD type telematics car insurance.
Please turn to Page seven of the handout. The MS&AD Insurance Group conducts
business activities in line with MS&AD's story of value creation. We have received
recognition from external bodies for our efforts to develop and provide products and
services that contribute to resolving social issues, namely, frequent accidents and
disasters, extensive natural disasters caused by climate change, mounting burden of
nursing and medical care due to demographic aging and decreasing vitality of local
communities.
Through such activities, we contribute to community's sustainable development and
achieve sustainable growth. For further details on MS&AD's story of value creation, please
Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

refer to Page 71 later on.
Next please turn to Page 8. I believe that for the MS&AD Insurance Group, it is human
resources that hold the key to enhancing our corporate value. The creation of a
challenging working environment and the development of diverse professional human
resources will increase the group's vitality and provide the basis for sustainable growth.
We will push ahead with work style reform across the entire group, promoting flexible and
diverse ways of working, encouraging human resources to work in various environments
and demonstrate their full potential.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will explain our progress of Next Challenge 2017. Please turn to Page 9. In fiscal year
2016, group core profit amounted to JPY 213.7 billion, up JPY 66.1 billion year-on-year,
exceeding the revised forecast by JPY 19.3 billion. Overall, we are making steady
progress. In fiscal year 2017, we expect consolidated net premiums written to fall short of
the target, amounting to JPY 3,450 billion largely due to the impact of the difference in
exchange rates compared to when the targets were set. However, I think, it is highly
probable that we'll achieve the main numerical targets for the final fiscal year of the
medium-term management plan with group core profit of JPY 230 billion and group ROE
of 8.4%.
Next, I'll outline the status of each business segment. Please turn to Page 14 of the
handout. In Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business, net premium written decreased, albeit
slightly, due to the reactionary decline to the demand spike before the fire insurance
premium rate hike in fiscal year 2015. However, earned premiums increased by JPY 66.1
billion due to increased premium from fire, voluntary automobile and other insurance
lines. Meanwhile, profitability improved further with the combined ratio reaching 91.4% on
an E/I basis, down 2 points year-on-year.
Please turn to Page 17 of the handout. Growth in the casualty market can be identified as
one of the drivers of improvement in the profitability of the Domestic Non-Life Insurance
Business. In particular, the SME market shows steady growth and it is a market where
there is still much room for development in the future. We'll also anticipate social changes
and advances in technology. And will provide products necessary for new business and
new risks in a timely manner, thus, meeting new customer needs and translating this into
increased income.
I will now move on to the Domestic Life Insurance Business. Please turn to Page 22 of the
handout. At MSI Aioi Life, annualized new business premiums in the third sector insurance
for fiscal year 2016 increased by 12.7% year-on-year, due to strong sales of New Medical
Insurance A Plus launched in May 2016. The policy is to increase core capital through a JPY
100 billion capital boost in March, 2017 and to expand sales to cross-selling markets
focusing on protection-type products that capture customer needs to increase earning
power.
Please turn to Page 24 of the handout. At MSI Primary Life, premium income has
exceeded JPY 1 trillion for 3 consecutive years, through initiatives such as the launch of a
new currency option-type fixed special whole life insurance that incorporates customers'

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

gift and succession needs. And as a customer-oriented business operation. Also in terms
of group core profit, MSI Primary Life has stably generated premium income of between
JPY 12 billion and JPY 12 billion (sic) and the company is a major strength of the group.
Please turn to Page 26 of the handout. I will now talk about the International Business.
Group core profit in fiscal year 2016 was JPY 34.6 billion falling short of the target by JPY
14.1 billion as the positive effect on the consolidation of MS Amlin was offset by the
negative impact of natural catastrophes, et cetera.
In fiscal year 2017, group core profit is expected to rise sharply to JPY 64 billion, reflecting
the special factor of a gain on stock exchange of JPY 21 billion, associated with the
merger of Max Life and the Asian Life Insurance business, in addition to the recovery in
the performance of MS Amlin.
From fiscal year 2017, the business of MS Frontier Reinsurance, which previously came
under the reinsurance business, will be integrated into MS Amlin. And inward reinsurance
business previously underwritten by ADI head office was reclassified into International
Business to enhance earnings management by location of risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 27 of the handout. MS Amlin, which was newly included in the scope of
consolidation from fiscal year 2016, achieved increased income despite a soft market
reporting net premiums written of GBP 2,654 million, an increase of GBP 262 million from
the previous year.
Net income declined GBP 183 million year-on-year to GBP 27 million as a result of special
factors such as a higher-than-usual number of large-scale natural disasters and the
lowering of the U.K. statutory interest rate in fiscal year 2016. In fiscal year 2017, net
income is expected to increase by GBP 132 million from the previous year to GBP 215
million on integration basis, reflecting the absence of the special factors that occurred in
fiscal year 2016 and the cost synergies as a result of the integration of MSI's Lloyd's
business and MSI's reinsurance business.
If you compare MS Amlin with MS&AD insurance, which underwrites traditional insurance
products and adapts a conservative investment strategy, MS Amlin is characterized by its
preference for relatively high risk and return through a flexible underwriting specializing in
commercial lines and an active investment strategy. As shown by the graph on the right
titled Trends in ROE, although MS Amlin's ROE has fluctuated significantly under
sophisticated ERM, the average ROE in the past 10 years has been 15.4%.
Next, I would like to explain the status of promotion of ERM, which is one of the drivers for
Next Challenge 2017.
Please turn to Page 36 of the handout. The improvement in ROR of Domestic Non-Life
Insurance Business has driven the improvement in the ROR of the entire group to 8%,
increased by 2.5 points. The group will accelerate efforts to achieve its medium-term
target of ROE on the 10% level by implementing the PDCA cycle on ROR and VA. And
developing ERM's frontline penetration measures.
Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

Please turn to Page 41 of the handout. Internal reserves after shareholder returns will be
invested for internal growth that seeks to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of
existing businesses and for research development aimed at future environmental
changes. And will be used to invest in external growth that will contribute to strengthening
true competitiveness under stringent selection criteria.
In particular, investment in International Business will be conditional upon the identification
of an affinity with acquisition candidates. In terms of corporate culture and investment
projects, must be projects that will contribute to sustainable improvement in the group's
capital efficiency by creating synergies with existing business and diversifying risks.
Through these measures, we aim to accelerate competitiveness and efficiency and
achieve sustainable growth.
Please turn to Page 42 of the handout. I would now like to talk about strengthening of
corporate governance. This fiscal year, we plan to appoint one more outside director,
bringing the total number of outside directors to 5. As a result, the ratio of outside
directors will increase to just over 40%. The group is also working to improve the
objectivity of the process of determining executive personnel affairs and officer
remuneration.

Bloomberg Transcript

The nomination committee and the remuneration committee deliberate the policy for
selecting candidates for directors and corporate auditors. And the policy for remuneration
of directors and executive officers aiming for a more transparent and appropriate
governance system.
Lastly, I will talk about shareholder returns. Please turn to Page 43 of the handout. There is
no change to our shareholder returns policy of making returns through a combination of
dividends and share buybacks, aiming to return approximately 50% of group core profit
to shareholders in the medium run. This fiscal year, we announced share buybacks totaling
JPY 30 billion. And we will repurchase our own shares flexibly, with due consideration to
market conditions in accordance with this policy. In fiscal year 2016, the annual dividend is
planned to rise JPY 30 from the previous year to JPY 120. In fiscal year 2017, the annual
dividend is expected to rise a further JPY 10 from the previous year to JPY 130. In
addition, 40 million treasury shares worth 6.3% of total shares outstanding will be
canceled.
I would like to touch upon our decision to offer shareholder returns in the form of
increased dividends instead of the repurchase of our own shares, about which we have
received questions. As you can see from the records of our dividends that have never
decreased to date, we have been conducting business, while keeping in mind, the high
value of continuing to pay dividends stably. Therefore, I hope that you will understand that
increasing the dividend to JPY 130 in the current fiscal year from JPY 120 a year ago,
represents our confidence that such an increase will be continued from the perspective of
the revenue structure.
That said, there has been no change in our position that our current stock price is below a
satisfactory level. We will also continue to buy back our shares as flexibly as ever.

Page 6 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

In fiscal year 2016, we welcomed MS Amlin to the MS&AD Insurance Group and
succeeded in developing growing markets based on our business model, which utilizes
diversity. In fiscal year 2017, which is the final year under the current medium-term
management plan, we'll work to steadily achieve the targets set out in the plan. We'll also
push ahead with reorganization by function and seek improvement in capital efficiency
towards the promotion of ERM to create a world leading insurance and a financial services
group from the next medium-term management plan. We ask for your ongoing support
as we continue to make efforts to live up to the expectation of investors and other
stakeholders.

Questions And Answers
Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I am Tsujino from JPMorgan. My first question is about the automobile insurance. MS&AD's
E/I loss ratio, excluding natural disasters for this year, is at lower level compared to other
peers. I assume the company makes efforts such as claims adjustments. Probably, on
average, MS&AD's premium rates for automobile seems relatively higher in the industry.
Typically when advisory rates are revised, every player would revise their own rates. So we
tend to wonder what will happen in such occasions. Given that you revised rates last year,
you could have revised down in January this year if the company wished to lower average
rates as your premier level was higher than the others. So I assume, you do not have
some intention to lower premium as it is running high. What is your current stance on this?
Secondly, I appreciate that MS&AD increased dividend once again and valuation gains of
Max Life Insurance was included in the group core profit in 2017. However, from top-down
perspective, when looking at your market capitalization and adjusted net assets and
calculating the ratio of the company's strategic equity holdings to these figures, the ratio
is higher than those of the other 2 non-life groups. Even though the amount of disposal of
such strategic equity holdings has been on the increase for past 3 to four years. But it
peaked about two years ago. And then it has leveled off.
Capital gains from these strategic equity holdings are not included in group core profit. If
these equity holdings are fully leveraged, your market capitalization can be further
enhanced. For example, they can be disposed in order to return to shareholders or to
make investments in other areas. There are other potential ways to utilize them. However,
currently, the ratio of strategic equity holding to market cap and net assets stays high
compared to peers. I understand that the management has other strategic priorities, such
as reorganization by function, what are your thoughts on those other potentials?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Regarding your first question about automobile insurance, I totally agree with you. Our
loss ratio level is superior in comparison to other companies. In light of competitive edge,
this is a very important point. How to lead this to the growth of topline is an extremely
important strategic question for us. However, some business magazine articles discussed
that our premium is higher than others. But it is only a partial comparison. Our premium
levels are not high for all products. If so, our topline would not grow.

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

But last fiscal year, we achieved growth in automobile insurance. It means that each player
has its own customer group, target group and set the premium to match such customer
target. In case of our group, we made efforts in the areas of underwriting and removal of
fraudulent claims. As a result of those efforts, we enjoy high profits today. So pricing
based on such competitiveness, we enjoy quite a flexible position. But looking at the
automobile insurance, the business has been making losses for five years. Finally for past
2 to three years the business turned around.
In 2019, consumption tax hike is expected. And in fiscal 2020, statutory interest rate is
likely to be lowered. And unit cost for repay expenses is gradually on the rise. Given such
an environment, we would like to make appropriate judgment about possible decrease in
automobile premium in light of how much competitiveness is needed for us. You are right
about your points on the strategic equity holdings. In our group, our strategic equity
holding accounts for about 12.5% to consolidated total assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In comparison to other global insurance players, it is necessary for us to reduce the
percentage below 10%. Our current market cap is about JPY 2.6 trillion. So it is possible to
calculate how much reduction in strategic holding is necessary. We would like to actively
continue to dispose within that range amongst 3 non-life insurance groups, we are most
behind in terms of the pace of the disposal of strategic holding. In other words, we have
the highest potential to -- for future disposals.
Of course, we need to talk and negotiate with our clients very carefully in selling those
strategic holdings. Our current plan initially estimated JPY 400 billion. But we made an
upward revision to JPY 500 billion. This fiscal year, we plan to dispose of about JPY 120
billion. So regarding how much disposal are we going to aim in the next mid-term
management plan, we would like to be as close as possible to achieve within 10% to
consolidated total assets. As a result, we would like to reduce risk and spend the surplus
to improve the capital efficiency. And we are going to actively invest in businesses. We
consider this as a very -- our top priority for the company.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I'm Muraki from Deutsche Bank Securities. I have a few questions regarding International
Business. On Page 27, status of MS Amlin is described and on Page 61, result of (Asia) et
cetera. First of all, compared to the past, profit levels of Europe and Asia seem to be
lowered part of which may be due to foreign exchange. I wonder what is going on in
International Business?
Secondly, Page two describes the target (images) of a profit split in the future. In current
forecast for fiscal year 2017, overseas ratio, excluding Max Life Insurance, accounts for
about 20%. Peers figures also dropped slightly, with Tokyo Marine being about 40%,
Sompo Japan below 30%. Are you going to raise the ratio before next mid-term
management plan starts foreseeing next acquisitions? That diagram here shows that the
ratio will be slightly below 40% over a mid-term. And then about 50% in the longer-term.
What is the time line to achieve expansion of International Business?

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

In relation to that, my third question is on how much you can spend. As described in Page
39, ESR has risen close to the upper end of the range. By accelerating disposals of
strategic equities, making some adjustments for shareholder returns, issuing as many
subordinated debts as possible, how much money could be made use of mainly for
International Business?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

With respect to the slow trend in Asia and Europe, this was due to natural disasters that
took place and the impact by major losses and also impact by foreign exchange. Overall,
International Business, accounts for approximately 20% of the profit, excluding profit from
India's Max Life Insurance. In fiscal year 2017, we have presented that our target for
overseas ratio is 50%. So I agree that our pace is rather slow.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of our business portfolio -- and when I talked about outlook for fiscal year 2017,
domestic non-life business accounts for 70%. This is because of a significant improvement
in profit of domestic automobile business. We welcome this very much. And we would like
to maintain such high profit level of domestic business. But thinking about the future, in
light of the diversification of business portfolio, it is important that the weight of domestic
life business should be about 50%.
In the business portfolio that we presented, in order to have domestic non-life business
to be below 50%, in the first step, life insurance and International business together
should account for 50%. Then in the next step, our International Business is going to
account for 50%. Our domestic non-life business was too high in weight in light of
diversification of business portfolio. Now the profit level of domestic non-life business is at
the level we wanted to achieve. So we would like to maintain the current level and focus
on the other half of the businesses.
In terms of our prospect for International Business, in terms of organic growth, starting
from Asia, there is a table in Page 61, in Asia, the standard level of profit is about JPY 20
billion. If life business in Asia is added, current level is approximately JPY 25 billion. We
expand our business in Asia, because we expect growth bonus of Asia. As a result of
internal reorganization in Asia, we anticipate organic growth in Asia at the level of about
JPY 40 billion.
Regarding Amlin, originally, our reinsurance business was about JPY 10 billion in size. And
by integrating Amlin, the forecast is about JPY 30 billion. By investing capital more for
reinsurance business and taking more active risk. And in joining full synergy with Amlin, we
anticipate JPY 40 billion level of organic growth is possible.
In addition, in Aioi Nissay Dowa International Business, which are mainly BIG and Toyota
Retail business, in fiscal year 2016, we had losses of about JPY 7.5 billion. In fiscal year
2017, we anticipate some improvement in BIG and for Toyota Retail business, we are
going to attain JPY 2 billion level of profit after negative factor in 2016 is gone. And we
anticipate BIG business to become profitable in 2018. So we anticipate about JPY 10
billion-or-so of profit. Organically in International Business, we anticipate JPY 100 billion-orso of growth.
Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

In the next step, in order to bring the level higher from current JPY 230 million in core
profit, it is necessary to grow International business by about JPY 30 billion to JPY 50
billion by way of M&A or participation in equity in some deals. We are going to be
selective in choosing deals in light of corporate synergy and harmonization in our business
and the management team. But also timing is very important for M&A. So in a speedy
manner, we are going to make judgment about M&A opportunities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Also how much can you spend on International business at the maximum?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

We have never mentioned how much we are able to spend in the past. But our current
capital buffer stands at about JPY 2.7 trillion. After deducting JPY 900 billion on earlywarning level, the capital buffer is about JPY 1.7 trillion. This capital buffer could fluctuate.
But based on the criteria that we have mentioned, within that range, we have room to be
active in M&A opportunities present -- at present. ESR maybe declined as a result of M&A,
which might not be favored by the investors. But our capital buffer is high enough to
afford recoverable M&A. Also we have a wide range of options in terms of capital
financing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

I'm Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. I have 2 questions. First, regarding decrease of
premium rate for automobile insurance, let me assume here that combined ratio over
mid-term is about 95% and currently, it is about 90%. Then if advisory rate is decreased
by 8% as reported by media, the combined ratio is likely to rise by about 5 points all at
once. As you presented, in light of consumption tax rate hike and review of statutory
interest rate, if advisory rate is indeed lowered by 8%, how much rate reduction would be
realized? Secondly, on shareholder returns, you mentioned the importance of a stable
dividend. In the future, would you continue to increase EPS from JPY 130 level or will it
start leveling off ?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Regarding your first question on automobile insurance, at present, the combined ratio is
about 92.6% on written basis. On E&I base, the combined ratio is going to be a little lower.
In my view, in the past the combined ratio was over 100% over a few years. But as for
non-life business, combined ratio should stay under 95% level, it could be below 90% or it
could be close to 100%. But in principle, 95% of combined ratio should be a reference for
the management of the company.
8% reduction on advisory rate by rating bureau has not been officially announced and it is
not approved either. If advisory rate is decreased by 8%, the applied rate will be down by
about 5% because applied rate includes other rates than risk rates. Even though advisory
rate is presented, we have certain allowance to change the rate even though advisory
rate is presented. Therefore, if there are factors for rate increase in the future, or any
other factors, we are able to reflect such factors.

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

As I mentioned before, if the consumption tax rate is increased, full year impact on
automobile insurance rate is around 1%. If statutory interest rate is decreased from 5% to
3%, that would mean around 1% impact on the applied rate of automobile insurance. Unit
cost for repair expense is gradually on the rise as well. So taking these factors into
account, I think, each player will compete so that combined ratio will roughly be around
95%.
Your second question was about dividend. As I mentioned before, we have never
decreased our dividend in the past. That does not mean that we will never decrease in
the future. But in principle, our policy is to increase our dividend. Therefore, once we paid
out a certain dividend, we make sure that level will be sustained over a few years. Our
group core profit target for fiscal year 2017 is JPY 230 billion, 50% of that, JPY 115 billion,
are distributable.
In the case of DPS of JPY 130, that would mean, it would be around JPY 80 billion. So
there is a room for increase in dividend. However, it is forecasted that we are going to
have a very hot summer this year with a number of typhoons. Therefore, there may be
some natural catastrophe losses. Because of those factors, it is not possible to make
commitment today. But our intention is to achieve dividend increase as much as possible
and take a flexible stance on share buyback. So I think JPY 130 is going to be in the
bottom to achieve stable dividend payment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

I'm Sato from Mizuho Securities. My question is about fire insurance business on Page 16.
Even though it is obviously affected by natural disaster losses, fire business, shown in
green bars, makes almost no contribution to underwriting profit over these years shown in
the chart. As a commentary (above) rates, efforts will be made to improve profitability of
Fire and Allied insurance. Fire business is, perhaps, one of the challenges in the domestic
non-life business. What makes you think that the environment is different today compared
to the past so that you are able to improve the profitability of fire business from now on?
Together, will this effort have anything to do with disposal of strategic equity holdings or
not anymore?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Excluding the flooding in Thailand and great earthquake in East Japan, fire has been lossmaking business since 2013. Main reason for this is that with large enterprises there was
excessive rate competition due to broker interference. And also the industry was not
robust enough on ELM management, including ROI management by insurance line. It was
not sufficient for insurance company to manage rating and underwriting guideline on
expected earnings basis. Now each company is focused on improved ELM management
and ROI management by insurance line.
We'll start -- now we are negotiating with our clients to normalize the rate. This effort will
not bear fruit over next 1 to two years. But over next two years, we are going to make
progress in ROI management by risk category and ELM management. And our peers are
going to make same efforts. As a result rate for fire insurance is gradually becoming
normalized. And this is the intention of the management of insurance companies. There is
Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

no relation at all with the strategic equity holdings. So the point is that penetration of
thorough ROI management has finally started in your company as well as your
competitors.

FINAL

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

I'm Majima from Tokai Tokyo Research Institute. My question is regarding the mass media
coverage of large manufacturer incurring significant losses. And this manufacturer seems
to have business with your company. Even though I'm not able to confirm impairment or
bad debt allowance, what is the outstanding balance of investment and loss with this
manufacturer, if any? Also generally speaking, is D&O insurance coverage available to the
management of large enterprises?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

I would like to refrain from commenting on a specific client. In the event of impairment or
nonperforming debt, we manage them appropriately and they will not cause significant
impact on the management of the company. Generally speaking, I think the participation
rate of D&O insurance which covers the ability of directors and officers is quite high
among major Japanese enterprises in Japan. And how much coverage is given is different
depending on each policy. So it is not possible to give you a general answer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Page 23 shows that MSI Primary Life forecast premium income for fiscal year 2017 is JPY
800 billion, 20% decline compared to the actual of fiscal year 2016. The peer company
Dai-ichi Frontier Life also forecast a decrease in premium income. Is it correct to
understand that bancassurance for savings-type insurance products is now an adverse
environment because of guarantee rate decrease for yen currency products and also
impact of a disclosure of sales commission fee for foreign currency products?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Because the mainstay product of MSI Primary Life is foreign currency products, impact by
lowered interest rate is very small. Regarding the disclosure of sales commission fee, we
take necessary action together with each of financial institutions. Its impact on overall
topline is not significant. As for the Australian dollar-based product, which is a (mainstay)
product for MSI Primary Life, the foreign exchange rate and interest rate fluctuation is
significant. Therefore, depending on the level of the market, the customers' appetite for
purchase changes. Therefore, in the past years, when we set a year forecast in the
beginning of the fiscal year, we take a conservative stance.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I'm (Eniwa) from Citigroup Securities. My questions are on expense ratio and M&A.
According to Page 18, slight increase in expense ratio is forecasted this fiscal year. I
understand the commentaries below explaining why. Last year, in this meeting, I heard you
aimed to be below 30% in the future. Knowing that the commercial rate will be raised this
fiscal year, I'd like to know how fast I should expect you to achieve sub-30%?

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

FINAL

Secondly, on M&A, in your early comment, I understood that you will not exclude M&A
centering on overseas. Upon post-merger harmonization of Amlin into the group, are you
becoming confident that you're capable of conducting M&A sized under JPY 1 trillion every
few or so years? Can you share what changes you experienced internally within the group
in a (quantitative) sense?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

As a result of the impact by agency commission fee driven by decrease in CALI and as a
result of system investment, expense ratio is at 32.5%. But excluding these factors,
group-wide, I think, we achieved around 31%. Our group company, Aioi Nissay Dowa,
centers on retail in its business model. Therefore, their expense ratio tends to be high
because of the commission fee. However, its combined ratio is better than the other
companies because of high profitability of retail business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In order for our group to become the world's leading insurance and financial services
group, in order to compete against the global players, it is necessary to achieve expense
ratio below 30%. On the other hand, if we do not make necessary investments for new
business model such as Fintech and InsurTech, or if we do not make investments to avoid
risks such as cyber risk, as we stick too much on expense ratio, we would probably suffer
from significant losses.
So at this moment, it's necessary for us to continue to invest in system over next few
years, including some advanced investments. And we need to look at our expense ratio
excluding those investments. In our next mid-term management plan, we would like to
present our milestones to reach to expense ratio below 30%. So now, we are examining
what investments are needed to make in what scale.
As for M&A, I mentioned previously, affinity in terms of corporate culture. In the case of MS
Amlin, it was a very good partner in that sense. Their management team and their
employees had a very good affinity and as a result, synergy was achieved very smoothly.
And also our global meetings are participated by the top management of our Asian
operation and also management team of Amlin, together with executive officers of Mitsui
Sumitomo Marine. Therefore, we think that affinity in terms of corporate culture is
extremely important. In that sense, I think we have been making various good progress in
creating synergy with Amlin.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

I'm Sasaki from Merrill Lynch Securities. I have 2 questions. First of all, on telematics. You
plan to launch first PHYD-type telematics product in Japan after second half of this fiscal
year. What is going to be your marketing approach on this product? Who are the
customers, which distribution channel, what will be the sales methodology? Let me know
as much as you could disclose. Secondly, on governance, your company does not seem to
discuss introduction of the committee system. In light of global standards, company with
committee system appears more common. What are your thoughts on changing the
governance structure?

Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-25

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

FINAL

As for the governance structure, together with outside directors, we have been
discussing different possibilities. As for now, the most important point is that outside
directors can fully exercise their check and balance capability under any governance
structure. And we think that under the current governance structure, we are able to
achieve such check and balance by outside directors. Therefore, at this moment, it is not
necessary to make changes in the current structure.
The pros and the cons of the governance structures are not clear today. But we do not
mean to stick to the current structure. Every year, we exchange opinion with the outside
directors and outside stakeholders to capture different views. Therefore, our stance is
flexible about governance structure. Every year, we examine different possibilities. And if
we judge that change on the structure is necessary, we are going to redesign very quickly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding telematics, at present, it is not possible for me to discuss details about this
telematics product. But as described on the top of Page 8, Aioi Nissay Dowa and Toyota
Motors together developed PAYD. In extension to this development, a new product is
now being developed. I'm not able to tell you any more information today. But in principle,
this development is in linkage with Toyota's connected cost strategy.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

