Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Dieter Wemmer, Chief Financial Officer
Oliver Schmidt, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie , Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Michael Igor Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results of the
Second Quarter 2017. For your information, this conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Abby. Yeah, good afternoon from my side as well, and welcome to today's conference
call. Before I hand over to Dieter, let me apologize for the delayed publication of our documents
this morning and any inconvenience this may have caused. Well, I hope it was worth to wait and all
the highlights you'll get now from Dieter.

Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Okay. Good afternoon to everybody on the call. I'm running through our presentation relatively
quickly. And then, we have enough time for the Q&A session. So let me start with the half-year
summary. I think the Group started really excellently into the first six months. Our operating profit in
Q2 is matching almost, I think, to €2 million or €3 million our Q1 operating profit, so we're ending up
with €5,860 million for the first six months.
I will not comment individual segments here because I do this when we go into the details of the
second quarter. With €3.8 billion net income, I think we have also a very good start into the year.
Some 17% higher than last year. And I think at the end of the presentation, we will then also bit
discuss what does it mean for the full-year outlook and what are reasonable expectations?



FINAL

So, let's go into the second quarter in more detail. Revenues flat €30 billion, 2% up, shareholders
net income 83%, up to close to €2 billion, and operating profit at €2.9 billion. The sharp increase in
net income, 83%, well, it is based on 22% increase in operating profit. And then, no negative news
as we had it, a year ago. Last year, we had a number of write-downs on equities and we had
booked Korea as held for sale, which dampened the second quarter 2016, I think, by some €200
million in net income. So, but like-on-like, a 23% increase in operating profit rates, and you will see
with very strong performance of the segments and only a very small impact of one-offs.
Let's first have a look on the balance sheet. Equity €64 billion, yes, it is €3.5 billion down compared
to quarter-end 2017. However, we paid out €3.4 billion as a dividend. We executed another €1
billion of our €3 billion share buyback in the second quarter, and we had a €1 billion impact of the
weaker U.S. dollar. So, that's – then of course, offset by €2 billion net income.
So, that explains actually the movement in our net capital, so it's mainly a return to shareholders.
The Solvency ratio is reflecting that our balance sheet is really in a very strong position, 219%. And
as you all are aware, our management range for the Solvency ratio is 180% to 220% that means
with 219% we are clearly at the upper end.

Bloomberg Transcript

And please, as a little reminder, the €3 billion share buyback is already completely deducted from
our Solvency ratio, we did this at last quarter and we will continue to spend some money by yearend, so the share buyback is not only out of the Solvency, it will also in cash terms, soon out of the
door.
We also have further accrued dividend for 2017, so when you have in a quarter €2 billion earnings,
then the dividend accrual, is at the (5:01) 50% mark, €1 billion. Our key sensitivities, I think, they're
good use because we can directly test what we published as key sensitivities in Q1 and see when
we move to the next page whether we can use the key sensitivities actually to calculate how our
Solvency ratio moved during the quarter.
And it is actually when you use the movement in interest rates as well as the movement in credit
spreads and you interpolate with our disclosed sensitivities then we have actually a 4-4 (5:56) split
of Solvency II ratio movement. So, it's a 15% or 15 basis point movement of the 20-year euro swap
and a 30 basis point tightening of our cost severance spreads that gives you each four points and
that explains the Solvency movement. Yes, that would end up with eight. We had one negative,
which you can't delete from the sensitivities, we lost the €1 billion as I mentioned from the weaker
U.S. dollar in our consolidation and that €1 billion is then, obviously, not covered by sensitivity. But
that explains very much what happened into our Solvency numbers during the quarter, also, maybe
interesting to observe is it is mainly a reduction in risk capital where the own funds stayed pretty
stable.
So then, let's move to the first segment, our P&C segment. Yes, we have continued really great
growth from our Allianz Worldwide Partners business, this 20% plus clearly continued the success
story of the previous quarters. It's a strong growth in travel business, a lot of U.S. travel is included
here, but also we have expanded our network and service capabilities in Middle East for our
international Health business and that is the other pocket of additional growth compared to
previous years.
The overall number was 0.6% is maybe a bit disappointing. I have only to give you two
explanations, I think by and large our businesses are continued to be in good shape. But Turkey
has a forced reduction in premium volume as the government reduced tariff – motor tariffs by 30%
and as we are the market leader in motor, that of course, is also visible in our numbers and in our
large corporate business AGCS.
We have not done in Q2 any big structured deals, we had, for example, last year some €200
million in our premium number, but this is a lumpy business which comes not really exactly quarter-



FINAL

by-quarter. So, over the year, we are not seeing this as a big setback. The other reduction in AGCS
is our participation in the Corp business in the U.S., that's runoff in the first quarter so we don't
have any Corp premium book that is then visible not only in the premium income of AGCS, actually
it affected also their expense ratio negatively as this is a low expense business. But I'll talk about
the expense ratio a little bit later in more detail.
Coming to page 13, I think we have a great story on our operating profit in the Property-Casualty
segment. Underwriting results, substantially up. And I explained the movement of the loss ratio in
detail, but what I like the same is actually that investment income stayed pretty much at last year's
level, which I think is as important as good underwriting results.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's talk about the underwriting results. We have a 93.7% combined ratio, so we should be very
happy that we are below our 94% targets that is – I think we are moving in the right direction, but
we are not yet fully at our 94% target. Actually, to keep the story short, the underlying loss ratio in
our calculation improved 1.7 percentage points, compared to last year. We have a good
improvement but that is hard to say whether it's normal. I think we are at the moment at a
relatively normal level of weather-related losses and large losses that is about the five-year
average. So lower than last year. Last year, we were above the average, and cat is, with 1%, clearly
below our normalized assumption, but I think we are still on a very good level. What we don't like is
development of our expense ratio, yes, there are all these explanations why the expense ratio
goes up, but I think that is where Allianz will clearly spend even more focus on to drive it in the right
direction.
It doesn't harm a great result in the second quarter, but the level is not good enough for our midterm ambition level. So moving to the individual OEs, actually the operating profit is carried by a
broad base of units, combined ratio could be well spread, actually we have, since I'm presenting
the numbers here, the smallest share in businesses above 100%, it is just Latin America left at the
moment and there it's mainly Brazil. We are – that is just 3% of the overall portfolio that means 97%
are below 100%, that is actually another way to explain why our overall performance is so strong.
Moving to the investment income page on the P&C business, I mentioned already interest and
similar income even a little bit higher than last year. Sure, second quarter benefits also from
dividend income out of stock investments which will not be this strong in the third quarter and
fourth quarter, but I think we are doing well with our well-diversified investment strategy because
when you look at the upper right hand side of the chart, the plain returns on fixed income
investments are still continue to fall slightly. So, duration is very much unchanged, cash flow into the
segment, I think, is fine, we have a slight increase in our asset base. So, I think actually all
parameters for the P&C business in very good shape.
So, I have described the P&C business already in good shape. So, now I have to find the right
terminology for our Life segment, it is actually in better shape than the Property-Casualty business.
3.4% new business margin, our strategic product shift mix is actually well established. Yes, the
trends are now very much variations quarter-over-quarter. Second quarter, we had much stronger
sales on unit-linked without guarantees. Therefore, they have dominated and increased in their
overall share, but I think that we are playing between these segments, capital-efficient products,
the unit-linked without guarantees, and protection and health, gives me really a lot of confidence
that we are clearly hitting our strategic target in the Life business.
Maybe it's also one of the reasons that the capital consumption as you could see in the Solvency II
waterfall that we are not consuming a lot of additional capital over the maturing old businesses.
And 3% growth in new business is not a big number; however, when you see that we had to drop –
to compensate a drop in the U.S. of 22% in new business volume, compared to a year ago, I think
the 3% is a strong number that our overall segment is really in a good shape to compensate when
one of the OEs has a weaker quarter.



FINAL

And in the U.S., we are probably have not yet fully adjusted in the new world post the DOL rule
(15:53) implementation. And I think, that it's actually still our upside for the quarters to come, so
also here the Life segment in very good shape and let's now move to the operating profit.
Operating profit €1.1 billion, strong movement from the loadings and fees, actually the investment
margin as a base point margin completely unchanged to a year ago. The €38 million plus is just
equal to the underlying growth of the reserves you earn your margin on. And so, technical margin
plus €70 million is a return of the technical margin more to a normal level. We had last year
negative one-offs, therefore that is the main driver of the €70 million, maybe €50 million is one-off,
€20 million is improvement of the technical margin.
Still, we don't want to oversell our Life business, so therefore, internally we calculate all the
assumptions a little bit tighter and we see more a flat €1 billion as our underlying normalized profit
number for Life. And then growing of course, this new business evolvement and reserve cost, so it
is not that we see it as a flat number for the future, but as a basis for building on this reserve and
new business costs.
And with the new business value, we have generated last quarter and also the first quarter we are
probably, slightly conservative for the future but that is better to outperform than to underperform.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will then go, again, also for the segment into this split by countries. Page 23, €469 million new
business value, broad based support, when I complained that the U.S. was falling a little bit short in
new business volume, where they continue to grow is actually in new business value because the
margin is so much better than a year ago, that we could also compensate for a 20% reduction in
volume.
A very nice development in new business value in Italy and France substantially up, but also our
Asia-Pacific, I would say, now unleashed from the burden of Korea started to excel in growth and
new business margin. And also our smaller units producing very good additional value growth
number, so that €469 million is, I think, a new top position for the Life segment of Allianz. And that
in a yield environment, which is certainly not pretty.
Usual page on the investment margin, I think, I have already mentioned everything, also in the Life
business we see a more or less unchanged current yield. Last year, it was 110 basis points to use a
second digit and this year it's 109 basis points, so we are – we dropped 1 basis point. The
guarantees also dropped 1 basis point from 53 basis points to 52 basis points, so very much
unchanged picture and that explains why the absolute euro investment margin grew by good 3.5%
to €1.35 billion.
I would also like to point out that with all the ALM management we are doing, but also with the
help that Korea is out of the books, and interest rates went a little bit up in the first half year, our
asset duration in the Life segment is now slightly ahead our liability duration. That is not taking out
input rate sensitivity in our Solvency calculation, first of all, duration is only an average
measurement and our duration matching is clearly much better for the first 30 years and anything
above. Plus additionally, a Solvency II calculation has a lot of second order effects even when the
duration matching would be perfect for 70 years, there would be still input price sensitivity
remaining because the diversification between the various risk classes is almost varying these
interest rate levels and that you can never get out of the system.
So, page 27. I think there's a needed advertisement for the German life and insurance industry.
There was in our last conference call was – we had a very interesting discussions about SFCRs. I
actually made a comment that I'm not really very excited about it, but at least I think we got a very
detailed and written confirmation where the industries of the various countries are standing. And
when I compare the countries among each other, the German life insurance industry looks to me



really good and what we have put here on this page actually is a market share buckets in the
various categories.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So in the top category, where we are a strong contributor and we're in total 56% of the market is,
it's a category above 350%. On the right hand side, you see that when you subtract the balance
sheet transitional, it's only 34% of the market in this category including ourselves as we are not
using the balance sheet transitional.
But overall only small shares of the market are below 100%, without the balance sheet transitional.
And when you do this in other large Life markets, I think the numbers look a little bit different.
Therefore, all this bashing of the German life insurance industry is maybe not enough fact-based.
And I would consider a rethinking of this one, but that is also from our point of view, your argument
which we have discussed in many meetings that we have to rescue everybody else has from this
slide on no basis.
And with this, I would move to the Asset Management industry, and our segment and our
performance in the Asset Management industry. Yes, assets under management, flat at €1,400
billion, a tremendous inflow of €55 billion got eaten up by the weaker dollar. So, we show flat AUM,
but I have to say that the inflows in particular for PIMCO, were at a record level. We have the €51.6
billion, it is all in normal PIMCO product, €51.4 billion went into what we have defined some years
ago as non-traditional product, and even on the traditional that is total return fund and similar, we
had a net inflow of €0.2 billion, which is I think an interesting footnote to make. €50 billion, I think it
is €20 billion was – almost €20 billion was a single mandate that is a long-term fund and certainly
not fully paying the average fee, but the rest as you can also when we look at the fee
development is paying the average fee, we are used to in the PIMCO business and clearly
PIMCO's performance on a 12 month basis, on a 36 month basis is clearly supporting the inflows.
Yes, I know there are some funds in the U.S. who are advertising even bigger inflow numbers in the
second quarter, but they are 100% passive, here this is 100% actively managed, asset
management business and that puts, I think, PIMCO at a very exceptional level in the asset
management industry.
So, not to forget it Allianz Global Investors, €3 billion inflows, it's actually a pretty good number for
the size, but also for the business mix Allianz Global Investors has. And we are also very happy that
they continue to contribute to our success story in the asset management space.
When we translate this into revenues 4% up for Allianz Global Investors, 8% up for PIMCO, and 8%
up in total. Extends the basis for a strong P&L of the quarter, because when you have 8% more
revenues and expense is overall a little bit down that clearly tells you that profit growth will be
bigger and the 17% profit growth coming from PIMCO. We're really in good shape.
Another 2018 strategic target was for us to bring PIMCO to a turnaround and below the 60% cost
income ratio. I think with the 58.8% in the second quarter 2017 that is a good start for next year's
60% target. So another opportunity maybe to have some outperformance.
Moving just to the Corporate segment, there is actually not a lot of things, which happened, very
uneventful quarter with some little movements, central costs more or less unchanged, some
better investment results from the strong central cash buffers, and that explains most of the
numbers in our Corporate segment.
When we then move to the summary chart, non-operating items is almost a flat number, realized
gains making up for the – actually it's a debt – the interest cost on our external debt, and we have
booked €150 million of restructuring charges that is for one restructuring in Germany, but also for
our central technology company.



FINAL

The impairment figure of €59 million is fairly low and includes the write-down on Banco Popular.
The rest of Banco Popular is in our Life segment. Maybe I don't know whether this is a question on
your list. We had beginning of Q2, an exposure of €116 million out of Banco Popular stocks. With the
action of the banking facility in Europe, that got written-down to zero. And we have shown partially
this write-down here in the Corporate segment's impairments, but the rest is in the Life segment.
And I think post taxes because, the event is fully tax-deductible, I think, and in some parts, we have
also policyholder participations, I think net it is some €45 million, €43 million – sorry, €39 million is
net-net.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter is 27%. We have some tax-exempt realized gains and
losses. Therefore, the rate is low. And also the Spanish impairment, as we had assumed that it is
not tax deductible, we had actually taken a careful view in Q1, which now got reversed in Q2, with
the final write-down of Banco Popular and that supported also our low tax rate.
When we talk about taxes, I think in our half-year 2017, we have also moved forward in what we are
seeing in the last year, so already a consumption of our tax loss carryforwards, that means actually
that from a cash point of view, our paid income taxes are actually lower than our accounted income
taxes, another source of additional cash flow beyond the dividends paid by our subsidiaries.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then another extra page for our usual run-through page 39, the today's announced deal with –
between Allianz UK and Liverpool Victoria. I think that is from a strategic point of view a very
interesting activity. On one hand, I think we are moving forward in our positioning as a strong
customer-centric insurer, because that is what LV gets told and awarded for in the UK industry for
great customer service.
On the other hand, I think we do here a deal to create industry logic, that industry needs more
consolidation because scale really matters. The transaction looks a bit complicated, so let me
explain it a little bit. In step one, we are acquiring 49% of LV's P&C business. Additionally, we
transfer parts of our retail business to the LV carrier, so all the motor and homeowners business.
And on the other hand, they will transfer out their commercial business because the Allianz UK will
then fully focus on commercial business, so actually another €300 million of commercial business
will also for us create nicely scale on our commercial business.
And in the retail, we are transferring most of it, what stays back is our Petplan business because
that is anyway not running under the Allianz brand, it has its own product brand, Petplan. And it
would not make any sense to combine it, there would also be no operational additional synergies.
So, I think, going forward, we create really a market position of scale. When you just add in
commercial and retail the premium, you come up to on a 2016 pro forma basis to £3.7 billion.
When you think about that Allianz is also writing large corporate business and credit insurance
business (34:05) business and some travel insurance, probably, when we add up all our P&C
premium, that will then probably end up with a number two in the UK market, but we have not
done this. Because in the end, it has nothing to do with the industry logic, we are creating here.
It is the scale for investments, for bringing know-how together and really, creating a great service
platform for customers.
(34:37) for 100% of the business, it would be a €1 billion. So that it's roughly on the business – did
run at around 95% combined ratio. So, when you see, how the market is moving at the moment in
motor, so the estimate is 11 times earnings based on 2018 numbers.
The deal is fixed at 130% Solvency ratio, and that means the acquired business standalone
Solvency ratio under standard model.



FINAL

So I'm not taking about moving the standard model to internal model, but already the
diversification effect in our Group model from local 130% gives you a substantial diversification as it
is almost all underwriting risk and it is probably ending up in the Group model at 200% roughly. So,
therefore, it's really the only consumption of Solvency what the deal makes, is the goodwill we
have in the transaction. So we acquire first 50%, then 70%, can be – go up to 70%. So the goodwill
on a 100% basis to use round numbers would be about half, that is just sort of €500 million. That
means even for the second step for 70%, you have 70 times €500 million, so €350 million
goodwill and €350 million goodwill with roughly a percentage point in our Solvency calculation.
And maybe something I have forgotten to mention, as we have announced the completion of our
bank disposal in Germany, Oldenburgische Landesbank, we expect this deal to close also by the
end of the year, that gives us actually in the Solvency II calculation good €300 million free up. So, I
would say closing the deal with Liverpool Victoria and closing the bank disposal will roughly give a
wash in our Solvency calculation.
And that is I think more or less the end of my presentation. And then I would come to our Q&A and
really looking forward to it.

Q&A
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And we will take our first question from Michael Huttner with JPMorgan.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you very much. These are amazing numbers. So I don't have many questions or not very big
ones. The first one, already detailed, Turkey, the combined ratio was stable, the prices were down
and you're market leader in (38:11). Maybe on Brazil, you could say when you think you might
actually reach the combined ratio breakeven? I think the figure was 107% in Q2. And then the third
one is the U.S. turnaround. So, we had Fireman's Fund and then you had bits of losses left last year
in Q1. With the AGCS at 97.4%, is the U.S. part of that also breakeven? And amazing results. Thank
you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thanks so much, Michael, for the question. I think on Turkey, your observation is fully right. This
decision to cut the prices that is going into the portfolio of course only with the annual renewal.
There was no fixed date that we had to change all the prices for the customers. So, the combined
ratio will certainly go into the wrong direction month-over-month. In operating profits, we make up
with strong investment income. But I think, for 2017, it will be still okay. 2018, Turkey will certainly be
more under pressure.
On the other hand, I have to say, we are as a market leader, we have a pretty strong expense
base. We are very efficient in the market. We also can with agility move stronger and close to other
line of business, et cetera. So there are a lot of counter measurements. I believe, there will be
almost a cleanup among competition when the government is keeping this rule too long in place.
And when the pressure on other competitors is becoming too big, I assume that the government
will then also reconsider and then we should also have some benefit from this. Brazil was on a very
good rate, but I think, I mentioned already last time that, we have written two large contracts which
are unfortunately not helpful for reaching the target below 100% combined ratio and therefore, we
see a delayed development there. We have to get rid of the two contracts again and then Brazil
should be there.



FINAL

Fireman's Fund has actually still a higher combined ratio than the average, but it got much closer to
the average and it is playing I think just below the 100%. It's still the expense base is still too high
because we need still to pay for too many IT systems and the full completion of the new IT
platform will only be in 2020.
But, loss ratio development, very much on track and we are quite happy that we did it, it's not a
sick leave exercise, before you create this impression, I think it was really a fundamental
turnaround of the business and bringing operation and also analyzing to the level which is equal to
the Allianz quality.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you.

Operator
And we will take our next question from Peter Eliot with Kepler Cheuvreux.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. The first one is on your Life ROE target of 10%, I mean, you're approaching
that for all your businesses now. But you also – you've got number of businesses that are
substantially above it and I'm not wondering whether 10% is the right target for those, I mean, in
the case of Germany Life, that still comes with a very high Solvency II ratio as you've shown. And
I'm just wondering, how much you can work on some of the better performing businesses and
whether, for example, Germany needs to be that well capitalized?
Second question...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Sorry.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

No, go ahead, yes, I was already jumping to the answer, yes, go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Sorry, I was taking too long. The second one was on M&A. I mean, you've highlighted that the deal
favorably moved the dial in terms of Solvency II. So, I guess my assumption is that today's
announcement doesn't really impact your appetite for any further deals and I wonder if you can
sort of confirm that and give us sort of any hints at how you might otherwise prevent the ratio
going above the top end of the range? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Very good. Let's start with the Life ROE. Our 10% number is not an average number. So, 10%
number is clearly a benchmark for every of our Life OEs and say, when you want to stay with your
Life business in long-term in the Allianz family, you are better above 10%. So, it is a minimum hurdle
to participate. And the average is of course actually, I don't know the number for second quarter,
but I guess it is some 12%, 13% around without doing more precise calculation. The one who are
still missing on our – for six months, it is 13%. So, I guess it's even slightly better than – for the
second quarter.



FINAL

There's still some of the big ones missing, but when you look at the (44:44) also of the other
Allianz subsidiaries and I'm sure that some of you have done this. Actually, we are very well
capitalized and can further stream up capital from these entities and then they are also in the 10%
category. The new business consumption is not this strong from a capital perspective. So, actually
Oliver just gave me the Q2 number. We have 14.2% was the average Life ROE number for the
second quarter. I'm not saying that we will achieve this every quarter, but clearly, higher than 10%.
M&A, yes, when you look at our Solvency II numbers, our Solvency II numbers are just saying, we
have accrued €1 billion for the dividend this quarter that as a dividend paid next year and still we
have generated 7 points. 7 points means rounded €2 billion excess. So we have €2 billion actually
already generated this quarter, we could do something.
And I think, the deals are driven much more by what type of deal is available, what deal can you do
at reasonable prices, because you can say that we paid a full price for Liverpool Victoria
participation. I think with the opportunities included in it, that is clearly an accretive transaction. And
therefore, when we find similar deals, then certainly, our appetite is unstopped, but you also see, it
takes quite some time to find the right partners here.
For me, very important is that we are also prepared for creating scale to put obviously the industry
logic that large scale business, top service to the customer, modern digital processes is more
important than that we get everything 100% and can put our Allianz brand on it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Can I just come back quickly on the first point because, I guess, my point was, when I look at
the returns of the Life division and how those could change going forward? I am thinking that
actually, it's probably the regions already above 10% that possibly can contribute to further
improvements in more than those that are below 10%, perhaps it's the wrong answer is to look at
the ones below 10% for improvement. Wondering if (47:47) could actually be made even more
efficient?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Then, sorry, I really missed your point. I think, the two big contributors above 10% are our German
Life and the Health business, and, yes, certainly, we always try to optimize, but I think that model is
probably more growing at current levels whether this creates much more ROE in IFRS terms, not
sure that this would be the focus where we find the biggest improvement. But certainly very safe
on the performance, and I also don't see too many changes here coming forward. Certainly, the
U.S. is probably the business of scale where I would see also good opportunities for further growth
and expansion.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

And our Asian business is, yes, well, it still needs some years to get really to scale, but from a
dynamic, in very good shape.

Operator
And we will take our next question from Thomas Seidl with Bernstein.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. First question on Liverpool transaction, I wonder how you would
describe the strategic fit, Dieter? I think, Allianz specifically withdrew largely from (49:40) UK motor



because of competitive pressures, you're now the largest leader (49:44) of Hastings, and now
with this transaction you will reenter probably the most competitive space in the insurance market
globally, UK motor, which runs at roughly at around 96% combined ratio.

FINAL

So, I wonder, what the strategic fit and also on the commercial line side ,you're acquiring a
portfolio which runs well above 100% combined over the years, they're not really profit making, so
that's my first question.
Second, you already hinted at this (50:15) you're paying 2 times book M&A, look at your implied PE,
you expect Liverpool to improve 10%, 15% of earnings compared to the last two, three years. So,
are you not at a risk here buying at the peak level into this venture?
And the third question very important one I think, for future earnings, you already commented on
the stability of the regular investment income, 2 bps down in P&C, 1 bps down in Life, this
compares – this is quite a contrast to previous years when you always had a like 20%, 25% (50:54)
in the regular yield and this despite falling reinvestment yields. So, what's going on? Why can you
now all of a sudden keep regular yields stable?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I think, that's a very good question, Thomas, and I take up the challenge. So, first of all, I think
we withdraw from both the direct markets with greenfield activity, where here we are investing in a
scale business. Clear, very good customer position plays very well in the aggregator space and
makes money.
Are we investing at the peak? Well, I think Ogden is in the balance sheet and the rate prices in the
market are actually at the moment pretty good. I think when you read the half year announcement
of the direct insurer, and I am sure you have seen it, whether you look at direct line or issuer
yesterday. Actually, the trends for the UK motor markets are at the moment very strong. That
means, in the transition periods, when we have to do the improvement of systems and creating
the synergies, the market is supporting this very well.
The 2016 combined ratio of LV in total was when I take out Ogden 94.1% or something like this that
includes the commercial business. And in commercial, I think our organization is pretty strong. We
do hear a renewal right transfer that means we will include it in our more efficient operation. We
will include it also in our underwriting processes and we have no doubt that we get this done also
to the right numbers. So I see this actually as a very good opportunity and also, now, from a
portfolio point of view, investing at the moment into British pounds, I think, this is also a reasonable
timing.
The stable P&C investment income...

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

And Life.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yes. And Life. So, our investment income is not only driven by the fixed income rate, we are talking
every quarter about our growing investments in alternative investments. So when we are growing
above €110 billion, €120 billion, we have today announced another large transaction together with a
Canadian pension fund. We have bought for €1.5 billion, a Spanish gas pipe – or a share in Spanish
gas pipeline network, the Canadians did €1 billion, we did €500 million in the transaction.
So, that is another example how we generate cash flows, but also the dividend flow from the stock
investments which come on top are also pretty good. And I carefully mentioned, I hope at least, I



did, that the second quarter might have some isometric or a periodical, because in the second
quarter, you have more dividend income from European stocks than you have in other quarters. So
therefore, in the third and fourth quarter, I would still expect some decline, but not as pronounced
for the whole year as you rightfully mentioned for the previous years.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Maybe one follow-up, if I may, on the Liverpool deal, their policyholders not need to approve this
transaction, Liverpool being a neutral?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

It's a P&C company, it's being held by the Life company and the Life company has approved it, and
you are right, there is policyholder, a funds committee in the Life company and of course they have
approved the transaction.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
And we'll take our next question from James Shuck from Citi. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon. I have three questions, please. Firstly, on the Solvency II capital position, so
your target is 180% to 220% and you've agreed to (56:12) everything and you're still blowing up at
the top end of that range. My question is really about at what stage will you run the company at the
midpoint of that target range? I think your argument in the past has been, well, the world is bit
risky, our balance sheet is bit volatile, we'd prefer to keep some flexibility. At what stages does
that change? Is it sort of two, three years when we actually see you move down to the midpoint of
that range? What needs to actually happen for us to get there? That's the first question, please.
Secondly, on the Liverpool Victoria deal, just in terms of conceptually, I think it's quite interesting
seeing a mutual do something like this. And I'm wondering if you look around the rest of Europe. Is
this something that, if it works well that (57:05) for Allianz to be able to partner up with other
mutuals? Do you think other mutuals in Europe might look to try and release some capital from the
non-Life businesses in particular?
And then thirdly, I'd just like to get your thoughts on the GDPR, not so much in terms of kind of
data integrity and what happens if someone hacks into your systems, but more in terms of how it
might actually be used as an opportunity for you. I'm thinking about the portability of data and
whether that might mean you can partner with banks, with other commercial enterprises in order
to use that data and to be able to sell into their networks? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Okay. That's a very interesting question, James. Well, when we would move to the midpoint, that
would actually mean we have to give up the range and just say it is 200% and full stop. I would
actually see going forward much more the question, can we move the range to a maybe
potentially smaller range and/or can be moved to midpoint downward. That would be more of a
discussion I think going forward has some likelihood.
At the moment, yes, when we could invest in good deals and when other mutuals would call us
and ask for similar transactions when the terms are reasonable and good and create accretive
transaction, we would certainly invest more than 2 points of our Solvency ratio into it. And I think
that is actually also the best thing to make our solvency ratio less volatile is by clearly expanding



FINAL

the underwriting (59:09). Therefore, the LV deal is – I think actually for the size of the deal, we are
talking already too much about it. If you see it as a prototype and more opportunities, then I would
love to see it as a starting point for similar developments and 5 points, 10 points of Solvency ratio
in such deals would be a really great use of capital.
The GDPR is a very complicated exercise for all, not only for financials, actually for all companies
who have customer data. We have built up a large project to be able to be compliant with
everything. And I think we will be. This is a business opportunity that is excellent idea we should
follow up on. At the moment, it is much more the fight, are we ready in time, because (60:29)
partially, it is a usual rough (60:33) idea, it starts with a good concept and then it gets into many
costly details, how to implement it. But I think it backs through our colleagues and say can we make
a real business out of it. So, thank you for the idea, James.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Dieter.

Operator
We will take our next question from Arjan van Veen with UBS.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you. I have just a couple of follow-up questions on the LV deal. So just in terms of how the
deal is structured, how do you expect synergies from the deal? I assume by the renewal rights, you
can do a switch off the parts of the business that are being (61:25) by each business as other retail
business within Allianz and then the commercial business within LV? And then, secondly in 2019,
when you take majority of ownership, do you then fold in the company's costs together and
extract further expense and/or capital synergies? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yes. Well, I think you answered it already, almost with your question. The first step has a two cost
renewal rights. That means, we will already use the scale on motor and homeowners on one end,
and on the other end on the commercial business. But the two-year transition period is allowing
also LV to separate their operations between P&C and Life. And we will create in this process also
probably also using some of our P&C software packages, actually a new operating platform for the
retail business, so that we create here is a right starting point.
And then, over time, probably also more company-related synergies, but that would be then in a
later step. The first two years, it will be really on creating specific and efficient operations for the
two different businesses and run it with more scale.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Operator
We will take our next question from Paul De'Ath with RBC Capital Markets.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yes. Hi, there. And just a few more questions from me. Thanks. And firstly, just looking at the
expense ratio in P&C, this is kind of one area that you kind of (63:25) and how much of the
movement in the expense ratio is actually down to kind of business mix because you obviously
talked about in the slide deck the increase in kind of higher expense ratio travel policies, for
example, and again, essentially how much is down to that? And if it does down to that, then do you



still want to battle against that? Or would you be willing to let expense ratio move up in that
situation? And that's first question?

FINAL

Second one, on the Life business and the new business margin on protection health was
exceptionally good in the quarter and is that a level that's in anyway sustainable going forward or is
there kind of something going on in that?
And then the last question on PIMCO (64:26), if we strip out the big single mandate, is if €10 billion
flows a quarter or a month rather, and a reasonable run rate to assume going forward, do you
think? And that's the question. Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Paul, I think out of the expense ratio, it's between 40 and 50 basis point is business mix driven.
And it's also a split – do we want to accept it, well, yes – yes and no, but we still work for an
improved expense ratio of more than 0.5%. Costs and the business mix shift to your starting point
up then it's harder to show a visible reduced expense ratio. But I think we'd also see we have the
one-offs as the AGCS premium income was very low, so therefore I would not take the 28.8% now
as a normalized starting point.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have still to see for next year how we get close or below the 28%. The Life new business
margin is, I think is a bit better. There is certainly a little bit of additional improvement from our
French health and protection business in it. I think there is a little bit of one-off character included in
it, but not dramatic we have in the pure protection business clearly a new business margin larger
than 6%.
And what has also improved well is individual health business in France, also very strong new
business margin. Our group business is still a little bit of the laggard (66:47) in this calculation. I
think it has contributed in Q2 with some 3.2% new business margin and there was a little one-off
included in this, but the 3% new business margin for the French group business would be our midterm target anyway, so that means the number should stay close to this level.
PIMCO run rate, yeah, well, it's around $10 billion is probably a good number for the time being.
The fight for customer inflows are pretty tough. Will we have every month the same success? I
don't know and I can't give you a guarantee for this, but the last 12 months we have certainly
produced a wonderful track record.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Excellent. Thanks.

Operator
We will take our next question from Farooq Hanif with Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, there. Just three questions. Firstly, on AWP, I mean, it's rapidly growing and it's been rapidly
growing for years. I'm guessing that the travel insurance growth has to do with geographical
expansion, so can you talk a little bit about what are the things like global automotive or other
factors could drive above average growth in AWP. Or do you think this is really a kind of a one-off
step function in growth. Secondly, on Turkey, what countermeasures are you going to take to
maintain a sub-100% combined ratio? And at what point do you start to give up on that market?
And lastly, there was a put option that LV has, could you just go through very quickly what the fair
value option is on that? Just the kind of details about how that's going to work? Thank you.



A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

FINAL

AWP has, in almost every quarter, a double-digit growth. The travel insurance will be one of the
growing segments of our global insurance industry and we will always try to build-up more market
share in this one, because we offer really – a really high quality global service network and there we
will continue to expand.
On the put option LV at fair market value, I think there is not more details to disclose at the
moment, and that it is also a couple of years out. And we will see how the whole thing develops
over time and how fast – what options is being triggered or not.
On Turkey, as I said before, we certainly also try to grow our business outside the motor line, and
I'm not believing that we would give up in this market. We have worked hard to achieve market
leadership, that is, operationally, and from the core management team, one of our best
subsidiaries. And I do not believe that the government or his (70:37) regulator will ruin the industry
completely. There was, certainly, a reason why they wanted for that people – general people had
more cash to spend and not – and therefore reduced motor premiums. But I think that is not
holding up forever. And I think you have, clearly, the energy and also the financial stability to stand a
softer period in this market that is not a drama for our segment or group. And it is a good
opportunity actually to bolster a (71:24) marketing leading position mid-term.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Can I just very quickly ask, if you didn't write (71:31) the Motor TPL business, what was the combined
ratio roughly be in Turkey?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I think, Michael Huttner asked, why is the combined ratio not reversed, because the combined ratio
lives (71:48) on the profitable business written in the last 12 months. The change of the system, I
think, it started in March or April. So, we are three months, four months into this restricted tariff, we
will have further increases in the average combined ratio, but it is MTPL.
So, that means, actually full coverage is actually not limited by this tariff. So, we will also clearly look
that we could get more comprehensive coverage business and other lines. So, what will be the
total combined ratio impact? Yeah, it will be some points and it – I think the best thing is we discuss
it in the third quarter because then we have another three months of evolvement of the number
and see where it is.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very, very much. Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

And when it is lifted then it will turn quickly in the other direction and then it was maybe a period of
a year where the numbers were more suppressed.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from William Hawkins with KBW.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}



FINAL

Hi, Dieter. First of all, on Liverpool Victoria, I am sorry if I am being slow. But can you just help me
understand the comments you made about the consideration? Normally, I would have thought if
you're paying €500 million, that would be a consideration to Liverpool Victoria and it would be
irrelevant for the capital position of the subsidiary. But you are implying that this transaction is also
a part of the recap of the subsidiary, and so presumably some of the money is going to Victoria
and some of the money is going into the subsidiary? But I'm a bit confused on that. Also given that,
I'm a bit confused that how the goodwill can be so high if some of what you're paying is effectively
a recap of some? Sorry, if I am missing something, but could you explain that? And then...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

No, Will. We pay only to the shareholder, and we pay €500 million for 50%, a rounded number.
And the deal says, they have to deliver to us the balance sheet at capitalized at 130% Solvency II
ratio.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Right. What was it at the end of last year, if you know (74:32)?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

No, not really.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Then, so hopefully...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I must say, for me, that is a – you get a determined of fixed quality of balance sheet and that is
what the price is fixed at.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Yeah, I agree. From a business point of view, once this transaction close at the end of the year,
how would you agree that you're going to be underwriting retail motor business, is it then all going
to be written immediately by Liverpool Victoria's system and people, or are you going to be, in
some way, very quickly sharing the underwriting process? Can you just explain how the
underwriting works in the new joint venture from close? And then lastly, when you were giving your
formal remarks in the Life business, you've made another passing reference to if we normalize the
Life results, it's down to €1 billion. It's very hard to see, why we should be doing that normalization,
so can you just try and be clearer about where there is some exceptionally good stuff occurring?
The only thing you mentioned was Popular and that was actually a negative?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Well, I think there were some smaller one-offs in the deck and I'm also maybe a bit less bullish on
the investment income and we had also some positives from the U.S. basis risk. And when you add
up all categories, you end up with €100 billion (76:05). And look, I am more like to be a bit more
conservative on this calculation than telling you that €1,100 is already (76:15) the worst outcome of a
quarter.
I think, it still gives a very good track record for our business and when we have around 4% growth
rate on our reserve base with the current inflows of new business, that gives I think a good growth
perspective on this profit, plus when we stick to current new business margin and volume levels,
then I would say that probably the number – the profit growth numbers needs some little upwards
correction, but I think we can talk about it when the numbers are expressing itself stronger. I don't
need to now start to up-sell the business which has already such a strong performance.



Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Fair enough. And on the underwriting?

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

The underwriting process, yeah, I think that will be switched between P&C and commercial
whether it will exactly happen with the closing of whether you need a few month transition period
that has to be figured out from now on with the regulatory filing process, let's see when we get
the approval, and when – then really operationally the teams have moved from one end to the
other. Actually, maybe for everybody's benefit, it was not the risk question (77:57). When we
exclude from our Turkey combined ratio, MTPL, we have a 96% combined ratio in the second
quarter. So did I answer your questions or did I forget any?

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

I guess, Dieter (78:23).

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay. Next question, then.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will take our next question from Johnny Vo with Goldman Sachs.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Good afternoon. Thanks. A lot of my questions have been answered already, but I had just a
couple of more questions. Just given the new business margin is above target and you had
significant growth in V&V (78:43). Are you able to revise your Solvency II capital generation going
forward? And then, lastly, obviously, there is chat that the Ogden discount rate maybe positively
restated, does that have any influence or impact on the purchase process of LV given I think they
took a charge of £139 million? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yeah. The Solvency II operating production every quarter might slope up a little bit. But I'm not sure
that we are now down to this decimal point. We use for a lot of our Solvency II breakdowns still
categories in €100 million or €0.75 million (79:35). So, therefore, I am not sure that we can do
already this very refined calculation with small decimal points. LV might have an indirect benefit of
it. We don't have a price adjustment clause. However, the capital requirement is 130% Solvency II.
When you can release the Ogden reserve, you have a higher net asset value and that might
certainly help in the Solvency II capitalization, so there is maybe some small effect coming out of it.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Nick Holmes with Société Générale.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Hello, hi there. Thank you very much. Just a couple of fairly quick questions. First one on the U.S.
Life. Could you elaborate, Dieter, a little bit more on your thoughts about the DOL and the latest
developments there? And also, I mean, clearly, there has been a big slowdown in fixed index
annuities, the comparative was very difficult. If you could elaborate a little bit more on the growth
outlook for the rest of the year?



And then the second question is on German Life – and there seem to be more companies talking
about disposing of back books at the moment, and my question is certainly not whether you would
dispose of your back book but just the opposite, whether you might be interested as a
consolidator in the industry, is there a scope for you to actually participate in that way? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Nick. Maybe we should also have a chat whether you like to – what your view
is now of the European SFCR reporting procedures, whether it's really delivering what we all were
hoping for. So, but let's first go to U.S. Life, UL. I think – yes, the large warehouses and the large
distribution channels, of course, have the company view on DOL and an interpretation and they
have rolled out procedures, but a lot of smaller producers are probably still struggling with the
interpretation and are not yet sure what products with what presentation can be sold to
customers, what is the best advice under it. But we would actually assume that our fixed index
annuity business stays at second quarter level, and maybe, I'll give you a few numbers. We had last
quarter, in 2016, we had €1.9 billion volume, in the first quarter €1.7 billion volume and now in the
second quarter €2.2 billion volume. So, it is actually not that the DOL has destroyed our distribution.

Bloomberg Transcript

The comparison looks so tough for us because we had a year ago, a really fantastic quarter where
we sold €3.1 billion new business volume. So, the like-on-like comparison looks set. But when I look
at the development quarter-over-quarter that we are again above €2.2 billion, I think that is a good
starting point when people get better accustomed to DOL that we can catch-up with something
between €2 billion and €2.5 billion quarter-over-quarter.
The German Life back book disposal, that is a completely different line of business. I am –
personally, I think more interesting for us, our businesses which have fast cash flows. And when you
invest in a back book, you have first priority (84:24) to inject capital and before you can take any
dividend out of this back book, you need a young management team and a lot of patience. And I
am not sure that for a cash return oriented company like Allianz, where we are working a lot to
accelerate cash returns and not to slow it down that back book acquisition would be the right
business line. And also, you are better off when you can use a leverage balance sheet. And so, I
think, private equity houses are probably the better place and are certainly, some of them who
have consideration around this business model and that is a good solution for the German market.
I'm really appreciating this.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Dieter. That's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Andy Hughes with Macquarie.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks so much. Thanks for the slide showing the German Life insurance industry is wellcapitalized and deciding (85:39) to bailout U.K. insurance industry. So on the LV deal, the bid I don't
understand is the kind of €500 million acquisition price, because, in the call this morning, when I
asked LV about the put option, and the reason they have a put option is that they can assume the
value of the put option in their capital and in their Solvency. So in their Solvency, they are assuming
the put option is exercised and, therefore, has a capital benefit for LV. And the way you're
describing the transaction is you're only assuming, you're assuming basically no capital for the put
option. I would have thought Allianz would want to assume 100% of the proceeds are paid out for
this deal on announcement, i.e., €1 billion acquisition from a capital standpoint, rather than the kind
of €500 million you're talking about.
And the second question was on the 130% to over 200% after diversification of Allianz. And Allianz
is obviously a very big group with lots of risks, lots of diversification. But the fundamental problem



FINAL

to me is that the capital ratio doesn't mean very much if you can have subsidiaries on a standard
model 130%, which are bridging the ability to pay dividends and yet at the group level you are still
reporting over 200%. Is it a better way to look at dividend capacity within the group in future rather
than focus on the Solvency ratio, which may not be relevant for dividend paying ability of Allianz
Group? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thank you. Certainly, the €500 million is being paid for the first 50%. The €200 million – next €200
million – and that is the put option you are talking about, that is for the increase from 50% to 70%
that's not being paid in...

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Sorry, I misunderstood. The put option is on top of the 20% for consideration. Is that not right?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

No, no.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

The put option is for the remaining 30%?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

The put option is for the 20%. That is the – yeah, well it is – actually, the put option is for the 20% is
the forward and yes, we have promptly to set aside also for this option some capital, but that is
not a big amount. So now with your Solvency ratio for the subsidiaries, sure, the dividend paying
capability of a subsidiary is based on its solvency position. So when the starting point is 130% and
that is for a P&C business with a low volatility actually a reasonable starting point, in particular when
you have an Allianz guarantee on top, that means the earnings of the year can completely paid
out.
And when we collect our dividends from our subsidiaries, we start with a reasonable solvency ratio
and, you are right, most of our subsidiaries are higher capitalized than the 130%. But for a retail
business, 130% is absolutely sufficient from a solvency point of view, that means the earnings they
produce in 2018, 2019 or going forward can be then dividended out. And in our cash flow
assumption for the group, we assume that our P&C businesses payout some 85% of the earnings
and our asset management businesses, because they don't have a Solvency ratio, are more
between 95% and 100%. And on the Life businesses, we have a lower assumption that is 70%.
On top to this assumption on the dividend paying capability of our subsidiaries, we have still
subsidiaries as you can easily follow through from the SFCR report, which are too highly capitalized,
and centralization of this capitalization of the subsidiaries to the center is for us an additional
source of cash flow. All together, I think we have really a very good cash flow collection, in
particular, the share buyback we are at the moment financing is paid out of cash reserves collected
in previous years and has nothing to do with running cash collection from the profits in 2016 and
2017.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Can I just – so you're very confident that you won't have to book any capital for the put option and
the capital cost won't be much bigger than the €500 million?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I said we will book, clearly it's a put option in the beginning of year, hence it is more than the €500
million. But I made this €500 million more as the calculation of the goodwill assumption because



that was I think the question I tried to answer.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Sorry, I was just confused, I'm struggling to see how the capital would not be much bigger
than €500 million, if you see what I mean with the, i.e., you'll have to assume 100%, but maybe I
can – we'll have a chat (91:22) afterwards. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right. It's half past, so we have time for one last question, please, if there's any.

Operator
We will take our next question from Andrew Ritchie with Autonomous.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, there, very quickly, I just want to quickly visit the three operational targets, new business margin,
cost income ratio, PIMCO, and combined ratio for non-Life. I guess a simple question. I mean
you're running above the new business margin target. Is that still the right target, is there – or do
you think you'll trend back to sort of roughly 3% mid-term target? On PIMCO, cost income, it was
below 60% already, I don't know if there's obviously some potentially expenses as you expand the
business, but do you think you can stay below 60% now.
And finally on combined ratio, I just want to clarify, it's a confused message. But I think what you're
saying is you're running at 93.7%, if you normalize for normal catastrophe, maybe you're closer to
95%, but the expense ratio will compensate – the expense ratio work will compensate for that.
Hence, the 94% is eminently achievable. Is that the message? Thanks.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thank you very much for the question, Andrew. I think that is – for the last question, a really good
summary of our strategic outlook. Yes, I think that combined ratio, we have made steps forward to
our 94% target, mainly on the loss ratio, on the expense ratio that is certainly the missing part, but
we will certainly also hear and there still improve our loss ratio that is certainly, still Latin America
and also some small portfolios in individual countries.
The cost income ration, it was our strategic target to go below 60%. I think that was a target. Some
of you question, whether it is realistic. Certainly, we will try to stay where we are and not going
backward, but we will not update our target and our new business margin. I think that the current
level is with current interest rate levels defendable, but we will not, in particular, fight for keeping it
at 3.4% because when we get more volume, 3% as the average is a very good number than I
actually think we should do more volume because 3% is a pretty strong return on equity, or IRR,
whatever you use as a long-term measurement in your new business calculation. So, therefore, I
think 3% is absolutely a great number to write business.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

But I – I would more look that we should focus on keeping the new business value strong and try to
increase it.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie
Thanks.

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}



A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right, that closes our call. Thank you very much for joining. We say, goodbye. Wish you a very
pleasant weekend.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Goodbye.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this concludes today's call and we thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

