Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kiyoshi Wada, Group Leader, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Group
Tsuyoshi Hattori, Senior Managing Executive Officer

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings' FY
2016 Full Year Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised that during the
presentation, all the lines other than the speakers' lines are put on mute, and this
conference call is being recorded.
Before we begin, let me remind you that the presentation may contain forward-looking
statements based on the current projections, and they entail risks as well as uncertainties.
Actual results, therefore, may differ from the current projections.
With that, let us start the conference call. Mr. Wada, please?

Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

My name is Wada from IR Group of Tokio Marine Holdings. Let me explain the overview of
fiscal 2016 results and 2017 projections of Tokio Marine Holdings which was announced
today.
In this conference call, I would like to use the PowerPoint material available on our website
under New Release and Topics to give you a presentation for the first 25 minutes or so.
Then we will be taking questions afterwards.
Now, I will start with the overview of fiscal 2016 consolidated results. Please turn to page 3
of the PowerPoint material. First is the consolidated results overview. Net premiums
Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

written and life premiums are as shown on the slide. Consolidated ordinary profit
increased year-on-year by 0.5% or by ¥1.8 billion to ¥387.6 billion. Net income attributable
to owners of the parent increased by 7.6% or by ¥19.3 billion to ¥273.8 billion. Adjusted net
income, which is a group profit KPI, was ¥406.7 billion, which is a major increase year-onyear.
Next, I will explain the factors related to consolidated ordinary profit. Please turn to page
4. In the Domestic Non-Life business, underwriting profit increased at Tokio Marine &
Nichido Fire. Net investment income decreased due to reaction from last year's increase
in dividend income from overseas subsidiaries related to acquisition of HCC. As a result,
ordinary profit declined by ¥65.5 billion year-on-year. Domestic Life business saw a
decline in ordinary profit due to increase in their business expenses and rebound from
reversal of contingency reserve for variable annuities last year.
Overseas subsidiaries saw increase in profit due to profit contribution from newly
consolidated TMHCC.

Bloomberg Transcript

For consolidated adjustments, negative adjustment decreased due to decrease in
dividend payment from consolidated subsidiaries of TMNF, which led to decrease in
consolidation adjustment by ¥54.1 billion year-on-year.
Now, let me explain about adjusted net income. Please turn to page 5. Adjusted net
income is a group profit KPI based on consolidated net income, then excluding factors
unique to Non-Life business, such as impact of reserve provisioning, as well as gains and
losses on sales and valuation of fixed assets in order to understand the underlying profit
of the term coming from business activities. Adjusted net income increased by ¥54.8
billion to ¥406.7 billion and adjusted ROE rose by 1.8 points to 11%.
Year-on-year changes along the process of reconciliation from statutory accounting net
income to adjusted net income are explained on the slide.
Now, I will turn to Domestic Non-Life business. Please turn to page 6. For net premiums
written for private lines of insurance, auto insurance increased their top line. But there was
an impact coming from fire line of insurance due to shortening of insurance period, which
led to net premiums written of minus 0.7% year-on-year or a decline by ¥12.1 billion.
Line-by-line situation is explained on page 8. Net incurred losses of private insurance
decreased by ¥21 billion due to factors such as decrease in net incurred losses relating to
natural catastrophes occurring during the term and reaction from large losses which
happened in previous year.
Business expenses for private lines of insurance decreased by ¥1.3 billion year-on-year
due to decrease in agency commission payment coming from net premiums written
decline. As for catastrophe loss reserve, mainly due to lowering of the provision rate of
auto group, there was decrease in net provision by ¥50.6 billion year-on-year. As a result,
underwriting profit increased by ¥102.2 billion to be ¥116.1 billion.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

Next, I'd like to explain about the investment income. Details of this will be on page 9. Net
investment income decreased by ¥164.4 billion to be ¥197.4 billion due to decrease in
dividend income from subsidiaries, decreasing gains and losses on derivatives, and gains
and losses on sales of securities.
Dividend payment from subsidiaries will be almost eliminated by consolidation
adjustment. Therefore, there isn't any impact of this to group's consolidated earnings.
Business-related equity sold in fiscal 2016 was approximately ¥117 billion and gain from the
sales was ¥85 billion. Due to those above mentioned reasons, net income decreased by
¥52.9 billion to be ¥248.6 billion.
Next, I will explain about the combined ratio, please turn to page 7. In this term, the
private insurance lines E/I loss ratio decreased to 57.7%, decreased by 2.4 points year-onyear due to decrease in natural catastrophe-related net incurred losses. As for expense
ratio, business expenses decreased, however, due to decline in net premiums written,
expense ratio went up by 0.1 point to 32.7%. As a result, E/I basis combined ratio lowered
by 2.2 points year-on-year to be 90.4%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, I will explain about Nisshin Fire Insurance Company. Please turn to page 10. As for
the underwriting profit of Nisshin Fire, although there is an impact of reaction to
catastrophe loss reserve, which was reversed last year, net premiums written increased
and net incurred losses related to natural catastrophes decreased.
As a result, underwriting profit increased by ¥0.2 billion year-on-year to ¥8.1 billion. As for
net investment income and other, mainly due to decline in interest and dividend income, it
declined by ¥0.7 billion year-on-year to be ¥1.2 billion. As for net income, after reflecting
corporate tax payment, net income increased by ¥0.4 billion year-on-year to be ¥6.5
billion.
Next, I would like to talk about Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Company. Please turn
to page 11. New policies ANP was flat year-on-year, while excluding long-term saving
products, we saw favorable sales with household income term product and increase in
policies due to last minute demand before the revision of the standard interest rate, new
policies ANP increased by 13%. For in-force policies ANP, due to steady increase in new
policy sales, grew by 4.4% year-on-year.
Now, I will explain about financial accounting. Net income decreased by ¥5.9 billion yearon-year to ¥8.7 billion. This is due to increase in business expenses for systems
investment expense and reaction to reversal of contingency reserve associated with
surrender in variable annuities last year in addition to a decrease in gains on sales of
securities.
As for core operating profit, which excludes reaction from reversal of contingency reserve
and a decrease in gains on sales of securities, it decreased by ¥2.7 billion year-on-year to
¥22.3 billion.

Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

Now, I'd like to explain about International Insurance business. Please turn to page 12. In
the International Insurance business, net premiums written increased by 27% year-on-year
due to the contribution of TMHCC and steady progress of various growth initiatives.
On a local currency terms, excluding the impact of the appreciation of Japanese yen, the
business grew by 32% year-on-year. To break this down by region, North America
achieved positive growth, thanks to the contribution of TMHCC. Philadelphia and Delphi
also grew their top line due to rate increases in renewal book, as well as growth of new
business.
Europe also grew on a local currency basis due to the expansion of business in Tokio
Marine Kiln. However, due to the appreciation of Japanese yen, net premiums written
decreased in yen term. South and Central America, as well as Asia grew, driven by the
growth of auto business. Reinsurance declined primarily because of the rebound effect of
increased sales of multi-year policies booked in FY 2015. Life Insurance business grew,
thanks to sales growth particularly in Singapore and Thailand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, let me discuss business unit profit of International Insurance business. Please turn to
page 13. Business unit profit grew by 29% or ¥37.6 billion over the year, also due to the
contribution of TMHCC and steady progress of growth initiatives.
On a local currency basis, excluding the impact of the appreciation of Japanese yen, the
profit grew by 34% year-on-year. By region, the business profit of North America
increased, thanks to the contribution of TMHCC. Europe and reinsurance also grew
positively, mainly due to the absence of impact of large losses and foreign exchange
gains recorded in FY 2015.
Meanwhile, in South and Central America and in Asia, the business unit profit declined due
to large losses. For more details about three group companies in North America, please
refer to page 14 at your convenience.
Next, I will explain business unit profit for the entire group on page 15. Business unit profit
is a KPI that we use in order to understand corporate value of the respective businesses.
Different from adjusted net income, business unit profit does not include dividend from
group companies and self-gains of business-related equity. Also, to reflect the
contribution of Life Insurance business, we take into account the growth of EV in the
calculation.
Business unit profit of Domestic Non-Life business increased by ¥41.6 billion year-on-year
to ¥167.6 billion due to the factors listed on the slide. Domestic Life grew by ¥561.6 billion
from a year ago to ¥373.5 billion primarily due to the changes of definitions in the
measurement method of MCEV in addition to the impact of rise in interest rate. And
International Insurance business grew by ¥37.6 billion to ¥169.5 billion as I just discussed.
This includes the overview of FY 2016 financial results.
Let me now discuss projections for FY 2017. Please turn to page 18. This is the overview of
our consolidated projections for FY 2017. Based on the net premiums written and life
Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

insurance premium described on the slide, we project our consolidated ordinary profit to
increase by ¥17.3 billion over the year to ¥405 billion.
And net income attributable to owners of the parent is expected to grow by ¥6.1 billion
year-on-year to ¥280 billion. Adjusted net income is projected to decline by ¥24.7 billion
to ¥382 billion due to the expected decrease in sales gains of business-related equities
and dividend income in the Domestic Non-Life business as well as currency impact in the
International Insurance business.
Next to review, how the consolidated ordinary profit is expected to move, please refer to
page 19. Profit in the Domestic Non-Life business is expected to grow by ¥24 billion over
the year to ¥345.5 billion due to the expected increase in underwriting profit and net
investment income and other at TMNF.
Domestic Life business is projected to grow its profit by ¥21.2 billion over the year to
¥34.5 billion and International Insurance business is also expected to grow by ¥4.1 billion –
is expected to decline by ¥4.1 billion to ¥170 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the consolidated adjustments, negative adjustment is expected to increase by ¥23.2
billion due to the projected increase in TMNF dividend income received from consolidated
subsidiaries, while goodwill amortization is expected to decline due to appreciation of
Japanese yen.
Next, to review our guidance on adjusted net profit, please turn to page 20. Adjusted net
income is projected to decline by ¥24.7 billion from a year ago to ¥382 billion with the
adjusted ROE of 9.8%, down by 1.2 point year-on-year. For more details about
reconciliation from net income under JGAAP to adjusted net income and major
differences from the previous year, please refer to the table on the slide.
Next, to review, Domestic Non-Life business, please refer to page 21. Net premiums
written of private lines of business are projected to increase, mainly driven by auto
insurance business. Net incurred losses are expected to go up by ¥14.1 billion due to the
expected increase in top line, as well as the rebound effect of few large losses recorded
in FY 2016.
Provision for a cat loss reserve is expected to decrease by ¥9.3 billion year-on-year, mainly
due to the expected increase in takedown from the reserve in the auto business
associated with the rise of loss ratio on the written paid basis. All-in-all, underwriting profit
is expected to increase by ¥13.8 billion year-on-year to ¥130 billion.
Net investment income and other is projected to increase by ¥10.7 billion to ¥208.2 billion
due to the expected increase in dividend income from subsidiaries. Based on these
factors, as well as expected decrease in extraordinary gains and losses, net income is
projected to grow by ¥21.3 billion to ¥270 billion.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

Next, for Nisshin Fire, please refer to page 24. At Nisshin Fire, net income is projected to
decline by ¥2 billion to ¥4.5 billion due to the expected increase in net incurred losses
associated with the rise of unit repair cost in the auto business, as well as an average level
of net cat losses that we are assuming for a normal year.
Next, for TMNL, please go to page 25. ANP of new policies is projected to decline by
24.2% year-on-year due to the suspended sales of long-term saving-type products as well
as product revisions in conjunction with the revision of the standard interest rate despite
our efforts to promote the sales of living benefit products.
In the meantime, on the JGAAP basis, net income is expected to increase by ¥15.1 billion
year-on-year to ¥23.9 billion, and core operating profit is projected to grow by ¥12.1 billion
to ¥34.5 billion due to the product revisions associated with the revised standard discount
rate as well as expected decrease in provision for quality reserve based on suspended
sales of long-term saving-type products.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, to review International Insurance business, please turn to page 26. In the
International Insurance business, net premiums written is projected to decline by ¥12.4
billion to ¥1.642 trillion because of the expected impact of stronger Japanese yen, while
we are expecting growth on the local currency basis based on the advancement of
various growth initiatives that we are promoting.
Next, for the business unit profit of International Insurance business, please go to page 27.
Business unit profit is expected to decline by ¥16.5 billion year-on-year because of
stronger Japanese yen, average level of nat cats in a normal year that we are assuming
as well as the rebound impact of foreign currency gains recorded in FY 2016. However,
after normalizing these factors, the profit is expected to grow by 4% possibly against the
actual FY 2016 as the underlying profit trend is favorable primarily in Asia, Europe and
reinsurance.
Detailed projections for three group companies in North America, and business unit profit
for the entire group are described on page 28 and 29, respectively, for your reference.
Last but not least, let us share with you our ESR. Please go to page 31. In calculating ESR,
Tokio Marine measures risks based on 99.95% VaR for AA calibration and exclude
restricted capital while we refer to the method of Solvency II in Europe.
To review where our ESR stands at the moment, please refer to page 32. This slide shows
how our ESR changed from the end of September 2016 to the end of March 2017. As of
the end of March 2017, our ESR increased to 139% due to the increase in net asset value
and decrease in risk capital. Net asset value became ¥3.5 trillion due to the increase in
unrealized gains of business-related equities in addition to the contribution of adjusted
net income in the second half.
Meanwhile, risk capital decreased to ¥2.5 trillion, mainly due to the decrease in interest
rate risk associated with the rise in interest rate as well as sales of business-related

Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

equities. Please also note that we are newly disclosing the impact of market changes on
our ESR at this particular timing of the year.

FINAL

This concludes my presentation. And we would now like to open the floor to entertain
your questions.

Q&A
A - Operator
Thank you, Mr. Wada. Now, we would like to begin the Q&A. The operator is explaining
how to ask a question to the Japanese audience. For the overseas participants, please
wait until she finishes explaining that to the Japanese audience. Thank you.
The first question is from Mr. Muraki of Deutsche Securities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

My first question has to do with the international business, U.S. business on page 14. You
are showing us, for the three companies, performance excluding the FX impact, the
Philadelphia is 7%, Delphi is 6%. For HCC, well, last fiscal year, it was not consolidated, but
I wanted to know how much of benefit they got from the foreign exchange factor?

Bloomberg Transcript

And also, if you look at page 28, for this fiscal year, excluding FX, the increase in top line is
down to be 3%. And why are you expecting some slowdown in these U.S. businesses?
And my second question is on 25 about the Life Insurance business. Their net income was
¥8.7 billion. In the first half, the profit was ¥10.6 billion. And when you did the first half
earnings announcement, you made an upward revision up to 16.9%. But why are you
undershooting now? And I believe you had new policies in the second half. And I wonder if
there was last-minute rush in demand in the second year, why is this undershooting your
plan? And is that expected to recover in the new fiscal year?

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

My name is Hattori from the International Business Department. On your question about
the top-line growth for the year specifically and Delphi as written, the rate increase and
also there will be more renewed policies and we expect the top line growth. And for the
TMHCC factor, last year's numbers were not disclosed, but compared to last year, we
expect a steady expansion of their top line throughout the year this year. And specifically,
we cannot disclose your numbers for the previous fiscal year.

A - Operator
On the Corporate Planning of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Company, my name is
(26:56). Your question about for 2016 versus the performance for the first half versus the
declining profit for the full year. For the term insurance, in the fourth quarter, before the
rate revision, there was an increase in new policy pickup, and that is why in the second

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

half, the result was undershooting the plan. And any increase in the profit increase for this
fiscal year due to the revision of the standard interest rate, products are being revised.
And due to that – due to this product revisions, there will be less burden for policy
reserving and that will be the main factor with which we plan to see increasing profit.

FINAL

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you. And on the first part, on page 28, for the new fiscal year's increase in top line,
it is going to be 3% or it's only going to be 3%. Why is it only 3% for the year with
subsidiaries?

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

My name is Hattori from the International business division. The 3% increase in net
premiums written for the U.S. subsidiaries due to the tougher market environment, we
have factored that into the forecast and we are seeing some slowdown in business.
However, we are making steady progress and good growth of the business versus the
market average. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Ms. Tsujino of JPMorgan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you. On page 21. TMNF, looking at projections for this year, cat loss reserve on a
written paid basis, because our loss ratio is increasing, you're expecting a more
takedown, which is somewhat surprising assumption. And certainly, looking at the actual, I
think net-net, I think the provision for auto was ¥10.5 billion compared to what you
expected at the initial stage. I believe that it (29:30) is now declining. However, in actuality,
how much takedown are you expecting to increase? How much incremental takedown are
you expecting for this new year and how much deterioration are you expecting in
actuality?
And if you can share with me furthermore, from the underwriting profit, excluding the net
provision to cat loss reserve, so taking off (29:58) if you will on the year-on-year basis,
how much change are you expecting this new fiscal year? That is my first question.
And my second question is on page 16 related to TMNL MCEV. You talked about changes
in definitions for MCEV. What do you specifically mean by that?

A - Operator
My name is Watanabe (30:22). On your first question on the expected cat loss reserve, I
did have clearly pointed out, this is relevant to auto business. More specifically speaking,
in FY 2016, the loss ratio on written paid basis was low and therefore, we are expecting
further reversal and that is expected to increase in the provision. And as you have
currently pointed out, we have assumed that there would not be further takedown in new
fiscal year.

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

And let me also share with you how we look at the underlying – the underwriting profit. In
terms of the underwriting balance, we think that it is going to increase. On
earned/incurred basis, looking at the earned premium and in current losses and the actual
business expenses, if I look at the trend across these factors, first of all, there are two
points to be mentioned, as written on the PowerPoint slide as well, in terms of net
incurred losses, first, our views on nat cat losses, for FY 2016, for TMNF, ¥53.5 billion was
actual against the budget of ¥42 billion. So that is the reversal effect from FY 2016.
And looking at large losses and also other factors that we assumed, in FY 2016, we
actually had a big number that we recognized for other losses. So, including large losses
for marine and also fire lines of business, we expect losses for the new fiscal year to be
rather normalize. And these two factors will essentially (31:55) each other. And therefore,
net-net, we think that the underwriting balance is going to be pretty much flat or is going
to increase just marginally.
And if we are to take out the cat loss reserve from the underwriting loss, if you look at the
currency losses, it was about negative ¥3 billion in FY 2016. However, in FY 2017, we're
expecting the currency assumption to essentially stay flat. And therefore, this portion is
going to cancel it up and, therefore, pushing the (32:21) adjusted profit in FY 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

So that means that for the automotive line of business, essentially, you are expecting no
major impact even excluding the cat loss reserve provision. So, in your explanation, on
earned/incurred basis, underwriting balance would be pretty much flat, and the loss ratio
for the auto is expected to increase. However, it is not expected to cause a material
impact, is that correct?

A - Operator
For the automotive line of business, we don't think that the loss ratio is going to
aggravate enough to impact the underwriting balance. And overall, comparing FY 2016 to
FY 2017, we expect the business to essentially trend flat. So, meaning that some of the
payment of claims are somewhat delayed for the automotive line of business. Looking at
the number from the written paid basis, no, I think the other way around. I think that the
claims is expected to increase.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

No, I think it's strange. On the written paid basis, the takedown is going to increase, and
therefore, the payment is going to increase. However, on earned/incurred basis, auto is
pretty much flat, meaning that timing of the claim payment is somewhat delayed. Is that
the right way to put it?

A - Operator
In terms of difference between written paid basis and earned/incurred basis, yes. There is
some time lag in terms of the claim payment timing. And in FY 2016, the written paid basis
number is low, because we had relatively small outstanding claim balance at the end of

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

the year. However, the loss ratio on earned/incurred basis is more reflective of what's
really happening in the actual market.
My name is (34:24) Corporate Accounting and Financial Planning Department. To answer
your second question on the measurement of the MCEV, as we explained back in
November last year, through our IR materials as well, we revised the surrender risk as well
as counter-payment risks in our definitions used in the calculation of MCEV. As a result of
that, there was a positive impact by (34:52) ¥223 billion to our MCEV. So, there's officially
no further change from what we explained in November last year.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Understood. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Watanabe of Daiwa Securities.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is Watanabe. I have two questions. So, the first have to do with the natural
catastrophes overseas the actual last year versus the assumption this year. And the
second is the adjusted net income for your forecast for this fiscal year, which is ¥382
billion and your target for the mid-term plan is ¥400 billion which is below the mid-term
plan.
And looking at your FX impact at the end of 2016, it's ¥112 billion. So, FX hasn't changed
much. So, what are the reasons why you're undershooting the target for the adjusted net
income for the mid-term plan?

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

My name is Hattori from the Corporate Planning. For the natural catastrophes for the
international business, for fiscal 2016, for the actual nat cat loss, pre-tax business, it was
¥35.4 billion. This was below the assumption. And for fiscal 2017, according to our plan for
the international business overall, we are expecting ¥47 billion of natural catastrophe
budget.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

From the Holdings IR group, my name is Wada. The ¥382 billion versus ¥400 billion, and
why is this short of ¥400 billion for this year. The major factors, I believe, there are two
factors. The first is that the exchange rate hasn't changed too much. However, there is a
difference by about ¥4. And last year, a dollar versus British pound, the FX rate played as
one factor. And for the business-related equities, the actual sell-down of the businessrelated equities for this term was ¥120 billion. But for the new fiscal full year, we are still
targeting ¥100 billion. So, these are the differences that played as factors to the
difference in the two numbers.

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Mr. Sasaki of Merrill Lynch Japan.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I am Sasaki from Merrill Lynch Japan. I have
one question pertaining to U.S. business. On page 14 of the PowerPoint slides, excluding
the currency impact, the expected – the year-on-year growth – compared to top line, the
profit is trending essentially flat or declining, and I believe that is because the investment
income last year weren't that well.
However, on the underwriting side, is there anything that was deteriorating? In terms of
nat cat, I believe that the actual was actually lower, smaller than what you initially
budgeted. However, in Philadelphia and also in Delphi in North America, what was actually
deteriorating in their underwriting business, and also what's the background behind it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

My name is Hattori from International Business Development Department of the Holdings.
First, on Philadelphia, the business unit profit of Philadelphia was somewhat lower
compared to top-line growth. And the reason behind this is that compared to FY 2015 and
FY 2016, the nat cat losses incurred – sorry, please hold on for a second. Sorry about that.
So compared to FY 2015 and FY 2016, nat cat losses increased. So, that's the major
reason behind it.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

What about Delphi though?

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

For Delphi, investment income and realized losses of the investment was recorded in the
first quarter. And so, there was a negative factor related to their investment. And on top
of that, loss ratio really increased. Because of these factors, on year-on-year basis, the
profit is declining.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

On page 13, it says that if you increase investment income, the profit increased. So,
maybe you enjoy some incurring (40:18) gains, however was there some capital losses
that you (40:20)? And to begin with, why is the loss ratio increasing now?

A - Operator
With regards to realized losses of investment, in order to reduce risk in the first quarter,
Delphi sold some risk assets. And with regards to rising loss ratio, for the Life Insurance
Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

business, for medical-stop loss and also disability insurance due to the intensified market
– the intensifying competitive situation in the market, the performance did deteriorate.
And currently, the company is working to improve the profitability, by improving the
underwriting discipline.

FINAL

Next question is from Tokai Tokyo Research Center, Mr. Majima.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

My name is Majima. The first question is on page 19, about this year's project as it was
asked (41:29). So, the Non-Life Insurance business is expected to increase by ¥21.2 billion,
and this is going to be the growth driver. And all the factors involved are due to the
increase in the interest rate and also additional provisioning that was done last year. So,
increase due to the product revision and also the increase in provision for underwriting
reserves. So, how much of this out of ¥21.2 billion? And also, lowering of the range (42:03)
decline for auto insurance, is that the factor that was calculated into this year's
projections?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Operator
I'm (42:13) of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life. I'd like to answer your first question. And so, for
2017, the expected increase in the net income for 2017 and different factors playing into it.
Top line, for 2017, we are expecting decline by 20% to top line, and this is due to the
revision of the standard interest rate and due to the revision of the products accordingly.
Due to those factors, the top-line is going to decline. However, that plays as an increase
to profit on statutory accounting basis. And I cannot tell you exactly by how much, but I
would say 20% to 30% of that impact is playing here.
And also, as we accumulate more import policies after one year, those in-force policies
contribute to the profit. And so, that's another positive factor. And also, for the protectionoriented products, we want to increase sales of the protection product which we have at
the business plan, and that is also part of the forecast.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

And so, the negative factors last year, how much of – the negative factor last year, how
much was that, and that is playing as the positive factor this year? And so, there is
additional provisioning that was done due to last-minute rush and demand for the life
policies, right?

A - Operator
I'd like to answer your question. So, last year, in the fourth quarter, the term insurance
sales increased and impact of this, plus in 2017, the expected top-line forecast. Those are
the two factors that play into the overall projections for 2017.
My name is Tanaka (44:10) from the Personal Insurance Department. About the 2017
profitability of auto insurance, right now, in January of 2018, we are expecting ASV
discount to be introduced, and those are the factors and that is on the assumptions for
Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

this forecast. However, for the execution to all of those business plans, nothing has been
decided finally. So, I'd like to not disclose any details beyond this.
Next question is from Citigroup, Mr. Niwa.

FINAL

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Yes. I have a question related to shareholder return, as well as your capital position. More
specifically speaking, where does this ¥25 billion capital coming from? And also, you are at
139% in terms of ESR which is above your target level. So, how should I make sense over
your ESR current sense (45:22) vis-à-vis the target range?

A - Operator
My name is Hojo (45:17) from Corporate Planning Department of the Holdings. With
regards to the decision of the size of the share repurchase, we decided to repurchase
our shares up to ¥25 billion this time around. And on this particular program, as we have
communicated before as well, we look at the market environment, capital position, as well
as the availability of business investment opportunities comprehensively and then decide
on the share repurchase on a flexible manner.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so, 139% is the ESR that we are currently at, which is above the 130% ceiling level that
we have set as the target level. So, based on this ESR position, as well as our
considerations on market environment as well as business investment opportunities, we
decided on ¥25 billion as the size of the share repurchase this time round.
So, 100% to 130% as the reference target range that we have set. And when our ESR
exceeds 130%, even if the ESR does exceed 130%, we do not automatically use the
surplus capital to repurchase our own shares. We would like to optimize our share
repurchase program in terms of size as well as the timing. So, given our comprehensive
considerations, we decided on ¥25 billion this time around. Thank you.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

I am Wada from the IR Group of the Holdings. With regards to an earlier question raised
by Mrs. Sasaki, let us provide some additional comments.

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

My name is Hattori from International Business Development Department of Holdings.
There was a question with regards to the Delphi's profit decline vis-à-vis the top-line
growth. Due to the income gains which is increasing, investment income is actually
increasing even including capital gains and losses. And so, the underwriting performance
is the main contributor to the fact that the profit did decline.

A - Operator
Any more questions from the floor? The operator is asking for the next question through
the Japanese audience. Please wait on the line for the non-Japanese participants until the

Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

next question comes into the line. There is no more questions from the audience. So, Mr.
Wada, I will return the microphone to you.

FINAL

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

Ladies and gentleman, thank you very much for attending the telephone conference for
the overview of the 2016 results and 2017 projections. If you have any further questions or
needs more clarification on any of the points, please do not hesitate to contact us. And
once again, thank you for your participation. This is the end of the conference call.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes the conference call for the earnings of the 2016 and as well as projections
for 2017. And thank you for your patience, and please terminate each of your telephone
lines. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

