Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Rose, President, Chairman & Chief Executive Oﬃcer-compare.com
Cristina Nestares, Chief Executive Oﬃcer UK Insurance
David Graham Stevens, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Director
Lorna Connelly, Head-Claims
Milena Mondini, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Europe Insurance

Other Participants
Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
David Andrew Bracewell, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Good morning. Welcome to Admiral's Half Year Results Presentation. Those of you who
don't recognize the picture in the background haven't been to Cardiﬀ that's the (00:11) in
Cardiﬀ. You're all very welcome to come and visit. I'm ﬁve minutes earlier (00:17) an
interesting read.
I'm going to start with the introduction and then Geraint, our CEO, will dive into some of
the most ﬁnancial aspects of the business before Cristina and Lorna, respectively, head of
UK Insurance and head of UK Claims, will talk about some of the more operational
aspects in the UK. And then Andrew Rose has joined us from across the water, talk about
the Price Comparison in general with compare.com, in particular before Milena come
around, talk about our international insurance operations.
So, those are few words of introduction for myself. Being the six-month of continued
growth with 14% more turnover, 13% more customers than we had a year ago. By the half
year, we were just short of 5.5 million customers across the world, we're now over 5.5
Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

million customers. Year of growth also in the underlying dividends up 10% from £0.51 to
£0.56, reﬂecting our strong capital position. A year of some growth, modest growth, in
our proﬁt, 1% up proﬁt before tax, 3% earnings per share, reﬂecting some continuing
headwinds from the Ogden change announced in March. When we did our full year 2016
results we announced that Ogden would cost us around £150 million post tax and that we
were eﬀectively taking around two-thirds of that in the 2016 results. So the other third
carries into 2017 and beyond.
So, diﬀerent rates of growth. Growth everywhere. The diﬀerent rates of growth is steady in
the UK. Car Insurance business up 7% year-on-year, particularly pleasing in the context of
the hiatus in growth from the ﬁrst three months of the year, following our decision to
increase rates quite substantially in December on the announcement of the Ogden review
and the fact that the market didn't follow until March. Much more dramatic growth in
other parts of the business, 43% notably in our household customers insured in the last 12
months and 27% in the number of vehicles we insure internationally.
So, to expand on that, over to Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, David. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to talk brieﬂy through the group
results, then go on to the UK Insurance proﬁts, and then talk about capital and the interim
dividend. But ﬁrst up, let's look at the group proﬁt.
This is our usual chart that shows the contributions to the overall result that come from the
diﬀerent parts of the group. As David mentioned, the ﬁrst half proﬁt is £195 million, that's
modestly higher than H1 of 2016. That includes an improved result in the international
insurance. Losses down to £10 million from £13 million. That's in the green. And notably,
that includes a much lower loss in our U.S. Insurance operation.
H1 also saw an improved Price Comparison result. That's in the light blue. You'll have to
trust me on that. You can't see that at all. Again, improved numbers there from the U.S.
operations being the key reason for that change.
So, these positive moves were oﬀset by higher group or central expenses, which is in the
yellow. As you can see from the text on the side, that number includes the debt interest,
share scheme charges, and business development costs. And the key reasons for our
higher number this year, higher share scheme charges, higher head count, but also
higher costs in business development, notably from Admiral Loans.
Not forgetting, of course, the UK that's in the sort of dark blue. And as you can see, the
UK Insurance proﬁt was broadly ﬂat this year compared to last half year. And the
combination of all those factors gets you to a slightly higher H1 result compared to H1
2016.
So I'm going to take a few minutes now to talk about the UK Insurance proﬁt. On the top
of the slide we show the UK Insurance proﬁt which now covers private car, household and
Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

van over the past three half year periods. On the bottom, you can see the breakdown of
the UK Car Insurance combined ratio, which is obviously critical to the proﬁtability.
Cristina is going to cover households shortly, but as you can see, that business made
another proﬁt in H1, slightly above 2016 despite adding more than 40% to the customer
base and we continue to be conservative in booking loss ratios on the household
business.
Our car insurance at the H1 proﬁt was basically in line with last year so, that's explain
what's going on there. So, you can see that one or two things in the text distort the 2016
results we ﬂagged last year and that includes the commutation. And as we said back in
March, we will have some residual hangover of the Ogden impact this year and for the
next few years or ﬁnancial years. The impact to this half year is approximately £10 million.
That's enough to pull the higher current year loss ratio and lower proﬁt commission.

Bloomberg Transcript

And probably the key factor is a lower reserve release this half year versus last half year.
As you can see, 21% of premium is still substantial in relative terms that has that
percentage being more in line with 2016 and 2015, then obviously we'd have seen an
increased UK Car Insurance proﬁt. So, why wasn't it quite as high? Understanding the
development of the projected ultimate loss ratios over the past few periods is part of that
answer. So, let's take a look at that.
This chart should be at least half familiar to you. It's the projection of the ultimate loss
ratios by accident years. And this chart shows the position at the end of 2015 and
obviously the bracket show the change in those projected ultimates compared to six
months prior. What we tend to see over time is improvements in these initially quarters
projections at the level of uncertainty over the outcome growth.
So, for example, on this chart, you see 2012 accident year improving by 3 percentage
points in six months. If we roll that on six months to the middle of 2016, we again see
some pretty material improvements to some of the years. Then we come to the end of
2016 and actually here the position is largely stable, one or two small improvements. And
don't forget that's inspite of the new Ogden discount rates, minus 0.75% being reﬂected
in these projected ultimates.
Roll on again to the middle of 2017, the current period and after updating all our case
reserves for the impact of Ogden and seeing that going through, pleasing to see
generally stable outcomes in the projected ultimates, small improvement on 2015. And
here we've added, in the red line, the end of an era and maybe the last time we'll see on a
comparable basis Admiral against the market and institution of the graph.
As you can see the assessment of the ultimate cost of the minus 0.75% Ogden rate
remains unchanged, and obviously these projections continue to reﬂect that route. It is
appropriate to say that there's prudence in these projections, and particularly in the most
recent years. At this point, we don't give a current year number as you know, but certainly
on an underwriting year basis, at least, I would expect that 2017 will be better than 2016
on an ultimate basis.

Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

As we've said in the past, the size of Admiral's reserve releases is driven by two factors.
Firstly, the release of the initial margin built against those ﬁrst projections. But also from
the improvement we see in the projected ultimates over time. What we've seen in H1 is
stability in those projected ultimates. But in light of Ogden, I think it's pretty positive. That
stability leads to a lower albeit still substantial reserve release in H1. That's 21% of
premiums.
Let's take a look at the releases in a bit more detail. As usual, top chart shows the release
percentage, shows the premiums focusing on the release on the original Admiral net
share of the reserves over the past ﬁve half-year periods, and a couple of observations on
the numbers.
Firstly, the ﬁrst half of 2015 and 2016 beneﬁted from the improvements in the projected
ultimates that we talked about earlier. And so, very large reserve releases of 29% of
premiums. The second half of 2016 next, was obviously heavily impacted by Ogden,
basically no release at all. And ﬁnally in the ﬁrst half of this year, this 21% is well above the
long-term average, which is somewhere around 15%, but it's lower 21% compared to H1
2015 and 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

As is always the case, there continues to be a prudent and signiﬁcant margin above the
projected ultimates in the booked reserves. And, as we usually say, we would expect to
continue signiﬁcant reserve releases if the claims develop as we expect them to.
Just to ﬁnish the story on releases, this bottom chart splits the total release into the
elements on Admiral's original net share of the reserves which is in the dark blue on the
bottom. The top, the light blue shows the release that comes from the portion of the
reserve that was originally reinsured in the quota share contracts. And just to remind you
that 2016 as you can see was impacted by the commutation of 2014, which adversely
impacted that number. There've been no impact, no repeat of that impact this year. No
commutation in the ﬁrst half mainly due to Ogden. It's just important to note that we do
continue to project proﬁtability on all underwriting years.
Changing topics to look now at capital and dividends, ﬁrstly capital. A pretty similar
picture here to six months ago with a strong solvency ratio at 214%, which is largely in line,
slightly higher than the position at the end of 2016. The only really signiﬁcant movements
in the half year were the economic proﬁt oﬀsets by the interim dividend. And so much
more a normal six-month period than the second half of 2016.
Just to give an update on the calculation of the capital requirements and the internal
model, the basis of the solvency capital requirement remains the Standard Formula plus
the capital add-on. And the work on the internal model development continues. So, as
you can see, we have decided to increase the scope of the model beyond just UK motor
insurance risk to also capture market risk. We believe that will lead to a more concrete
model of the most important risks to the Admiral Group.
Now, inevitably the work involved in building, developing, testing, validating and so on,
that bigger model has led to a delay in the expected application dates, which we now
Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

expect them to be in the latter part of 2018. As we said over the past few results
announcements, we formally conﬁrm our target solvency range once that internal model
position is clear.
Moving now to the interim dividend, as you can see, the strong capital position is meant
we've been able to move the interim 2017 dividend up by 10% compared to the interim
2016 payments of £0.56 per share up from £0.51. Just to note, obviously we paid the
£0.119 scheme additional return on surplus capital on top of the underlying dividend in H1
2016. £0.56 represent the payout ratio of 98% of the ﬁrst half earnings but slightly higher
again in the ﬁrst half of 2016.
We repeat the dividend policy on the right hand side of the slides and we reiterate that
we'd expect dividends to be in the order of 90% to 95% of earnings for the foreseeable
future. And also to repeat the point that we don't expect to talk about any potential
returns to surplus capital until we get the internal model certainty. Dividend dates are also
on the bottom of the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

To summarize the key messages from the ﬁrst section. Very pleasing to see continued
growth across the group, especially again, in household and international insurance.
Group proﬁts were slightly ahead, and improved results in international insurance and
comparison and we continue to report a very strong solvency position, even after a fairly
full payout of earnings for the ﬁrst half. £0.56 interim dividend being 10% ahead of interim
2016.
That's it from me. I'll hand you over to Cristina and Lorna to discuss the UK in more detail.
Thank you.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. I want to give you an overview of our UK Insurance. On motor
(12:35) about the loss ratio and the overall result and Lorna is going to cover speciﬁcally
claims inﬂation. So, I will talk brieﬂy about changes in prices.
On the household, I want to talk about the market, because we had gone through a year
of a change and also our result. And I want to answer the question of why are we growing
when other competitors are not growing. And ﬁnally, I want to talk about our new product
which is van.
So, when we look at changes in the motor market in terms of prices, we all know that
since March, (13:09) Ogden rate, there has been continuous price increases in
competitors. However, our strategy was quite diﬀerent, because in mid December last
year, when it became obvious that there was going to be a change, we increased our
prices signiﬁcantly. That meant, as you can see on the graph on the right, that our Times
Top decreased and also did our sales.
We were surprised to see that competitors didn't follow and we, for the ﬁrst two months
of the year, we were selling less than expected. Now since March, competitors have been
Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

putting prices up, and we also continue doing so.
Let's look at the household markets. What we have seen in terms of prices is that for a
number years, it has been quite stable. I think this is partly due to the fact that we have
enjoyed fairly benign weather. Now, this is changing and we're seeing clear signs of
prices going up in the ﬁrst half of this year. We think that behind this is the Floodre level,
which put pressure on expense ratio and also, claims inﬂation especially in escape of
water (14:12).
So, what have we done in Admiral? Well, we put prices up in Admiral already in Q4 of last
year as a reﬂection of the claims inﬂation that we were also experiencing. What we saw is
that since around February this year, prices in the market started to go up. And that
meant, again, you can see, that our Times Top increased and that meant that also, our
sales did so. Now, since then, we have continued putting prices up. So, overall, what
we've seen is in the past nine months, we have put prices up by about high single digits,
and we have been able to grow because prices in the market have continued to increase.

Bloomberg Transcript

But, I think, it's also interesting to talk about the sources of growth. On the graph, you can
see a very strong growth trajectory. We grew 43% year-on-year. But there are three key
sources of where we get this growth. First, the growth of the Price Comparison market that
continues to grow in this period and we're a leading player. So, when it grows, the Price
Comparison market, we're also able to grow ourselves.
Secondly, the growth of our direct sales. When we say direct sales, we mean sales that we
acquired through direct marketing so, not Price Comparison. But it also means cross-sells,
that is selling to our own motor customer book.
And ﬁnally, another important source of growth for the household book is the strong
retention. In terms of the results, we were quite pleased to see that both the expense ratio
and the loss ratio improved in this period. Particularly signiﬁcant is the outperformance of
the expense ratio versus the market. So overall, with the growth and the progress we have
made, we have seen proﬁts increasing in the ﬁrst half to £1.6 million.
And then let's talk about van and the launch that we did in May this year. And it's
interesting because I talk about this new product, but truly this is not new to us. We have
had a broker in the van business since 1998 called Gladiator. So, what we did this year is
that we changed the model, from being a broker to being an underwriter and that started
in May as I mentioned.
So, by the time that we ﬁnished the broker, we had about 10% of the market and we have
175,000 vehicles covered. So, now that we have become an underwriter, the focus is for
this 12 month is migrating that group of business from the broker to the underwriter. So,
you should expect a similar level of the size of the book at the end of the year.
We are going to focus on learning about the markets, learning more about the claims
experience and about pricing and for the future, we expect to achieve similar results to
motor, especially on the expense ratio.
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

Now before I ﬁnish, I want to talk about the customers, because delivering great service is
at the core of the Admiral culture. And therefore, I was disappointed that we sent
inaccurate information for our customers, during April and May on our renewal letter.
Now all the letters that are issued today have correct information. But I think it's also
important that we focus again about this great service that we try to give to our
customers. And I thought I talk to you about two examples on how we try to constantly
reduce the level of complaints.
You can see at the top, there is a graph that shows the results of the complaints referred
to the Ombudsman, and we can see that these results are better for Admiral than the
average of the market. On the bottom, you can see a graph on the claims complaint that
we have versus new claims, and you can see that period after period, we're constantly
increasing or improving this level from a very good level. And ﬁnally, we are proud to
have won the Best UK Car Insurance Provider for four years in a row.
Now, I'm going to hand you Lorna to talk more about claims inﬂation.

Lorna Connelly

{BIO 19791125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning, everybody. I'm pleased to be here today to talk to you about claims. I don't
know about you but it certainly seems to me that not a week goes by these days without
picking up a paper and reading some headline about claims inﬂation. We thought we
would take the opportunity today to just touch on some of those headlines and perhaps
then what we think of the key drivers behind them.
So, to start it oﬀ, this ﬁrst graph is an illustration of the recent (18:41) and you can see from
the blue line that the overall claims frequency has been falling since 2015. This is great
news and the reason for that, we think it's primarily to the vehicle and road safety
improvements that we've seen.
However, in contrast, looking at the green line, you can see that the average cost has
been increasing for that period, and this is driven by inﬂation, the cost of damage, and
bodily injury claim which is aﬀecting everyone.
One of those recent inﬂationary pressures Ogden included (19:09) reserve mix. You can
see from the second graph at the top light blue portion representing large bodily injury
claims has increased signiﬁcantly post Ogden reserve (19:19). I want to emphasize here
(19:22) and not actual or ultimate cost.
If you turn to the next slide, once we just saw that frequency has been reducing, the cost
of repair in cars and certainly newer cars (19:34) with enhanced safety features and
advanced technologies (19:37) frequency saving.
And to illustrate this point, some of the most simple of claims, you can see here some of
the stark diﬀerences in the parts prices between older and newer car models. And parts
like headlights are just evolving all the time. If you look at Audi A4, moving from halogen
lights to xenon, this represents the 421% increase in car cost.
Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

But frankly, I think some of these are really extreme, but it's not just companies and
manufacturers like Audi where we see inﬂation. It's across Ford, Citroen, Mazda and the
like. So what are we doing to counteract this? Well, we have innovative approach to
procurement which is very closely aligned with our claims experts. We are building
relationships with manufacturers, and we're investing to the pricing opportunities. And
more simply (20:25) to say that recent industry benchmarking shows our inﬂation on
damage is below the market average.
Moving on to bodily injury and whiplash in particular. It really wouldn't be a results
presentation, I don't think, without whiplash reform coming up. Certainly, it seems to have
been a constant feature of the year. When I sit here in 2014, I said that the claims
notiﬁcations received through the (20:49) was the highest since the quarter it launched.
But today in contrast, we can see the June 2017 was the lowest volume coming through
since the LASPO reform which is particularly pleasing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what's driving that reduction in frequency? I'd like to say that (21:04) further
consolidation of the bodily injury (21:07) market, but more than that it's far greater success
I think with insurers in successfully defending (21:14) and frankly bodily claims (21:19) which
is great news.
We've included a reminder here for you of what we think is included in the whiplash
reform. A question would it actually happen. I think those that are close to it say that
despite Brexit, the government is still seeing to have a strong will to see these reforms
through and the fact it's included in the Queen's Speech, probably gets a little bit of
weight (21:39) to that. However, there's still no clarity on the time scale to implementation.
So, we'll have to wait and see.
We also note here the market expectation is that the cost per claims and frequency
following these reforms will drop and that's not necessarily our long-term view. That's
small BI and (21:59) signiﬁcant when it comes to large bodily injury claims in the postOgden.
So, again, when I sit here in 2014, I talked about the signiﬁcant inﬂation that we've seen
across large bodily injury claims in the market, and I certainly didn't expect to sit here just
three years later talking about an even greater inﬂationary element of the same claims
which is the change of the discount rate.
Well, we put this slide together for you and this example is the main element that go into
reserve in the large claims (22:26) elements that are aﬀected by that discount rate. And in
this example, you can see we've used a moderate brain-type injury for a young person
and you can clearly see the diﬀerence in reserve between the original discount rate of
2.5% and the minus 0.75%.
I'm sure you can imagine the impacts of those rate changes on the catastrophic claim,
when I say carriers, and even multiple carriers 24/7. And we can understand the impact of
the change on reserve-in, so what about the real impact of the change they say in
handling claims. Is it really that stark?
Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

Well, the discount rate is just one of many factors that come into the negotiation process
and those truly catastrophic claims that I just mentioned that are most aﬀected by the
Ogden rate, they tend to be multi-factorial. What do we mean by that?
Loss in these cases will involve lengthy dispute of the liability and/or a high degree of
contributory negligence. With experience, investigation and application maybe here are
key. In addition, a lack of consistency between medical and statistical expert to accurately
predict life expectancy is another area of contention between parties.
But I think the combination we've too frequently encountered issues amongst many
others means that the reality of the situation when it comes to settlement often means that
you talk about lump sum of those, rather than (23:42) of all the individual issues. I think
that will enable us to still carry on and settle claims. And this is where we see our
experience and approach to really win through. And actually in a minus 0.7% world, it isn't
(23:55) more valuable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on this ﬁnal slide, we tried to summarize our key strengths in claims handling
and I'll leave you to read most of it at your leisure. But I will just call out a few points. If I
start at the top right, on tactical edge, I think that every large claim has a key action plan
(24:14) particular claim. And the most successful one here, claiming (24:19) is now we've
chosen to benchmark so.
In the technical edge, I say not only on intelligent use of robotics, it helps us become
more eﬃcient and accurate (24:28) to concentrate even more time on the technical
aspects of their roles. At the collaboration, I'd say (24:35) achieved fair outcomes to all
parties, so we are readily commended for our approach for the claimant lawyers, which is
not easy.
And ﬁnally, I do like to emphasize that the overriding strength of interest in our claims
handling is having staﬀ who are not only highly experienced but care passionately about
the outcomes for us and the customer. And of course, all insurers will have them, handlers
and care like theirs, so (24:57) I think it's our ability to consistently achieve it, right across
the board that really stands out and that's down to our culture.
So, what will happen to the discount rate? Well, we don't know. And much like whiplash, it
does – (25:13) the government to change it, but again we have to wait and see. In the
meantime, please remember that we are fully reserved at minus 0.75% and we'll continue
to work hard to settle our claims on the best possible term.
I'll hand you back to Cristina.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Thanks, Lorna. So, to summarize the UK Insurance section, we have continued to quote in
car but especially in household, and we have done so while increasing our proﬁt.

Page 9 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

Now, what are we focusing now at the moment? Well, we have seen the rollout of our new
system, Guidewire, that allows us to increase the pace of change. So, we're focusing on
creating a bigger or a more intense customer journey online, both at sales stage, selfservice and online. We're also focusing on increasing our telematics book and our
telematics oﬀering and the products that we oﬀer.
And ﬁnally, we're also improving our pricing capability by adding new external databases
and also improving the tools that we use. So, for the future, you should expect that our
strength in pricing, our cost control mentality and in some claims negotiation puts us in a
good place to continue our growth.
Now, I'm going to leave you with Andrew to talk about the Price Comparison.

Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Thank you, Cristina and Lorna. Good morning, everyone. Let's kick things oﬀ with
compare.com. First and foremost, compare.com hit its objectives in H1, hitting marketing
breakeven, revenue exceeding marketing spend in two of its core states. The team at
compare worked very hard to achieve this goal and I'm, obviously, very proud of them.

Bloomberg Transcript

We extended that win, however, to 20-plus states, achieving overall marketing breakeven
countrywide in each month of the ﬁrst half of the year. This was beyond our expectations
and was made possible by meaningfully reducing our acquisition cost metrics and
delivering even more rates from even more carriers to grateful customers.
Now, this was not done by slashing quote and sales volumes. On the contrary, we
increased our clicks in sales, but on a reduced overall marketing spend. The added
volume pleased our existing panel members and makes it easier for us to attract new
ones.
As we reﬂect on H1, the team achieved so much. We've made great progress on our
metrics and maintained a strong growth trajectory, an improvement on top of all these
existing gains. More volume at lower cost is one of the keys to success for this business
and while we cannot yet claim victory, we're pleased with our progress.
Consumers obviously understand and prefer this approach and the more rate from wellknown brands we show them, the happier they get. We now serve all 51 markets in the
U.S. recently, adding Alaska.
Carriers, the other half of our customer equation, remain quite satisﬁed as well. They like
the ﬂexible quoting model we provide, as well as the increased volume of customers
available to them. These achievements do need to be caveated as we remain on a small
relative scale in the U.S.
All that said, challenges do remain. As a reminder, the U.S. is a very large market, $208
billion, both a challenge and huge opportunity, and it's a fragmented market, 51 discrete
Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

markets with carriers catering to speciﬁc segments, non-standard and standard, rather
than quoting all comers.
Competition is ﬁerce with insurance advertising reaching $6.5 billion last year alone. The
four biggest players dominate both the airwaves and market share. And while they're
showing greater willingness to participate on our platform, none have yet fully embraced
this channel. Complex coverages, agents and bundling are all reasons why this market will
not develop as quickly or likely as far as the UK market did.
Now that I've given you the optimistic and pessimistic views of our business, I'll return to
our overall economics. Operations last year and this year continue to yield better than
forecast overall losses, and we hope to continue that in H2. We believe the comparison
model is now part of the U.S. distribution ecosystem and we plan for it to remain that way
for years to come. I will be remiss as an Admiral business if I didn't highlight that
compare.com now regularly shows up on various top workplace lists. It's all about the
team.

Bloomberg Transcript

The inevitable question is when will we achieve overall proﬁts? The short answer, we don't
know. We don't know the real answer. And when it becomes possible for us to do that, we
could choose more scale further delaying proﬁt. Reaching it depends on our ability to do
two things as you can see above, scale the marketing and improve the ultimate
conversion of our carriers.
We're scaling marketing now with our most successful TV campaign to-date. Progress on
conversion is being achieved both with internal and carrier-driven eﬀorts. As you can see
from this chart, on relative carrier conversion rates, there remains a great opportunity for
improvement and that improvement goes straight to the bottom line. For compare.com, I
want you to take away a message of nice progress. We're encouraged, hopeful, even
optimistic. But it's not time for celebration as much more work remains. More time is
required before we can claim that ultimately desired outcome.
Leaving the U.S. and returning to where it all started, let's talk about Confused.com. In a
market that is struggling to diﬀerentiate, one comparison business from another,
Confused.com has made the strategic shift to focus on drivers and all the things necessary
to be the number one site for car savings. This move has required investment in both new
product verticals, as well as a new position in consumers' minds.
These investments include a 30% increase in marketing spend with an ad campaign
featuring James Corden. It's yielded greater top-of-mind awareness at the expense of
near-term proﬁts. We remain encouraged by the early results of this strategic shift and
hopeful that this will yield higher proﬁt and market share in the years to come. As you
know, there are no guarantees and time will be the judge of this shift in strategy.
Moving to mainland Europe, let's discuss our comparison businesses in France and Spain.
Overall, the two businesses showed both growing revenues and proﬁt. LeLynx faced
greater market competition, but still yielded double-digit revenue growth and panel

Page 11 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

improvement. The team in Paris remains focused on increasing brand awareness and
preference, while improving conversion and customer experience.

FINAL

Rastreator ended another excellent half-year and remains the clear leader in the Spanish
market. They are using this position to diversify into both telephone and ﬁnance with
promising early results. The team in Madrid remains focused on improving price accuracy
and conversion, while beginning to oﬀer data as a service to the market.
Overall, Admiral's comparison businesses remain strong. compare.com is growing in a
challenging market, delivering better than forecast result. Confused.com is investing in a
new product vertical and brand position that holds the promise of diﬀerentiation and
greater long-term proﬁts. Rastreator and LeLynx have diﬀerent market positions in
diﬀerent markets, but both continue to grow.
With that, I'll hand the ﬂoor over to Milena to talk to you about the International Insurance
businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Good morning to everybody. Really glad to be here today to talk to you
about the progress in Spain, Italy, France, and United States. And I'm glad because it is a
positive feature overall with substantial growth everywhere, improvements on our key
metrics, a reduction on the overall losses from £13 million to £10 million as Geraint
reminded as before, and also a slightly more positive outlook in the market than a couple
of years ago. So, with that in mind, I will start to talk to you about Europe and then move
to U.S.
So just mentioned the ﬁrst positive note come from the restart of economy and the
opportunity that local market presents to us. Everywhere, we are in the worst part of the
cycle. The cycle is worsening. And after a year of massive falling rates in Spain and Italy,
we ﬁnally see some signs of price increase and this is quite relevant to us.
Historically, increasing price has been a strong push for customers to shop more to Price
Comparison sites and direct channels. And it is worth to remind that diﬀerently from UK,
in Europe the direct channel is still quite small and has quite more share of the market,
from 15%, 20% in Spain, depending on how we account for average models to a very tiny
4% in France.
Another restraint to the development of the direct market on the last year has been the
reduction of car sales. Actually in the last three years, the trend is reversing, and now it's
almost fully recovered. Spain, for example, we're now back to the same volumes of cash
ﬂow than in 2008 after it almost halved (35:17) in 2012. If we are to do this incessant
increase in the adoption of mass point (35:24) as a way to look for car insurance and buy
car insurance, you see our overall – the outlook of the market is slightly more positive than
it used to be.

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

We are now already growing at quite substantial speed. We passed the market of
200,000 customers in Spain and 100,000 customers in France. Brand and conversion
have been the main drivers of this growth. You may remind that six months ago, we
aligned our focus on increasing brand awareness. And so, I'm quite pleased to say that
we're improving year-on-year. And, actually, in the last 12 months, we increased an
average 10% even with reduced media spend.
Very similarly, 12 months ago, David mentioned that European Insurance as the clear top 1
priority. And this was to increase our share on Price Comparison site. And, again,
conversion on this channel is improving between 10% and 20%, and France is staying
year-on-year.
We are also enlarging our product oﬀering. For example, we are starting to oﬀer van in
Spain, as we are doing in UK, and we're focusing very much on improving the customer
journey, particularly aligned with more demanding multichannel customers.
Finally, to support a larger scale, we migrate our IT platform in Italy to Guidewire, that is
now adopted largely everywhere in the group. And as a collateral note, it's very nice to
see how this partial convergence in technology is actually helping us to share more and
more best practice at a group level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Which was the cost of this growth? So, the growth came at a cost of additional £3 million
in Europe. That is quite fair investment considering that in the last year, we had more than
170,000 customers and more than £36 million of turnover. And just in the last six months,
it was 90,000 additional customer and £23 million of turnover.
On the bottom of the slide, a couple of consideration on the results. On the positive side
on the left, you see how we're clearly starting to reap the beneﬁt from the economy of
scale. Our expense increased by 7% and corresponding to a turnover increase by 30%. So
this means that we're actually growing more eﬃciently, and indeed, we did reuse our
acquisition cost substantially. On the less positive side or the negative side, our loss ratio
combined deteriorated. And this is a partial reﬂection of the substantial growth in the
worst part of the cycle, on partially reﬂection of moving our reserve methodology in
France and in Spain towards the same methodology we're adopting already in Italy and in
UK. And on the bottom right of the graph or the slide, you can see a graph that shows our
movement in the booked loss ratio for Italy as an example.
Now, before to move to U.S., I think it's worth to remind that ConTe had another half year
of proﬁt, continue to show an underwriting advantage versus the market and more
particularly towards the rest competitors, and at the same time is growing quite
substantially.
So, we move now to U.S. The trends in the market as you can see, are very similar to
Europe, but much more impressive. This is because we are used to see a very ﬂat
combined ratio in U.S. historically, and such a strong gap turn in the cycle has never been
seen, at least not in the last couple of decades.

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

And results of U.S. of Elephant are quite impressive. We did increase our turnover and our
customer base respectively by 19%, 17%, and at the same time we reduced our losses from
$15 million to $6 million. The reduction and improvement of these results are mainly due
to improvement of the technical results and improvement of the loss ratio in U.S. And
again, this was the main focus that David highlighted six months ago for the United States
thing.
Now, I said that we've also been lucky because we experienced a more benign weather in
Texas where you may remember we had a big hail last year. And given I mentioned Texas,
I think it's worth to remind that we are now trading in six states in United States: Indiana,
Illinois, Texas, Tennessee, Maryland and Virginia, and that Texas alone represents more
than half of our customer base. Actually, as an insurance market, Texas alone is of a
comparable size to France or to Italy, much larger than Spain and even larger than UK. So,
that's been really key in order to achieve new results for us.
Now, to summarize, again, we had a very good growth in every single market. We
improved our metrics. More notably, we improved our loss ratio in United States. And
overall, we feel we have a more positive outlook of the market compared to the last
couple of years, a stronger foundation. And this puts us in a quite good position to
continue to grow and to develop our business outside UK.
Thank you very much. I will now endorse to David to talk to you about other group
opportunity and wrap-up. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Milena. In my CEO comments on the release, I said that Admiral was ambitious
in pursuit of immediate growth opportunities and long-term growth opportunities and my
colleagues have talked to you about those immediate growth opportunities. I want to
focus more on the longer-term growth opportunities.
We've invested around 3% of our proﬁt during the course of ﬁrst half, an initiative that are
irrelevant in terms of returning to short term. But I think potentially, very, very important to
the medium term and long term health of the business. And I've chosen three examples
to talk to you about today.
Admiral Loans. In the ﬁrst half of 2017, we originated our ﬁrst loan on a dedicated end-toend mobile-friendly loan system. We are currently active in a very small way on Price
Comparison sites oﬀering a fairly vanilla unsecured purple lending product to prime and
near-prime customers. But we are laying the foundations for a healthy long-term business,
good team, good system, looks like a good expense base that's going to be built here. It
looks like a good response from the Admiral customer base to the loan product. So, very
encouraging.
Another thing we've been working on is oﬀering nontraditional forms of car insurance.
Vast majority of the UK market is very happy with car insurance as it stands. But there are
some people with more speciﬁc needs. One example of that is a site we've opened up for
Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

people who have short-term needs, one hour to 90 days. Learner drivers who want to do
lessons (42:05). People who haven't got a car, they've got a license in their car, they want
to use their friend's or family member's car. That space is growing faster than we
anticipated; the acquisition cost improving better than we anticipated.
There are a number of (42:15) brand to a start-ups in this sort of space. It's very hard to
know for sure get market data but from the data we can get, we think we're substantially
bigger than any of those brands in the short-term insurance market. And more
encouragingly, this product is bringing new customers. The majority of the users of this
product are new customers to the Admiral Group. Now, last of the initiative I'll highlight is
expansion into other areas of non-life insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we've gone from cars to home, from home now to van. Before the end of the year, we
will be launching a travel insurance product underwritten by Admiral as well. Now one of
the key questions is how do we make sure we don't go from being a company that's
excellent in one or two products to being mediocre in a number of products. I think the
key to that perhaps will be to maintain the elements of our culture that are key to our
success in the past and will be key to our success in the future. Which elements am I
referring to? There's a lot I could talk about. I could talk about frugality, talk about
commitment to ﬁnding a way of doing better by the customer in any market we enter. I
could talk about data-driven decision-making. But I've chosen to talk about three
elements of our culture, which is the three that I talk about when I stand up in front of new
members and staﬀ, as I do, all new members and staﬀ in Wales (43:32).
The ﬁrst one I talk about is people who like what they do, do it better. We want our staﬀ to
enjoy what they do. That's important. The customers feel that when you call and make a
midterm adjustments. You can hear it on the end of the phone. But it's also important in
terms of keeping our staﬀ. We have excellent retention. Lorna talked about the quality of
some of our claims handlers. They've been with us for a number of years. They will stay
with us because they enjoy working for us.
It's also important in terms of attracting good new employees. The loan team is a mixture
of long-term Admiral employees and high-quality experienced lending managers who
have chosen to join us. And one of the reasons they've joined us is for the culture.
The second point I'd make to everyone is we want people to feel like they own the
business, so we make them owners. So, when you're having that phone call with someone
to do a midterm adjustment, the person that answers your phone 20% their remuneration
is equity and it's Admiral share. Their manager, team manager, completes (44:29) 33% of
their remuneration is equity.
Why do we do that? We want people to care about the outcomes of everything they do
for the company. We want them to care about making sure the customer has a good
experience, that we don't waste money. We want them to be adaptable to change. And
we want to encourage – very important in the context of new product – cooperation across
the whole of the group.

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

We're big believers that there is a good payout in terms of cooperation, car insurance can
learn from lending, and lending from loans into car insurance. House insurance can
beneﬁt from sharing with travel insurance and vice versa. That common ownership and
interest in the shares is important.
And that's also reﬂected in the last point we make, the team, the team, the team. It's all
about cooperation. At Admiral, you don't get on by elbowing your way past your
colleague, you get on by ﬁnding ways of cooperating with them. So, those are the
elements of culture among others that we think are key to helping us in the long-term
(45:26).
Thank you, and I'll open it up for questions.

Q&A
Operator
A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Here's the microphone. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. Two questions. The ﬁrst one (45:47) it feels like you're
doing a lot outside of UK motor. There's lots of things you've done in the past, but you
seem to be mentioning more and more new initiatives. Do you think on the UK motor
side, we're kind of at the peak of where you could be on the market share? That's the ﬁrst
question.
And the second question, in terms of the expansion into new products, you mentioned
3% of PBT at the ﬁrst half. What should we expect going forward of that? Thank you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

In terms of cost savings, we have something similar going forward, that sort of level. In
terms of long-term prospect, the UK Car Insurance, Cristina?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. I don't think (46:23) pricing trend and cost control aren't still – (46:27) some of the
leaders in the market believe we can still grow. I think if we look long term 20, 30 years,
there's a lot of pressure about the size of the market, but that's the type of timeframe
we're looking at.
When we look about initiatives on other products, we also think that we can give a better
oﬀering to our customers. So, when we oﬀer a car and then a multicar policy partly
because we learn more about the customer, we can oﬀer a better price. And that similar

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

things we want to do with our household, our van and our travel oﬀering. It's just to oﬀer a
multi-cover propositions to the customer.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

We come in and go across, this gentleman at the front.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Thanks. Thomas Seidl, Bernstein. Three questions. First, is on pricing. In the UK you
mentioned, you put through price increases in December, also year to date but average
prices per car seem to be ﬂat year-on-year. So, does it mean you changed the mix or how
would you explain that?
Secondly, on capital guarantees, that it feel strong on Solvency 2 standard models, so why
withdrawing from giving back extra capital just because you delayed the internal model a
couple of months?
And thirdly, on the compare.com in the U.S. If I'm not wrong, the carriers you have listed
up for compare.com are stable. So you have signed up a new carrier recently and may
have even lost one or two if I'm not wrong, so the question is, is this business then now
based on keeping the carrier stable and you have just played advertising and the
conversion thing or are you still hopeful to increase the carrier?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So we do that in order, and Cristina will take the ﬁrst one.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So, yes, the mix has changed. First, I think, we need to say that when you put a price
increase you shouldn't see translation fully of that price increase because there is normally
a change of mix. But in the case of what we have been doing in the past few months,
there has been a change against some of the larger segments exposed to the other
chains (48:37).

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Capital, so, I think, it's fair to say that 214% is not the long-term sort of level we'd run after
in terms of solvency. I think I'd almost say exactly the same as I said six months ago. We
think it's appropriate to wait until we get certainty over the internal model position before
we commit to any potential returns, the surplus that might exist at that point. And the
reasons for that are the position, obviously we have a clearly good idea of what we think
the position is and should be. But it's not fully in our control. So, we think, it's appropriate
to wait until we've gone through that process, get that certainty. And then we'll also
communicate a potential return to shareholders at that point. I might also point to
uncertainty of the Ogden consultation, where that might go taking the respective PPOs
and the impact they might have on capital, but the internal model certainty is the key.

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

FINAL

And on compare, we do continue to add carriers. We do continue to add carriers states.
Because of the 51 discrete markets, a lot of it is less about adding speciﬁc new carriers as
to getting density in speciﬁc markets. And some of what we're doing is mining our
existing carriers for additional state opportunities. But there continues to be carrier
additions as well as product extensions moving into home rent or condo to complete the
bundling part of the portfolio as well.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We'll take it from there, back of the room (49:58) then we'll come across.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst
one was just on the Admiral Loans venture. Historically to me, it's a potentially quite
capital-consumptive initiative, and I was just wondering if you could elaborate on
thoughts around that and the shape of the group from a capital perspective has that built
on? I know it's early stages at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second one was on the capital front. It's more a point of clariﬁcation really. Can you give
us a sense, when you talk about being comfortable with the internal model, does that
mean when you get approval? Does it mean when you make the application, or does it
mean some point in the interim? And, secondly, why have you kind of expanded the
scope at this stage to include the capital risk module?
And then the third and ﬁnal one was just on small bodily injury claims. The slide 20 chart
showed quite a big drop-oﬀ in claims through the portal. Last time you experienced that
(51:01), it took quite some time for the favorable reserve releases to ﬂow through. I was
wondering if you could comment on where we are in that journey this time around. Thank
you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'll do loans and reserves moving through and Geraint will do the two capital points. On
loans, at the moment, the size of the loan business is immaterial in terms of balance sheet
strength. Our heritage as an insurer is to establish good underlying economics there and
then partner with reinsurers who provide capital support to our initiative. Our hope is that
we will demonstrate that, the good underwriting economics and be able to partner with
external sourcing of capital to achieve some eﬃciencies there.
In terms of the impact of the fall in small bodily injury on (51:48) it is the case that when we
report proﬁt, we tend to book proﬁts that are functionable and two or three years ago. So,
you would not expect any Admiral way of reporting proﬁts. But the surprisingly low
probably newer frequency between the ﬁrst half would necessarily immediately, et cetera.
Geraint?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

Timing, so, we expect that the application will be in the latter part of 2018. So, some we'll
record in the fourth quarter. I think a very good process would take six months with the
regulator. I think it's unlikely that we would commit to any returns as the application goes
in, I think that's probably premature. At some point, after a master approval is given, we're
certainly going to get a lot of clarity on the position, I think before we communicate
further on potential returns or surplus.
And the scope, there are a large number of reasons and, I think, over the past year or so,
it's become reasonably clear to us that the Standard Formula doesn't (52:45) particularly
well with very volatile interest rates and particularly the only environment we've been in.
So, that's one factor. We think, actually, there's quite a lot of interaction between inﬂation
and interest rates and insurance risk as well.
And, I think, to probably capture those, we believe that we need to develop a better
market risk model, but also regulatory interactions, considerations as well. So, we think,
it's appropriate to go with a more complete model rather than go with the ﬁrst application
and then go back 12 months later, and then 12 months later and then 12 months later
saying, can we have this bid, can we have that bid, can we have the next bid? So, we're
trying to balance between getting the model approved and getting it used as quick as
possible but also getting a robust as possible model in at ﬁrst application.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Now, very unusually we actually have a question coming in from outside, from the call. Do
we know how to – this is so unusual. I'm maybe sure on the logistics. How do we handle
that? Okay. We'll take that question after this one, if we can sort out how to take it. I'm
going over there.
Thank you. (53:54) from UBS coming through. Two follow-up questions on UK motor
pricing, please. Firstly, going back to the original question, your GWP was up 7%, (54:03)
was up 7%, yet you indicated to us six months ago that underlying claims (54:10) was kind
of tracking 3%, 4%, 5%, (54:13) 8% to 10%. So, can you just square that a bit and then give
us some indication of what the risk adjusted price increases were during the period?
And then, secondly, when we look at your slide around the competitiveness of UK motor,
it shows it's falling and then obviously coming back as other people are pricing up, but
it's still below where it was end of last year. So, can you give a bit of commentary around,
has therefore your products (54:38) account started to improve towards the end of the
ﬁrst half into the second half?
And then also can you comment on your gross versus net in terms of price? You said you
may have adjusted for net pricing now, but do you need to put prices up further to fully
cover Ogden on a gross basis? Thank you.

Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. So, what we have done so far this year is take into account the full extent of the
Ogden change and the full impact in our book. And that means, gross (55:10) expect to
do is that if there is no further clariﬁcation from the Ministry of Justice of how (55:17) going
to change going forward if we stay at the same level as we have today, we expect the
reinsurance to adjust the pricing level quite signiﬁcantly. Indeed, program that is going to
start next year.
And I think both Admiral and the rest of the market are going to adjust their prices in
January next year to reﬂect to what we have done already. It is taking into account our
current program, adjust the price. So, Ogden is fully embedded in our pricing increases.
And we have taken also some steps regarding the inﬂation. Remember, prices have gone
up since March this year, but they had also been going up quite substantially last year.
And that today we're already reﬂecting the increase in negative inﬂation in the prices.
Also, at the moment, even though there was a signiﬁcant increase in March, we're seeing
that the market continues to (56:05) month to month. So, it's not yet clear whether this is
going to change.

Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay. Great.
Fine. Thank you. Building the suspense.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We have a question on the phone lines from Andy Hughes from Macquarie. Please go
ahead, Andy.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andy Hughes. It's good to know I'm still asking diﬃcult questions. So, (56:40)
question about the ultimate loss ratio movement, the projected ultimate one from the end
of the year to the ﬁrst half. If we look at 2014, it's 74% in both cases, 2015 has gone from
76% to 77%, meaning neither of those years has particularly moved very much due to the
impact of Ogden, or maybe it was already factored into the ultimate best estimate loss
ratios.
And I guess what I'm interested in is, the ultimate best estimate loss ratio, is it developed
positively in the past? Presumably some of that has been because you've settled things at
2.5% rather than that, yeah, the implied rate in the reserving and in the ultimate best
estimate. So, I'm curious as to how much impact that had in the past as you settle those
claims through.
And I guess the point that Lorna made about how these claims are settled and how you
have an advantage that's even stronger going forward post Ogden than you had before
are what you saying that these debates are really about the quantum? So, you sit in the
room, you say, okay, this claim is £5 million and then you allocate it back to the diﬀerent
Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

lines. So, actually when you've changed the Ogden discount rate, maybe then you sit
down, you have a diﬀerent conversation, but it's not quite the same as saying what we
played last year has gone up by the impact of the Ogden discount rate. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I'll take the ﬁrst one on ultimate. So I think the question was relative to the comparison of
the June 2017 position against December 2016. And what I said earlier was we've seen
general stability in those projected ultimate loss ratios apart from some recently small
movements including the small improvement on 2015. The position at the end of 2016 did
include the rebasing of those ratios for the minus 0.75% rate. It's actually the process
we've gone through since we reported our results in March. It's obviously put the impact
of that minus 0.75% through the case reserves. And then mostly we projected the
ultimates at the middle of the year and so we've seen stability in that context which we
think is actually a pretty positive outcome. But the December 2016 numbers did include
minus 0.75%. (58:49).

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And in terms of big bodily injury settlement, Lorna (58:55).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lorna Connelly

{BIO 19791125 <GO>}

I think one of the (58:55) to make on the – is even more valuable than – if we can get a
case where I think the easy example is (59:01) fails to wear a seatbelt and has been bodily
injured. And they are arguing a 10% to 15% contribution on that. If it's 10% to 15% of the £3
million claims originally, almost 10% to 15% of the £5 million or £6 million claims under the
new rate, then investigation is even more important to be able prove that. And that
currently is even more into play when you have things like contributions with people
getting into cars and direct drivers, that kind of things.
So, I think our advantage there is being able to look at things like CCTV and establish
relationship throughout the (59:29) just be able to show that one driver was actually with
that passenger. So, at the moment, neither be drinking is (59:34) quite helpful.
When it comes down to settlements on these types of claims, (59:40) few weeks ago. And
the lawyer starts oﬀ by saying that I need to talk about what's the (59:46) rate. And our
approach to that will be, well, we're not going to talk about rate, we're just talking (59:52)
what we think this claim is worth. And that has been our approach so far which seems to
work on these claims whether it's contributing negligence. We don't get anywhere. We
are absolutely 100% at fault.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

(01:00:11).
(01:00:15) two questions from me, please. So, just to be clear on the rates, you've said that
your competitiveness has now improved since March. Does that mean that you're
increasing rate in line with the market or below the market now? And then just on the
commutations, I note there was no commutations in 1H presumably from the 2015 year.
How do you think that will develop? Are you waiting maybe a little bit longer to see how
Ogden impact that, or what's the reason behind that? Thank you.
On the rates on page 13, I think the page it shows Admiral's Times Top, it tells the story
really of a situation where our rate increases were earlier and substantial. The market then
moved up substantially in March. It has continued to move up. We've also moved up. We
are less competitive than we were a year ago. So, by implication, our rates increases
versus a year ago been higher than the market, which is not irrational in the context of a
temporary competitive disadvantage due to the impact of very diﬀerent insurance
structures during 2017. In terms of commutation?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Commutations, basically, answer the question I think I said normally we would commute
2015 in the ﬁrst quarter of this year and that decision point coincided exactly with the
point in which the new Ogden rate was announced. And so, even though we were
projecting that 2015 would remain proﬁtable at that point, it didn't feel appropriate to
commute cover £1 billion of reserves for the year at that point.
In terms of what we do in the future, it will depend partly on what comes out of Ogden.
The consultation, I'd expect that we would commute it (01:01:51) – it appears to us to be
very proﬁtable underwriting it. So, I'd expect this to commute (01:01:56) some point, but
clarity on the Ogden consultation will be the key endpoint into that claim.

Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.
Thank you. (01:02:04). Thank you.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Thank you. Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Three questions. Firstly, the reinsurance contract would
come to an end next year. You're fairly conﬁdent, you guys last time when you presented
in terms of nothing should change. Is that still the view on those reinsurance contracts?
Have you started engaging with both partners. And then, do we have more?
Secondly, on the U.S. aggregator business, could you remind us how many states now
you guys are breakeven in the ﬁrst six months of this year? Also, what are the number of
panel players you have currently? Similarly, for the French aggregator business, if you can

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

note how many players, panel players are there on that website and has players like AXA
fully engaged with you guys there? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

(01:02:54). We expect to get into negotiations and discussions on expanding those
contracts beyond 2018 in the UK shortly. We've had some discussions with some of our
partners, and we believe that the conversations will be very similar. For your (01:03:09)
interest there, we expect to be able to renew those deals if we want to on at least
comparable terms with the current contracts.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

You do the U.S. and I'll do France.

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Most of the states that we were aggressively advertising in, we were better than marketing
breakeven. It was north of 20-plus states. There were a variety of states that we don't have
a panel that would be suﬃcient for us to aggressively market. So, some months those
would be proﬁtable, some months they wouldn't, but it wasn't relevant in the overall
scheme of things. The number of carrier is north of 60 contract signed and they bring
north of 100 brands.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

In France, the engagements of the traditional players is mixed in contrast say with Spain
or the UK. So, the big mutuals don't tend to engage in Price Comparison with the
exception of (01:04:07), who was the market leader, and is now a distant third, which is
owned by the big mutuals. AXA itself is an important panel player under its Assurance
(01:04:16) direct brand.

Q - David Andrew Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Hi. It's David Bracewell here from Redburn. Just a couple of questions on the U.S. Price
Comparison business. You gave some stats on, I think, click rates. So, the number of clicks
are going up signiﬁcantly. But I just wonder if you could perhaps give us some absolute
numbers or some indication of what perhaps your market share there is of the new
business?
And then, a kind of a follow-up question to that really is given the combined ratio in the
U.S. has increased signiﬁcantly and the pricing of those, as far as I'm aware, has increased
signiﬁcantly. I'm just wondering if that led to signiﬁcant increases in the churn or in terms
of new business churn rate and if that's helping you to grow business in the U.S.? Thanks.

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

For competitive reasons, we haven't released absolutes and we choose not to. From an
overall market share standpoint, we remain quite small. As far as the aggregator markets,
we remain quite large. So, it's sort of on the overall scale of things there. I come back to

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

the 51 discrete markets. The dynamics in the markets are highly variable. You will get
some states, Georgia, California, as an example that have proven to be very volatile in the
last six months. Carriers coming in and out with appetite. People feeling like they got their
rates adequate and then others feeling inadequate. So, the panel will move based on
competitiveness there and the consumers shop in response to what the carriers are
doing. If they are raising rates, you'll see more shopping in diﬀerent markets, but it's a
state-by-state phenomenon, in some cases, it's a city-by-city phenomenon.

Q - David Andrew Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. You mentioned in your press release, a reduced level of
relative reserve margin strength in UK car. Just thinking about Ogden and assuming no
change in Ogden. Future reserve releases, would that really be driven by the
improvements in the ultimate, going back to the 2% to 3% per year which you showed in
the past, and you want to keep you reserve margin where it is today or will it again be a
combination of both? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The relative size of the margin has come down since the end of the year when it was
basically at its peak largely because of Ogden. If Ogden stays the same, minus 0.75% and
nothing else changes, then we would expect signiﬁcant reserve releases because the
margin we have is signiﬁcant. So, we unwind that margin as we move towards the ultimate
outcomes, obviously gets released into the income statements. And the best we should
do is that the margin gets (01:07:04).
In terms of the direction it goes in the future, it's diﬃcult to comment because it obviously
depends on conditions and circumstances at that point. We said in the past that we will
expect to live in the middle of our range, kind of tolerance is in the range (01:07:16). But
the end to the year, we were at the (01:07:19) top end of it and we move back down
towards the middle of it. So, where it goes in the future will obviously depend on
circumstances at that point. But I would expect our reserve releases to run well ahead of
2% to 3%. That was much more of a market in a perfect world than (01:07:32) Admiral.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We missed out the very back, and we get moved back (01:07:36), at the very back and
then we got one more after that, which we'll come to the front.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning, it's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Couple of things. Could you say what's
happened to the Ogden reforms? And there's a number of dates, early August suggest
it's for a release from the independent commission.

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

And secondly, could you talk a little bit about your diversiﬁcations over the years. Clearly, I
can see that you're trying to build a big business, which rivals that of UK motor business.
You had been active since 2006 in some cases. At what point do you say we are not
going to create a great business and perhaps pass it on to somebody else?

FINAL

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The ﬁrst question, Andrew? Ogden, yeah. Okay. So, Ogden is in a state of ﬂux. The
government realizes that they – it was a bizarre and eccentric decision and that was
reﬂecting the fact that immediately, that they announced it back that they were
reconsidering it. They were then due to announce the results of the consultation, not the
results, but some feedback from the consultation in early August; it may happen as yet.
The general view of the market appears to be somewhat optimistic about a move towards
a more rational outcome on Ogden. I think the challenge and that's reﬂected I think, for
example, in the number that Esure gave for the increase in its excessive (01:09:00) loss,
which to me was implying that reinsurers felt that some will become set back.

Bloomberg Transcript

The challenge is the government's ability to deliver on legislation at the moment. And,
therefore, I don't think anyone should take it for granted that there will be an
improvement in the Ogden situation in the current parliamentary concept.
In terms of investments, I think it would be bizarre to step back our investments in our
international businesses and compare time when they seem to me, on the cusp of actually
really demonstrating long-term value for the group. I think the proﬁt number is only a
partial reﬂection of what we're building.
In the international insurance business in Europe, when you take into account the growth
of the business at the time of the cycle and the fact that we are introducing more caution
and more reserve redundancy in France and Spain, we're very, very close to something
that is clearly valuable in proﬁt terms and even more valuable in underlying capital
accumulation.
Compare looks like an exciting business where if you look at the £6.5 billion being spent
on marketing, if we can only get 10% of that marketing spend switching into Price
Comparison, it's a huge opportunity. One thing we've certainly learned in America is that
it isn't easy to do Price Comparison. So, there's a really defensible position if and when we
make a success of it.
So, I think, there are lots of exciting things going on. I think loans is a huge potential
business that gives us diversiﬁcation for 15 or 20 years' time when autonomous vehicles
might become a threat to the core business. So, I'm very positive about what we do and I
recognize shareholders – we've been asking shareholders' patience in terms of return, in
terms of proﬁt. But I think ultimately, they will prove their value for the group.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

Good morning. Greig Paterson, KBW. Just three quick questions, one is on van. I wonder
if you – I don't know if we put a net premium number, in other words, if you converted
your entire stock. How much should we add to the net premium by the end of the year for
that?
Second point is, in terms of written – diﬀerence between booked and ultimate from 1H for
2017. I wonder, have you increased or decreased that oﬃcial margin versus the 2016
booked?
And then, the third one, usually, there were three questions on rate. Usually, you provide
some kind of number on rate. So, let me try again, if you look at June year-on-year rate,
assuming no change in mix. What would be the number? And then if you adjust it for the
fact that your renewal business has increased relative to your new business, what is the
eﬀect of rate that you get at least?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

To the van, Cristina on the rate as well.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On van, I think, the best way to look at it, is that we have the size of the workable
component, 75,000. And we're going to migrate the book starting mid May. So, if we
manage to recreate all the book and has seen it could have (01:12:07) similar size, it will be
seven months of the year, through June to December. And the average premium that we
have at the moment is quite similar to the one that we have in car.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

North of £500 but not much.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(01:12:21).

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

But only seven months of the year in our book.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(01:12:24)

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

And we probably consult. So, at the end it's more or less (01:12:30).

Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And would you want to comment on rates again?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

FINAL

I wasn't sure exactly, what the points are.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think Greig is after precise number in terms of...

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

To use your technical terms, what was your base rate increase in June year-on-year, and
then how much was that distorted by the fact – when you actually look at the eﬀect of rate
that came through, how much was that distorted by the fact that there was a reduction –
increase in your (01:12:58) business. And so that we've got a number that we can actually
put through the loss ratio eﬀectively and the June one to be (01:13:02).

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think our base rate on average across (01:13:08). And that the change in average
premium is mostly a reﬂection of mix within new business but partly a fraction of an
increase of (01:13:19). The middle question, I think Geraint question, was it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

What was the question?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

So, let me retake the (01:13:27). If you look at 2017...

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Ah, sorry if (01:13:30).

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Booked versus ultimate on a written (01:13:32) basis, what was the oﬃcial margin there?
And have you changed that from what you booked in the last year (01:13:39)?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I'm not sure we actually give you any of the numbers to get to that oﬃcial...

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Well, I can look at it at the end of the year. Just wondering where we are at the half year.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}
Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-16

FINAL

What we said about the margin is in relative terms it's decreased. We think about margin
across all of the reserves not just by underwriting here. In general, the more recent the
underwriting here, the bigger the margin is. We haven't fundamentally changed that
approach at all. But the relative size of the margin is less now than it was six months ago
but it remains signiﬁcant.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

That's the oﬃcial margin, or the margin included in your ultimates as well?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

We don't give any clarity on these (01:14:11) margins -sort of best estimate...

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(01:14:14).

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(01:14:16) apologize but as you didn't manage to make the call. (01:14:18) for around brieﬂy
but we'll follow-up (01:14:22). Thank you all for coming. See you in six months.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining the Admiral Group Plc 2017 Interim Results.
The call has now ﬁnished and you may now disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

