Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2018-11-07

Q3 2018 Earnings Call - Pre-Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Jörg Schneider, Chief Financial Officer & Director

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Jörg Schneider
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Presentation of our Q3 Results. I now have the
pleasure of providing you with the key figures and main messages. As usual, the
conference call later this morning will then focus on Q&As where I will be joined by
Christoph Jurecka, my successor as Group CFO.
At slightly above €2 billion for the first nine months, Munich Re remains comfortably on
track to achieve its full-year 2018 net earnings target. The stand-alone net result for Q3
amounted to €483 million. ERGO posted strong earnings, which were also helped by onbalance positive one-off effects.

Bloomberg Transcript

Due to nonrecurring effects in life and health and high cat net claims, the technical
profitability of the reinsurance segments remained slightly behind our expectations,
although the P&C segment coped well with the accumulation of large losses.
There were also negative FX effects of €127 million as gains in U.S. dollars were more than
offset by losses in Canadian (00:01:30) dollars, yen, and various emerging market
currency positions in our diversified fixed income investment portfolio. The tax burden in
Q3 was relatively high with 33%. But for the full year, it should still be in line with our
guidance of 20% to 25%. When adjusting for nonrecurring items and allowing for
normalized tax rate, the underlying Q3 profitability meets our expectations.
The annualized return on risk-adjusted capital was 10.8% for January to September, and
the return on equity totaled 9.9%. Both figures are quite pleasing.
Let me start my review of our financial development with the investment result of €1.3
billion in Q3, resulting in an RoI of only 2.3% for the group. While the RoI of 2.9% in
reinsurance was more or less in line with our assumptions for the full year, the RoI of 1.9%
at ERGO is particularly low.
The balance of write-ups and write-downs was negative in both fields of business and this
was mainly due to equity impairments. The result from derivatives was positive in
reinsurance, but negative at ERGO due to losses on interest rate and equity hedging
instruments. The disposal gains were very low as we preserve the high level of our
valuation reserves.

Page 1 of 4



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2018-11-07

FINAL

In light of anticipated relief as regards the ZZR, ERGO had lower financing requirements
and measures to optimize the international business portfolio let to disposal losses. The
Q3 running yield of 2.8% remained fairly resilient, taking into account that regular income
in the first two quarters profited significantly from dividends.
The average reinvestment yield continued to increase to 2.5%. In reinsurance, the
reinvestment yield of 2.7% almost matched the high level of the previous quarter due to
the high share of U.S. dollar assets. This makes us even more confident that in 2018, the
reinsurance run yield will bottom out at last year's level.
Let me now give you the highlights by business segment. In life and health reinsurance,
Q3 produced a technical result plus fee income of €88 million and a net profit of €159
million. This is somewhat below our aspirations for a single quarter after a very strong first
half of the year. This is largely because we recognized a technical loss related to the
disposal of our group insurance carrier, Ellipse in the UK. The sale, which is planned to be
completed in Q1 2019 at the latest, should eventually have an overall positive impact on
our result in the low double-digit million range.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Q3 result was also negatively affected by a large single loss in Canada. Apart from
that, aggregate claims experienced was largely in line with expectations. After nine
month, we remain well positioned to meet our full-year guidance for the technical result
plus fee income of at least €475 million.
In P&C reinsurance, the combined ratio amounted to 100.7% in Q3. Large man-made
losses were relatively benign, but the well-known series of major events, including
Hurricane Florence and Typhoon Jebi resulted in quite significant nat cat losses.
New major claims are occurring in Q3 were offset by positive runoffs for claims in prior
years that amount to 5.5% of net earned premiums. This underlines our cautious reserving
practice also for single large losses. As a consequence, total major losses accounted for
12.5%, just slightly exceeding our average expectation of 12%.
There were two severe natural catastrophes after the reporting date. According to very
early estimates, Typhoon Trami could cost Munich Re around €150 million. Hurricane
Michael will probably cost around €200 million or perhaps even more. We continue to set
provisions for newly emerging claims at the top end of the estimation range and expect
corresponding profits from their runoff over time.
As in previous quarters, notifications from basic losses for prior years remained
significantly below the expected level. Releases of reserves on basic losses amounted to
4 percentage points of the combined ratio, fully in line with our guidance. The main drivers
for the normalized combined ratio of 99.9% in Q3 are once again weather-related and
other events in our North American Risk Solution (sic) [Solutions] (00:07:35) business.
Net cat activity is typically higher in Q2 and Q3. Since these events are below our outlier
thresholds, this leads to a worsening of the basic loss ratio and consequently the
normalized combined ratio. For the full year, we expect a normalized combined ratio
Page 2 of 4



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2018-11-07

slightly above our guidance of 99%, but we believe that our business continues to run with
an underlying combined ratio of around 99% when taking account of these adverse
developments.

FINAL

That's all for reinsurance. I now turn to ERGO.
Even when excluding on-balance positive nonrecurring effects of approximately €80
million in Q3, ERGO continued its strong financial performance of the first half of the year.
We are again very pleased with the progress under the ERGO Strategy Programme, which
is running slightly ahead of its targets.
The very good Q3 results for the Life and Health Germany segment was mainly driven by
a change in assumptions regarding the allocation of profits from the life back-book.
Stabilizing measures in recent years have shown positive effects. Therefore, more of the
earnings capacity of the portfolio can once again flow into the net profit without there
being a negative impact on financial stability and eligible policyholder interests.

Bloomberg Transcript

This assumption change results in a onetime net effect of around €170 million in 2018. This
Q3 one-off effect was partially offset by nonrecurring effects from optimizing our
international portfolio related to a sale of smaller entities in the Netherlands and
expenses for our banking cooperation in Greece.
These affected the investment and technical result with a net earnings impact totaling
around €90 million. Therefore, the net result of ERGO International remains below the
level of the first two quarters despite a very strong underlying development. The
combined ratio improved further to an exceptionally good 93.3%.
In P&C business, Poland once again made a particularly high contribution, mainly driven by
motor business. The development of our health business was also very pleasing. DKV
Spain benefited from an improved portfolio mix with a higher share of individual business,
and DKV Belgium contributed substantially higher earnings.
For P&C Germany, the combined ratio of 94.7% is in line with our ambition for the full year.
In all, the segment posted a small loss for Q3. This was mainly due to the unusually low
investment result with an RoI of only 1.2% and a catch-up effect related to the investments
for the Strategy Programme.
The group's capitalization remains very sound. IFRS equity increased marginally in the third
quarter, mainly reflecting the net result of the quarter, a slight decline in unrealized gains
as higher valuation reserves and equities were offset by lower gains in our fixed-interest
securities and ongoing share buybacks.
At more than 260%, the Solvency II ratio increased quite significantly versus the end of
June. The SCR remained stable, as operating earnings were quite in line with the
expectations and variances from capital market parameter changes more or less offset
each other, the main driver of high economic earnings was updated market values of the
Page 3 of 4



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2018-11-07

Munich Reinsurance Company's real estate investments. This is reflected in an increase in
eligible own funds of more than €1 billion.

FINAL

In IFRS accounting, the impact of this effect on the investment income and other
operating earnings in reinsurance amounts to a net P&L contribution of only around €100
million. The remainder is accounted for in higher off-balance sheet reserves.
The capitalization of Munich Reinsurance Company, the group parent company, continues
to support our flexibility in terms of distribution to shareholders. As part of our active
capital management, we started our new €1 billion share buyback program in June, of
which around €400 million has already been executed.
Let me now turn to the outlook for the rest of the year. In comparison with the interim
report for the first half year, we have changed the outlook for ERGO net earnings to
above €350 million for the full year 2018. This is on the basis of its strong financial
development in the first nine month. Due to positive premium development in the
property-casualty reinsurance segment in the year so far, we are narrowing down our
target range to €48 billion to €49 billion.
For Munich Re Group, we are standing by our profit forecast of €2.1 billion to €2.5 billion
and are confident that we will reach the upper half of the range, although there remains
uncertainty from major losses of capital markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for listening. I look forward to our discussion at 11:00 o'clock Munich time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 4 of 4

