Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Barth Scholten, Investor Relations Oﬃcer
Chris Figee, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Karin T. V. Bergstein, Member-Executive Board

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Update Generali NL Integration Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded.
And at this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Barth Scholten. Please go
ahead, sir.

Barth Scholten

{BIO 21384159 <GO>}

Thank you, operator; and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Barth
Scholten, Investor Relations Oﬃcer at is a.s.r., and welcome to the update on the Generali
Netherlands integration.
On the call today are Karin Bergstein, COO of a.s.r.; and Chris Figee, CFO. And Karin and
Chris will discuss the presentation that is available on our website. After their
presentation, it's time for Q&A. And before handing over to Chris, please, as is customary,
have a look at the disclaimer that we have at the back of the presentation for any forwardlooking statements.
And having said that, please go ahead, Chris.

Page 1 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Barth. Good morning, everybody. Welcome to today's call hosted by Karin
and myself. I will be the appetizer and the dessert, but Karin really is the main course for
the day, walking you through the operational integration of Generali.
The purpose of this call today is to keep you updated on the integration, not because
something is wrong because something is oﬀ-track, but really because after the
elimination of our quarterly trading updates, the time between the full-year numbers and
next reporting date would be six to six plus months. And we felt that it would be too long
a period of silence, which is not good IR to keep the analysts and investor community
uninformed on the progress of such an important transaction. So we wanted to walk you
through where we are.
This call will be about the operational performance and operational integration. We'll
touch upon the capital spend on Generali so far, but we'll not talk about the earnings
contribution of Generali in the ﬁrst half year or the future outlook. That is because the ﬁrst
half year has formally not yet ended. We've got two more days to go to keep you
informed on the ﬁnancial contribution during our half year numbers call and the longterm implications in our Capital Markets Day in October. Today, we'll focus on the
operational integration, though it's fair to say that ﬁnancially, we are fully on track.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 2 gives our key messages, integration ahead of plan, ﬁnancial targets on track and
absolutely delivering on the original investment case.
And the original investment case is referred to on slide 3, the slide you will probably
remember. This is the recap of what we committed to in September 2017 when we
announced the acquisition, a three-year integration plan and initial impact of nine
solvency points eventually going down to about €200 million fungible capital
commitment, after the full integration has been completed and cost synergies have all
been consummated.
And though not on this slide earnings contribution moving up towards €30 million per
year and cap generation of €25 million per year after integration has been completed.
But, again, that was the commitment in September. Today, we're going to talk about how
we fared and how we steamrolled our way into the operational integration of Generali.
With that, I hand over to Karin for what has been achieved so far.

Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, thank you very much. Well, as COO, I'm heading the a.s.r. integration team.
And maybe to give you some background on the major challenges we had, we have done
a lot of single-line acquisitions. So we have acquired an integrated (00:03:41) and other
single line business lines. I think, for Generali, the major challenge we had was this is a
multiline insurance company and we had to make it as simple as possible as quickly as
possible.
Page 2 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

So what we did in the preparation between signing and closing is that, well, we said, ﬁrst
of all, we have to make plans line by line. So every business line has made their own
integration plan and we have to make sure that these business lines can act
independently as quickly as possible.
And a major lever to make business lines as independent as possible is that – and that
sounds a bit harsh but to integrate, let's say, the staﬀ departments as quickly as possible.
So we decided that all, let's say, staﬀ departments like legal, compliance, et cetera, would
report to the a.s.r. management as of closing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from a personal perspective, the integration of the, let's say, the ﬁnance risk, all the
overhead departments was done at closing. And I think this is the reason why we are
today ahead of plan because there is a single communication coming from all the staﬀ
departments towards the operations teams. As we have to apply with DNO, we had a long
time. You see in the slide from, say, mid-September to the beginning of February, you
have over 18 weeks to prepare yourself. So at closing, it was clear and we have – it was
clear who would be the management, and in this case, we decided that a.s.r.
management would take lead. So we had discussions with all the ﬁve Directors that were
present whether what would be their role as of closing and most of the directors decided
that they would resign at closing.
This made it possible that as of closing, the a.s.r. management took control of the
operations and of the whole integration process. Secondly, we focused on a legal merger
of the holding company. So on May, 7, the holding companies were merged. This was
mainly important for aligning the labor conditions. So as of May 7, all staﬀ of Generali has
received a new proposal for the labor condition under the a.s.r. labor conditions. Aligning
these conditions reduces the complexity enormously. So all of the staﬀ is now under the
a.s.r. labor conditions. There's only one exception, that is the pension contract which will
expire at January 1, 2019, which is in line with the expiration date of the pension contract
of a.s.r..
Another important thing which was done is that at signing, we already announced in
September that the premises in Diemen would be closed down so that all staﬀ would be
relocated to Utrecht. And as a lot of the staﬀ of the Diemen of Generali lives in the north
of the Netherlands, we already had the impression and the experience from moving
people before that a lot of the staﬀ would decide not to join us, not to join and come and
work in Utrecht.
As you have seen in slides, which come afterwards is that we are ahead in the staﬀ
reduction. We are ahead of plan. To be honest, it gives us at the moment a serious
pressure on the existing staﬀ of a.s.r. because they have to do all the work on top of their
normal work. The good news is that we are able to do that. People are making long hours,
but the job is done. So it's a lot of extra work but we have the assurance that the people
are not – who didn't move to Utrecht in the 1st of June that they already have left. And that
we know for sure that we will reach our target operating model in terms of FTE staﬃng.

Page 3 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

So basically if we look on the integration, if we want to create value, we always see three
important levers for success. First of all, clarity on management structure and the target
operating model, and we were able to get that at closing. And this is crucial both for the
staﬀ but also for our business partners. All the business partners intermediaries with
whom Generali is working are also business partners of a.s.r. And we made clear at
closing that we made clear to the intermediaries that it would be the a.s.r. products, which
we would continue to sell, and that the similar Generali products would be taken out of
production.
Secondly, a second lever which is important is clarity on IT platforms. Well, it was clear
from signing that all contracts would migrate to the IT systems of a.s.r. So instead of
having discussions between signing and closing, we could already start making detailed
integration plans on migrations because it was a clear choice what platforms would be the
end state.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third lever is, I think, the cultural integration Moving the teams to Utrecht the 1st of
June is very important for bringing the people from Generali in the a.s.r. culture, which is
no-nonsense culture, short lines, quick decision making and move on. And I think the
teams are happy now to be here. They started 1st of June and we see happy faces
because they have a future. I think that is also important to understand that in the Generali
environment, it was very unclear what the future of the company would be and for these
people who decided to move to Utrecht, they are happy to work for a.s.r., which is, well, a
company who was growing and doing acquisitions. And you see it in the culture that
there is positive vibe.
So to wrap up, on slide 3, we have discussed most of the items with you. I think one of the
things to touch upon is the legal merger of the operating companies that is planned for
the 29th of June. And that is very useful because after the legal merger of the operating
companies, we can start the migration of the funeral portfolio. So it's all – is
interdependent. And so far, this was the schedule which we planned to happen. And so
for, all the steps are realized.
So I go to slide 5. You see a bit more detail on the diﬀerent lines of business and the
portfolios, which have to be migrated. Well, as said, funeral is slightly ahead of plan. In the
plan, we had an idea to migrate the 1st of October, but it was – we were able to migrate
the portfolio the 1st of July. And that is the reason why we – well, the reason why we
decided to do it earlier is because we were ready to do so. And the second reason is
because we bought small other funeral portfolio, which will now be migrated the 1st of
October.
If you look on the P&C business line, which is in turn over one of the biggest lines of
business, it was very important for us that co-assurance portfolio was – the debt team was
integrated as quickly as possible. These are very specialized people with high value. And
in our team, these people are located in Amsterdam. So that's very close to Diemen. So
we were able to contain all the specialists, and they were happy to join the team of Corins,
which is now really a mixed team. It's half – 50% former a.s.r., 50% former Generali. These
people know each other from the markets, and we have been able to have now in the

Page 4 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

combined operation. We have a market share of 10% and €70 million of turnover in this
co-assurance portfolio.

FINAL

And when we acquired Corins a couple of years ago, it was our ambition to grow towards
a level of €100 million. So we are now well on track to have a really good position in this
market. The biggest chunk of the P&C portfolio is the mandated broker portfolio, that is
about 70% of the total, and that will be integrated the 1st of January 2019.
Then the last bit is the portfolio, which is sort of the intermediaries. That will be migrated
in a commercial way. So that will take one year starting from November. So P&C is well on
track. I think they have a clear communication towards the market, how we will do it. And
sales, as said before, is stopped with Generali products, so we're only selling a.s.r.
products at the moment.
Disability, that will move in November this year, so that is as planned. And for Individual
Life, we're slightly ahead of plan and that is – the reason is that because of IFRS 17, we
decided to speed up the process because we wanted to be ready with the migration of all
the portfolios of Individual Life before the 1st of January 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the team has found a way to migrate all of the Generali portfolios in combination with
one of the last portfolios in the service book strategy. So you see three migrations plans in
the beginning of 2019. Well, pension is the most complex portfolio and that will take
slightly longer, but the only portfolio which has migrated after the 1st of January 2020 is a
portfolio that under IFRS 17 will have a diﬀerent classiﬁcation.
So in the whole migration planning, we did not only look on Generali integration as a
single project but we also combined it with the requirements from IFRS 17. So I think the
team is well on track. IT will be the ﬁnal, sort of – they have to shut down all the contracts
we have with current suppliers of the old Generali platforms. But each time when a
migration is ﬁnalized by business line, the IT team will ﬁnalize that the historic data are
kept and that the contract is ended. So this will be a very clear agenda for IT as well.
Then I shift over to slide 6. Well, as mentioned before, a lot of the workforce of Generali
have opted for social plan with moving the premises – moving of the premises to Utrecht.
We were able in good cooperation with the Works Council to already send a personalized
letter to all of the staﬀ in the beginning of January, so people have time to decide do I
want to work for a.s.r. and Utrecht or will I opt for a social plan. And this only applies for
staﬀ who has more than 90 minutes of travelling time.
And on top of that, because of – we knew from signing and the bid before that that the
Generali acquisition was coming, we kept a lot of vacancies in our own a.s.r. staﬀ. And as
the labor market is tightening in the Netherlands at the moment, we do have a lot of
vacancies, and we were able to ﬁll these vacancies with staﬀ of Generali. And that's a little
bit the best of both worlds because in this way you keep the historic knowledge, but you
do realize the cost beneﬁts earlier.

Page 5 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

So we are well ahead of plan in terms of staﬀ. And we were able to keep some of the
crucial workforce, one manager – a crucial ﬁnance manager, a crucial IT manager. They
are now in a.s.r. position so we have kept the historic knowledge of Generali.

FINAL

And as mentioned before, I think for the 150 people who have decided to come over to
Utrecht, they are motivated to work for the a.s.r. company, and they are now part of the
a.s.r. family.
Then I turn to the ﬁnal slides to give you some ﬂavor of the diﬀerent lines of business. And
I would like to start with the investment portfolio on slide 7. I think what we did at closing,
immediately the investment portfolio was managed by the team which is reporting to
Chris. So we have sold our Italian bond exposure. We partly re-risked the portfolio, but I
think what is the most important message we took control, and this was possible also
because Generali was managing this portfolio from Paris. So there was not an extensive
team in Diemen who was managing it. So we could immediately take control of the
investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I go to the top hand left corner P&C. We have increased prices. This is a normal
pattern what you see if a company is for sale. Normally, a turnover is boosted the year
before by lowering the prices. So at closing, we decided to bring the prices back to
normal levels. And we have also started with the preparation of the migrations.
Disability, we've visited all of our business partners and inform them on how we would
migrate the portfolio. And I think there is understanding of how we want to do it, and the
people who are working on disability as of the 1st of June they are now part of the
disability team. So I think that is also a general remark which I made before.
As of 1st of June, the people who are working on P&C are now working with the a.s.r.
colleagues and are reporting to the a.s.r. management, same for Disability, Individual Life,
and Pensions. And for Funeral, there were only three people working on Funeral. They
have not followed the portfolio to end today (00:20:38) because that is really too far
away. And today, (00:20:44) we'll hire one or two extra staﬀ and they can manage the
portfolio.
So I think all in all, there is work to be done for all lines of business, but all lines of
business have migration experience. P&C is migrating portfolios towards a new system
anyway, and the portfolio of Generali is planned in that schedule. The same goes for
Disability and Individual Life. So we also had discussions with the Dutch Central Bank who
wanted to follow up on how are we dealing with this integration, and we said, well, as
soon as 1st of June, more or less, we can follow this by following the lines of business
because we have no holding anymore. Lines of business now what they have to do.
Migrating portfolios is part of their regular business, and this is just another portfolio to
migrate, and customers to serve, and customers to inform about the migration.
So it sounds very simple. To be honest, it's a lot of hard work. But having done it before,
we know what to do, and we know what decisions have to be made, and everything is –
Page 6 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

yeah, we're business as usual for the lines of business.
Then I hand it back to Chris for maybe some of the capital deployment and the
investment case.

FINAL

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yes. Karin, thank you. So I guess you all picked up from Karin that operationally the
integration is fully on track. Actions in some areas I've tracked are going faster than
planned with a shift to FTE reduction and a shift to integration.

Bloomberg Transcript

When it comes to the capital side, the investment case is completely conformed plan with
some upside potential. At this point, we have injected – we have paid our cash price of
€143 million. We injected capital in the business and realized capital synergies for that.
Especially, the legal merger, of course, is important. We're very pleased the legal merger
actually happened quite – they're ahead of plan. It's only the 29th of June. Within the
formal time period we were able to complete the legal merger for a net capital injection
and capital synergies of €140 million, which is completely in line with the plan that we
presented so far.
Underlying, of course, there are always movements. We saw some increased volumes on
the Generali side that consumed some capital. We reviewed reserving. We felt in some
areas that reserving was slightly optimistic and we have a more prudent approach, so we
strengthened some areas of reserves. We dealt with some increasing valuation of assets.
At the same time, we beneﬁted from higher diversiﬁcation beneﬁts. (00:23:47) level two
to level three diversiﬁcation beneﬁts with a slightly higher not eligible DTA on the
Generali book that became eligible subsequently, and we had some increase LAC DT
recoverability that will manifest itself upon the legal merger. So capital-wise, some ﬂow,
some movements, net-net in line with the €140 million that we committed to. We are
almost exactly on the level that we projected in September.
On the cost synergies reﬂected in our best estimates, of course, they will be reﬂected if
and when the integration is realized and consummated. We don't want to be ahead of the
music. We want to be delivering upon delivery, so we'll recognize when they're delivered.
But as you can see or interpret from the presentation Karin gave, operational integration
is going on track or even ahead of track, so that actually could potentially provide a little
bit of upside.
And furthermore, when it comes to upside potential, we see some upside Generali will
probably likely be included our mass lapse reinsurance arrangement. That's a 2019 thing,
but something we had not yet included in our business case, but they're eligible for
inclusion. We are selling the Generali oﬃces. We actually have an oﬀer on the table that
we think will close in September that might provide a bit of upside, and there are a few
other things as well.
So on the capital side, on track with some upside potential, if indeed, the integration goes
as we planned, faster and deeper than we foresaw. So comfort and relaxed on the capital
Page 7 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

commitment, and actually the ﬁnal ROE of this transaction might prove to be better than
we planned also because we spend less E on this – equity on this deal.

FINAL

It brings me to the closure of this presentation on page 9, again, running a good
insurance business is at the end all about good underwriting and a good eﬀective
eﬃcient operation is where it all starts. We hope to give you a ﬂavor on the integration
and how we are steamrolling into the integration.
Points to remember from my side. This is done by a team of a.s.r. people, not just the
board, but a team of business managers that are together running this integration very
committedly and very ﬁrmly. Lesson learned, we moved to the a.s.r. target operating
model. This actually is not so much an integration. It's an IT migration and a business
integration.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's pretty clear, the target model is the a.s.r. operating model. The management team is a
management team that knows a.s.r. operating model so you migrate IT and then you
integrate the business. This is not a best of both worlds model, it's just move to a.s.r.
world model, and that allows us to move pretty quickly, pretty swiftly, and pretty
decisively. It has been a quite a few intense few weeks as Karin said it was the largest
transaction we've done so far, the ﬁrst real multi-liner, so there were some learnings on
how you do things in here, but I think we've actually cut out with a very comfortable plan
and comfortable execution and very strong progress, on track to achieve our targets and
possibly more.
And to close up, before we go to questions, when it comes to operational performance,
we tend to think that in contrast to investment management, historical results are often a
good indicator of future results.
So with that bombshell back to Barth and to questions.

Barth Scholten

{BIO 21384159 <GO>}

Thank you. We now can take your questions please.

Q&A
Operator
We will now take our ﬁrst question from Cor Kluis from ABN AMRO. Please go ahead.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. I got a few questions. First of all, about the cost
reduction. You mentioned that it goes faster and there is some upside potential in the
slide 8. Could you give some indication about size? Is the arrow that you see in the graph
indicative of the upside potential? So I think it's around €35 million for French book
capital deployment or it might be lower. Or is that just – yeah, can we not relay that?
Page 8 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

And related that, why are you not yet adjusting it because based on what you talk about, it
sounds that it's quite likely that there will be upside potential on this French book capital
deployment? Why not yet given an indication on that? So that's my ﬁrst question.

FINAL

Second question is about the co-assurance deal. You explained it somewhat. How many
FTE in Amsterdam – or how many FTEs are now from Generali now moved to the a.s.r.
business?
And last question is about TAMs. You're doing the cost reduction faster or the FTE
reduction faster than expected after you see that you have to hire some extra people to
do that. Is that resulting into extra cost and might we see that in operating result? Or is
that like you indicated during the call is (00:29:14) are just working harder? That is my
question.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll take question one and three, and Karin will talk about the co-assurance answer. Yeah. It
was to be expected that someone would put a ruler on our slide and like how much –
what does actually this represent. I think we're looking at 10% to 20% potential. 35%,
probably a bit optimistic. I can't rule out the 10% to 20% is probably more realistic at this
point in time.
Why not say today, well, I think as our policy is, we recognize capital synergies when we
achieve them. And so you recognize these costs in your best estimates once they're fully
completed and once the costs are really out. So we think we'll just stick to our policy. You
will see it in the numbers when it's actually there.
So we don't book in a future management gain that has not yet been realized. So 10% to
20% is the upside that we see and that will gradually come forward. Unfortunately, after
the legal merger, by the way, it's going to be very hard for us to track it because there will
no longer be (00:30:20) or Generali Life.
So it's going to be embedded in the overall a.s.r. ﬁgures, but it means that is the upside
that we see and that also conﬁrms in the ROE. When it comes to externals, yes, Karin said
actually some more Generali people left faster and quicker than we assumed. There may
be some externals that we hire to compensate, but really nothing material to show up in
the results.
We've got €500 million plus cost base. You'd need to hire a lot of external people for that
thing to move. So, yes, I think it's more a question of a.s.r. people making longer hours
and making more – being more eﬃcient, and otherwise being focused on doing stuﬀ that
really matters.
So actually it also allows us to be very eﬃcient and very focused. When you've got so
much on your plate, you can't spend time on stuﬀ that's less useful. So (00:31:16) it's like
an unexpected side beneﬁt. So this will not mess up the a.s.r. cost base. Actually, it's a

Page 9 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

saving. And to my sense, I'd rather have the risk of Generali people leaving further and
faster than slower and later.

FINAL

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Yeah. Maybe to add to that, I think, where we had to hire temporary staﬀ, the beneﬁt of
that is that they are more – it is more normal for them to leave after the work is done. So
you will have less of reorganizations. And that is good for your culture because
reorganizations always have a lot of uncertainty for staﬀ and what we have mentioned to
all the staﬀ of Generali is that they are very welcome to work with us. We have given you
highlights about 200, 300 new staﬀ every year. So the 150 people who are coming over
are very welcome to join a.s.r. And I think the major beneﬁt is that there are not a lot of
reorganizations following in the coming years. It's more like a natural way.
And maybe for your second question, I think Corins was a team of roughly 12 to 14
people. I don't know it by head. And approximately 12 people from Generali joined this
team. So it's now a team of roughly 25 and very nicely mixed. So it's 50/50, and they have
been really mixed because there was more knowledge on certain asset types from
Generali side, which was very nicely adding to the knowledge, which was based, which
was already there from Corins.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will take our next question from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Thanks very much. Could you please elaborate a little bit more on re-risking? I
know that you've done some initial re-risking of the investment portfolio as well as some
de-risking, obviously, taking out the Italian bonds. But just – it seems that there is probably
more to come and if you could talk a little bit about that that would be interesting.
Second question is on further capital beneﬁts. So I'm guessing there are things that you
will be more able to look at once portfolios are actually legally merged. So does the active
actually legally merging portfolios in themselves? For example, create extra diversiﬁcation
beneﬁt. And what other things do you think you'll look at to help reduce capital intensity
of the portfolio? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Hey, Farooq. It's Chris. Thanks. In terms of the investment portfolio, indeed, on day one,
or the ﬁrst few days, we sold the Italian government bonds. From our perspective, they
are not risk-free, so we sold those relatively early.

Page 10 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

We did spend a bit of money on re-risking, which is not on our capital plan, because we
set ourselves. This transaction needs to stand on its own two feet. It does not need to be
dependent on re-risking. This is an operational integration that should drive our ROE and
the re-risking is something that could come on top of it. So it's not (00:34:42) embedded
on page 8.
Since the beginning – since we owned the business and to control, we spend about 2
points of solvency, €50 million to €60 million of SCR market risk on the Generali portfolio.
We risk it to some extent in mortgages and credits. We're not done there yet. But we felt
at some point that the market became wobbly. The return on market risk capital became
less convincing. So we've done – yeah, I think we've done half of it. And we could do
more, but we're not in a rush, not in a hurry because we need to be very mindful on the
return on this allocated capital. And if you look where its spreads were, the reward for risk
was in the ﬁrst half of the year before the market start to turn, everything becomes really,
really expensive and not really convincing. So group-wide, one to two points. Think about
€50 million, €60 million of capital spend on re-risking corporates, credits, and mortgages.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next wave will be around real estate. There is a portfolio held by Generali, which has a
ﬁscal revaluation reserve, which basically say there is a tax window to reinvest this money
into real estate and beneﬁt from a tax opportunity. That's something we'll probably close
in the next three to four months, because it would be a shame to forgo on that capital and
tax saving. And that's what we'll do. And that will add to earnings and that will consume a
bit of capital. But that was – to me, re-risking has to follow its own business case, let alone
separate from the operation of business case.
When it comes to further capital beneﬁts, from a post-legal merger, there's always more
to do. I think the legal merger itself will drive the diversiﬁcation beneﬁt. So post-legal
merger, we don't see lot of more room for diversiﬁcation, because that's already
embedded in the legal merger. We do see, however, room to optimize the portfolio.
For example, if you have a book in which you have to reﬂect the combined ratio of the
business in your best estimates, but you really can start to work on improving the
combined and claims ratios, that will ultimately show up in your liabilities. That's
something we haven't yet included in the plan. There are a couple of things, we estimated
due diligence. Oﬃcially, there was noneconomic assumptions or mortality assumptions,
cost assumptions, lapse assumptions. Post-legal merger, those will be aligned. That's a
process that typically takes place in Q3. I mean, we generally in Q3 update our noneconomic assumptions in our liabilities, and we'll take Generali on border as well. So
there's a little bit of upside from that. And, clearly, there was upside from selling the
building the markup (00:37:37) reinsurance.
So in summary, yes, some upside there. Diversiﬁcation is already reﬂected really when it
comes to the legal merger. The reﬁnement of the best estimate and the reﬂection of your
business decisions into the best estimate, that will take place after July.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Page 11 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

Okay. And just to follow up on that, when you – again, we can't look at the chart on slide 8
and measure arrows and stuﬀ like that, although we always try. But presumably all of what
you've just said is kind of part of that chart.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

FINAL

I think yes. So 10% to 20% upside is part in that – is reﬂected in that little arrow.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

And I would say 10% to 20% less consumption of fungible capital.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now take our next question from Albert Ploegh from ING Bank. Please go ahead.
Hello, sir. Your line is open. If you can just make sure that it's not muted on your end, you
can now ask your question.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, all. Yeah. Three questions from my end. And the ﬁrst question is on
slide 7 on P&C where you referred already to price increases in termination of some lossmaking contracts. Can you maybe quantify what kind of size of price increases have been
pushed through in the mandated broker channel and you had gross written premiums of
the loss-making contracts to have a bit of an idea.
Then, on the slide of the – slide 8, on the net capital injection up to €140 million, you
made already some comments on underlying movements, some further reserve
strengthening and modern disability, but also some further diversiﬁcation beneﬁts. Is it
possible to get some quantiﬁcation on the magnitude of the positives in the minds just to
get a bit of feeling what happened there?
And ﬁnally, maybe a bit outside of scope of this call, but now there's communication
before the blackout start, can you maybe help us out a bit in general on the Solvency II
market movements that you might have experienced or anything you can share on, let's
say, on the group level compared to the full-year number of 196% Solvency II ratio that
would also be helpful. Thank you.

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Okay. Let's start with the P&C question. I think what is important to realize is that in
Generali the book was managed as a Non-Life book. So it's a combination of P&C and
Page 12 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

disability. And what you see is that the management target was a combined ratio towards
98% on a Non-Life book. The result of that is that the disability portfolio was managed at a
combined ratio of roughly 80%. And the P&C portfolio had a combined ratio of roughly
somewhere between, I think, 103% and 105%, so loss-making.
While management was saying, okay, well, I'm at target. We split this responsibility. So
we're happy with the 80% of disability, and we started, and we diﬀerentiate. If you look on
the mandated brokers, it was the usual suspects. So we already have a relationship with all
of these mandated brokers, and we're starting to reprice these portfolios. And having a
bit of more, let's say, a turnover than we had expected, we have more headroom to
increase prices, and we know that we will lose some turnover. So we could immediately
switch to a value over volume strategy.
You can reprice it for new products straightaway. For existing portfolios, it's mainly done
1st of July, 1st of January in the mandated broker market. But, yeah, that is normal
business. We've had pricing and repricing done. And the mandated brokers, they will try
to ﬁnd other insurance companies who will do it for low pricing, then we will lose some
volume, but it will be the loss-making volume. And we are not – well, we are not too afraid
to say goodbye to these kind of volumes.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

That's a helpful color. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

When it comes to the move – he had two questions. On the movement in the capital, a
bunch of moving parts and (42:35) not always easy to separate them out because some of
those – for example, we added some prudency to the reserves. Part of it is also captured
in the reinsurance arrangements. So there's a growth (00:42:47) there's no point in
singling them out individually.
Together, they actually cancel out and become eﬀectively ﬂat, and that is something – and
with that, we are able to move the reserving of Generali to our own more prudent fashion.
So individual bits and pieces, there is individual point, then there's correlation
diversiﬁcation on the reserve strengthening. So there's a reinsurance element in that. So
singling them out individually has little added value to my perspective. The whole point is
the 140 is the 140. (00:43:23)
When it comes to solvency movement this year, to some extent, you'll have to wait until
the 29th of August. We'll get to keep you very excited on your toes for two more months.
However, it's safe to say in the beginning of the year, the UFR for the entire industry
moved to 405 as per our sensitivity. That will shave oﬀ of about 3 points of our solvency.
The VA, the Volatility Adjuster, (00:43:51) number tells me – I estimate the VA today at
about 7 basis points. So it moved from 4 basis points to 7 basis points for end of last year –
7 basis points at the end of last week. So that would add another 3 points back. So the VA
movement will probably cancel out the UFR movement.

Page 13 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

And then Generali after legal merger who would use our solvency by 9 solvency points,
which is the cash out and the fact that you merge a large solvency business into a higher
solvency business and there's some small dilutive eﬀects. And on top of that, there will be
capital generation by the business. I will not speak ahead of the half-year results, but
there's capital generation by the business. There was a storm in January, which is €30
million, which is fairly close to 1 solvency point.
And there was some wobbly markets. But overall, if you put and do a mix, I guess, you can
make a reasonable forecast of where our solvency is with eﬀectively the main mover being
the Generali integration, Generali investment, so to speak, and UFR and VA at this point
cancel out.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris, for at least – to give some color. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Hi. Thank you very much. Just in terms of the potential upside that you're talking
about, can you quantify how quickly you can upstream this to your holding company if it
can be achieved?
And then, the second thing is also in terms of the spot solvency of the Generali entity
itself, I noticed year-on-year it's gone down and given the fact that you've now removed
the Italian bonds, can you give us not for the group movement of the solvency but just
Generali's movement of solvency? Obviously, it's beneﬁted by the cash injection. So can
you just give us a feel for what's going on in that entity alone?
And then just the ﬁnal question is, in terms of the re-risking that you spoke about before
and it's consuming capital, therefore, any beneﬁt that you get, is that necessarily going to
be consumed by re-risking on your book? Thank you very much.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yes. Johnny, on the on the upstream ability, if it's recognized our solvency is
upstreamable, I mean, our Life and Non-Life entities last year ended the year with 185%,
180% mark Solvency II level, well above our own hurdles, well above the minimum. So
there's no limitations as to upstream ability. So anything you add here can be
upstreamed, which will always be very prudent. The €80 million of capital synergies will
be reﬂected once the integration is completed and once the costs are actually all out.
But after we think in principal upstreamable the next morning, bearing in mind the policy
that we tend to keep cash in OpcCs rather than HoldCo, but there will be no limitation to

Page 14 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

upstream those because the starting solvency of a.s.r. Life and a.s.r. Non-Life is suﬃciently
strong to upstream that to the group.

FINAL

So eﬀectively, for all intent and purposes, this is cash once we realized it's cash and
decided to keep the cash at the holding companies.
So when it comes to the year-on-year movement of the solvency of Generali entity itself, I
think as you and I discussed in Frankfurt, we did see that the Generali end-of-year
solvency was a bit less than we planned that was because the auditor of Generali
reﬂected or forced or demanded the reﬂection of our due diligence ﬁlings already in the
year-end solvency. So some elements that we wanted to have included in our solvency
capital injection was already in the year-end numbers. So the starting point was lower, but
the ending point is the same. It just brought forward some of the changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

So during the year, you would see the Generali legal entity is at 120%, 130% solvency
mark after our injections. But, again, as of tomorrow, that will be redundant because they
will no longer exist and no longer be tracked. They will be just dissolved into the a.s.r.
businesses.
But the way this thing works is we made our plan – our capital plan to inject cash into the
Generali entities after the removal of the – for example, the quota share that existed
between Generali Netherlands and Generali Italy. At the end of last year, the auditor put
some of our division's ﬁndings in the closing solvency ﬁgure, which basically means it
brought forward some of the deltas but it didn't change the ﬁnal outcome. And as of
tomorrow, the numbers will be what we planned to be. And during the ﬁrst of the half
year, the Generali entities which were eﬀectively closed for business will run at around
120%, 130% of Solvency II.
When it comes to re-risking, we have spent in this year-to-date about €50 million to €60
million of capital. Mentally, I don't connect them to the upside potential. It's a nice
connection to make. One might say the re-risking becomes – comes in free, because the
money we spend as a group is earned back from fast integrations. They roughly equal out
in terms of the amount of capital involved. But that's kind of an interesting mental
connection to make, it's not the way we think. We think re-risking has its own business
case. And the fact that it's roughly the same numbers, that's a nice coincidence, but not as
part of our capital. We don't need to outperform the fungible capital targets to be able to
spend more money on re-risking. And more the question is, do we think re-risking itself
will deliver the beneﬁts delivered to return on capital that is commensurate to our targets.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Kunal Zaveri from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Page 15 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. This is Ashik here, I'm using Kunal's line. Just a couple of questions. First of all, on this
cost synergies reﬂected in best estimate liability, the upside potential you mentioned 20%
of the €60 million, (00:50:22) if I'm not wrong, its present value. So we are talking about
€1 million, €1.5 million of additional cost saving possible. So that's one question that I'm
looking for. Is my understanding correct or are we expecting more?
Second thing is, can you just remind us as to the time line of the €30 million of earnings
you're expecting from Generali. I remember you mentioned a third, a third, a third over
2018, 2019 and 2020. Is that still the case? Or are we expecting a bit more front-end
loaded now compared to more back-end loaded because your integration is going very
ﬁne.
And thirdly, is there any thoughts on the local solvency ratios? Does it impact the Life
solvency ratio of a.s.r. or Non-Life model, is it more or less similar impact on both the
businesses when you integrate Generali? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Ashik, when it comes to the upside potential in our solvency, it's a function of
deeper and faster cost savings, but it's also a function of other elements building
(00:51:30) So if you think about the additional cost savings and you work back the NPV
into an annual number, it could be around €2 million to €3 million mark. That's the best
estimate I have today. But you have to strip out – the €30 million contains more than just
cost savings. So it's €2 million to €3 million mark a year.
(00:51:53 )€10 million to €20 million to €30 million, so €10 million in year one, €20 million
in year two, €30 million in year three, we'll go faster than planned. There is a bit of upside
for this to just to go faster. So I'm okay with accelerated (00:52:08) to get there. But it's
probably actually more a 2019 thing.
So the €10 million to €20 million, €30 million, we'll rather move the €20 million will
probably move up a bit. So this year, we think that €10 million is actually fully feasible. We
can't rule out outperformance of that to some extent. But the real beneﬁt of the fast
tracking of the integration would become in the ﬁrst full year when Generali is part of the
group. And the ﬁrst full accounting year where all the beneﬁts are realized is next year. So
the fast tracking of the earnings, if it happens, it's a 2019 thing because that's when we
actually get the full year beneﬁt of the faster cost savings.
Loan-to-solvency-ratio of a.s.r., yet the 9 points spend is a group thing. The €143 million
comes out of (00:52:58) companies. The capital injection came out of a.s.r. Life
predominantly. Does it say much about the group developments? This is kind of where
we are. And I think afterwards, we see the most of the capital beneﬁts actually in the Life
side rather than the Non-Life cycle. That's one thing I can tell you about that.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Page 16 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

Okay. Capital beneﬁt is in the Life side, but a large part of your cap – the 9 points impact is
a Non-Life side. Yeah. Well, because all the beneﬁts are coming on the Life side.

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

The capital injection was in the Life side because that where we – because the Generali
Life entity was supported by quota share between Generali Netherlands and Generali
Italy. The quota share was removed and replaced by the capital injection. The same like
the capital synergies are also on the Life side. That's where the NPV-ing of cost savings
plays a role. That's where the (00:53:52) plays a role. That's where you usually have the
biggest capital synergy in that simply because the Life – the maturity of Life products is
much longer, so you got more NPV (00:54:05) impact.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Just one more last question is with respect to capital generation that you guided for
€25 million a year. Can you give us an indication about how much of that would be capital
release and how much of that would be earnings related?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The majority of it is – there are some capital release. There are some, of course, SCR
release, but Generali is two-thirds – Generali was two-thirds a P&C business, one-third a
Life business. And Life was more term life than DC. So really the majority of it is earnings
and not just release of SCR.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's good. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Only had one question left. It's about the integration process.
Does the integration process of Generali Netherlands, does it limit a.s.r.'s ability to do any
further deals in the short to medium term? Thank you.

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Well, that's a yes and no answer. I think if I look, for example, in the funeral business line,
they will have ﬁnalized all of their migrations this year. So there's potential for further even
migrations next year. If I look for Individual Life, it takes about half a year of preparation,
so if we would do a deal, say, this year and you have to go for DNO, et cetera, 2019 would
be a year of preparation and you could migrate in 2020.
So I think the real answer is no. I think the preparation period is a diﬀerent set of people
who is doing that than the people who do the migrations. So all in all, yes, we have a lot of
Page 17 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

work to do especially in 2019. But let's say, the thinking work, the rationalization and
thinking out how the migration should happen and all the discussions and preparations
you have to do between signing and closing, which is normally a four months or ﬁve
months period – now, that's done by a diﬀerent set of people. That would be my
comments.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. Steven, if you look at page 5, the timeline, there is no process ongoing today at
least as far as we know, so perhaps we're kept in the dark. But we are not aware of any
sales process taking place today. But suppose we started one tomorrow, the earliest
signing date would be like October, November. The earliest closing date would be
somewhere mid next year for any deal that we start to work on today.
So at the – the earliest date in which you could close something would be Q2 next year. If
you look at the chart the Q2 next year, funeral is done, P&C is halﬂy done, disability would
be done, and you would be nearly focused on the integration with Generali Individual
Life. Only the pension integration would last a bit longer. So in terms of management
bandwidth, there is work to be done, but it does not preclude us from running further
transactions. Especially if you look at the timeline of any potential deal and the integration
time line.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler Please go ahead.
Hello, Benoît. Your line is open, if you'd like to ask a question.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yeah. Hi. It's me. Hi. Sorry for that. Good morning, all. I was wondering if you could give
us the pro forma local Solvency II ratio post-merger on Life and Non-Life. (00:57:59)
anymore. And then on the €80 million cost synergies, do you have a breakdown on how
much is coming from FTE cuts and how much is coming from IT and also maybe from the
building, for example? So a bit of breakdown on the €80 million to get a feeling on the
timing of realization of the cost synergies. Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Well, on the legal – on the solvency of the legal entities, a.s.r. post-merger, have to wait
until August because that's when we have – we'll give you the full numbers on the a.s.r.
legal entities. I think it's fair to say that that's a half year number. The legal merger will take
place tomorrow. The month has two more days so – and half year, we'll give you full clarity
on that solvency level. But to give you a rough estimate, we ended the year for Life and
Non-Life both on the 180% mark. We spent 9% on solvency in Generali. Most of it was
funded in the end by the Life business because that's where a.s.r. Life transferred its cash
into Generali Life. So that's where you can add that number to or integrate number to, but
Page 18 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

rest – Benoît, for that number, you have to wait until August and we'll give you full clarity
on that number in our formal disclosures.

FINAL

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Yeah. And the question on the cost base, how it is roughly divided? I think, roughly, let's
say, housing is something between 5% and 10% of the total. I think more towards 5% than
10%. IT is 30% to 40%, and, say, 50% to 60% is more or less related to personnel staﬃng.
I think a remark on IT, having a clear guidance that all contracts will migrate to the IT
platforms of a.s.r. has had two eﬀects on IT. First of all, most of the changed portfolio,
Generali have planned will stop. And secondly, I think, it goes for IT that the cost really go
away when the last contract is removed from the system. So those are more general
remarks on the cost.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
So it's fair to assume like a large part of the IT will be realized really probably in 2020 or
something like that, pretty late in the...

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No. It depends. Yeah. It depends. It is more towards the end, but there are certain
systems, which can be shut down earlier. For example, in the P&C and the Non-Life
business because P&C is moving more swiftly that will be towards the end of 2019. And on
the Life side, there are three to four systems. Some of them will be 2020. That's the noncontributionary portfolio. But the other three systems will be closed down earlier.
And as I said before, let's say, there are no systems anymore for all the staﬀ units, ﬁnance,
risk, legal, et cetera, HR. And there is no change portfolio anymore, and that also reduces
IT also a little bit along the way.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Right. Just maybe a follow-up...

A - Karin T. V. Bergstein

{BIO 17036723 <GO>}

The good news I see from IT perspective to add to that, most of the – they have – Generali
had contracts with suppliers. And the good thing about that is that you know what it is
and you know how to make sure that you have no, let's say, sticky costs because it simply
end the contract, and I think sticky costs are normally the most diﬃcult to get away. Yeah.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Now, just on the €80 million, so the additional upside potential from cost synergies.
(01:01:57) the faster pace of integration does not matter because it just – it goes, faster but
it does not impact your whole ﬁgure. So what will impact your whole ﬁgure is more like
the higher FTE reduction, right? So how much are you planning to reduce more than what
you were paying before? I was trying to understand that.
Page 19 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Well, in principal, faster doesn't help when it comes to NPV-ing stuﬀ, a tiny bit it brings the
discount one year faster. Faster does actually help you freeing up your own bandwidth
and staﬀ to do more. In terms of going deeper, I think, the initial plan, I think, we'd expect
the number of employees at Generali obviously to decline to around 180, 190 by the end
of this year. Today, we think we're going to be staﬀed 150 at the end of the year. So that
gives you a feeling for how much further we can – I mean, that's the key, 20%, right? 40
people last out of the 190 target, we were at 20% below where we wanted to be at the
end of the year. So faster doesn't help you, deeper helps you. So that ultimately will show
up. Faster gives us more headroom to do other stuﬀ and to move forward with the rest of
the business.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Great. Thank you very much, guys.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

But on your ﬁrst question, Benoît, is actually we'll fully disclose the solvency of our
operating companies. Please note there were no issues so far this year with upstream
ability, for example. We did upstream our regular cash upstream this year. Before the
summer, we'll give you more color in August.
In the upstream assessment of our a.s.r. Life and a.s.r. Non-Life, of course, you'd look
forward onto the implications of the legal mergers. You take it to account setting your
upstream ability and there will be no blocking issue whatsoever in terms of upstreaming
cash. So you'll see the integration reﬂected where a.s.r. Life, we'll have the biggest
investment in terms of solvency, simply because a.s.r. injected capital, the Generali Life
then was relatively lowly capitalized. At the same time, the a.s.r. (01:04:10) is also the area
where the biggest capital synergies are. But we'll show you more in the August half-year
ﬁgures.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

With that, I think there are no further questions. I'd like to thank you all for joining us in
this call. I would like to thank Karin for her contribution. Points to remember from my side,
this is a – with an intense process, we're not done yet, and it was an intense process. I
hope you get a ﬂavor that we're doing this institutional a.s.r. style which is a pretty nononsense. a.s.r. is a target operating model. We see towards that operating model and
don't spend time debating it but spend time doing it.
With that, we're able to show you that we're expediting and fast tracking the integration
process with more results delivered earlier and comfortable that we will meet our
business case and probably meet it a bit faster than we planned, and possibly we'll keep
the option open of meeting a bit better than we had planned.
Page 20 of 21



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-06-28

With that, thank you for your attendance. I wish you all a great summer. Good luck to
everybody who'll actually be playing in the World Cup. And we'll talk to you again in
August.

FINAL

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You
may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

