Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

SOMPO Holdings Inc Mid-term Management Plan and
Direction of Management Presentation

FINAL

Company Participants
Kengo Sakurada, President, Group CEO, Chairman & Executive Officer
Masahiro Hamada, Group Chief Strategy Officer, Group Chief Information Officer,
Managing Executive Officer & Director
Shinichi Hara, Executive Officer & GM of Global Business Planning Department
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Research Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Masao Muraki, Director and Senior Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Senior Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Thank you very much for coming out of your busy schedule. All the results for the financial
numbers are already disclosed on 19th last week. So I want to go over the overall
explanation so we can have more mid; and long-term perspective discussions, especially
focusing on the direction of our group midterm strategies.
And please turn to Page 4. So this 5-year midterm management plan have already
completed 2.5 years. And now we're in the middle point of the midterm plan. So as you
know, this year, we're strongly affected by the natural disasters in Japan. But we have
been steadily executing various challenges and issues that were set out in our current
midterm management plan and -- but we had to experience such natural disasters, aside
from the financial results on an accounting basis. But we were exposed to very tough
numbers as a result.
So the current condition of seeing such a recent series of natural disasters could be
maybe considered as an abnormal condition that could happen once in every many
decades. Or it could be a condition to be called as new normal. So there's some
discussions still going on to determine which way to understand the current situation. But
as a business management member, we will try to build a system to look at the business
Page 1 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

in more advanced and complicated manner so we can be more resilient in addressing
various challenges. And participating in international conferences, such as Davos
convention, we are feeling that, an additional disruption. So the speed of such an external
environment changes, such as technology evolution, is quite amazing.
So today, I will be explaining our direction to go for the future. But I will get back to you
more detailed numbers in next May. But in simply put, we will accelerate for the
globalization, also theme park synergy. So we'll further reinforce such qualitative evolution
to improve the corporate values. And I will explain what we are planning to do to achieve
that.
On Page 5, this is showing the progress of this fiscal year's numbers. So let me be brief
on this page. As you know, last year, we were affected by the U.S. Hurricane Harvey. And
this year, we are also exposed to the Super Hurricane Jebi, which is considered to be in a
size of once in 30 years. So we recognize the importance of risk management and pricing
through such experiences.

Bloomberg Transcript

In order to show you the actual condition of our business, we have actually normalized
numbers considering the domestic natural disasters that if that was the case, then we
were able to secure increased profit this fiscal year. So from initiative perspective, we
have been realizing the results of such activities.
Let me skip Page six and 7. So we can turn to Page 8. And we started the current midterm
management plan in fiscal 2016. And these are the achievements so far. So as you can
see, we have achieved so many different initiatives. And looking back, what we have done
so far when we made this plan in 2016 or 2015, many of these initiatives were not shaped
clearly. But now we're starting to see the results borne from such initiatives. One of the
major activity was the overseas international business, as you know. We bought the old
Endurance. And a while later, one -- right after that, we sold Canopius. So we have
reorganized the international portfolio.
In addition, the Sompo International, which it was ex Endurance. And now we position this
business to be a global platform. So the profit size for international business has tripled.
And also, we never expected this to happen even in retail area. We were able to build a
platform. So now we have the organization and now moving forward with various
discussions. This was not expected at all two years ago.
Probably globally, even in this retail area to build the platform, I guess we are the very first
player to do so. And at the time of the planning, this nursing care business was a
lossmaking business. But now we were able to turn around to start making profits for
single year. And now the -- we have built the ecosystem using dementia -- senile
dementia as a key business area to generate the group synergy now.
In digital area, we didn't have any operations in the past. But now we have invited CDO
for the group from outside of the company to build the trilateral structure located in
Tokyo, Silicon Valley and Tel Aviv. And now we are realizing various dialogues or
ecosystem with advanced players in the world. And one of the major example was the
Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

cybersecurity business. And this -- we want to grow this business to be the first pillar
business. In addition, we are planning to have that second and third initiatives to follow
cybersecurity. So hold your expectation for the company.
And please turn to Page 9. For the coming two years, this is a direction we are pursuing
for. The current midterm plan is not just to achieve the financial targets. But also this is the
phase for us to transform our businesses to be able to address various environmental
changes to come for the future. That's why we have set out a long-term midterm plan for
five years. After two years, now we have started to see the ideal image of qualitative
evolution, which should be pursued by different businesses. And now we are in a phase to
realize such activities.
As you can see, these are the qualitative evolution of each business. And we will try to
connect them in organic manner to improve the bottom line and also to establish a
business model to achieve the capital efficiency, which is higher than the capital cost as
early as possible. For that purpose, it would be important to implement additional
strategy, data utilization and human resources data. The capital principal has been a
mainstream of the business right now. So we are likely to be overwhelmed by such
additional strategy the most in the financial business earlier than any other businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we want to be the disruptor in such an environment. That's why digital strategy, data
strategy and also human resources to realize them will be key factors for our business.
That's what we are believing right now.
And at the same time, we should not be bound by the established concepts or vested
interest to securely implement such initiatives. We think maybe we need something
different in our governance system. So in order to incorporate more external, global
perspective into our group business management, we are discussing what the most
suitable image of governance would be at this point. Let me elaborate a little bit.
In addition to those 4 businesses. So we will try to evolve qualitatively, including digital. But
the group management and governance will need to be evolved furthermore. In order to
be a global group company, the governance itself must be also globalized. It has to be
also diversified. And with such diversified members, we can have more multilateral
perspectives to have more professional discussions. So current -- under the current
business owner system, we can accelerate the speed of the decision-making in each
business. And supervising functions and transparency will be further improved. These are
the elements which are needed by the current era. And that way we can build the
governance most suitable for Sompo Group.
The Nomination Committee, which is considered to be the global standard, is now being
implemented. And we are establishing a global management committees meetings. So
we will discuss this over in a board meeting. And once we make further decisions, we will
be sharing the results as soon as possible with you.
Turn to the Page 10, please. In each business, we are looking for the growth and
expansion, efficiency improvement and earnings creation. So those are the difference in
Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

strategies and keywords in different businesses. But the missions are different by
different businesses. Among those different missions are some quantitative targets, we -not just by focusing on them but also most importantly, multistakeholders, especially we
need to build a business that will be most accepted by our customers. So we are
determined to implement such transformation with the qualitative evolution and have
confirmed with the various business owners.
We have already started to use indexes, such as return on risk. And each business owner
are also addressing revising nonperforming assets to improve the profitability in their
businesses. But we will further reinforce such initiatives to accelerate the that shift to more
profitable businesses and products and services.
In addition, at the holding company, we are thinking about the roles of the holding
company. So to improve the capital efficiency furthermore, we will try to achieve
optimization of business portfolio for the whole group in a speedy manner. As part of the
group common initiatives, we will be more aggressive in establishing an ecosystem
through strategic partners to pursue further inter-business synergies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 11. This is an example of creating synergy across businesses. We have
been focusing on -- in the nursing care business, focused on dementia. I would like to
share with you a sample of ecosystem creation with -- using dementia as the origin.
When we first entered nursing care business, something that we were not cognizant of, I
wouldn't say we did not notice this at all. But this was not an idea we were growing. We
were thinking of using the knowledge that we have absorbed by going into this business.
And we're going to fuse that with the expertise we have in P&C insurance. And we are
going to add to that the efforts of our external partners. Using dementia as key, we're
going to have a private and public as well as academia come together in an ecosystem.
And this is going to be a business model, which will introduce new service, including
insurance products. And this is an approach of addressing a societal issue. And this, I
believe, is truly a case of giving flesh and bones to the thinking of theme park. We would
like to increase this.
In the digital strategy area, we are seeing improvement in productivity. And we're starting
to see efforts in commercialization actually contributing to enhancing our connectivity with
our customers. We have been investing in venture funds as well as introducing new
strategic alliance. We have been investing in more than several dozens such cases. We
would like to continue to do this. So that we can transform ourselves as well as create new
business model so that we can have greater earning power.
On Page 12. Strict control of risks and maintaining robust financial standing are imperatives
to the business. It goes without saying. Our policy of realizing attractive shareholder return
on top of those has not changed. While we have been impacted substantively by
domestic natural disasters this term, from average year levels, we're still confined to what
we may term as temporary losses.

Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

As for the total payout ratio, the board held recently has confirmed that we will review the
situation effectively, keeping last fiscal year's total amount returned to shareholders in
mind. For further growth, we are going to maintain a strict discipline. And we still are going
to have a strong M&A appetite. And the way we're going to make sure that we'll be
actively pursuing this, for the program beyond the next fiscal year, including numerical
targets, this will be shown when we meet in May. And we're going to make sure that we
will take all necessary measures to enhance our global presence as proof.
The portfolio direction is shown on Page 13. So if you could just skip to Page 15. This is
domestic P&C insurance, which, of course, is the greatest source of cash flow of the
group. We have -- we are continuing to enhance the productivity through reviewing, in
addition to systems. But the business process and distribution channels as well. We are
going to make sure we enhance our connectivity with our customers. And we will
introduce new transformation projects that will create new added-value services.
And we believe that there's still room for upside in numerical achievements. And in the
near future, we'll be focused on premium rates optimization. And we will also look at new
insurance products sales expansion, which will use our integration with SI. And we will
focus on efficiency enhancements, too.

Bloomberg Transcript

Some recent activities include inclusion of LINE social media insurance on Page 16. The
overseas insurance business is not considered just a global -- sorry, booster of group
profitability. But it should be the global platform. And this we are constantly
communicating to heads of overseas insurance companies. SI is going to be made global
platform.
In the corporate business area, where we have strengthened, we have already moved to
synergy creation phase. Agri Sompo is something that we have already introduced to you.
And we are prepared to enter Brazil and India making full use of Sompo license. So
Sompo, like core insurance activity strength, will be used in SI area in new markets.
We are going to also bring into our platform retail area. For example, our -- the Sigorta in
Turkey. They have very high expertise and know-how in automobile insurance. And we are
going to apply and expand that globally. So that kind of organic growth is, of course, going
to be base. And we're going to expand and achieve geographic and product-type
diversification. We're going to focus very much on bolt-on type M&A. Therefore, today, I
do agree that the valuation will be high. But we still have the appetite and capability for a
major M&A. We do have inorganic growth in our view also. But I would like to say that we
maintain very highly disciplined approach.
If you could go to Page 19 and 20. This is domestic life. We have been able to achieve
steady growth focused around medical insurance. And this is ongoing, the thinking of
health support enterprise. Some of the new products, a new income protection-type
insurance that we have launched in April of this year, allows the policy holders to receive
returned premium if they become more healthy. And this is done in a retroactive manner,
very innovative products. And we already have achieved greater than JPY 5 billion in
written policies.

Page 5 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

And we have introduced last month the industrial first mild cognitive disorder insurance.
And we will continue to take measures to expand the number of policies written.

FINAL

As you know, the life insurance business will be impacted by the interest rate. But we're
going to make sure that we will develop Insurhealth. And through introduction of
innovative and profitable new products, we will maintain profitable portfolio.
On Page 21 and 22, this is the nursing care and health care business, which became
profitable last fiscal year. Based on improvement in occupancy rate, we are going to
enhance efficiency through Sompo Care better and digitization. And we will continue to
make sure the profitability will improve and become more stable.
As I have said, this may be the first example of creating group-level synergy. We are going
to make -- leverage the voices of the users as well as their data, which number more than
100,000. And we are going to expand the new business and new services and products
to monetize.

Bloomberg Transcript

While we hope to continue to gain the shareholder acknowledgment by becoming
profitable by itself, we are going to enhance the presence of this business unit through
greater group synergy. And through that, we hope to contribute to resolution of societal
issue of Japan and also globally.
Remainder are all reference materials related to investment, ERM and ESGs, all of which
are quite important. And we are firm on promoting this. Please refer to them when time
allows. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
So now we want to move on to Q&A session. Just like as usual, when you ask your
questions, we will bring you a microphone. So please state your name and your company
name as well. Please raise your hand if you have questions.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. I have 2 questions. My first question on Page seven of
the presentation, regarding the return to shareholders. So you have some explanation. I'm
talking about the total payout ratio. You will be considering this payout ratio in a flexible
manner. So you also commented on a teleconference about this payout ratio. Can you
elaborate more on your concept on that payout ratio? About six months ago, in the latter
half of the midterm plan, total payout ratio or definition, I thought you will be explaining
about the update on them. How you're thinking of your return to shareholders in the latter
half with the midterm plan. So please explain this as well.
The second question is about Page 18, regarding international business. So in order to
secure the growth for the midterm perspective, you have 10% to 15%. And so when you
Page 6 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

revised the guidance, organic growth was said to be -- was actually revised down from
13% to 6%. But why you're not reducing this percentage for the midterm perspective?
Also left bottom, you're talking about the continued increase in employees centered on
underwriters. What would be the number that you want to increase in the final number in
the midterm perspective as well? And so those are my 2 questions.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Mr. Watanabe. Regarding the first question about return to
shareholders, let me explain and answer to this first question. And so as of May of this
year. So 50% payout ratio was maintained, just like before. And the remaining 50% was
allocated to the internal reserve. That's what we have shared. As you know, because of
the natural disasters still happened in Japan have affected negatively, that increased
more than what we had expected in the plan to affect our profit. So we had to revise the
profit plan. So natural disasters are now identified and now we have such risks so as
mentioned previously. So the 50% planned for the internal reserves would be minimized
furthermore to shift more to return to shareholders. So the need for this internal reserves.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me comment on the condition of ERM at this point. At the end of this mid interim
timing, the solvency ratio was 232% right now. Our target level is 180% to 250%. That is
the range we target at. So the lower limit of 180%. Now we're exceeding this number by
52%. And we are a little bit more to the top limit, upper limit. So from 2014 through 2017,
for the last four years, we have had internal reserve a little over JPY 280 billion. And that's
why we are achieving this level.
To improve the capital efficiency, the extra capital could be also utilized for return to
shareholders by some companies. But for us, we have some midterm targets. So we
don't have capacity to do so. But there's -- we looked at whether we need to further
accumulate our internal reserve or not. That is to be discussed. So the use of such extra
capital, how much we have right now is against the risk right now, JPY 1.9 trillion. And from
the target lower bottom, how much is the margin we have. We have 52%, which would be
JPY 730 billion, a little over that, that we have.
So what do we use this for? First for the M&As. We decided acquisition last year, the
Endurance. And in the past, if we were to conduct a similar size of acquisition, the ESR can
be lowered by about 40%. And if we were affected by major disasters. So we need to
have certain buffers. So major typhoons, such as like for once in 250 years. So because
this recent super typhoon was for once in 30 years. Even for a typhoon for once in 250
years, only over 10% impact on ESR. So to be prepared for such a major disaster, we need
to have certain buffers.
But looking at the possibility of conducting the major M&A. And there's a specialized
team, led by Nigel. Right now, the valuation is staying at the very high level in the market.
So we are on a wait-and-see mode at this point. So excluding such a risk and looking at
the current capital condition. So for this year's adjusted income of 50%. So if we were -- if
we reduce, that was applied for the internal reserve, that can be also shifted to the return
to shareholders. So the same amount to be provided to the return to shareholder, that
can be also provided as an option. And we're talking about this with the Board of
Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

Directors. And final decision will be made in the financial results timing next year. As of
now, there is no opposition so far that we heard of. So I believe there is a consensus on
this option at this point of time.
And finally, adjusted profit. Depending on how much adjusted profit we will have at the
end of the year. And how much we can reduce the amount that will be allocated to
internal reserve. So the payout ratio can be affected by such variable. But so we'll continue
to look into them towards the end of the year. Until 2020-something years, we will try to
achieve ROE of 10%. So we will try to maintain the certain capital efficiencies, try not to be
inefficient in capital. And while we will ensuring certain amount return to shareholder, that's
what we hope to see.
In the latter half of the midterm of the plan, what the return to shareholder would be, that
was another question you had. And by 2020 in our midterm plan through 2020, well, right
now we're actually at the middle point to share the actual numbers of all the midterm plan
progress. But as you know, we have had to revise down our target for the profit. So
regarding shareholder return, what to do through 2020 is not finalized yet at this point of
time. So we will further look into this to figure out to set the proper shareholder return.
And that is the answer to the first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Shinichi Hara

{BIO 20712733 <GO>}

And this is Hara answering to your international business. The strategic business hiring
underwriters has been continuing for the last few years. So no change to this strategy.
And Sompo have licenses in 30 countries in the world. So utilizing such licenses, we will
also utilize our skills of underwriting. We will come up with different products. That is our
plan for the strategy. That way, we can grow the gross premium revenue by 10% to 15%
per annum. But looking at the business unit, the insurance, such as specialty business, the
underwriting business could be the growth driver. The U.S. and Europe and other countries
are expected to grow by 10% to 15%. And SI is quite unique in agricultural insurance.
So about the revenue -- the premium. 70% are coming from agricultural insurance. And
this is not a growth market. This is a mature market. And this business doesn't require
much capital at the same time. So the bolt-on M&A or additional underwriter hiring can be
utilized to grow the business even under mature markets. In addition, Agri Sompo was
mentioned by also Sakurada. So by accelerating this initiative, we can grow in other
regions.
Regarding pricing, last year, as at this time of the year, we thought a big growth in pricing
this year. That's what we included in our forecast. But that didn't work out as we had
expected. So we need to take this seriously. But at the same time right now, looking at the
global pricing condition, every quarter, 4 quarters in a row right now, we see pricing
increases year-on-year. So we started to see momentum in pricing trends at this point.
Alternative capitals have been coming in substantially at very quite rapid pace. But now it
seems like certain moderation taking place in such a inflow. So with such a backdrop, I'm
sure you know better than us the financial situation in the U.S. market had been changing
slightly. So based on such an environment, if we were to see a rate to be on increasing
trend maybe on a gradual basis, SI business actually minimizes the amount of all policies in
Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

force against the underwriting amount. The underwriting is about a little less than JPY 600
billion. But the net agreement is about a little over JPY 300 billion. So we have about 50%
policy ratio -- in force ratio.
And this is due to risk management. That's one reason but also depending on the market
condition because things may not maybe moving in the way we expected. So the amount
to be held, we try not to have too much actually as a policy in force. As we start to see the
improvement in rate conditions then we can start increasing amount of policies in force.
So that way we can increase the net premium written without putting too much burden on
ourselves. So because of a weak environment right now. So we are at the level of 6% or
7%. But in a midterm perspective, we can grow double-digit level. We are capable of
doing so. Thank you very much.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Mr. Watanabe. I have seen 2 people raise their hands at the same
time. Tsujino-san, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

I am Tsujino from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley. I have 2 questions. First of all, I would like
to know the net payment you have made for the domestic natural disasters, which
happened this term. It came to a little less than JPY 150 billion. But I would like to know
about your thoughts on this amount. Was it more or less than you would have liked to
have paid? There are different thinking in terms of reinsurance. So I would like to know if
this was much bigger or bigger than what you would have liked to have? Or if that was the
case, what are your thoughts on the measures going forward to reduce that, if possible?
The other question can be considered broadly your thoughts about capital structure. You
did say that from ESR basis, 99.5% ESR gives you 232%. Although the amount is minor this
time, based on EV, capital life insurance holds a little less than 30%, which may be
considered relatively high. So in such cases, because of the mobility restrictioness of life
insurance-related amount may be a requirement.
And of course, catastrophic loss reserve, some people might say should be considered
capital if you are looking at economic value-based capital assumptions. After the disasters
drawdown, it would be less than JPY 40 billion. So you might want to hold this, which
means that, that will lead to more mobility restricted capital. So while you were saying that
you do still have much appetite for M&A, isn't it the case that you are in a situation that
you cannot make mistakes? I know I'm being presumptuous. But I would like to know what
the management really are thinking about M&A going forward. And also, I asked -- also
would like to know about the possibility of additional procurement through hybrid bonds.
According to Solvency II rule in Europe, of course, you are in a situation of being able to
procure more capital from the market. But such system is not that clearly stipulated in
Japan. And what rating organizations have in mind is very much relevant. I'm sure you are
thinking about all of this after the natural disasters. So I would like to know what your
thoughts are in additional procurement, hybrid bond, et cetera.

Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Well thank you. I, Hamada, would like to respond to your first question. And I take it that
your question is related to our reinsurance strategy related to this year's natural disaster
situation. There's no meaning in evaluating in hindsight. But what we can say, is for
example, in the most recent five years, natural disaster in Japan takes up much of our risk
amount. In 2013, what used to be JPY 412.7 billion, 99.5% value at risk, in 2017 was halved
to JPY 218 billion. Since the grading has changed, the Japanese P&C insurance became
more profitable. So we have been successful in reducing volatility. But that said, there is
not much we could have done better because this has been a very unprecedented
situation.
I can give you another example. The previous major disaster was in 2004 when 10
typhoons had landfall in Japan. JPY 590 billion to JPY 600 billion was the total industry
impact back then as published. But this time, they say that it's twice that amount. The net
effect on RPL in 2004 was JPY 189 billion. It probably is less than that for this year, which
means that the total damage was twice compared to last time. But the impact on RPL did
not change. It was even less. Could tell us that our most recent reinsurance strategy
worked. But of course, I'd like to apologize to our shareholders for the inconveniences we
are incurring in terms of adjusted profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
The next question had to do with capital. Economic value basis. I talked about as of end of
September, it was 232% ESR. Now you are correct. It's not all cash. The EV of life
insurance, for example, is included in that. So the risk of amount, which I have talked about
earlier, that is not all cash or not all valuable securities. It's not that the entire amount can
be readily provided in that matter. But we keep those in mind when we consider M&A. We
will -- we are repeating stress testing so that we are ready for natural disasters going
forward. That's our understanding. You also have mentioned about the catastrophic loss
reserve or impact on that. We can draw the reserves down according to the level of end
of our previous term. We have actually provisioned during the term by 14%. So the amount
for fire insurance will be about JPY 50 billion. But compared to end of last term, of course,
catastrophic loss reserve will have to be reduced. Now whether or not the special
provisioning will be done or not, we still have time until the end of the term. So there is
still upside and downside in terms of profitability. So that will have to be taken into
consideration as Sompo Japan Nipponkoa will decide whether there's going to be special
provisioning, by how much and when. But as we speak, we are preparing to shift to IFRS.
We were going to prepare ourselves so that we can transfer in 2021. But the most recent
announcement is that there could be a delay by a year. So we now have a higher
possibility of shifting to IFRS in 2022. But once we move to IFRS, the catastrophic loss
reserve will no longer exist. So that should also be taken into consideration. So we still
have couple of years before we decide on how much and how and using what kind of
provisioning rate we want to apply to catastrophic loss reserve. We would like to continue
to think about this. About hybrid bond issuance and the other procurement of capital, our
group, as we speak today, has the borrowing, which includes senior debt and hybrid debt
of JPY 563 billion. And the rating organizations say that the leverage ratio of 20% and less
will give us premium. We are now at 17%, which means that, well, for us to reach 20%, we
need to borrow JPY 800 billion, which means that we still have JPY 150 billion without

Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

having an impact on our rating. So that is our current understanding. So I hope I have
addressed your second and third question.
And Mr. Muraki?

FINAL

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I'm Muraki from Deutsche Securities. I have 2 questions. My first question is about the
initial plan for the next year. So this year, you had natural disasters. And these will be
affecting or not affecting next year or not. But can you tell us the impact and, for example,
the initial budget for natural disaster was enough or not? And also the remaining, the
balance of catastrophic loss reserve, I guess there is going to be reduced or do you need
to increase more? Also, the reinsurance, the writing cost and how much increase should
be expected? And please tell us initial plan for the next year and compared to this year
initial plan, please tell us the changes or no changes would be made or not. And my
second question, as you explained in your presentation today, LINE insurance or
cybersecurity business. This is not the insurance business, I guess. This is the cybersecurity
business itself. And now you will be fully implementing this year that was mentioned last
year. So please tell us the progress of these businesses. And what will be the final image
of monetization of these businesses to contribute to your profits?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me answer to your first question. Conclusion, there's natural disasters impact on the
next year's numbers or not, yes, there will be the impact on next year. The negative
impact will be expected. On the other hand, generally speaking, it will not be a major
amount. I won't be able to give you a specific number because we are currently
calculating right now. So I won't be able to share as of today. The affecting factors would
be, as you mentioned, yes, first of all, the initial budget at the beginning of the year,
whether we consider this as a new normal or not, how we will set the budget will be
affected. So there are various organizations that we are looking at weather conditions.
There's increases of heavy rains. But they haven't really mentioned clearly that there is an
increase of Japanese typhoons. There's no official statement out yet by any research
institute. But we are feeling for the last 5 to 10 years, we're seeing increasing number of
typhoons in Japan. So there will be a certain conservative coefficient to be added to the
current model that we're using right now to conduct the simulations. Then we will need to
revisit our reinsurance strategy to decide on our budget. But we are thinking of increasing
for the next year. About the catastrophic loss reserve, as mentioned earlier, at least every
year, the provision will not be increased more than 14% every year at this point.
Reinsurance strategy. Exactly as I mentioned. So there is a cost increase for reinsurance.
Also, there is a volatility. So we need to figure out how much reinsurance should be
applied. And we are getting various information at this point. So we are not able to give
you specific numbers. But it's not going to be increasing by 2 or 3x more. So it won't be
that big. So the rate increase will not be such huge. But there will be a certain impact. And
right now, we are considering what type of -- how much -- what the size of reinsurance we
would need for the next year. Another thing is fire and LINE rate increase. As you know,
according to the reference rate, it's 5.5% for the housing. That's what's been set. And so
we will use that as a base number. The peer premium rate will be utilized as a base
number. But that won't be enough. And we don't have the recent data yet. And so peer
premium rate has been quite stable. But we're looking now for the past 90 years in a
Page 11 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

long-term perspective, the -- our view compared to the current levels, we see a gap
actually. So we may need to optimize the pricing furthermore. But for next year, maybe no
major impact expected next year. So as a result, it depends on what will be the budget
we will set at to decide on the reassurance (sic) (reinsurance) strategy. And we're trying to
balance this strategy versus our profit level. Regarding your second question, you may
feel it's more overconfidence from us. But at the beginning, as we have decided to
implement a theme park initiative, one of the principles was that not to pursue the
synergy even from the beginning. That is the rule that we have set. The largest platform
would be for the domestic P&C business. And so because we have such a business. So
we -- it makes it easier for us to monetize this digital business more easily or better than
the other players. We both fail in that concept. Because in each different expertise, there
are professionals existing, a group of professionals existing already. So we have to be
also competitive enough against them in those different sectors. That will be the key. So
at least we also have to be confident to be sustainable in this area. So same thing for the
nursing care business. So for the nursing care business, the size was important. And that's
why we wanted to be starting as #3 and now we're trying to be #2 and #1. For
international business and digital business, as we have researched, for now, the markets
would be about a few trillion or it could actually go over JPY 100 trillion in a global
perspective, which is quite huge. But how we can win in this huge market. And we need to
figure out where to target in this huge market. I won't say a specific name. There are IT
majors in Japan, also network digital business in Japan. Instead of competing against such
majors. But our strategy is to compete -- we want to focus on SMEs actually in this
business area. So it's more like utilizing the outsources for the outsourcing business. And
not showing the Sompo as the business front line. But we also have to have a know-how
in business themselves not just being in front of such outsources. So not just in Silicon
Valley but also Tel Aviv in Israel, we have built an operation because we want to build our
expertise and know-how. I also went there to see the condition and specially cyberattackrelated technologies, the Israel, they're #1, almost the first-class level. They are the
defenders or they could be the #1 attackers. I don't know whether there is a profit or not.
But anyway they're skilled that much. So we need to capture such skills they have and so
we can have all such technologies so by hiring the local people, also by making more
investments to add more affiliated companies of this business, especially cyber terror risk
will be analyzed for SMEs first. That's what we plan to do to determine the potential risks
or the fear for those SMEs. And we issue the report for them. And we point out their
weakness. And we also provide a vaccine to address such weakness. I know it may sound
a little too cool. Also, I tell people not to talk about insurance in this business, if a
customer comes back to us. So in a worst case, even if we are affected by the attack, if
there are any costs, what happens? And if that was the question we get, then we will talk
about the cyber insurance or terrorism insurance. That's only when we talk about
insurance. That is our policy. So we're prepping for this business. In the midterm, I know
you may be hearing this here and there. But a little while later, in cyber risk diagnostics
business, more details of this business and the level of technology can be shared in the
near term. So I hope you can bear with us.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

On the same note, if that's possible. So you want to put the insurance business to the
front line at the beginning. But when it comes to distribution channel, you are using the
SME channel for Sompo Japan Nipponkoa, is that the plan?

Page 12 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Yes. That is likely to be. But we don't really go visit them and say hello and how about
introducing this cybersecurity. It won't be like that. First, we need to be specific how to
approach the market by explaining the cost and the time needed for conducting
diagnostics. We will need to inform such information to the customers. That will be
important.
About catastrophic loss reserve information, let me elaborate on this point, as questioned
by Mr. Tsujino on this point. Earlier, I talked about shifting to IFRS. And there will be no
concept of catastrophic loss reserve to be implemented once we shift to IFRS. So right
now, this liability item will be counted as asset. So right now, this is actually the capital with
the credit rating companies. So -- but this system will not be completely gone on the
financial results. The non-life insurance business will need to come up with the numbers
according to the current rule. But when we consolidate, we will use IFRS. So this
catastrophic loss reserve balance, also the provision rate every year will need to be
monitored and watched closely every year as non-life insurance business. And we need to
have enough amount of provision every year, just so you know I wanted to elaborate and
explain on this.
Yes. Sato-san and then (Otsuka-san) in that order.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

I am Sato from Mizuho. My first question has to do with FY 2018. You are now at midpoint
of MTP. I would like you to give us your overall evaluation. You are talking about JPY 273
billion adjusted consolidated profit. Your target, this was not adjusted for reinstatement
and cannot be as it's not included. Maybe that's the reason why it's less than what you
have targeted at that between 22 -- or JPY 220 billion and JPY 230 billion. I have looked at
your previous numbers and it seems that is slightly lower at JPY 207.3 billion against the
JPY 220 billion and JPY 230 billion. The other is, I think you have basically talked about
overseas insurance. But -- when you talked about M&A appetite. What about the for
noninsurance, including cybersecurity and the health care including those in care business?
Are you also thinking about acquiring other companies in those areas? How do you intend
to use your capital in those other areas, other than overseas?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. The forecast for FY 2018, excluding natural disaster impact that JPY
207.3 billion includes different things, including some impact by the reinstatement of fees,
et cetera. As a result, it's somewhat different from what we had thought about at the
beginning of FY 2016. The biggest difference came from large loss aside from natural
disaster related that increased substantially last year. It was okay until midpoint this year.
But in the second half of this year, we have to be more conservative because in the
economic cycle, we are seeing, for example, obsolescence of machinery because of the
lower CapEx spending, which experienced before. And this was more than we had
expected. As a result, domestic non-life compared to two years ago forecast is smaller in
the end. For life insurance and nursing care, it is almost entirely on track for overseas. Now
it's quite difficult what to compare against because there is nothing of sort of endurance
when we did MTP planning. Compared to when we acquired, we are struggling in terms
Page 13 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

of comparison between where we are now and what we have forecasted. So that's our
general evaluation. Your second question has to do with our intent for acquisition in nonoverseas. Do we really have appetite? Yes. We are going to try to become a theme park
for customers, which means that we will be looking at other areas. As was the nursing
care business in the past, we are looking at completely new areas too. But as was
presented by Sakurada at the very beginning, we will be making investments into digital
and strategic. We are thinking of strategically investing in start-ups as minor shareholder.
We have been doing that. But we are also considering possibility of owning some of them.
We are seeing some such projects already. And we are looking at non-life, life and others
to take place outside of the country. We have delegated authorities for SI to make
decisions, of course, above a certain amount of money. Of course, the decision will have
to be made by the holdings. But it is true given the current situation, it's quite difficult to
find a good acquisition in Japan. But if there's anything good, then we will.
Next (Otsuka-san).

Q - Unidentified Participant
I'm (Otsuka) from JPMorgan Securities. I have 2 questions. My first question on Page 10 of
your presentation. So looking back at the midterm plan. You had the results on
achievement on Page 8. And I have an understanding on that. But from now on, what will
be the challenges for the remaining part of the midterm management? What is still not -what is lacking at this point?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
So as mentioned by the president, that to improve the profitability or capability to
generate more profits will be the key for the remaining phase.

Q - Unidentified Participant
On Page 10, is it going to be on increasing trend of each business? This actually
represents improved profitability and you're showing this is the challenges that we need
to realize such target or goal. Is that the right understanding? And if those are achieved,
then you can achieve return on equity of 10% or higher or getting closer to JPY 300
billion? That is my first question. My second question again on Page 10, within the
domestic P&C business, the cost is with a down arrow. I'm sure this is about cost
reduction. Then again for the reinsurance low or on the consumption tax low, there are
potential increases on the cost having negative impact on the business according to your
combined ratio. I know it's difficult to understand because of natural disasters. I don't
really see much negative impact on your number in recent results. But would you be able
to reduce further more from now by reworking on your strategies?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. First of all, about capability to generate profits, we have different
missions actually assigned to each business unit. If it's only about the profit amount in yen
terms or the growth rate of the profit, then international business, advanced business,
there will be a lot of pressure on these businesses. I know we have high expectation for
those areas. And I'm sure they can meet these expectations. And so it's not just because
Page 14 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

of their inner spiritual (attitude). But also we had major disasters last year. And we see a
slow speed of recovery in the market. But the natural disaster actually only increased cost
by 4% only in overseas market. But the Sompo International was double-digit growth, 10%
or 11%. But we're not just beaten by the others. So we're actually winning over, like we're
growing like 6% to 7%. So we have a stronger capability to generate profits. So the cat
loss-wise, at Sompo International, we're on a very conservative level. So we're likely to
release them without purchasing reinsurance, we can hold. We have a growth -- we have a
potential for growth furthermore. And that can be also turned into the profit for our
international business. When we talk about our contacts with our customers, we want to
focus on life insurance and also the nursing care business as there is a growth potential
for contact with customers. In our nursing care business, this will be related to the last half
of a person's life. And so this will be related to the eternal place for them to live. So this
can create many opportunities to contact with the customers. So if a customer -- through
this nursing care business, if we can obtain trust from the customers, we can actually grow
a lot of our -- the main dementia business. So first, what we expect for the nursing care
business may not be, of course, profitability but that will come in the future but now is
quality and trust, to be nurtured, to build more trust relationship with the customers. And
that is we're making progress on this point -- at this point. And for the domestic business,
we need to show difference from a major life insurance in order for Himawari Life to stay
in the business. So we will make this company to be a health support business to take
initiative. And if -- by introducing major products into the market, that has given some
differentiation in the market from the others. So on these 2 area, we will need to build
good impression interest from the customers. From casual perspective, the Japan
domestic P&C business will be the major source. This will be related to your second
question from the numerator and denominator wise. Of course, both of them we need to
have the larger denominator and smaller numerator. So it's quite simple. Now we see a
mature market in Japan. And we don't think we can sustain 5% to 6% growth of this
market and we need also to pay extra attention to the risks in this market. So as we
mentioned, on the operational costs within the combined ratio will be the focus to be
reduced furthermore, especially fixed cost portion in the operational cost would be
related to the labor on expenses. Those are the area we need to address to reduce
furthermore. And we already have them in the plan. But we need to make sure there is no
meltdown on this area. In PLA or AI, we have 2,000 more people because we're now
introduced to AI. That should not be happening. We're not in trouble yet. For growth
perspective, we need to make sure to reduce unnecessary cost. That's what we need to
focus on. And by the next time, we can discuss more details and we can show you the
result with the evidence about our plan.
Yes. Majima-san, please?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Yes. I'm from Tokai Tokyo Research. This is rather detailed. But it's on the Page 27 of the
addendum. It's not what you have presented. This is looking at unconsolidated the
seeding situation of Sompo Nipponkoa, JPY 74 billion book and the insurance was JPY
63.7 billion book. For other non-life, at the midterm, you only gained something like JPY
20 billion, JPY 30 billion and you were able to recover the seeded reinsurance amount
early. Is this because you had some special situation? And that probably will means paying
out your insurance money early, how big is that? Is it by several billions? I wanted to know

Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

FINAL

the size. Secondly, this is not directly related to your business but Nissan is in a scandalous
situation. And it seems that according to a newspaper reporting, they want -- Nissan
wants more independence from and of course, parent, everyone know, is against it. Is
Nissan becoming more independent in the business administration favorable to you or
not? If it is okay, please let us know your position.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I know we are in a very sensitive period critical. And this is in the hands of justice. I would
not like to comment. But our sense towards Nissan will be maintained. There will be no
change. I wonder what your definition of independence really is. If it means more
shareholding to take place in Japan, then we'll have to be very careful. But otherwise any
independence that is something that should be favored. I'm not in a position of giving you
any more details. We have not collected sufficient amount of factual data to be able to
say anything that will impact in any way our view towards their running of business or what
we want to do.
Thank you for your question. I would like to talk about (Ioma Kawabe), Page 27 of the
addendum talks about, for example, 2018 this is about JPY 177.7 trillion and the JPY 112.6
trillion.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

I'm looking at the seeded amount.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Well I do not have detailed information in front of me. But some major factors include we
have the covered reinsurance recovery. Whatever incurred last year at the end of the
year, we will be receiving this year and that probably has had an effect. For detailed
numbers, I would like to get back to you after reviewing them in detail. If you are talking
about major difference vis-a-vis other competition, then that's that. So of course,
collection is going to take place after it was incurred this year. And so that effect is going
to be beyond.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

And what would be -- what would the size be around JPY 1 billion?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Well I would rather not give you any figures now. Let me get back to you.
Sasaki-san, please?

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

This is Sasaki from Merrill Lynch Securities. First question is about shareholder return, let's
say, for next year. So if we were to have typhoon again next year, you're going to have to
reverse the internal reserves to conduct shareholder return with the same amount of last
Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

year, is that your thinking? Because last year the amount of shareholder return, I want to
see if that is the bottom amount committed to the shareholder return or not. I want to
confirm that. Second thing is the CALI, automotive insurance. For each automakers, let's
say, they have a maintenance or some vehicle inspections. They may offer a package,
including insurance. That is the trend we're seeing right now. And will that have any benefit
on your business or negatives on your business? Is there are any positives or negatives on
your business with this trend?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your questions. Regarding shareholder return, let me answer your question.
Our basic policy of shareholder return is a stable dividend. That is the basic policy. So the
dividend amount of last year will be maintained first or even there will be additional
amount to -- in addition to the previous year dividend. That is the concept of stable
dividend. Talking about payout ratio. In a normal planning, we are setting 50% as for
shareholder return. And so basically, we provide dividend -- and the difference will be
covered by the share buybacks. So just like we did this fiscal year, if we were to have
another downward revision next year, then what do we do? I believe that was your
question. We will try not to reduce the amount of shareholder return. That is the basic
idea we have internally. That's how we're thinking at this point. That's all for shareholder
return. Talking about automobile insurance impact. So among automakers or the auto
dealerships, if they were to offer a package, including maintenance and vehicle
inspections and if there are any impact on our insurance business or not, I believe that
was your question. So this is actually related to the channel strategies. So we also sell our
insurances through the maintenance repair shops. And we also sell insurances through the
dealerships at the same time. Which is more beneficial for us? There are different indexes
to measure that. So we cannot really say which is better or worse. So the dealership
insurance will be maybe better for us for the profitability. But we also need to think about
the future potentials, the direct impact on the business wise. Whether to have the
vehicles at the dealerships or the vehicles at the repair shops, I think it depends on the
actual costs to be delivered. But in either case, there is no major impact on our numbers
basically. It's been a while since the automakers are changing their trend. They cannot just
sell the cars. They're trying to expand their business with their supplementary services.
And that will not have a major impact on our business. That is the current conclusion.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

So for example, let's say, Toyota for certain cars, they have already started underwriting
for certain insurance companies. So it's almost 100% share by a certain insurance
company. The same thing happens with other automakers. Would that be a negative
impact on your business or maybe it's possible certain automaker can sell your product
only? Would that be possible?

A - Unidentified Speaker
I understand your point now. Those type of insurances, yes. And we call this as branded
insurance. And that's been taking place under certain conditions. And with certain
insurance companies, the products are being sold by automakers.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}
Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-11-26

So the real exclusive agreement existing or not?

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Well not completely. Actually, if one company does that with one automaker and the other
company will follow to do the same thing. So that doesn't really change the market
condition.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

So for the future changes -- potential changes wise?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So cars are sold maybe not just by dealerships, car dealers are not the only one to sell the
cars. Now that we're seeing more autonomous driving influencing the market, the
individuals may be owning the cars or there would be more car sharing taking place in the
market. There could be a drastic market change expected. And we need to prepare for
such a change.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. Anybody else has any other questions? So no other questions. So
now it's about the time for wrap up. So thank you very much for coming to today's
session.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

