Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

Y 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Cristina Nestares, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of UK Insurance
David Stevens, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Milena Mondini, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Europe Insurance

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
David Bracewell, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Iain Pearce, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation
David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Good morning, and welcome to Admiral's 2017 Full-Year Results Presentation. Thank you
for battling through the element to join us today, and thank you to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch for hosting this morning. Now, Admiral, started in January -- January 1993.
So, we are now 25 years old, and the 25 logo that you will see throughout the
presentation reﬂects that.
To celebrate that, we've decided not just take the normal six to 12 month backward
looking, forward-looking perspective on the business. We've also thrown in some longer
term perspective, if we through the presentation, and I'll start with one of them. There is
the picture of the founding management team, when we were 57 staﬀ, one country, one
brand, no customers. But it gets (inaudible) looking bunch, and there we are today and
9,500 staﬀ, ﬁve and three-quarter million customers, eight countries, 18 brands.
As you see a much bigger management team both collectively and sadly individually.
Today's presentation we'll be starting with myself and then Geraint Jones, the CFO will
give Group overview before Cristina Nestares, the UK Insurance CEO talks about our UK

Page 1 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

result, and I will come back to talk about the US, both insurance and price comparison
before Milena Mondini, Head of Europe Insurance talks about European insurance and
price comparison and I'll come back for a brief wrap up. Over to you, guys.

FINAL

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, David. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to talk through some of the highlights
of the results covering the turnover, customer growth, proﬁts move onto talk about capital
dividends and I'll ﬁnish with a quick update on Admiral loans. This is our usual highlight
slide to kick things oﬀ. On the top we show customer numbers, turnover. We'll go into
some detail on both of those very shortly. So I'll just highlights double-digit increases in
both again.
All parts of the Group growing particularly in households in UK and generally things
outside of the UK. Our proﬁtability, you'll have seen we were reporting GBP405 million of
pre-tax proﬁt, earnings per share of 117.2 pence. Those are both record ﬁgures. Of course,
the comparisons are clearly very impacted by Ogden. If you head on 2016 into the Plus 43
and Plus 49 need to be seen in that context. So, it is is good to get back to an upward
trajectory and proﬁtability.

Bloomberg Transcript

A similar story for return on equity 55% for 2017 is a very positive number back in line with
our, our usual historic performance. And our full-year dividend is 114 pence per share,
that's a 11% up on 2016. If you exclude the additional capital return we paid in 2016. And
ﬁnally, in the middle, solvency ratio remains very strong stood up over 200% or a bit
lower than it was at the end of 2016.
These are the top line ﬁgures from across the group. Picture looks pretty similar to the
recent reporting periods, strong growth in all segments, lots of green arrows. I particularly
point to nearly 4 million both the customers in UK, which covers cars and vans that's
comfortably gone passed 4 million since the end of the year.
We see more than 40% growth again in household customers and turnover really
pleasing ﬁgures again from household. And in our international insurance turnover was
up by nearly a quarter heading towards GBP0.5 billion and customer numbers were up by
a ﬁfth breaking through 1 million customers outside the UK and turning strong
momentum. And more than 10% growth in the turnover from the price comparison
business as well.
Moving onto talk about proﬁts. David mentioned Admiral turned 25 earlier this year that's
why I wanted to show the full proﬁt trajectory since that ﬁrst year back in 1993. Hopefully,
you will agree, it's an enviable track record. Proﬁts have increased in all about two years,
and of course one of those years 2016 is due to the Ogden impact and you can see that in
the red dots.
2017's proﬁt of 405 is over twice as big as the proﬁt 10 years ago. There was a huge
multiple of the number 20 years ago 1997. But let's look at more detail at 2017. This year,
we compare the result for each of our segments compared to the previous year. The UK
Page 2 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

proﬁt as you can see GBP466 million it's a record. As I said earlier, the comparison is
distorted by Ogden and also more about the UK separately. The international insurance
results improved again to GBP14 million compared to GBP19 million the year before.
That's mainly a factor of higher proﬁts at ConTe in Italy, fourth year in a row in proﬁt for
ConTe. A lower loss in the US and that latter result coming despite the hits from the
hurricane in Texas in 2017.
The price comparison result improved to GBP7 million proﬁt and GBP3 million proﬁt. The
main features there being reduced proﬁts at Confused.com. Great results from Rastreator
and LeLynx in Europe and reduced losses at Compare.com which hits its marketing breakeven target for the year.
Last up is our Other segment. You can see that was up compared to 2017, variety of
reasons, and GBP9 million of the movement you can see explained in the slide, but the
ﬁrst year of the Admiral loans which is negative four and 2016 included an unrealized gain
on foreign exchange for contracts. There is a breakdown of those costs in the appendix if
you are invested.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said 2016 is not a good basis for comparison. So, this slide looks back a year further
to 2015. As you can see the UK Insurance proﬁt is GBP22 million higher than two years
ago. GBP3 million of that improvement comes from household where we have a much
bigger book, a better expense ratio and a better loss ratio which is a pleasing
combination.
And therefore Motor proﬁt is GBP19 million higher in 2015 despite the earned premium
being 20%. Key point to remember, of course, as you can see on the slide, the 2017 result
was paid on the basis for Ogden stays at minus 0.75%. There is a continued drag on
proﬁtability in 2017, as a result of that change that's about GBP14 million. 2015 obviously
had Ogden plus 2.5%. So, the Ogden change is a key factor in understanding why the
proﬁt in 2017 is GB20 million also higher than it was in 2015.
This slide also helps illustrate the progress in international insurance where since 2015 has
doubled our turnover and reduced the loss by a third. More detail on the performance of
our various segments shortly from my colleagues. Changing subjects, if you look at
capital, familiar looking slide here shows our solvency ratio still very strong again over
200%.
The main movements since the middle of the year as you would expect. The second half
proﬁt, investing the ﬁnal dividend, some increase in the capital requirement, which is
mainly due to the growth in our balance sheet, but also the expected volume we see in
2018. There's no change to report in the basis of the calculations. We are still on the
standard formula plus the capital add-on and we are making progress towards our
internal model application later on this year, hopefully getting approval in 2019.
We still think at this stage 150% is a good indicator of the upper end of our target range,
once we get that internal model approval. Of course, we do recognize that 200% is
somewhat north of 150%. And to that point I repeat the message of six months ago, which
Page 3 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

is until we've got certainty over the internal model capital position we won't talk more
about any potential surplus capital position. And what I mean by certainty over the
internal model position is getting the internal model approved.
Let's take a look at dividends. As you can see we are proposing a ﬁnal dividend for 2017 at
58 pence per share. In line with our guidance, we've looked to hit a payout ratio in the
90s and 58 pence per share is 97% in the second half earnings, still leading us for the
205% solvency ratio you saw on the previous slide.
We repeat the formal dividend policy on the slide here and I would also reiterate unless
or until we say otherwise. Payout ratios in the 90s if you would guide for dividends going
forward. You'll need to be on the record on the 11th of May to get paid on the 1st of June.
The half year, David talked about our aspirations to grow in areas beyond car insurance.
And I'll just give a brief update on one of those areas where we hope will be an important
source for the growth and proﬁt in the medium term that's of course Admiral loans. You
can see the year-end we had nearly GBP70 million of loans receivable on the balance
sheet. Recently, we've gone through GBP100 million of lending to our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Given the relative size and maturity of the business, we're not going to go into too much
detail at this stage, but some of the key messages in terms of our product and our
progress set out on the slide. We expect future -- further growth in the balances during
2018. We remain happy with the performance in the KPIs. We are, of course, aware that
there are potentially uncertain economic times ahead. And our focus is on building a
prime book. We are projecting a material change in the P&L guidance for 2018 is between
5 million and 10 million up from GBP4 million in 2017.
That's it from me. I'll leave you with some of the key messages. Continued strong growth
in all parts of the Group. Record proﬁts, those still held back in the UK by Ogden. Very
pleasingly early progress for Admiral loans and we maintained a very strong capital
position whilst paying out basically all of our second half and actually full year proﬁts to
our shareholders and dividends.
I'll hand you to Cristina who will talk us more about the UK business.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning , everybody. I would talk to you today about the results of the UK
Insurance operations. I will focus on the motor results talking us about the market, and I
will also also cover health. But let me ﬁrst start with a bit of historical perspective. You can
see here an ad, Yellow Pages ad from Bell from many years ago when actually Yellow
Pages was our serious source of business. Now about 20 years later, you can see a very
diﬀerent ad for Bell. Bell is now a telematics only brand that we sell the price comparison
and it's helping us at this stage as a telematic leader in the market.
Now, let's look at the highlights of the UK Insurance in 2017. It has been another good
year of growth. In terms of unit our Motor book have grown by 8%, and that includes a 5%
growth in our car unit reﬂecting a slowdown in the ﬁrst quarter of the year due to price
Page 4 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

increases after the open announcement. It also include 120,000 balance that we put in the
book at the year-end in the ﬁrst year of operations for banks.

FINAL

In terms of turnover for Motor, it had grown by 13% and that includes an increase of 11% in
cars reﬂecting our price increases. In the case of households, both customers and
turnover have increased by 41% as for proﬁt Geraint has already talk about that.
Moving onto claims in the market, the frequency of a small bodily injury claims registered
in MOJ portal has continued trending down. You can see here in the graph, it went down
by about 12% in '17 following a 19% reduction in '16. So why is it going down so much,
well, we think it's a combination of safer cars by also changing lawyers behavior. The
prospect of our reform might lead to some lawyers to choose to focus in other sectors
unless on motor.

Bloomberg Transcript

For 2018, it's hard to predict, but we'll work on the basis that we are not going to see such
a reduction increasing. On the right, you can see a graph about accidental damage in the
market, and you can see that the trend for '17 and '16 has been very similar ﬂat frequency,
an increase in severity reﬂecting mostly an increase in parts.
For '18, we are expecting a continuation of this trend. So, this is the market data. In the
case of Admiral our now claims experience for both small BI claims and accidental
damage has been consistent with the rest of the market. In terms of large claims, it's
actually much harder to comment on what is happening in the market because Ogden is
causing a lot of disruption. What we can tell you is that, for Admiral, 2017 frequency of
large BI claims appears to have been in the case especially in the context of Ogden. So
let's talk about market premium. First graph is the ABI data reﬂecting increases but also
taking into consider it includes an IPT increase in the middle of the year.
The graph on the right show Admiral time stock index to the last quarter of 2016. So, what
you can see in this graph is that deposition and the time stock of Admiral at the end of
2016 and at the end of 2017 is actually quite similar. This indicates that Admiral had good
prices in line with the rest of the market.
However, the timing of the -- those price increases it is slightly diﬀerent as we put prices
ahead of the market at the end of 2016. Now, before talking about what our prices going
to do in 2018, in our view, I want to talk about excess of loss. As we all know the cover of
excess of loss has increased its price this year. And, Admiral, what we did in 2017, as a
reminder, we bought more product to cover for the stock of Ogden because the prices in
the market were ﬁnding our view.
So, in 2018, we have gone back to our long-term average of around 8 million to 9 million,
but at higher cost. So that is excess of loss. Let me talk about prices for 2018. Now, three
things that could aﬀect what the market is going to do. First, excess of loss, I just
mentioned that prices in the market has gone up. However, for what we have seen in the
market, we haven't seen any signiﬁcant increase in market prices so far. Second thing that
could aﬀect prices is the claims environments we have seen relatively benign in 2017, and
we expect our consideration during 2018.
Page 5 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

And ﬁnally, we think that the prospect of the reform as and if they can more concrete
could have an impact on prices at some player might start increasing prices ahead of the
reform. So, overall, we don't expect a continuation of the price increases in 2018.
Moving onto the ratios. This is the slide that we have been showing for a number of years.
You have Admiral data in blue and the market in red. However, as the market data has not
been updated, it's becoming obsolete, so we might stop showing this comparison in the
future. You can see the data for 2016, which we have taken from the low estimate. So, for
Admiral, the loss ratios have been booked at minus 0.75 discount rate and as you can see
there have been some development in 2016, '13 and '12. These decreases are less than
what we have traditionally shown. And the reason for this is that Ogden is causing
disruption in the settlement partners of large claim. In this environment of uncertainty we
preferred to take a cost residue. In terms of expense ratio, you can see that we continue to
hold a signiﬁcant advantage over the market due to our focus on cost control.

Bloomberg Transcript

Reserve releases, well, UK car reserve releases continue to be a strong feature of our
results. Reserve releases in '17 , where 21% ahead of the long-term average of around 15.
The margins in book reserve remain prudent and signiﬁcant, but it's slightly smaller in
relative terms than the ﬁrst half of 2017. And going forward we expect a continuing
signiﬁcant reserve releases it claims developed as expected.
So, this is it for motor, but before moving on into household another bit of -- expectation.
In this slide we have the Other revenue per vehicle only a few years ago it was GBP84 per
vehicle and now it stands at GBP64 quite a stable in the past few years. So the reason for
this decrease are two-fold, ﬁrst one of referral fees and secondly is a fact that we have
improved our products which actually means a better outcome for our customers, but
lower margins for Admiral. So, in terms of household, I think the most important feature of
our result has been the strong growth of 41%, in a time where the rest of the market is not
showing a lot of growth. So, what are the reasons for this increase. I think, there are three,
the ﬁrst one is the fact that price comparison which is our main channel has continued to
grow, as you can see on the graph.
The second reason is that there have been price increases in the market. Admiral has also
increased the prices of its household book, but it has lagged the market, which has
allowed us to grow. And the third reason is that beyond price comparison, we have
increased our direct oﬀering. We oﬀer a multi-cover policy that allow us to cross-sell,
household policies for our motor book. So, strong growth in units, and also improvement
in our ratios. You can see on the graph on the right, our expense ratio improved from 34%
to 30% during the year due to increase in SKL [ph] and a bigger renewal book. And I think
it is particularly signiﬁcant that we hold an advantage to the market, which we believe
stands at 45%.
In the case of loss ratio, we have seen an improvement during 2017 the good weather has
helped deﬁnitely nothing like today. So, going forward, for household, we expect a
continuation of the growth, possibly not at a 40%, and we also expect an improvement in
our ratio.

Page 6 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

So, I would like to ﬁnish by talking about the customer because these results are only
possible because the trust that customers give us. Something very concrete that we have
done to improve the customer experience during 2017 is to improve the feature of our
products. And we are very proud to say that today all our product hold a ﬁve star de facto
rate and option. So, that includes our car, our telematics, our household, and also the two
products that we launched this year in '17 that is van and travel.
So, in summary, 2017 has been another good year of growth for the Admiral UK Insurance
business. The car insurance market have seen increases and Admiral Household increases
in line with the rest of the market. For 2018, we do not expect prices to continue increase
in the market and we have enjoyed a very good year for our household group with good
growth in unit and also improving our ratio. So, that's it for the insurance business. Now,
over to David.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Cristina. So, before diving into the US, let's take a longer term bigger picture
perspective on international. 15 years ago, we were active in one country. Now we are
active in eight countries. I would like to take this opportunity to apologize the people of
Sardinia their exclusion and ensure them that they can buy policies from ConTe.
Going onto the US. Elephant had a year of growth 8% up in terms of number of cars
covered and a year in which the losses shrunk both in absolute and percentage terms.
Admiral share of losses falling from $21 million to $16 million. What's driving this? Well, the
primary reason for the improving result and it's rising is continued improvement in
combined ratio. So, here you see the Admiral ratio compared with the market in red and
Admiral improved from 143% three years ago to 119% last year. Again some degree of
headwind from the market which has been unusually diﬃcult for the US auto insurance
market with an increase from 103 to 109 over the two years for 2016 and I think it's
probably about 107, 108 in 2017.
So, (inaudible) on a journey towards proﬁtability and our projections are coming to
proﬁtability and making a decent return on the investment to-date. However, we do
always run stress scenarios at the end of each year, and there are also some stress
scenarios in which Elephant would not fully return the investment we have made, and so
we have shown this part of our conservative approach to our business to reduce the book
value of Elephant on our book from 125 million to 100 million.
Big part of the improvement in combined ratio has come from an improvement in loss
ratio, which is being something I've talked about over the last two or three presentation.
And I think you can see here the progress that has been made. I've called out Texas
because Texas represents 50% of the business we write in the US. We are the blue line
and again you can see a situation where we've made progress notably in 2017. Again a
diﬃcult market context where the whole market in US was going in the wrong direction
then 2016 hail adversely aﬀected the Texas markets.

Page 7 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

2017 of 76 was achieved despite Hurricane Harvey which would have aﬀected us and
actually the market as a whole. So, as well as improvements in loss ratio, other reasons
why I'm very positive about Elephant are a round of reﬁnement in our strategy at the
beginning of the year I asked Henry to go to the US full-time along with Alberto Schiavon
one of our UK managers to see if we can sharpen the strategy in the US. And the
conclusion of the work that they did is that we should focus more on one speciﬁc segment
and that's what we've done. One of the ways of looking at the US market is around
propensity to stay with your own loyalty. The US market is very polarized between
customers who moving out of insurance, a very active shoppers, but often struggled to
maintain the policies throughout the life of that policy that they canceled and take it up
again.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the other extreme there are multi-car relatively aﬄuent customers who typically shop
much less often, but are much more loyal. And historically Elephant has appealed across
the board. On the left hand side you can see the mix of businesses that we write in Q4
2016 where the red block at top represents the low propensity to renew, and the green
block at the bottom is the highest intent to renew. And as you can see over the year
through a series of changes in marketing message, marketing mix and customer
proposition. We moved the mix of business substantially away from the lower retaining
book types of business to the higher retaining types of the business. And our estimates of
the impact on that in terms of ultimate retention will be that the book as a whole will have
a 17% better retention as a result of this change in mix.
Now that's great, but you would expect to pay a price in much higher marketing cost to
appeal to the ultimately more valuable customer. So, we are very pleased to have
combined that with an actual improvements in cost per vehicle sale, which was immediate
cost per vehicle sale, which was over $260 and is now under $230. Henry has now
returned to the UK, working part time, Alberto Schiavon has stepped up and become the
Elephant's CEO. Over to the comparison business, Andrew, was here at the half year talk
more about the business. It's been a good year, we've gone below $10 million in terms of
our own loss. The panel continue to evolve and I've highlighted two names. One, is
obvious Travelers, Big Brand US and globally. Encompass you might be wondering why
am I highlighting Encompass. More brands you probably never heard oﬀ. It is actually the
third brand in the all states table. So, the full state insurance and by far the smallest brand,
Encompass, which signed on and is now active in large number of sates. Not necessarily
material per se, but maybe assigned with some progress in terms of persuading at least
one of the big ﬂaws that its work engaging with Compared. Top right you can see the year
has been a great one in terms of marketing eﬃciency with top of the quote harving [ph]
despite volumes up by a quarter and the quality of those quotes improving more than
translating into (inaudible) ultimate device. Still work we've done there and we are
guiding to a loss in 2018 between $5 million and $16 million for Admiral.
So, continuing improvement in Elephant's result, a reﬁnement in the strategy that gives us
increased conﬁdence in its long-term help reduced loss compared and the milestone
achieved as marketing breaking them.
Over to Milena to talk about Europe.

Page 8 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Hello. Good morning, everybody. I am here today to talk to you about our insurance
operation in Italy, France and Spain and our price comparison site across Europe. Price
comparison site is our major distribution channel nowadays and also in Continental
Europe. But it was almost an exist of 10 years ago. I will then focus more on content, our
Italian ambiguous operation. While there are more detail about Admiral Seguros and
L'olivier in the appendix. 2017 was a mixed year for price comparison site, was a near
investment in Confused, invested in a Drivers Win campaign to position ourselves as the -go to place for drivers. Growth investment in other projects as car buying selling online
and car ﬁnancing. We believe that this new strategy will help us to diﬀerentiate ourselves.
The market is still highly competitive with more than GBP10 million of investment of the
top four players in one single year. Proﬁt decrease year-on-year as a consequence for
investment. In the last months of 2017 we started to see some beneﬁt of our investment.
We have noticed a good engagement with the rent, but it will take time for the beneﬁt to
fully deploy. Continental Europe will experience another year of strong growth both in
France and in Spain.

Bloomberg Transcript

The starting position is quite diﬀerent. In Spain where Rastreator has 70% market share
and is leveraging on its dominant position to diversify the business with particular focus
on the ﬁnancial vertical. This is a bit more mature market compared to France. In France
LeLynx is also one of the two top player in the market, but the market is less mature under
our new entrants that are investing in CB.
We do believe that these investments will help us the channel to grow and its important to
remind for us, it's very important that the market move direct also support of our
operation, insurance operation there.
Moving now to insurance in Italy, France and Spain. 2017 and 2016 was another year of
very strong growth. We grew 60% in active policy base and turnover reaching 309 million
revenue in '17 and 854,000 customers.
We are consciously investing in growth to reach the economy of scale in each country and
the scale that we believe will help us to deliver material proﬁt in each single business. It is
important to notice that we did achieve this growth despite the cycle is not favorable yet
particularly in Spain and in Italy where prices are expected to increase.
At the same time even more important reduce losses overall. Losses went combine in
Europe from 10 million to 5 million to 2 million in '16 and '17. Main driver of this was ConTe
that at a year of record proﬁt that I think it's important to mention that Admiral Seguros is
not far from reaching sustainable proﬁtability either and in L'olivier we are still investing to
reach scale but this investment is not large at all.
In this slide you can see the key evolution, the evolution of the key ratio in Europe. The
ﬁrst things you may notice is that loss ratios is in a very good range while expense ratio is
over market average. So (inaudible) ratio is over market average. There is a mix of
reasons. The most important one is that we have a higher percentage of new business

Page 9 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

renewal book, and we don't have the scale yet particularly in Spain and particularly in
France. This is why for us reaching, decreasing expense ratio is crucial and it's critical and
one of the most notable results in my opinion for the year is a strong reduction of price
point combined in Europe, while growing at the same time. We are indeed within the
beneﬁts of our investments in brand awareness. We are realizing a material internal
eﬃciency through most process automation and optimization, and we are reducing the
cost per policies in every single country. Reduction of expense ratio will be realized in
every single country and we remain positive to continue this trend in this direction in the
future. Loss ratio combined in Europe has been between 70% and 80% in the last four
years. We believe that's very good results. It's important to us because being able to
transfer our competitor advantage in underwriting and pricing was one of the key
assumption for us when we decided to launch internationally.
And we think we achieved these results. In 2017, in particular, the loss ratio deteriorated as
you can see, but please remind that these number include reserve releases. And 2016 was
the year of extraordinary reserve releases particularly for ConTe, while the underlying loss
ratio is relatively stable. It's also worth to remind that we adopted more conservative
approach in booking in France and in Spain as we are already doing in Italy and UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

Reserve for the year was also positively impacted by insurance contract in 2017 in
particular. Moving now to ConTe. ConTe had a great year. We had record proﬁts, was
proﬁtable for the fourth year in a row. The broke even on recent basis for the ﬁrst time
while in the past we have to wait few years to realize the proﬁtability on return basis
because we have to wait for the loss ratio, ultimate loss ratio estimate to improve.
We had a record expense ratio with six point decrease, and this was mainly driven by
internal eﬃciencies, and this despite the strong growth and despite we are in an adverse
part of the cycle with the average premium in the market decreasing and now down 22%
compared to ﬁve years ago.
We also went live with the new IT system Guidewire that is now supporting the majorities
of Admiral Group. And ConTe was called second best place to work in Italy for the second
year in a row. But the most notable result of all is deﬁnitely passing the mark of million
customer. What a great way to celebrate the new year, 600 happy colleagues celebrating
500,000 happy customers.
I like now to conclude with a comment about Europe in general. Italy, France and Spain
are somewhat diﬀerent, but very similar among the Southeast compared to UK. They
show similar challenges and somewhat similar opportunity and we did work in the last
two years to make sure that we were increasing the synergies, and we were sharing more
bets practice. In summary, trying to make sure that the value delivered by European
Union, Continental Europe combined was greater than the sum of the individual
countries. One of the most notable eﬀort has been investment in technology. We have a
company in Spain called UI General Service that supported the three operation in Europe.
As you may expect, the most important project is preparation for Brexit. We selected
Spain as location for a new insurance company that will underwrite business for the, our
operations in continental Europe from 2019. The project is going well and according to
plan.
Page 10 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We appreciate that given the size of European Insurance is increasing, there is interest in
knowing more about those business. So we'll be very pleased to address these later in the
year and indicated investor date. To wrap up, here investment in Confused, very strong
growth, both on price comparison site and insurance company in Continental Europe
improving results in each single business in each operation will reduce combined losses
overall and record proﬁt for ConTe. And I shall now handover to David that will talk to us
about growth and strategy. Thank you.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thanks, Milena. One last long-term perspective we've talked a lot about things that are
change from 25 or 20 or 10 or 15 years ago. One thing hasn't changed and that's our
commitments to making Admiral place that people enjoy working at. And to demonstrate
in this exhibit, in 2001, the ﬁrst Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For survey came
out. And we came in at number 32. We are one of only two companies that have come in
the top rankings of that survey every year thereafter and the latest survey which is
particularly gratifying seeing as voted as the third best big company to work for. And last
year we managed 23rd on these global best companies to work for. So, we love to see
that culture being exported internationally. I just going to ﬁnish the end of the quick
restatements of our strategy very simple is the same that I described two years ago when I
ﬁrst became the CEO to ensure that Admiral remains one of the best insurers in the UK to
demonstrate that we can be a great insurer beyond the UK and to develop sources of
proﬁt and growth beyond the insurance. Brieﬂy expand on each of those, so in the UK, it's
around serving more customers, which we've done in space in 2017. That's both in car and
for new product like van and travels and household. About knowing our customers better,
which we partly do through product innovation like multi-cover and telematics. And its
about keeping them longer and that's through product evolution the de facto ﬁve star, the
improvements in the product quality of the ancillaries and the improvements in the
customer service delivery. Demonstrating that Admiral can be a great insurer beyond the
UK. It's around understanding what it is about Admiral is exportable and making sure that
we also adapt the local market condition. And what proved to be exportable is talent and
recollection, and a low cost expense culture. Beyond that we have to do a lot of adapting.
And I think the Elephant positioning towards particular segment in the US market through
direct marketing is an important example. Claims handling in Italy is another example
where there's a lot that we've learned over time. And I think we are now ahead of the
market on claims handling in the Italian market. We are focusing on the existing countries
in which we have insurance operations. We are not planning to launch into new countries,
and we are seeking to accelerate the switch in consumer behavior, which you saw from
Milena's graph, I see the long-term structural trend towards direct in price comparison.
We are seeking to accelerate that in certain markets by our investments in our own price
comparison plan. Lastly, in developing sources of growth beyond insurance. Again we
seeking to develop on our strength. So we're looking for intangible services sold at a
distance ideally. We are looking for products sold price comparison sites ideally. We are
looking for products which have a high degree of risk selection is an important success
criteria. And we are going to test relevant products in that universe with the most obvious
test being our launch into loans. Most recently our expansion from unsecured personal
lending and car ﬁnance and that's going to be an important initiative as we go forward.
Okay. Thank you for that. Here are your teams 10 years ago and I'm going to open it up
for Q&A. I know the question on everyone's lips is how the forum has managed to avoid

Page 11 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

the ravages of time so successfully over the last 10 years. But can we keep the questions
to the business, please. But before I take my ﬁrst question, I just like to take this
opportunity for thanking Karen Maguire, our Investor Relations Manager for whom this is
the last set of results, and the last road show. Certainly worked over the last few years.
Moving on up to be the CFO at Confused. Congratulations, Karen, and thank you for all
your help. The queen is dead. Long live the queen. Marisa is our new Investor Relations
Manager. Richard Costner a very conﬁdent person that we'll -- you'll have all his guessing
over the next couple of years. So, over to Q&A. Can we go straight to back, sorry, Karen.
No, no, you're in charge.

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Very good. Greig Paterson, KBW. Two numbers (inaudible) and observation. Could you
just give us what the -- as you typically do, the December year-on-year rate increases in
UK margin including new business and renewal together. And could you just clarify
exactly what your retention was on excess of loss in 2017 versus 2018. And I would also
interested to know what your plans on what should we do in terms of automotive and
connected vehicles. And, ﬁnally, just an observation my view your business model is very
cryptic for ﬁnancial structure and by dropping, if I heard correctly, the drop the ultimate,
just I think that makes a cryptic business model, more cryptic, there was a comment about
dropping the ultimate?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Not in person.

Q - Greig Paterson
For the market. Then I'll take back what I said. Obviously not a cryptic business model.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay. Let me do the ones and I'll hand the price increases that's been up right at all. On
our excess of loss page 44 is the full detail of the history of our excess of loss. And in
terms of autonomous vehicle we have excess of loss in fact with what happen
technologically. We are active with start out this campus plug and play. We have one of
our senior managers embedded in a tech oriented private equity funds. We do a lot in
cooperation with some of the start-ups. We also stay close to some of the test which are
going on around in the UK in terms of autonomous vehicle. So far we have felt that it is
not commercially advantageous to invest beyond our investment in that area we feel we
can follow the development in that technology adequately from the work the we do
elsewhere. Cristina, would like to comment on pricing?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So, prices in the markets according to the AVA have gone up by 8% and that includes
2% IPP. We have put prices similar to the market, that's December to December around
similar to the market, yes.
Page 12 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Thomas Seidl, Bernstein. First question on home, great progress, you still run at 20
percentage point higher loss ratio. Is there any reason why we should reach market
average 50%, 55% loss ratio is including diversiﬁcation and knowledge and beta? And
secondly on US comparison you talked about the progress you made. Can you talk about
the market there are switching away rates going up I think it's about 75% retention where
the situates going up those people who do switch use more price comparison and how
do the competitors of Compared the (inaudible).

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

So, the loss ratio in the household book is much higher than the market. Several reasons.
First, we are still learning, it's been four, ﬁve years so we are collecting more data
improving how we experience, and how we handle our claims. So, we expect to improve
our loss ratio. Second reason is in the market, the retention is very high. So a lot of the
competitors have very large renewal book. So, we might not be able to get very quickly to
the average of the loss ratio in the market. The third reason is price comparison it's only
60% of the market as the share of the price comparison -- more people will be switching,
there will be more comparison in prices and that would allow us to look at the loss ratio in
the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And as far as US comparisons pure through price comparison is highly time in the US.
There is a lot of noise and one of the challenges for Compare from a marketing point of
view, so lot of noise from people who advertise, as if they were comparison operations,
but sometimes deliver an outcome a simple as listed people to click through, sometime
collect the couple of people's data and then parse you oﬀ with someone else show an
indicative estimated price. So, the actual pure comparison market is very small, but
growing fast, I mean, really, really small. Some of the shopping activity, it is a bit higher
than it was two years ago, but I think we'll have to see whether that's structural or whether
it's responses back with prices that's been increasing in the US market essentially over the
last two years in response today adverse loss experience and then stimulate more
shopping in any market.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thanks. Arjan van Veen, UBS. I've got couple of questions on the European insurance
business from me. Firstly, the loss reduced to 2 million, bit of negative ﬁve in the ﬁrst half
and three units in the second half. You mentioned reserve release at ConTe. Just curious
the underlying trends improving that much, can we expect that going forward or is it bit of
distortion in the second half. Secondly, you mentioned prices increases instantly in
France. If we look at only, I think, 2% price increases in the fourth quarter of 2017, lot of
your competitors being prices up towards the end of last year. So, can you give more
color of magnitude of price increases particularly in France?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

So, going to the diﬀerence between the ﬁrst half and second half. We do have -- there is
still some volatility in the result. And this is driven by -- we believe by the fact that we have
Page 13 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

some business that are still with the small book. So, there is some volatility in loss ratio.
And you mentioned that one of the -- one of the reason why one of the positive impact on
2017 is there is also from distortion of insurance contract with some diﬀer proﬁtability on
2017 versus previous year. So, there is some distortion, there is some volatility. We did
have interest in reserve release in second half. This happened also in the past because we
tend to have more deep revision of the results at year end. But also, I think it's very, very
important if you look at the years combined and you don't extrapolate the trend. And so
you look at really the trend year-on-year rather than looking at the diﬀerence between
second half and ﬁrst half looking forward. On the price increase the reality is that in Italy
we are expecting a quite strong price increase. In the last actually a couple of years and
this has been postponed mainly because good underwriting results. The increase has
been smaller than we expected and we are very concentrating in the very last part of the
year. Year-on-year, there was not material price increase and all the price increase next
year only on traditional player the direct market actions not applicable. France is relatively
stable with very, very small price increases and this is mainly claims inﬂation.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Could I go into a bit more detail on your UK
major result. You are signaling I think ﬂat pricing for 2018. Could you compare that with
what you expected for claim then us. And then I agree with Greg's point. I ﬁnd your result
now increasingly upscale. The results you are actually reporting this year, I mean, to what
degree are they reﬂecting underwriting years '14, '15, '16, in terms of, I mean, seem to be
now sort of three or four years behind what's actually going on? So that's the second
question. Third question is, you say that your time stock has got better, but I noticed that
you actually put on more car policies in the ﬁrst half and second half, so should we be
looking for an acceleration in the number of car policies on the book in '18 or in '17?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So, I've quoted on the proﬁt and loss accounting, the recognition of results. The
philosophy of our accountings, the claims that we take a cautious approach and we
release the reserves into proﬁt and we have good amount of the conﬁdence that they are
going to be releasing and the proﬁts are going to be proﬁts. The business that we are
earning in 2017, we are accounting for is roughly break-even on our underwriting new
basis. And there is a cost proﬁt from ancillaries and fees and that which gets recognizes
basically in the year. And reserve releases is 21% the premiums, the associated proﬁt
commissions is what grows the underwritings of the proﬁt commission and that comes
from the underwritings you see in the appendix. We show you a loss ratios booked by
underwriting. We show you the excellent year of best estimates and telling you how much
money you make on other revenue per vehicle and generally I think you can get to how
much money we are making. Agreed with some of the structures particularly on proﬁt
commission complex, but somewhat handled [ph] terms of the conﬁdential. So we cannot
tell you what they are. But we try our best. In terms of the evaluation of prices going
forward. Do you want to talk to that Cristina?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So, you talk about our prices improvement, but actually the craft we sold is more
about ﬂat, but at the end of '17 and the end of '16 our time stock is same. In terms of
Page 14 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

claims evolution during 2018. We think it's going to be a continuation of the denying
trends of '17. So, that is an increasing (inaudible) and damage overall and a continuation of
the reduction in the small BI claim. What happens to large claim, I think, it's harder to
predict. So, overall, it's going to be benign, but it's hard to predict very concrete. So, we
think in this environment prices are going to be ﬂat, they could be a few points up or
down depending on how claims to do, but that's how our view at the moment. Having
said that what happens to the government reforms. Will they become concrete? It's clear
that they are going to have in April and the extent of the reform it's going to have a
signiﬁcant impact on the second half of the year, so it's hard to predict exactly, what we're
going to have to prices. Then your question about the growth in '18, '18 there are two
compliance to go. One is new business and the other one is renewal and some of the
things that you might be seeing on our improvement in our retention rate.

Operator
(Operator Instructions)

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(inaudible) BNP Paribas. Three questions from me all on UK car. And ﬁrst is on the Ogden
the 40 million that on this year. So, is it possible for the drag that you ﬂagged this one last
year. And is it from DYD or is it convention or combination. The second is, you disclosed
the car insurance range but it was -- that we have changed slightly, so that you get
installment income. Could you just remind us that the arrangements for the ancillary
income as well there. And also whether actually this reﬂecting any broader changes and
the terms of the agreement there recognizing of course that there is a limit towards given
the conﬁdentiality. And the third is on prudence in UK book at half year you that's as well
of course you can have a enormous amount really. You will act the business slightly and
again you will act in H2. Could you just give us a sense how much this contributes to your
DYD. Sorry, not just on DYD, but your packs [ph] on loss ratio and is this a reduction of a
new policy. Is this that -- are we expecting, sort of, a still very prudent, but not quite
prudent at all for now on. Thank you very much.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Geraint, you want to take all three.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I'm good to go. Ogden the GBP40 million hit this year mainly aﬀect proﬁt commission. It
is the kind of ongoing drag when we talked about in 2016 results eﬀectively I think we said
GBP200 million pre-tax impact just about 150 that now we've taken. And secondly just
installment income changing the new arrangements. There has been a slight shift where
we get all the installment income and but of course immediately therefore make less
proﬁt and so we get less proﬁt commission. So, really that's allocating our underlying in
the income statement. And there aren't signiﬁcant changes in any of our reinsurance
arrangements. And the ﬁnal one was prudence in the reserves. We talked at the half year
about bringing the size of the conservative bought really down. And if you go back to
Ogden we were saying that we would expect to bring the level of conservatism down
over time as things gone back to in normal times. Ogden obviously disrupted that
Page 15 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

signiﬁcantly. And so we increase the size of the margin at the end of '16. We brought that
down in the middle of '17, and down very gradually in the second half of '17 as well.
Reserve releases for the year were 21% premiums higher than the long-term average. I
think, how we kept the margin throughout and same as the end of the previous year
would have been back in that sort of normal range anything of that order.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Ancillaries in the UK all accrue to us on car typically brought they shared with the reinsurers.

Q - David Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Hi. It's David Bracewell, Redburn. Two questions. What are the ultimate loss ratio in the
UK, and haven't changed in '13, '14 and '15 are stable hope that in '16. So, my
understanding was the ultimate claims was settling better rate and minus 0.75. So we
would have expect perhaps as I came through the numbers the actuaries would have
improved there your large (inaudible). I know you talked about diﬀerent such impacts or
maybe a bit more detail will be useful. Then the second question, just on the new
production mentioned right at the end. I mean are the new product going to kind of corelated products or actually you're looking to expanding into any diﬀerent types of
products and related the car?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The new products are necessarily car related. They will be related to our strength, if you
look at lending, we are doing car lending, but we're also doing lending for the purpose,
but it's wherever we do lending with selection lower expense is relevant. And still an
interesting product and increasingly quite compared to distribution is also very relevant
to cut the number of lending products. And maybe I'll Ogden as well. What you are
seeing is coming out of the work and it's very diﬃcult both for insurers and lawyers to
understand what is an appropriate settlement, when there is so -- on much uncertainty
around the actual ﬁnancial contact. And so it is very diﬃcult to the net eﬀect, the evolution
of claims, so they are developing in a diﬀerent way because few are actually reaching
settlement. Just to create more uncertainty. And in that context we choose to take a
relatively conservatism how that might unwind.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Rodgers Reed, Deutsche Bank. Just going back to the question on accident year loss
ratio. So, at halfway stage, you said the loss rate was slightly, it reﬂected some
conservatism because Ogden uncertainty and the full year it has come down quite a lot.
So, I was wondering if you could break down -- break that improvement down between,
what's coming from the nine claims, price increases and actually what's the conservatism
which we have released. That is the ﬁrst question. The second one would be on
reinsurance. So, increased your deductible to 8 million. Just wondering, in terms of, are
there any changes to the terms of the contract as well in terms of Ogden we had moved
the price changes well with it. What would that represent as a cost of your premium, not
for the market. And just ﬁnally in some of your peers are still talking about escape of water
claims inﬂation in home, and your price increases have lagged the market. So, do you

Page 16 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

generally believe that you have underwriting edge when it comes to escape of water
games or what's happening there? Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

And Geraint (inaudible) and maybe Cristina escape of water?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

What question was that? Seriously running down the ﬁrst class.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

If there was any other change in the terms of the contract and the answer is no.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And the ﬁrst one was the improvements in the current year loss ratio for half year to full
year. Probably, he was asking about the position was in half year. The full year has gone
basically 88 to 85, a three point improvement. And I think it's, we are not going to break
down into various components. But we'd say that we take quite a little, very little credit
and potentially more favorable large loss elements and some of the imply by minus 0.75%
ultimate. And so, I would say, there are projection of where 2017 will end up at this point
as a conservative projection.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

And the ﬁnal question was around the escape of water in household and we did
experience some inﬂation of this type of claims during 2016 and took actions. Both in
claims management and in pricing and during 2017 the escape of water has been weak
for us.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Just for on the same clarity although the terms the excel hasn't changed the cost out and
for someone with type of retention that between 1% and 1.5% of premium.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Good morning. Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Just going back to Confused and your
strategy there. Could you just maybe update us a bit more detail the investments you are
making and this last year 2017 and how you think that the proﬁtability of the business will
improve in 2018 and '19. Seems to be still lagging the competitors in terms of investments.
What are you exactly doing to turn the business now. Thanks.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The rational of the strategy on Confused as you got four players which in terms of their
oﬀering are relatively undiﬀerentiated. And we are seeking just diﬀerentiate Confused
going forward as the price comparison for motors.So there are being two type of
investments. One is investment has been in product range. So, we develop the ﬁrst car
Page 17 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

FINAL

ﬁnance comparison oﬀering in the UK. We are developing car buying and selling options
on Confused. So there will be some investment in products. There's also been in
investments in communicating the repositioning, towards motorist and Driver Wins
through the James Corden campaign that has cost us in terms of proﬁtability in terms of
its long-term outcome, it's still uncertain. What we have seen is a better outcome in the
second half than the ﬁrst half and that's carried through into the ﬁrst couple of month. For
Confused this is a long-term repositioning and not a short-term issue.

Q - Nick Johnson

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. I had a question on the UK car unit growth in
terms of customer numbers. I think you previously said that there is still a lot of market
share to go for given the current market share. Can you just comment a bit about the how
the (inaudible) plans gave -- is getting harder those competitors increase footprints in
upgrades and pricing models et cetera or is at more managing stay ahead of the
competition.

A - David Stevens

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

What we said for a number of years that the UK market is characterized by increasing
characterized by a small numbers, I think very conﬁdent quoted focus normally direct
personal lines players, and the market is moving towards those players, which obviously
we are very much one of those players, that will continue to happen, and we have to work
in that context. So, the focus on remaining one of the best insurers in the UK is the
selection of the importance of being able to match the progress with the likes of tasting
direct line insurer are making and the better operators and they were 10 years ago.
Having said that to be able to grow the business as we have 5% for car insurance business
much more substantially if you look across the whole portfolio of products. It's just that we
are able to do that competitively and produce a very good return.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean again. One things which you could do, which might be helpful. I just
asked for. And the sensitives one point improvement in the accident claims ratio, which
you brought in the appendix doesn't reﬂect how it changes when the terms change
particularly on the (inaudible). If you could give us a proﬁt because that is essentially
highly misleading, that would help us, I think, being able to reject the proﬁtability as you
improve your own right?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The sensitives range a diﬀerent movements rather than just one other way.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

And you shouldn't compromise me, there is a lot of moving parts of that.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi. Iain Pearce from Berenberg. Can I just clarify one thing whether has actually been any
aﬀect on CY deal proﬁt commissions from the fact that Ogden claims have been exactly
Page 18 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

minus 0.75 adjusting we need some further clarity on these?

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

If the question that have prior -- has prior development. I think we expect why the packs
of claims are settling at minus 0.75. I think there's so little of the impact on our projected
loss ratios have come from de facto claims have been settling at minus 0.75 because the
patterns are disrupted and the very largest of losses aren't settling in and sourcing
numbers that you are normally expecting to settle up because there has been, some
claims settles the rate or an implied rate at least that isn't 0.75 at least some of that
through into the results. But I think as Cristina and David mentioned the patterns have
been quite disrupted this year, but I don't think there is a large impact and we certainly
haven't banked a lot of credit for lot of other claims not settling at the way.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

What is the clarity?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Is there anyone -- on the phone. We have phone linking.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yeah, we'll ask couple. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Just some clarity, excess of loss premium. I wonder if you could just give us the actual
number for '15 '16 '17. Maybe I wasn't that smart and turn it right and you answer. And
second thing is if you can give us sort of an indicative inﬂation rate in motorist. I know you
said it as benign, but what sort of rate, what sort of rate range happened in 2017. And then
you made the comment that you set up insurance licenses it's (inaudible). I assume that's
right next to Gibraltar, so that you can share stock or as it indicate much more committed
due to the low cost Spanish market. I'll just want to say, one of the views, I have at some
point you can have to reach Spain that you set up a licenses does that indicated that's just
for the next to Gibraltar or is it Brexit or are you showing a renewed commitment like the
Spanish market?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think you are opened at the end. You don't and you don't choose Madrid because it's
close to Gibraltar. But there are a number of excellent reason around the fact that we got,
an exhibit relationship with the regulator. It's a nice place to be in the regular ﬂights from
Cardiﬀ. In terms of excess of loss, we'll think about it, it's not that material, and I think in
our cost structure overly heard about it. We will see whether we are comfortable to further
disclosure.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Page 19 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

It' an indicative increase for people who have a structure similar to ours with quite a high
retention.

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yeah. What we show in the appendix, Greg, is the cost of an '18 program from 10 million
and 2.5% premiums. Our program was slightly -- cost slightly less than that is very much at
that level. And we also show you the cost of that type of program a year before that's just
1% premium a year before where you put more capital. So we paid something less than
2.5% of premium in 2018.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Claims inﬂation you can see from the numbers we've shown the small BI and the AD. And
show you a model sophisticated enough to incorporate that into historic claims inﬂation
the challenges what's going to be the ultimate claims inﬂation on BI. So, it's not easy to
say, look, the actual results for 2017 was X or Y. And it was very hard also to project
forward really interesting issue through those more BI trends continue ﬂatten oﬀ, reverse.
So it can be very much of watch the space as the market evolves. Some positives and
some lots of uncertainties. Unlikely that it will be negative inﬂation. Can I ask if there is
anyone on the phones who is interested enough to take questions?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We do have a question from the telephone lines from the line of Dhruv Gahlaut of HSBC.
Dhruv, please go ahead.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. I have three questions. Firstly, could you
update on the reinsurance contract. I am assuming that must be coming for renewal on
the 35% or 38% of the UK motor book, and do you expect any increase there. Secondly,
on the investment income side you still are sitting on almost 50% of your portfolio around
cash money market funds et cetera. Should we expect any changes there and what's the
yield you are getting at this point. And third question in terms of PPO propensity, could
you remind us in terms of, have those been adjusted down and what interest rate do they
reﬂect, are they still based on the negative 75 or are they around 1% mark? Thanks.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

This is Geraint. Thank you, Dhruv. Quota share contracts for 2019 will be extended there, I
think, are now fully signed. Same terms and conditions, same price. So that will roll on
into 2019? Second one, I think, was investments return. The asset allocation hasn't change
very much of course of the year and wouldn't expect to change materially in the future.
These running yield I think something in the order of 1.4%, 1.3% and you multi that by
GBP3 billion of cash hopefully you get to our investment income. And PPO propensity we
haven't changed by over the course of the year. And obviously nothing is settling in the
PPOs. You might expect in this -- of this environment and hence probably the comments
certainly on distortion of settlement patterns. Though we haven't changed the PPO
propensity since the end of last year since end of '16.
Page 20 of 21



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-28

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Maybe one more question on the phone if there is one.

Operator

FINAL

We have no more questions from the telephone lines.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for all coming and to be honest [ph] six months.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the Admiral 2017 full-year results. This call has
come to a close. And you can now disconnect your line.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

