Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

Q3 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kiyoshi Wada, Group Leader, Corporate Communications & Investor Relations Group

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings FY
2017 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised that during the
presentation, all the lines other than the speakers' line are put on mute. Also, this
conference call is being recorded.
Before we begin, let me remind you that the presentation contains forward-looking
statements based on current projections, and they entail risks as well as uncertainties.
Actual results may differ from current projections.
With that, I would now like to hand over to Mr. Wada.

Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

My name is Wada from the IR group of Tokio Marine Holdings. Let me explain about Tokio
Marine Holdings overview of fiscal 2017 third quarter results and full-year projections,
which was announced today. I would like to use the materials available at the website from
the home page under Topics. I would like to first give you a presentation for about 15
minutes, then welcome questions afterwards.
Now, I will explain about the outline of consolidated financial results. Please turn to page 3.
As for net premiums written, due to the expansion of underwriting at both domestic and
overseas markets as well as progression of yen, it grew 7% year-on-year or plus ¥176.8
billion to ¥2,715.7 billion. Life insurance premiums increased due to increase of in-force
policies at Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Company and depreciation of yen at
overseas, et cetera, and grew 6.8% year-on-year or increased by ¥43.3 billion to ¥676.4
billion.

Page 1 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

FINAL

Profit declined due to increase in net incurred losses relating to natural catastrophes at
domestic and overseas markets, and impact of large losses at Tokio Marine & Nichido
Fire. Consolidated ordinary profit declined by ¥78.5 billion to ¥237.2 billion, and net income
was ¥159.3 billion. As a result, adjusted net income which excludes the effect or provision
for catastrophe loss reserve, amortization of goodwill and other intangible fixed asset
decreased by ¥81.5 billion.
Next, let me explain about the overview of ordinary profit. Please turn to page 4. In the
domestic non-life insurance business, underwriting profit worsened due to increase in net
incurred loss relating to natural catastrophes, as well as the impact of large losses at
TMNF. However, net investment income such as dividend income from overseas
subsidiaries to TMNF increased, which made ordinary profit increase year-on-year by ¥4.4
billion.
At overseas subsidiaries, though we feel (00:03:57) progression of yen depreciation,
there were large natural catastrophe losses relating to hurricanes in North America and
deterioration of foreign exchange gains, and saw a decrease in profit by ¥29.4 billion. As
for consolidation adjustment, due to increase in dividend income from overseas
subsidiaries at TMNF, negative adjustment increased by ¥53.9 billion year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now turn to adjusted net income. Please turn to page 5. Adjusted net income
decreased by ¥81.5 billion to ¥238.4 billion. Reconciliation from statutory accounting basis
net income to adjusted net income as well as movements from last year, are as described
on the slide.
Next, let's look at domestic non-life business. Please turn to page 6. Net premiums written
was year-on-year plus 1.8% or increased by ¥24.2 billion due to increase in premium with
auto insurance as well as other lines of business. Please refer to page 8 for line by line
details. Net incurred losses increased due to natural catastrophes as well as due to large
losses, and increased by ¥83.5 billion year-on-year.
Business expenses increased by ¥4.8 billion due to increase in agency commission
associated with increase in net premiums written. Catastrophe loss reserve provision was
reduced by ¥8.1 billion to increase in reversal associated with hike in loss ratio of auto and
fire lines of insurance. As a result, underwriting profits decreased by ¥58.8 billion to the
¥40.8 billion.
Please refer to the details on net investment income on page 9. Investment income
increased by ¥62.7 billion year-on-year to ¥209.2 billion, mainly due to increase in dividend
income from overseas subsidiaries. Dividend from subsidiaries is eliminated along the
consolidation adjustment and its impact is net neutral to group's consolidated financial
earnings. Total amount of business-related equities sold during the term was ¥93 billion
and gains from sales of equities was ¥72 billion. As a result, net income of the term
increased by ¥8.5 billion year-on-year to be ¥201.5 billion.
Next, I will explain about the combined ratio. Please turn to page 7. E/I combined ratio for
private lines of insurance rose by 4.7 points to be 62.5%. This is due to increase in net
Page 2 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

FINAL

incurred losses relating to natural catastrophes and impact of large losses. Expense ratio
declined by 0.2% to 32.0%, mainly due to an increase in net premiums written. As a result,
E/I combined ratio in private lines of insurance rose by 4.5 points to the 94.4%.
Next, I will explain about Nisshin Fire. Please turn to page 10. Underwriting profit of Nisshin
Fire declined by ¥2.4 billion over the year to ¥2.7 billion. This is mainly because, while net
premiums written in the fire and specialty line of business increased, net losses incurred
related to natural catastrophes increased. Net investment income and other increased by
¥0.8 billion year-on-year to ¥1.5 billion due to increase in gains on sales and redemption of
securities. Accordingly, net income became ¥2.6 billion, down by ¥1.1 billion year-on-year.
Next, let us review the performance of TMNL. Please turn to page 11. New policy ANP
declined by 8.7% year-on-year due to the sales suspension of long-term saving products.
However, excluding long-term saving products, new business grew by 0.8% year-on-year.
ANP of in-force policies increased by 3.8% over the year due to an increase in new
policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Under JGAAP, net income decreased by ¥0.3 billion over the year to ¥11.4 billion, while net
provision for underwriting reserves decreased due to the revision of standard interest
rate. Provision for contingency reserves increased and sales gains of securities that we
recorded last year were not repeated this time around. And core operating profit was
¥23.8 billion, down by ¥0.2 billion year-on-year.
Next, I will discuss international insurance business. Please turn to page 12. Net premiums
written in the international insurance business grew by 18% year-on-year due to progress
of growth measures implemented in each business as well as depreciation of Japanese
yen. If we break this down by region, three group companies in North America grew their
top line by 16% in total due to rate increases in renewal book and business expansion.
Europe also grew their top line, driven by business expansion at Tokio Marine Kiln.
Growth in South and Central America is mainly attributable to expansion of auto business
in Brazil. And Asia also achieved growth based on increased stakes in an Indian operation
and growth measures pursued in each business. Reinsurance declined mainly due to the
absence of increase in multiyear policies recorded last year. Life insurance grew their top
line, driven by depreciation of Japanese yen.
Next, I will explain business unit profit of international insurance business on page 13.
Business unit profit declined by 34% year-on-year to ¥41 billion, mainly due to the large
nat cat losses related to hurricanes in North America and foreign exchange losses,
despite the progress of growth measures in each business and weaker Japanese yen.
Please also note that the impact of large nat cat events such as hurricanes in North
America, are reflected on the actual performance of each region.
To give you the breakdown by region, North America grew by ¥2.3 billion. While there
were negative factors such as large nat cat events in the Philadelphia and TMHCC,
investment income increased at Delphi in addition to the absence of investment losses
realized last year and (00:13:17) in Japanese yen was also a positive factor.
Page 3 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

FINAL

Europe and Reinsurance declined significantly mainly due to large nat cat events and
deterioration of currency translation gains and losses. However, Asia grew its profit based
on profitability improvement in each group company in addition to the increasing stakes in
the Indian operation and reserve release. Actual performance of three companies in
North America is included on page 14 for your later reference.
I will now explain full-year projection of FY 2017 on page 16. As U.S. tax reform bill passed
the Congress late December last year, its impact will be reflected in our FY 2017 numbers.
This tax reform impact was not factored in our revised projections that we announced in
November last year, and its impact on FY 2017 numbers is material. We decided to revise
our projections just to reflect the effect of this tax reform.
The impact includes: takedown of deferred tax assets or liabilities in conjunction with
lower corporate tax rates as well as one-time repatriation toll tax on retained earnings of
foreign subsidiaries. But it is that former element that is more relevant to our company's
numbers. Our DTL is bigger than DTA. And mainly because of the takedown of the DTL,
we revised upwardly the projection of net income attributable to owners of the parent by
¥50 billion to ¥280 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

We did not revise our full-year projection on adjusted net income, but the impact of the
U.S. tax reform on adjusted net income is estimated to be approximately ¥10 billion. The
magnitude of impact here is smaller compared to JGAAP-based number, because
takedown of the DTL related to intangible fixed assets is excluded from adjusted net
income in its calculation. This concludes my explanation today.
We would now like to open the floor for Q&A session. Thank you very much for your kind
attention.

Q&A
A - Operator
Thank you, Mr. Wada. Now, we would like to start the Q&A session. Now, the operator will
be explaining how to ask a question among the Japanese participants.
The first question will be from Mr. Muraki of Deutsche Securities. Please start your
question.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

My first question is regarding page 12, regarding the top line of the overseas subsidiary.
As of the January 1 Reinsurance renewals, the numbers are shown. And in your
Reinsurance business as well as in North America and European businesses, what is the
implication for the premium for fiscal 2018? What is your outlook based on the reviewed
rate? So, that is my first question regarding the insurance.

Page 4 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

FINAL

The second question is about next fiscal year. The reduction of the corporate tax to be
imposed on the three U.S. subsidiaries, I'm trying to magnify its impact. The initial profit
plan was ¥124 billion. And if the tax rate is (00:18:02) then that means the consolidated
profit is going to be pushed up by ¥27 billion.
However, there are some municipality bonds which you invest (00:18:17) tax exempt. And
also, what you call as REIT or BEIT – if BEIT (00:18:24) is introduced, then I'm sure there will
be some impact to the Reinsurance business coming from the BEIT (00:18:31). And so, on
a net-net basis, what will be the profit impact – positive impact to the profit coming from
those tax reforms?

A - Operator
My name is (00:18:53) from International Business Development. I would like to answer
your first question. In our international insurance business and as for the refreshed rates,
right now we are still in the process of collecting information and we – how much the
market has hardened depends on the loss – impacted contracts as well as no impacted
contracts and other contracts. And so, we have not been able to grasp the
comprehensive situation about the rate changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

But regarding the Reinsurance business which was under your question, I believe the
impact is a change. It was rate increase in the first half of the single-digit in the
Reinsurance business. And as for the primary underwriting business in North America, it is
still the same range; the first half of the single-digit. Because of the overcapacity situation
versus our expectation, the market hadn't hardened as much as we expected. That
concludes my answer to your first question.
My name is (00:20:01) from Corporate Accounting of Tokio Marine Holdings. I like to
answer your second question. In fiscal 2018 and after, after the corporate tax rate is
reduced in North America, the tax burden is going to be less by about ¥18 billion and also
due to BEIT (00:20:24) impact, as you mentioned, in our case from the U.S. subsidiaries.
And there are some Reinsurance being seized through the overseas companies.
However, due to the arrangement of each of those contracts, there is not expected to be
any impact coming from the BEIT (00:20:43)
Regarding the second point, if I do the – no, it's not doing a simple calculation and coming
to the answer. The municipality bond investment you have done before, it was not fully
taxed and is not part of the reason, because my assumption was ¥27 billion, you say it's
¥18 billion. So there is a difference by about ¥9 billion, and that difference comes from
those tax treatments on bonds.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

And also in the primary underwriting business, the rate increase is single digit, but that's a
wide range. And so, in the Reinsurance, it is in the first half of the single-digit. But versus
Reinsurance, what is the rate situation regarding the primary underwriting? Can you
narrow down the range of the percentage that hardened for the primary underwriting
business?

Page 5 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

A - Operator

FINAL

My name is (00:21:39) again. As for the impact of the lesser tax burden, yes, the
municipality bonds and also there were other bonds which were tax exempt, and that is
where the difference is coming from. And also, this ¥18 billion of impact I mentioned, this
is based on the taxable income of 2016. That concludes my answer.
Regarding the second point about the primary underwriting business, especially
surrounding property business – centering around properties, I would say, the rate
increase was in the midpoint in the single-digit range. Thank you.
Next questions are from Tsujino of JPMorgan. Over to you.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Now, domestically, at TMNF, there is A4-sized material, the big material on Excel
sheet. When I look at earnings, there is loss ratio, excluding nat cat. On a cumulative basis,
on the third quarter, if I make a year-on-year comparison by line, it has actually increased
quite a bit. Up until the end of the second quarter, the loss ratio actually did increase. So I
believe that the impact is lingering from the end of the second quarter and from a
different perspective.
From underwriting profit, if I actually exclude nat cat events and also takedown of the cat
loss reserve, as of the end of the first half, I believe that there was a deterioration by
about ¥40 billion. And also, on a cumulative basis as of the end of the third quarter, I
believe that there was a deterioration of about ¥47 billion. So on the underwriting side, is
it fair to say that deterioration trend up until the end of the first half is still lingering into
the third quarter? Is my understanding correct?

A - Operator
My name is (00:24:04) from Corporate Accounting Department of TMNF. Your question is
with regards to loss ratio – first off, with regards to loss ratio on an incurred basis on yearon-year basis. Because of the large loss events and also net scale (00:24:22) events,
there has been some negative impact which were primarily recorded in the first half of
the year primarily already.
And looking at this October through December period, to some extent there has been
some losses. However, the majority of the losses which has resulted into the deterioration
of loss ratios were due to the losses we incurred by the end of the first half of the year.
Yes. I believe that ¥10 billion (00:24:53) worth of deterioration was certainly witnessed in
the third quarter, however.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Is it because some unique insurance were offered and results of those unique insurance
products were deteriorating? So, should we expect that this negative situation would

Page 6 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

actually continue, or is it primarily because of some unlucky events perhaps because of
fire events?

FINAL

A - Operator
So, it is in the magnitude of some dozens of billions of yen. And of course, it would have
been great if we could actually see the improvement on a year-on-year basis; however,
that wasn't the case. So this is a little bit concerning (00:25:46). So, how shall I actually
make sense of this deterioration that we witnessed in the third quarter this year?
Once again, (00:25:53) from Corporate Accounting Department of TMNF. To your
question, of course, if I look at the year-on-year comparison, of course you probably get
the impression that the performance is deteriorating quite significantly. However, last year
the loss ratio was actually quite benign and also good even based on a historical
standard, and that probably is the reason why you believe that the loss ratio this year
seems to be deteriorating. Certainly, some small losses have been incurred. However,
there is no strong correlation amongst these events. So, these are rather one-off events.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, looking at the underwriting profit which is also deteriorating, of course the
provisioning of the unearned premium policy reserve – depending on how you actually do
that provisioning, the numbers would actually look quite differently. However, these are
actually now the noise (00:26:56) factors that are affecting the (00:26:58). Is my
understanding correct?

A - Operator
Now, up until the end of the third quarter, the trend that we have observed is – in
particular, looking at the outstanding balance of the policy reserve, based on the recent
trend we have actually used the simplified approach in doing the provisioning calculation.
And therefore, I don't think that we have actually observed a material change or changing
trend in the third quarter.
However, as we go towards the end of the year, because of loss ratio last year was rather
benign and also good, I believe that there was actually – and also because the loss ratio is
actually increasing this year, I believe that the provisioning amount should actually
decrease this year.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

I understand. We believe that you'll be able to do some catch up toward the end of the
fiscal year.

A - Operator
Yes, that's our assumption.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}
Page 7 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

Okay. Understood. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Next question is from Mr. Watanabe of Daiwa Securities.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

My name is Watanabe from Daiwa. I have two questions. My first question has to do with
the adjusted net income for the fiscal year. Due to the tax reform in the United States, I
believe there will be a positive impact by about ¥10 billion, but the original target was
¥315 billion and now is it that ¥325 billion that you can revise (00:28:35) And also what is
the timing of booking this? Would you be doing this at the end of the fourth quarter?
And also the second question is about the natural catastrophes overseas. If you have the
actual numbers as of the end of the third quarter, please let me know?

A - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is (00:29:00) from Corporate Planning of Tokio Marine Holdings. First, I'd like to
answer the question regarding the tax reform, and adjusted net income is going to have
an upside by about ¥10 billion. And due to the tax reform, we are expecting about ¥10
billion increase in profit. And as for the plan, as Mr. Wada just explained, compared to the
statutory accounting basis profit, the impact to the adjusted net income is going to be
less. And so, we have not made any changes to the annual fund for the adjusted net
income.
My name is (00:29:42) from Corporate Accounting of Tokio Marine Holdings. To your
second question about the natural catastrophe or current situation overseas, the impact
to the statutory accounting profit on pre-tax basis is about ¥62 billion. So, this means yearon-year increase by ¥42.5 billion.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. About the timing for boosting the impact of the tax reform
and the refreshed profit, when would that be?

A - Operator
This is (00:30:12) again from Corporate Planning. Yes, your understanding is correct, at
the end of the fourth quarter. Thank you.
There seems to be no questions at the moment. The next question is from Ms. Tsujino of
JPMorgan. Over to you.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Sorry. Well, the numbers that you have announced today include nat cat losses incurred
overseas from January through September. However, when it comes to bushfire in
Page 8 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2018-02-14

California, how much is the impact? If you have the number, please share that with me.

FINAL

A - Operator
My name is (00:31:42) from International Business Development Department. With
regards to bushfire in California which actually occurred in and after (00:31:52) October,
which is essentially the results to be announced as part of the Q4 results. Of course, there
were two bushfires in north and south, and the impact is expected to be some billion yen
respectively. So in total, it's just a little more than (00:32:14). Is that right?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Well, thank you.

Operator
There seems to be no questions. So Mr. Wada, over to you.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

Once again, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings FY 2017 Q3
earnings call today. If you have any further questions or if you need further clarification,
please do contact us. Thank you once again for your participation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
With this, we would now like to conclude Tokio Marine Holdings' FY 2017 third quarter
earnings call. We thank you for your participation. This is the end of the call. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 9 of 9

