Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Q3 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrea Novelli, Unknown
Guido Maria Nola, Unknown
Matteo Del Fante, CEO, GM & Director

Other Participants
Alberto Villa, Head of Analysts Team
Anna Adamo, European Banks Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Executive Director and Co
Federico Braga, Associate Analyst
Filippo Prini, Equity Research Analyst
Gian Luca Ferrari, Banca di credito ﬁnanziario S.p.A., Research Division
Giovanni Razzoli, Financial Analyst
Manuela Meroni, Research Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael van Wegen, Director

Presentation
Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us this morning as we
present Poste Italiane Third Quarter results for 2018.
I will take you through the key highlights for the period before handing over to our CFO,
Guido Nola, who will guide you through a more detailed review of the business. I will then
provide some closing remarks before we open the call for questions.
Here with us in the room, we have the heads from all business segments to answer any
speciﬁc questions you might have.
On Slide 3, we summarize the key points for this quarter. Our results show that we are well
on track to meet all of the ﬁrst year ﬁnancial and operational targets laid out in our 5-year
strategic plan, Deliver 2022. Our plan, which is built on strong fundamentals and evolving
customer needs, has seen a signiﬁcant number of actions already implemented. These
measures are already contributing to improved operational performance across all
business segments, driven by low-risk growth and cost discipline, while, most importantly,
reducing reliance on capital gains. We have taken proactive actions during the quarter to
mitigate market volatility. And I will outline the impact of current BTP spreads on our

Page 1 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

businesses. Guido will then share more details on the eﬀective capital management
actions we have taken in relation to our solvency ratio.

FINAL

And ﬁnally, we reaﬃrm our Deliver 2022 commitment with 5% increase in dividend per
share for the full year 2018 equal to EUR 0.44.
Let's now move to Slide four for an overview of the ﬁnancial results for the Third Quarter
of 2018. Group revenues have increased by 5.3% for the quarter and 0.7% for the ﬁrst nine
months of 2018 with positive contribution from all business segments. Revenues for the
year-to-date clearly show our reduced reliance on capital gains, oﬀset by a clear increase
in recurring revenues.
Net of capital gains and other items, revenues increased by over 5% in the Third Quarter
and by 3.5% in the nine months. From an operating cost perspective, levels are broadly
stable in the Third Quarter. But as Guido will outline, this includes the impact of labor
contract renewal at higher rates and higher variable cost, which had increased to support
the revenue growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Total operating cost for the ﬁrst nine months were down over 4%, on track with 2018
Deliver 2022 target. In the Fourth Quarter, we will book the majority of the early
retirement charges for 2018 as well as higher costs related to higher business activity in
the last part of the year. As a result, EBIT was EUR 456 million in the Third Quarter,
contributing EUR 1.5 billion for the ﬁrst nine months of 2018, up 28% year-on-year.
The strong progression of operating proﬁtability is more visible on an adjusted basis, with
EBIT increasing by 43% in the quarter and by around 65% in the nine months to date.
Reported net proﬁt amounted to EUR 321 million in the quarter and EUR 1,056,000,000
for the nine months. As a result, earnings per share increased to EUR 0.25 in the quarter
and EUR 0.81 for the nine months.
Let's move to Slide #5. Here, we provide you with a progress update on Deliver 2022
strategic plan. I'm not going to cover every detail of this very dense page. But I want to
share with you some of the key highlights. The Mail, Parcel & Distribution segment is
already showing the beneﬁt of the Joint Delivery Model, which began rollout in April.
40% of the total planned delivery centers are now operating under the new model, which
is our target for the full year 2018.
Combined with our streamlined structure and the new agreements with the National
Federation of (Productiveness) and with Amazon will enable us to enter the busy Fourth
Quarter in a stronger position. Going forward, our focus will be the continued integration
of our new model to capture the growth in e-commerce in Italy. We conﬁrm that we are on
track against targets when considering the early retirement charges that will be booked in
the Fourth Quarter and higher variable cost related to increased business activity.

Page 2 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

Our Payments, Mobile & Digital segment demonstrated positive performance in the fastgrowing and innovative space. The launch of Postepay, our own e-money institution, is a
key milestone and we will continue to build on our position as Italy's leading digital
payment ecosystem.
Earlier this week, we launched PostePay Connect, our new consumer app, which is driving
the transition from traditional payments to an integrated Mobile & Digital Payments oﬀer.
The app invites customer to join a community where they can make payments to service
providers such as petrol station, parking and public transport. Member will also beneﬁt
from the ﬁrst integrated app for both giga or data and euro peer-to-peer transfer. As a
matter of fact, we patented the G2G, the giga to giga trademark, which does not stand for
government to government, as one would expect. But giga to giga.
In ﬁnancial services, we're capitalizing on our powerful distribution capabilities and
expanded product range to meet our customer evolving needs. The 2017 agreement with
CDP to revamp postal savings has been a key driver in delivering the performance seen in
the ﬁrst nine months. We continue to reinforce the power of our distribution network with
the release of a new CRM tool for relationship manager. This platform integrates MiFID II
and IDD as well as new capabilities such as advanced customer proﬁling for wealth
management and protection and a new dashboard to drive commercial opportunities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the coming quarter, you will see the beneﬁt of both new and improved distribution
agreements. Sales force training will continue with a focus on the new platform
capabilities. We are also developing speciﬁc incentive schemes for relationship
managers.
In insurance services, we continue to develop our nonlife oﬀer, providing our customer
with the highest choice of products, including Class III and multi-asset and P&C. Looking
ahead, we're increasing our focus on innovation to explore the next generation of
insurance products while retaining our leadership in life in a sustainable way. We are
taking actions to address our solvency position to face market volatility, which we will
explain in more detail later.
Let's move to Slide #6. Before I hand it over to Guido to take you through the business
review, I wanted to provide a brief overview on the impact of the BTP spread. First and
foremost, there is no operational impact on our business nor on our strategic plan targets.
In fact, the current situation has even created some opportunities.
We're happy to answer any questions you might have during the Q&A. But let me
highlight a couple of key points ﬁrst. In the Fourth Quarter of 2017, as you might
remember, we secured all capital gains needed for 2018. Then in the Second Quarter of
2018, we secured most of the capital gains needed for 2019. Now with the widest spread,
we have secured the equivalent of the capital gains planned for the rest of Deliver 2022
plan through higher net interest income from reinvestment. In fact, quarterly net interest
increased for the ﬁrst time in the past four years.

Page 3 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

I also remind you that unrealized capital gain or losses have no impact on our P&L or
regulatory capital requirements. Moving to insurance services, I will provide you further
detail on the strength of the underlying business later on. But we conﬁrm that the
business is resilient under stress scenario and we have proposed a range of eﬀective
capital market actions to strengthen our solvency ratio. Guido will guide you through this
in more detail.
In summary, we recognize that we're operating in a volatile macro environment. But we
can conﬁrm that our business has not been aﬀected and we're fully addressing all markets
concerned.
I would like now to hand it over to Guido Nola, our recently appointed Chief Financial
Oﬃcer, who will take you through a more detailed business review. Many of you have
already had the opportunity to engage with Guido in recent months. I'm pleased by the
immediate positive impact he has had on our business, thanks to his deep knowledge of
Poste and the ﬁnancial markets. And I'm certain that he will be a signiﬁcant asset for us
and for the company. Over to you, Guido.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Matteo. This is my First Quarterly presentation as CFO of Poste Italiane and it is
an absolute pleasure to be with you today.
I look forward to meet those of you whom I haven't already met very soon. Looking ﬁrst at
EBIT on Slide 8, we have seen a positive improvement in the Third Quarter driven by
positive revenue contributions from all business segments. Mail, Parcel & Distribution
delivered improved EBIT, up 91.4% year-on-year. This was driven in part by the ﬁrst mail
revenue increase in 10 years, which I will explain in more detail on the next slide as well as
the ongoing strong cost discipline in the segment.
Mail, Parcel & Distribution EBIT for the ﬁrst nine months was EUR 177 million, up from
minus EUR 4 million year-on-year. Considering the seasonal increase in costs expected in
the Fourth Quarter, we conﬁrm our overall 2018 target. The Payments, Mobile & Digital
segment reported continued EBIT growth, up 12.5% in the Third Quarter year-on-year and
up over 9% in the nine months.
Financial services EBIT for the Third Quarter was down 5.3% due to one-oﬀ costs while
conﬁrming an increase on a normalized basis of 2% year-on-year. On a 9-month basis,
EBIT was up 14.2%, fully in line with our 2018 targets.
Insurance services EBIT was up 32.2% in the Third Quarter and 12.6% in the nine months
year-on-year, underpinned by life and P&C revenue growth and in line with Deliver 2022.
Moving to Slide 9. We will now look more closely at each business segment starting with
Mail, Parcel & Distribution. Overall segment revenues decreased by 2.5% in the Third
Quarter, leading to a drop of 2.7% in the ﬁrst nine months of 2018.

Page 4 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

However, Mail revenues were up in the Third Quarter for the ﬁrst time in 10 years, driven
by a pricing increase and a favorable volume mix with more high margin products. Parcel
revenues continue to accelerate, up 11% in line with Deliver 2022 targets, driven by B2C
where revenues were up 29% in the Third Quarter. This result conﬁrms the eﬀectiveness of
ongoing rollout of the new Joint Delivery Model for Mail & Parcels. Combined, Mail and
Parcel revenues in the Third Quarter were up 3% while broadly stable in the nine months.
We're seeing the ﬁrst encouraging signs of the expected industry trends where the
increase of parcel revenues is steadily oﬀsetting the decrease of mail revenues. The item,
other, includes contribution from our airline carrier, Mistral, which is now exclusively
focused on cargo. The restructuring is completed and it has already contributed positively
to our growing B2C business. Mail, Parcel & Distribution, the segment with the greatest
challenges in terms of operating proﬁtability in Deliver 2022, ﬂows to the Third Quarter
and the nine months with signiﬁcant progression. While conﬁrming our targets for 2018,
let me remind you that in the Fourth Quarter, we expect higher variable costs related to
an expected increase of business activity.
Let's now move to Slide 10, where we look more closely at the key volume and price
trends for Mail & Parcels. Mail volumes decreased by 6.5% in the Third Quarter and 4.3%
in the ﬁrst nine months, which is just under the 5% expected in the Deliver 2022 strategic
plan. The positive trend from the ﬁrst half continues. Volumes for lower margin mail
products, such as direct marketing in the postal business are decreasing at a faster rate,
while volumes for higher-margin products, including recorded mail, remain resilient.
Other volumes are down 9%, in line with expectations and our changing business model.
The decrease is mainly related to mass printing, a service with low average tariﬀs. Average
price in mail were up 6% in the quarter and 3% in the nine months, thanks to the positive
volume mix eﬀects just described.
The repricing of several products, including recorded mail in July, helped oﬀset mail
volume slowdown, leading to the ﬁrst increase of quarterly mail revenue in the last 10
years. Parcel volumes increased by 17.2% in the Third Quarter and 9.2% in the ﬁrst nine
months, boosted by a signiﬁcant increase in B2C volumes up by 24% in the ﬁrst nine
months. B2B volumes posted an increase of 13% in the Third Quarter, recovering from
Third Quarter 2017, which was aﬀected by industrial actions that aﬀected the DA Express
Courier unit. Our average price index for parcel was down 3% in the quarter. This was due
to higher B2C volumes where tariﬀ is lower than B2B and B2C. Total average, the lower
average tariﬀ is a near volume mix eﬀect, while average B2C prices were, in fact, up in the
Third Quarter and stable in the nine months.
Moving to Slide 11. I will now take you through the highlights for the Payments, Mobile &
Digital segment, where Poste Italiane beneﬁts from leadership in a fast-growing market.
Revenues grew by over 13% in the quarter. Our payments were up 25%, driven by a
growing number of Postepay cards and higher transaction volumes in both physical and
digital channels. Other payment revenues, which includes bollettino, tax payment and
money transfers were up 5% in the Third Quarter, beneﬁting from the temporary eﬀect of
certain utility providers, moving from bimonthly to monthly billing. Telecom's revenues
increased by 6% in the Third Quarter as well as in the ﬁrst nine months. This improved
performance is taking place against the backdrop of an increasingly competitive
Page 5 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

environment in Italy and is driven by new commercial initiatives, which are supporting
increasing mobile and ﬁxed line sales.
On Slide 12, we show ﬁnancial services revenues, including net capital gains. Adjusted
revenues increased by 9.7% in the quarter and by 8.3% in the ﬁrst nine months as we
continue to leverage on our powerful distribution capabilities. Capital gains for 2018 were
entirely booked in the First Quarter with an amount lower by some EUR 150 million on the
previous year as planned. Continuing the trend of the year-to-date, this result
demonstrate Poste's ability to substitute nonrecurring revenue such as capital gain with a
more sustainable revenue mix, one of our most important commitments within the Deliver
2022 plan. Both postal savings and loan and mortgage distribution have delivered a
growing contribution in the Third Quarter, driven by our increased commercial focus and
improved distribution agreements.
Our MiFID II guided advisory platform has been upgraded during the quarter to add IDD
compliance and we continue to invest in training our sales force with the help of our
partners as envisaged in Deliver 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

Loans and mortgages is one area where we have seen the strong impact of increased
commercial focus. Volumes increased by 38.2% in the Third Quarter while adjusted
revenues increased by over 50%. We're growing faster than the market, thanks to our
eﬀorts to improve productivity and increase the number of post oﬃces actively selling
loans. We also launched a new multi-channel advertising campaign to increase the
awareness of these products.
Results for the nine months demonstrate this improving trend with loans and mortgages
revenues up 34.5%, thanks to volumes increasing by 21.1%. Interest income was up 7% in
the quarter, thanks to higher average volumes and bond yields.
Financial services EBIT in the Third Quarter was down 5.3%, mainly related to one-oﬀ
costs such as provisions on real estate funds and other minor items. Looking at EBIT and
net proﬁt on a 9-month basis, we continue to see solid growth and conﬁrm our targets for
the full year.
Let's move to Slide 13 in group total ﬁnancial assets. Total ﬁnancial assets increased by
EUR 7 billion in the ﬁrst nine months of 2018, driven by EUR 6.8 billion in positive net
inﬂows from life insurance, mutual funds and deposits. This is a clear demonstration of our
business model's resilience through volatile market conditions. The Third Quarter has
been the best in recent years in terms of retail net inﬂows.
Year-to-date, retail net inﬂows improved by almost EUR 2.5 billion compared to last year.
Insurance products represent EUR 6.4 billion of net inﬂows of which EUR 0.6 billion were
unit linked and multiasset Class III insurance products. This inﬂows more than oﬀset the
decrease in market value of the government bond assets. Mutual funds posted positive
net inﬂows of EUR 0.4 billion, thanks to a new product oﬀering resulting from improved
distribution agreement, increasing our market share in a complex market environment.

Page 6 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

Deposits were up by EUR 4.8 billion, mainly coming from the public administration. Postal
Saving's net inﬂows continue to improve in line with agreed targets. Net inﬂows were
minus EUR 4.8 billion, much improved thanks to new commercial initiatives, more than
oﬀset by EUR 5.6 billion of positive market eﬀects related to the accrual of interest on
postal bonds.
Slide 14. Slide 14 focuses on Postal Savings where we can see the continued positive
impact of the remuneration scheme agreed with CDP in December 2017 and our renewed
commercial focus. The average stock slightly increased year-on-year thanks to the interest
accrual on postal bonds, mitigating the negative ﬂows as shown before. Postal Saving's
net inﬂows in the Third Quarter where slightly negative at EUR 268 million, continuing the
trend of signiﬁcant improvement in 2018. We therefore remain in line with our guidance of
improving negative net inﬂows, keeping an average of minus EUR 4 billion between 2018
and 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Third Quarter, we continued our eﬀorts to launch a new products and campaign
aimed at attracting new inﬂows while also focusing on eﬀectively communicating the
advantages of Postal Savings. Fees from Postal Savings came to EUR 449 million in the
Third Quarter, up 12% year-on-year and EUR 1.3 billion in the ﬁrst nine months, up by
14.6%. We are therefore well on track to meet our revenue target of EUR 1.8 billion in fees
for 2018.
Let's move to Slide 15 on insurance services. Insurance service's revenues increased by
9% in the Third Quarter while P&C and private pension plan revenues increased by 50%
and 71%, respectively, as part of the ongoing diversiﬁcation of Poste's insurance oﬀer and
in line with Deliver 2022 targets.
Life insurance revenues also grew moderately in the quarter. As a result, EBIT in the Third
Quarter increased by 32.2%, up 12.6% in the ﬁrst nine months supported by higher
revenues as well as lower costs. This quarter was also positively aﬀected by an earlierthan-planned ﬁnancial margin contribution. We conﬁrm that we are on track with our
target for 2018 and expect results to be broadly stable year-on-year.
Let's move to Slide 16. Here, we focus on net technical provision, which increased by EUR
3.7 billion or just over 3% year-on-year. As you can see on the right, since the beginning of
the year, net inﬂows amounted to just under EUR 6.4 billion, thanks to the positive
contribution of all products. This more than oﬀsets the negative ﬂows from indexing
products aﬀected by maturities. As a result of market volatility, the value of Poste's
government bond portfolio decreased by over EUR 7 billion without impact of the P&L
results.
Minimum guaranteed returns to customer decreased by 8 basis points year-on-year,
reﬂecting the gradual runoﬀ of older Class I policies. Please bear in mind that the current
level of minimum guaranteed returns is below our competitors and well expected as an
improvement, thanks to the increasing weight of new business. As expected, statutory
Class I return was down by 14 basis points year-on-year.

Page 7 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

Moving to Slide 17. Poste Italiane Group's solvency ratio at the end of December 2017
stood at 279%. Since May, we have witnessed a deterioration of the market environment.
As a consequence, the solvency ratio was equal to 172% at the end of September 2018,
without factoring in any beneﬁt from the country volatility adjustment. The decrease
during the period was equal to 107percentage points, of which 87 related to 10-year BTPBund spread, which widened by about 110 basis points in the same period.
The regulatory framework of Solvency II is there to protect policyholders in case of
adverse market conditions. As Matteo mentioned earlier, we have now seen any impact
on our daily business -- we have not seen any impact on our daily business. We continue
to beneﬁt from a very low lapse rate of only 2.7%, which is best-in-class compared to our
peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

More importantly, we have not experienced a signiﬁcant change over the past 10 years
regardless of market conditions due to our solid business model and trusted brands.
However, we have taken seriously the concerns that the market has raised in recent
months and have taken proactive actions to strengthen our solvency ratio. First, we have
limited the dividend payout from PosteVita to Poste Italiane to about 15% for 2018 with an
uplift of 3% points to the solvency ratio on top of the 3% already booked at the end of
September.
In the future, we will retain the ﬂexibility compared to the ﬁxed yearly payout to the parent
company of 90% or 90% envisaged in the plan. Let me stress again that group dividend
policy remains unchanged. Second, Poste Italiane has made EUR 1.75 billion hard
commitment to PosteVita, of which EUR 1.1 billion will be immediately accounted for here
through capital with a beneﬁt of 26percentage points as soon as the regulatory approval
is granted. In the next slide, I'm going to describe this measure in more detail. And third,
the recognition of beneﬁt from deferred tax assets is under assessment. Our peers have
already taken similar measures and we envisage that this will provide us with an 8 to
10percentage point additional beneﬁt.
Including those measures, the pro forma solvency ratio will reach approximately 210% on
a fully loaded basis. Further support will come from the transitional measures recently
announced by the Italian regulator. These measures, which is in line with European
regulation, allows for deductions on technical reserves for a transitional period, which will
gradually phase out in 2032.
Based on our current estimates, the beneﬁt is expected to be approximately
20percentage points, leading to a pro forma Solvency II ratio transitional of approximately
230%. We also note that at the end of October, the Solvency II ratio gained an estimated
further 15percentage points from September's level, following the triggering of the
country volatility adjustment.
On Slide 18, we go into more detail of the new capital commitment. We are conﬁdent that
we are presenting the best possible solution to address current market volatility. Poste
Italiane has made EUR 1.75 billion hard commitment to PosteVita. This replaces the soft
commitment to inject EUR 1 billion capital announced in Deliver 2022. From this EUR 1.75

Page 8 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

billion and upon regulatory approval, EUR 1.1 billion will be accounted as Tier 2 capital
with a beneﬁt of 26percentage points. The remaining part will be accounted for if capital
needs increase or following the expiration of EUR 750 million Tier 2 in May 2019.
This commitment is regulated by the provisions of Solvency II as an instrumental to
support the capital position of insurance, particularly suited for intragroup measures. This
is also known as ancillary-owned funds. This form of capital accounts as Tier 2 instrument
until the commitment is fully paid in and converted into Tier 1, allowing us to optimize the
capital structure.
In fact, with high-quality mix of owned funds, with Tier 1 capital covering 1.5x the capital
requirements. This measure also has the advantage of being countercyclical. In fact, in
case of our capital requirement, our capacity to account for ancillary funds will increase,
mitigating the volatility of our solvency ratio. This instrument is ﬂexible as more resources
are required to move intragroup as well as being cost-eﬀective at group level. This
commitment is, one, unconditional. PosteVita has full discretion to ask for resources to be
paid in, if and when needed. And two, fully backed by a strong liquidity position and
further available funds.
As you can see on the right side of the slide, on top of the strong liquidity, Poste has
already secured access to further facility as a contingency measure given market volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

From intercredit lines, from primarily Italian and European institutions, including the
European Investment Bank, are available for a total of more than EUR 1.9 billion, up by a
further EUR 1.1 billion, if you include short-term credit line.
Furthermore, please note that even including all credit lines, Poste Italiane has low
leverage according to Moody's methodology. With additional unexploited debt capacity,
Poste Italiane has built a strong and sustainable business and beneﬁts from a solid
ﬁnancial position, far above what we need as a backup for our ancillary measures,
allowing us to look at the future with conﬁdence should external market volatility
continue.
On Slide 19, we have provided details on group costs, which are well on track with our
delivery 2022 target. The HR costs for the quarter were broadly stable with lower FTEs
aﬀecting higher labor cost as a consequence of the new labor contract agreement signed
earlier this year. Looking at the nine months to date, HR costs are down 2% due to an
average FTE reduction of 3,300 versus nine months 2017.
Looking ahead, we foresee an increase in costs related to a pickup of business expected
at the end of the year and to book early retirement incentives in the Fourth Quarter.
Moving to non-HR operating costs, these were broadly ﬂat in the Third Quarter with
variable costs on goods and services increasing to support growing operations. Adjusting
for the changes in perimeter, which took place in 2018, the Third Quarter costs would be
down by 1%.

Page 9 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Looking at the nine months, the result of our cross eﬃciency drive are signiﬁcant with a
4% decrease on an adjusted basis. The weight of non-HR costs on revenues is decreasing,
both in the quarter and in the nine months, conﬁrming that the result of our focus on cost
discipline are tangible.

FINAL

Let me now hand back to Matteo for some closing remarks before we open the call for
questions. Thank you.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Thank you, everyone. Before taking your questions, let me reiterate
some key ﬁnal points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our results demonstrate we're well on track to meet all of the ﬁrst year ﬁnancial and
operational targets laid out in our 5-year strategic plan. Our improved operating
performance is driven by: number one, higher revenues across all business segments,
including better-than-expected performance in the declining mail sector; number two,
control HR and non-HR costs, driven by cost discipline across the entire group; and
number three, the decreased reliance on capital gains. We have already secured an
important part of planned gains and higher rates will increase net interest margin during
the rest of the plan, leaving additional upside on capital gains as soon as the market
normalize.
Deliver 2022 is a 5-year journey made up of many small steps on strategy, cost and
revenues aimed at delivering shareholder value. We're very pleased with the early
progress earlier than expected in some areas and remain very focused on the execution
of the plan. Thank you very much for your attention. And let's now open the call to
questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now take our ﬁrst question from Anna Adamo of
Autonomous Research.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

I have 2 questions. Firstly, on the ﬁnancial services. I see that there are EUR 1.4 billion of
additional unrealized losses on the bond portfolio, can you explain what is driving these
unrealized losses, given that the spread move was only 30 basis points during the period?
Then, on the solvency point, Poste EBIT already includes EUR 1 billion of Tier 2 in the
available capital. So if I add EUR 1.1 billion then this Tier 2 capital will be 50% of the capital
requirement. And if I look at your peers like Generale and the rest of the European sector,
Tier 2 capital is around 10%, 15% of the solvency capital requirement. Do you think this will
actually lower the quality of the Poste EBIT capital position here?

Page 10 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you, Anna. I'll take the ﬁrst question. The EUR 1.4 billion or EUR 1.5 billion
negative move on the mark-to-market of the BTP portfolio is exactly on line with the 30
basis points move because we always announce and specify that the sensitivity of the
mark-to-market of the portfolio to BTP spread is around EUR 500 million. It may be your...

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

To follow up on this point...

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

If I can ﬁnish. Just, maybe the thing that is not fully appreciated by the market is the fact
that we have high sensitivity to the spread because we have a long dated portfolio, the
maturity of the portfolio is around 13 years. But given we hedge from the interest rate risk
of the portfolio, the duration of the portfolio is only ﬁve years. So we have high sensitivity
to the BTP spread, which is something that is not hedged but we each have a much lower
sensitivity to the interest rate spread duration. And sorry, what's your follow-on question?

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Can you speak to these unrealized losses between the held to collect and held to collect
and sell portfolio?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes. We don't disclose that ﬁgure. I can tell you that we have today in the portfolio, in the
bond portfolio, a portion of the portfolio, which has around EUR 500 million of capital
gain unrealized. But we don't give disclosure of -- we can take this speciﬁc question oﬀ
the line with you, if you want, okay? On the second question, please, Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

On the second question, well, ﬁrst of all, no, we don't believe we're lowering the quality
using ancillary-owned funds. First, you need to bear in mind that, as we said, this is a
commitment that will turn into Tier 1, Unrestricted Tier 1 should the Poste Italiane decide to
draw this line. So this is very diﬀerent from any other Tier 2. Second, I would just point out
to the fact that we have 1.5x of equity versus SCR and the Tier 1 to Tier 2 ratio is 6:2x,
including AOS. So that's how we justify that we think the quality remains extremely high. I
cannot comment on the competition.

Operator
The next question comes from Gianluca Ferrari from Mediobanca.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
I have 3 questions. The ﬁrst one is on the Universal Service Obligation. You made a EUR
88 million print in Q3, it's the highest reported ever. I was wondering what drove this
robust contribution from the USO. The second question is on the net interest income. Am
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

I right in saying that if spreads will remain where they are today, probably you have upside
risk to the NII putting Deliver '22, which could be to the tune of EUR 300 million, EUR 400
million accumulated from now to 2022. Can you comment a bit on this assumption? And
the third question is, if you look at your banking book, I'm seeing deposits down for the
Second Quarter in a row. At the same time, repos are growing quite materially. Can you
tell us what is the strategy behind this?

A - Matteo Del Fante

Okay. Thank you, Gianluca. I'll take the ﬁrst 2 questions and then ask Mr. Novelli, the CEO
of BancoPosta to take the third one. On mail, the increase on mail and Guido highlighted
in his presentation the fact that it is probably the ﬁrst time in at least 10 years that we see a
quarterly increase in mail is with no assumption and no contribution from the universal
service. So this is really pure market revenues. And the explanation for that is the lower
than expected decrease of high-margin mail products and higher than expected lowmargin products, combined with a pricing measure, a price increase, that has kicked in, in
July. And the second question and then I -- the answer is basically, yes. What allows us to
basically say that in these market conditions, we have already started investing since May,
June at signiﬁcantly higher rates than we had planned in February in Deliver 2022 and
those investments have already been made and will anyway yield additional net interest
margin over the course of the plan. As you say, if the level of interest rates stays, we have
incremental revenues. You mentioned EUR 300 million, EUR 400 million, I think you're a
bit on the wide side. But you're clearly in the ballpark. And on the third question, on
deposits, please Andrea.

A - Andrea Novelli

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. So on deposits, as you can see from Page 13, the stock of
deposits is growing from the end of last year. As Guido mentioned, this is mainly coming
from public administration deposits. But I would like to stress the fact that also the retail
part is very resilient and is growing as well from the end of last year.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
I was referring to the fact that retail are growing versus end of the last year but versus Q1
and Q2 are decreasing in Q3. At the same time, repos are now EUR 6.6 billion. They were
EUR 5 billion end of last year. So I was curious to know why?

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

The retail component is growing as well, just to be clear, compared to the other quarters
of the year and going to the repo component, this is due to the fact that in our plan, we
envisaged a very prudent increase in the leverage of our portfolio. Actually, given the
current volatility in the market, we decided to do less leverage compared to what we
expected to do this year.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now move to our next question from Ashik Musaddi of
JPMorgan.
Page 12 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

A few questions I have is, ﬁrst of all, I mean, if insurance business starts giving lower
capital back to the holding company, to the Mail & Parcels as a dividend, let's say, if it
moves to a 50% payout versus your 90% payout for the next four years, how should we
think about the group dividend? Do you have conﬁdence that the group dividend is still
covered? How should we think about that one? And what would be the scenario that
needs to happen for that to get materialized? That's my ﬁrst one. Second is, I mean, can
you give us some color about the impact of GDPR on your mail revenues? I mean, where
does it really hit? Is it direct marketing or is it something else? Because recently someone,
I think Royal Mail in U.K. has done some kind of proﬁt warning or revenue warning about
the impact of GDPR. So any thoughts on that would be great. And lastly, just one thing is, I
mean, clearly, the way your insurance solvency behaves probably is not really an
appropriate way on the standard formula of Solvency II because of the way the spread
moves versus volatility adjusted movement. So are you considering a move to internal
model at some point? How much time it will take? Is it something worth looking at?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

In terms of the dividend policy, I just want to remind -- take the opportunity to remind that
we have a committed increase of 5% for 2018, 2019 and 2020. That's our commitment in
February 2018. So an increase of 5% in absolute terms of the dividend. The reduction of
the payout of PosteVita has no impact whatsoever. I mean, you have to consider that
today, we announced nine months results with EUR 0.81 earning per share. And we have a
commitment for the full year of EUR 0.44. We have, I think, a couple of years of reserves at
the holding company level. So it's not an issue at all. If I may say, we should have probably
-- when we launched Deliver 2022, we should have already considered a lower payout for
the insurance company because if you remember, in that presentation, we were showing
solvency declining over time with a stable market environment because the business is
growing. So if the business is growing, you need to keep some of the proﬁt generated by
the business in the company. So this is, I think, an improvement on what we presented to
the market in February as far as the solvency is concerned with no impact whatsoever on
the dividend policy of the holding company that is the one committed with investors in
the market. On the GDPR and the potential consideration on the internal model, I will ask
Guido to answer, please.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So quickly on GDPR, Ashik, as you may know, as we said already before, direct marketing
price is much less important as in Italy, in general, it's not as frequent as in the U.K. for
example. You mentioned Royal Mail. For us it has a much lower impact and we had
planned this to go down even before GDPR. So the eﬀect is non -- is marginal for us. On
internal model, I think, we mentioned this brieﬂy before. Again, this is a measure that we
are considering but you should bear in mind, that is a measure that would take more than
a couple of years to be implemented. So we're not counting on this to manage our
solvency in the near future.

Operator
Will take the next question from Michael van Wegen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Page 13 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

One quick question. Can you explain, under which circumstances the ancillary capital will
be converted into Tier 1? So in other words, under which circumstances will either
PosteVita decide themselves or be forced by the regulator to draw on the credit?

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Please, Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

As I said before, there is no constraint. The Board of PosteVita has the right to call at any
point of time it feels it's needed. And obviously, we will take into account any
consideration that the regulator will have. But they will not -- we don't expect them to
force us to take that decision at any speciﬁc point in time. Actually, to specify what I said
before, I mentioned that AOS or the ancillary-owned funds, once they're drawn, become
Tier 1, let me be even more clear, they become equity, not just Tier 1. So it's a capital
increase. It's a capital injection.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. But there is not -- for example, in the past, you've talked about the 130% Solvency II
ratio being sort of a trigger level. I mean, obviously, today, your ratio goes up to -- well,
between brackets, artiﬁcially because of the ancillary capital to 210%. I mean, the
regulator is still happy if you have were to hit 150% or I mean, at some point, they are
going to ask you to make this hard capital. And just trying to understand when that is.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Let me just say that, again, we retain -- the board retains that ﬂexibility. But we maintain a
commitment of 130%. So that line would be drawn at 130%. Next question?

Operator
We will take our next question Filippo Prini of Kepler.

Q - Filippo Prini

{BIO 15149583 <GO>}

My ﬁrst question is on cost. Given what you achieved both in absolute terms and your
year trend in the ﬁrst nine months of the year, if you exclude for the Fourth Quarter what
will come from the early retirement cost and what you mentioned on higher variable cost
for volumes in postal business, should we expect something diﬀerent in the Fourth
Quarter versus what you achieved in the Third Quarter and nine months? And my second
question is on SIA, your participation in SIA, we have a lot of something in the newspaper
in the latest couple of weeks. We know that SIA is not basically the busiest part of your
business plan. But if you can add some comment on that?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Page 14 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

On costs, basically, you've seen the trend, which is stronger in terms of reduction in the
ﬁrst half of the year. The speciﬁc quarter we're commenting has seen a speciﬁc increase
because you have seen increase in revenue, which you had not seen in the ﬁrst half of the
year and some of the revenues are bringing, obviously, variable costs with it. So you see it
then, obviously, at the margin level. And because we had speciﬁc on the HR component,
as we mentioned, speciﬁcally, the new labor contracts are kicking in from 1st of July. But in
terms of year-end expectation, we are conﬁrming for the most important segment,
absorbing the bulk of our costs, which is the Mail, Parcel & Distribution. On the cost side,
we are conﬁrming our guidance with a high degree of conﬁdence at this point in time. On
the second question, Filippo, on SIA, the topic has been going back and forth in the
rumors in the media. The main -- I think, we're showing today once again that our
business in payment is very solid. We're growing double-digits in revenues. We're
basically growing double-digits in margins and we have a lot to do ahead of us to
reinforce our leadership and the leadership of our payment ecosystem in order to say that
we want to remain focused on Deliver 2022. And there is no intention to increase our
stake in SIA, which, as you know, is a provider of processing services to Poste and Poste is
very happy with what we get as a client of SIA. And that's it.

Operator
Our next question will come from Giovanni Razzoli of Equita.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

I have 2 questions. The ﬁrst one is on the Slide #14, which shows that the improvement in
the trend in the postal -- net inﬂow of the postal savings, that's evident. And given the
current market environment to where I suggest that -- I expect that the uncertainty on the
market may create an opportunity for you, given your risk perception. Shall we expect an
acceleration of this trend? And it would be interesting to know what are the gross inﬂows
because -- net of redundancies so that we get a better perception of the amount of
money that you are capturing at the network level? And the second question is on the
average return of BancoPosta portfolio, if I'm not mistaken, it has gone up by a signiﬁcant
amount on a quarter-on-quarter basis. It is 5 basis points from 258 to 263, I think
reﬂecting the purchasing you're mentioning of BTPs implemented in May and June. I was
wondering whether given the amount of maturities that you add, we may assume a
conﬁrmation of these trends in terms of margins going forward?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

And I ask Andrea to answer. Thank you, Giovanni.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

On the ﬁrst question on Postal Savings, as you have noted and as we show on Slide 14, we
are seeing a signiﬁcant improvement of the net inﬂow compared to last year. And once
again, I can conﬁrm that we are fully in line with the guidance we have given for this year,
in terms of revenue and net inﬂow. And of course, this is supported also from the mood of
retail customers in this moment that have a preference for liquidity products. So this is a
impact we see on Postal Savings. And as I mentioned earlier, it's also supporting our retail
net ﬂows for current accounts.
Page 15 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Going to the second question about the yield in our portfolio, the yield is increasing on a
quarter-versus-quarter basis, as I've mentioned. This is due to the fact that, as Matteo has
mentioned, we are investing at high yields the maturities in our portfolio and it is also
supported by the fact that, as you may recall, we invest the liquidity coming from public
administration deposits into a current account at the Ministry of Economy and Finance
that is remunerated at a variable rate that is linked to the Italian government bonds. So
once again, also on that part of the business, there is a positive impact coming from the
increasing spreads. Then, in terms of expectation for the coming years, I think that Matteo
has already answered that. Of course, this is providing an upside compared to the net
interest income expectation we had in the plan.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Again, I'd just add, Giovanni, that you're right. We have a 2.63% average return, excluding
capital gain on our portfolio for the ﬁrst nine months of 2018. And it is the ﬁrst time that it
goes up in four years because in the ﬁrst half of the year, we had 2.58%. So it is the ﬁrst
time in the last four years that we see an increase in the remuneration of our returns in the
portfolio, excluding capital gains.

Operator
The next question will come from Manuela Meroni of Banca IMI.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

My ﬁrst question regards the revenues of mail, clearly a very positive result in this quarter
also due to the repricing that you made in July. I'm wondering if we can expect further
repricing going forward? And what we can expect in the Fourth Quarter 2018 and in 2019?
Is there something that can change your projection for mail revenues compared to what
you have included in your business plan targets? And the second question concerns the
insurance service business. As you have mentioned during the presentation that the
increased operating proﬁtability is also due to the increase in ﬁnancial margin. I'm
wondering if you can elaborate a little bit more on this point? And if you can guide us in
terms of ﬁnancial contribution for the next quarter?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

In terms of the ﬁrst question, the mail revenues, no, we don't anticipate one speciﬁc
repricing in the last quarter. The repricing of the 1st of July was agreed upon with the
regulator. But obviously, that repricing stays in the prices of the volumes that we deliver.
So you still have, obviously, the beneﬁt of the increase, the tariﬀ increase of the 1st of July.
If you look at the increase in revenues of Q3, that brings the total decrease of revenues for
the ﬁrst nine months at EUR 38 million, which is a very low ﬁgure compared to our
historical data. And if you compare that minus EUR 38 million with the increase in
revenues that we experienced in the ﬁrst nine months on the parcel side, you're ﬁnding
revenues which are not too distant. So clearly, Manuela, we can not take a quarter as a
signal because we have to be very cautious. On the mail side, we can experience
acceleration on the decrease of volume. There is a e-substitution process taking place and
we have no control on that process that can accelerate very fast but this has been priced,
obviously, to a large extent in the plan. What we can say today is that so far this year. And
Page 16 of 19



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

FINAL

speciﬁcally this quarter, revenues on the mail component have actually been better than
we expected. And I can add that we have since one year now a new leadership on the
commercial front, on the corporate side of the business, which is the one that is selling the
mail products. And that is showing more focus and more commercial attention to our
clients. And I must say that I have to give credit to our sales force for having been able to
bring the results that we're proudly showing today on the mail side. On the second
question, on the insurance and speciﬁcally the ﬁnancial margin, I will ask Guido to answer.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Manuela, the answer is very short and very simple. We expect this to just be a seasonal
eﬀect. Some of the realized proﬁts were anticipated slightly to this quarter, which we
would normally expect in Q4. So we conﬁrm the target for the year and I hope this
answers your question.

Operator
The next question will come from Alberto Villa of Intermonte.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

I have a couple of questions. I'm sorry, I couldn't follow the entire call so maybe I
apologize if you have already answered. But the ﬁrst one is on the pension reform under
discussion by Italian government. So the quota change to reform. I was wondering if this
reform may be a positive for you in terms of acceleration in, let's say, in the change in the
workforce or if you will continue as planned? And if you can give us guidance about the
charges, the size of the charges and the provisions you're going to book in the Fourth
Quarter related to the personnel? And the second one is on the customer behavior in this
volatile environment in terms of Asset Management products. Are you seeing any, let's
say, outﬂows from Asset Management products or you expect net inﬂows to continue in
the coming months?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. On the pre-retirement charges, as you know, it has always been company policy to
do the ﬁnal income statement provision in Q4. So as we stated today, this is not a change,
it will happen with the last quarter of the year. We are on track in terms of one, the
number of pre-retirement contracts we sign and what we expect and what we will
provision at year-end for next year. But we don't disclose the speciﬁc ﬁgures. Sorry,
Alberto. On the quota change, we already have 25,000 retirements and early retirements
we announced in February with Deliver 2022. Quota changes, though, will accelerate the
pace. But in order to give you a speciﬁc answer, we need to see the details and see how it
will impact our workforce speciﬁcally, which I remind you is relatively aged. So it's
probably an opportunity, I agree with you. On the retail ﬂow in these market conditions, I
will let Andrea Novelli, the CEO of BancoPosta answer it.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

So as you know, we start from a low penetration of Asset Management products on total
customer assets compared to other players. So in this environment, we are not seeing
Page 17 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

negative ﬂows that others are experiencing. Actually, we are still seeing healthy positive
net ﬂows coming to our Asset Management products and we are gaining market share in
a market that, as you know, is shrinking. Of course, we also -- we will always put the
interest of our customers ﬁrst. So we are adapting the kind of products we sell in this
changing environment. And as I mentioned earlier, of course, this is supporting Postal
Savings, this is supporting net ﬂows to current accounts and it is also supporting the
signiﬁcant growth that we are experiencing for multi-asset products in the insurance
space, because this is a good mix of capital guaranteed kind of products and a very mild
exposure to equity risk. So overall, this is positive for us and we are adapting to customer
needs.

Operator
We will now take our ﬁnal question from Federico Braga of UBS.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Actually just 2 follow-ups as all my questions have already been asked. The ﬁrst one is on
the insurance, the gross written premiums. So year-to-date, the gross written premiums
are down 22% compared to your initial guidance of 15%. So just was wondering what is
going on there considering that Class I premiums are actually dragging down gross
written premiums and are going down worse than you anticipated. And looking at Q4. So
if I understood correctly, we should expect a pickup in net premium revenues, I imagine,
considering that you have anticipated some of the ﬁnancial margin, which, of course, will
decline sequentially in the next quarter. And the ﬁnal follow-up on the mail revenues, just
a clariﬁcation on USO revenues. So what we should expect for this year? Because the
minimum guarantee revenues of EUR 262 million would imply a sharp drop of revenues in
the last quarter of the year. So just was wondering, if you can give us a little bit more color
on what to expect on this line?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Federico. I will start with the second question. We are assuming in our plan a
stable universal service contribution for 2018. On the ﬁrst question, you're probably right
in terms of slightly lower net gross premiums. But we are talking a few hundreds. And as
Andrea was pointing out. And I tried to be clear, I hope, about this in my introduction, we
are implementing MiFID II and IDD, which means that since October, all our clients buying
also insurance products are proﬁled and they have to follow the process that is envisaged
by the new regulations. That means that doing the last EUR 100 million budgeting on the
basically over EUR 100 billion ﬂows that we see every year in terms of gross product sales,
is impossible. And we have also to accommodate and to follow our client inclinations and
if that means that we will make a bit more money in mutual funds or postal savings and a
bit less premium on insurance. So the ﬁnancial targets, obviously, overall are more than
conﬁrmed for the ﬁnancial services division and for the insurance division as well.
And thank you very much for your time today and generally on Poste. Thank you.

Page 18 of 19



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2018-11-08

Page 19 of 19

