Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy D. Briggs , Chief Executive Officer-UK Insurance
Chris J. Esson, Director-Group Investor Relations
Euan George Munro, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Andrew Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
Maurice Tulloch, Chief Executive Officer-International Insurance
Thomas D. Stoddard, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director

Other Participants
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Angel Kansagra, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig N Paterson, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ravi Tanna, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Aviva's 2017 Results. Before we
make a start, I'll just draw your attention to the forward-looking statements disclaimer.
And with that, I'll hand over to our Chief Executive Officer, Mark Wilson, to start the
presentation.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Well, thanks, Chris; and good morning, everyone. We have a very full room. It's nice to
have you back as always.
So, this, our 2017 results presentation. Now, believe it or not, this is always one of my
favorite days of the year. And we have a very full room this morning. I was reflecting last
night with Tom, and each year, we seem to make some progress. We seem to tick off
some problems. We seem to strengthen the balance sheet. But I think the key is about
improving the franchises, the underlying growth of the business, because these results I
Page 1 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

think are a little bit special, because this is really the first set of results of Aviva that's been
dominated by the countries and franchises and businesses that I expect to stay part of
the group. For the last few years, we've been selling and restructuring the businesses we
have left or the businesses we expect to stay. And these are the eight core businesses
and the strategic investments. And that's the way we're thinking about our company.
And in these results, we're seeing some strong signs of growth nearly everywhere you
look. It's enough to put, I guess, and we needed in the cold winter of London, but not to
put a bit of a spring in your step, or as one of my English colleagues said to me last night,
enough to warm the cockles of your heart. And after the frigid, freezing cold weather
we've had here in the last couple of weeks, that is certainly no bad thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what are the key themes for this year's results? Well, first, I think it's important, is
broad-based growth across the key franchises, with the key notable exception of Canada.
But other than that, the earnings growth is translated into very strong dividend growth as
well. Second, our EPS, which is our key measure of profit, is showing a marked
improvement, marked to cap this year. Third, the composite and digital strategies are
now specifically positively impacting results, and we'll take you through that later. And
fourth, we are deploying £2 billion of surplus capital in 2018.
So, let's look at the numbers. We grew EPS by 7% and operating profit by 2%, or
underlying operating profit by 6%. And Tom will take you through that later. Now, we'll
cover it in more detail, but the key takeaway here is that most of our markets have
reported highly satisfactory profit results ahead of and earlier than what we promised.
Capital generation, that remained strong at £2.6 billion; and we increased our Solvency
cover ratio to 198%. Cash remittances, that also up 33% to £2.4 billion. And we're
expecting another decent year of cash remittances in 2018.
And, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard me say it before, but when it comes to the
world of insurance, cash is king. So, I'm pretty happy where we are as a group on cash
right now. Now, we've also increased the dividend to £0.274 per share, as I'm sure you've
seen. And that's an increase of 18% that delivers on our 50% payout ratio for 2017, as we
had promised.
And the next slide here shows we're giving a pretty decent track record of growing EPS
and growing dividends. We need them both. Although this year, you can see that the rate
of growth has certainly accelerated. We delivered £0.548 per share in EPS in 2017. That's
up 7%. And importantly, we're targeting better than 5% growth from 2018 and beyond.
Now, this is an upgrade, as we're now seeing better than 5% off a higher baseline. And
we've also brought this forward by 12 months from what we told you at the Investor Day.
Quite simply, we've done better than we thought we were going to.
And we can see in 2017 stronger growth in earnings has translated to higher growth in
dividend, which is up 18%. Now, this is the fourth consecutive year of double-digit growth
in the dividend. And I think a lot of people probably forget that. And given our increased
ambition on the earnings growth and our target of a 55% to 60% payout ratio by 2020,
we would expect that our dividend growth would continue to be strong going forward.

Page 2 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Now, I guess while we're also on the dividend, it's important to also, I guess, reflect on the
fact that we are back above the £0.26 per share which, of course, was the level which was
a cut back in the dark days of 2013, but it's different now. It's different because, there's
also no dilutive script element. So, it's a real dividend; it's fully covered by sustainable cash
flows. So, therefore, the dividend is sustainable and growing. But I guess, of course, you
would expect that, wouldn't you, as the balance sheet, and the franchises, and the quality
of the earnings is, frankly, in a fundamentally different position.
Now, I think one of the most pleasing aspects of our performance in 2017 was that our
growth was broad-based, and this is probably the most we've seen this. It's a diversity of
growth across many of our businesses. There are plenty of green on this slide, and I think
this is a key slide. And the figures clearly show it's possible to deliver attractive growth in
developed markets if, and only if, you target the right segments of those markets. Now,
this is a strong set of numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now that being said, there are clearly a few things we need to call out. Canada had a
terrible year. There's no hiding from that. Profits declined by over £220 million year-onyear. Now, in the past, we've prided ourselves in outperforming the market in Canada.
Clearly, this time, we haven't; and we've made some mistakes. And in the Q&A, I'm also
take you through the detailed recovery plan that is underway.
But Canada importantly does highlight a key part of our overall investment thesis, and that
is one of the strengths that comes with our diversity, in our diversity both geographically
and in our product as a composite, is that we can overcome setbacks like Canada and still
deliver and meet our targets and deliver some pretty good set of results. And six out of
eight of our core markets – of our major eight markets, delivered double-digit growth in
earnings, as you can see on this slide. They have increased profit; and they have also
increased sales of market share.
We had a strong year from our UK business as a pretty good example, profit up 13%. And
this was driven by increased sales across the major UK product lines, specifically helped
by the composite and digital strategies. The UK result did benefit from slightly higher
levels of assumption changes, which contributed in that £139 million to the increase in
profit. And even excluding this, profit growth from our core product segments in the UK
still increased 7%. And we have no reason to think that this won't continue. So, whether
you call it 13% or 7% from the UK, it's still a good performance from Andy and the team.
And it demonstrates that the UK is a dependable and growing market for Aviva, and this
is the trend.
Now, Brexit's interesting, isn't it? Despite the doom and the gloom that was predicted by
many commentators of the market, we have significantly increased sales, and increased
market share, and increased profit in the UK. We think – now, there's a number of reasons,
as I said, but there's partly been a flight to quality and a flight to the big brands. And we
have clearly been a beneficiary of that.
There was good news from our other markets as well though. Aviva Investors kept up its
momentum, growing profit, 21%. France, Poland, Ireland, and Singapore were all

Page 3 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

comfortably in double-digit territory. And as you can see, these four markets are now
starting to give meaningful profit contributions. Now, Italy lagged a little. They were a
victim, in some ways, of their own success. They had very strong growth in sales, which
did lead to a near-term P&L strength.
So, what's driving this growth across our markets in 2017? Well, for start, as a group, a key
point is we only really have the franchises left that we want and can grow. We've sold the
others. Quite simply, our remaining franchises, they're competing; they're growing sales;
they're growing market share; and more importantly, they're growing profits and cash.
That's what we're aiming for. That's what we pay our people for.
For example, in the UK, long-term savings net inflows were up two times. We increased
our BPA volumes more than three times. The UK GI businesses also continued this strong
run, growing share and profit. And I would highlight here that our Digital Direct business
contributed to that as our digital business now passed the £1 billion premium mark. That's
a pretty nice milestone.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aviva Investors has grown revenues up 14%. And that's a result of high assets under
management, on one hand; strong growth over AIMS for the year, on the other. And also,
something that became more apparent as the year went on, our success in our external
businesses outside AIMS. In Europe, we doubled VNB in Italy. We also grew in France and
Poland. And in Singapore, the disruptive financial advisor model, which is certainly
disrupting the market, that helped grow VNB 29% and contributed meaningfully to the
profit.
So, now, looking forward to the next few years. So, we are aiming higher in terms of our
EPS growth. We're no longer looking to shrink our geographic perimeter; that's finished.
And we are now left with our best businesses, only our strong businesses, with what we
think is the strongest growth prospects. And our growth drivers across these businesses,
they're not rocket science. It's the same thing that have been winning us business in the
last 12 months. We'll continue to target corporate and institutional business. We have a lot
of success there last year. And it's the composite model that is winning here, particularly in
the UK. And we expect to see continued growth in areas like Aviva Investors, long-term
savings, and GI businesses across Europe.
You can see we've put the key drivers of growth country-by-country on this slide. France,
it's gaining momentum for us. Partly, that's a new team that's making the tough decisions.
And we expect more efficiencies in France; and we expect the mix to continue to
contribute to profit growth. Canada will recover. It may take some time, but we're
confident to get back to where they belong over the next two years.
Digital is now also benefiting the results with significant contributions, particularly, winning
the large insurance mandates, but also positively impacting underwriting results and costs
in the UK in addition to what's becoming some quite significant consumer sales. Now, on
top of the baseline from our major markets, there's also the prospect of higher long-term
growth from our strategic investments that we have on this slide.

Page 4 of 31



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Now, I was in Asia a few weeks ago, and a Chinese investor noted to me an interesting
fact that I'd sort of overlooked. He said that we are in the four most populous countries in
emerging Asia, namely China, India, Indonesia, and Vietnam. And we also have, as he
said, some of the strongest local partners in each of those markets, so the potential is
clearly there. But I look at that as potential for disruption and potential for long-term
growth. Now, at present, you will note, we already have attractive profits in some markets,
like China and Turkey. And I think it's entirely appropriate to think long-term and invest a
little this way for long-term shareholders.
But despite the track record, and the recent track record, and despite the EPS growth,
one of the questions we are often asked is still growth in the long-term. Now, investors
are now saying, yeah, we see the growth in the next few years, we get that, but what
about after that. And I think that's fair enough as a question.

Bloomberg Transcript

You see, I believe the insurance world has fundamentally changed and reached an
inflection point. For start, the macro environment has changed, and GDP growth rates in
emerging and mature markets are converging. For example, there is now little difference
between the U.S., Singapore, Hong Kong, Turkey, and Europe on GDP growth. And the
point here is growth is no longer region-based or even necessarily market-specific-based.
I believe growth in our industry is now segment-based. And the key is to be operating in
those growth segments and be positioned for the changes in those markets.
And while our major businesses are concentrated in developed markets, as we have seen
in 2017, this certainly does not equate to being X growth. We are seeing growth. We're
seeing growth across the board. And in fact, we are also seeing that margins in our more
developed markets are very robust, simply because the more irrational players have
exited. There's fewer competitors.
Now, in each of our markets, there are also structural drivers of growth. Some of them are
demographic, and you can see some of them up here; some of it is government policy,
like auto enrollment or pensions in Turkey; and some of it is margin, with increased scale
through our initiatives; and also, consolidation in the market. And the key is positioning our
business for all these trends. And, I think, we're in a pretty good spot. But it's also why
we're investing heavily in capability, not just the things you know about, like digital, which is
important, but also in terms of the people as well.
For example, we've hired David Cumming, as the Head of Equities, to build out our
Equities franchise in Aviva Investors. We hired Tom Ground to lead our BPA business,
which is proving to be very successful. And we've been hiring talent in Global Corporate &
Specialty, where relationships and industry experience allow us to selectively expand in
this market.
Now, we have a number of structural and deliberate competitive advantages to grow,
which you can also see on this slide. Scale and expense ratio is important. Brand is critically
important, particularly in digital. And our investments in data analytics and artificial
intelligence, I believe, is industry-leading. We now have 550 data scientists, and it's this
capability that won us a number of large insurance mandates in the last year.

Page 5 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Turning now to capital. Now, at our Investor Day in November, we outlined our intention to
deploy £2 billion in 2018 and a further £1 billion in 2019. And today, I want to add some
specific guidance about the use of that capital. Now, as you've heard in the previous
slides, our first priority is organic growth, but frankly, that doesn't take too much capital.
And, by the way, that's included in that £2 billion, just to be clear.
We indicated that we would allocate £900 million for debt deleveraging. That remains our
intention; and we are advanced with our plans as the debt comes due. When you think
about it, you can do the maths. It's a no-brainer. This debt reduction alone adds £60
million annualized cash benefit at the Group level each year. Now, we intend to use
around £600 million of surplus capital for bolt-on acquisitions and use at least £500
million for capital returns to shareholders. Now, Tom will provide the detail on that in a
moment, but just a few comments of context for me.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, on M&A. Quite a topical subject in the insurance world right now. Now, we have used
just over £100 million on the accretive Friends First deal in Ireland, so there's about £500
million left this year. Now, M&A, by its nature, is opportunistic, and we won't chase deals
just because we have the cash. But these specific numbers give you a clear sense of scale
and our priorities. Of the £500 million plus earmarked for capital returns, we're working
through our plans, but we are not yet ready to announce the dates or the exact
mechanisms today. To be very clear though, it is our intention to return at least £500
million of capital to shareholders this year. We intend to do this through a combination of
preference and ordinary shares.
Now, for the prefs, you should note that we have the ability to cancel these prefs at par
with shareholder approval. These prefs carry very high coupons and will no longer count
for regulatory capital from 2026. In addition, we're in a very fortunate position with our
cash and capital that we now have the ability to do something about it. So we intend to.
Tom will take you through the detail of this in a moment.
So to conclude, I'm not going to speak for too long this morning, as I think the numbers
speak for themselves. We are all very aware that a track record for consistency and
dependability is only ever built over time. But we are now adding to, I think, that track
record each year. We haven't missed a target. Each year, EPS has grown, but this year, the
growth has accelerated and is much more broad-based. We have another upgrade as we
expect stronger growth in earnings earlier than we were expecting before from our
businesses.
It's another year where we've strengthened capital and cash; and we now have the very
high-quality problem of deploying it productively. It's another year where we've increased
our dividend double-digits; and that's on the back of an increase in earnings both in
quantum, but also into their translation into cash, which to me is equally as important. It's
clear that our composite and digital strategy is helping our businesses to compete and
win in their respective markets. And you've seen that coming finally through the numbers.
And speaking of those numbers, I know Tom wants to get up here to talk to you. So I'll
hand over to Tom, our Chief Financial Officer.

Page 6 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you, and good morning. As Mark said, we believe Aviva passed a
fundamental inflection point in 2017, with our core businesses now driving attractive,
sustainable growth in both earnings and dividends. Our operating EPS was up 7%, and this
is the sort of standard we want to keep repeating.
As the slide shows, our eight major markets delivered 6% operating profit growth in 2017,
up over £200 million year on year and would have delivered even more if it had not been
for the setback in Canada. At the top, you can see that our flagship UK Insurance business
is leading the way with operating profit up 13% to £2.2 billion. It is Aviva's biggest and
most fully developed business, and in many ways, serves as a model for what we want to
achieve across our Group: A trusted brand; becoming a partner of choice; and satisfying
customers across their insurance and savings needs. We believe Aviva has unique
advantages in our home UK market and can extend these advantages in our other
countries.

Bloomberg Transcript

So my remarks today, I've set myself three tasks: The first is to try to bring out more detail
on the results for each of our eight major markets; the second is to weave them together
relative to our UK business, joining up the common threads that connect our Aviva
strategy; and third, I'll conclude with a more forward-looking outlook on 2018, explaining
how we bridge from growth in 2017 into further growth in 2018 and beyond.
Now, before I move on from this overview slide, I want to make a few more general
observations. Scanning down the rows, you'll see that we've had double-digit profit
growth in sterling terms in six of the eight businesses. A seventh, Italy, is also growing
strongly in terms of sales and value of new business, VNB, but first year strain from those
sales has temporarily dampened profit growth. So, the fact that Italy more than doubled
VNB in 2017 should show up in future profits. Canada, of course, had a difficult year in
2017, as we indicated back in November, with many years of favorable reserve
development abruptly coming to a halt, as the benefit of past reforms has dissipated and
current conditions deteriorated. I'll talk more about this later.
But I want to use Canada to make a bigger point. Unlike others, our strategy at Aviva is to
be both diversified, and at the same time, very focused, not everywhere, just the eight
major markets and a portfolio of strategic investments. Diversity means that when one
business encounters challenges, others can still carry us forward. And focus means that
we can identify performance issues quickly, figure out what needs to change, and then
make it happen.
In this case, that includes moving Colm Holmes, who was a success in our UK GI business
to join our team in Canada as CEO. We did something similar in France about 14 months
ago, moving Patrick Dixneuf in to lead that business, with good results, as you can see
here. And we've just moved Nacho Izquierdo in Italy about three months ago after his
many years of success in Spain. So, we have the right team on the field now, with proven
operators in all eight of our major markets and an acute focus on delivering results.

Page 7 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Moving down the slide, you can also see here that we're investing for the future,
spending a little more this year on our portfolio of strategic investments. Within this
portfolio, our investments in China and Turkey are already profitable, and we would
expect Vietnam, Indonesia, Hong Kong, and India to turn the portfolio positive within a
few years, probably around the 2020 timeframe. As you know, thanks to Chris Wei's
efforts, we're now executing an exciting joint venture with Tencent and Hillhouse in Hong
Kong. And Maurice Tulloch is actively working on resetting our position in India.
Finally, on this slide, the contribution from businesses we've sold or agreed to sell was
lower in 2017 than in 2016 and should decline again in 2018 as we complete sales of FPI,
Spain, and Banco Pop mid-year. We're addressing the impact of those divestitures partly
through capital management, so it's not worth dwelling on here. I will, however, come
back at the end of my remarks to review how we increased EPS in 2017, and more
importantly, the outlook for 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

But the first usual stop, on NAV, book value per share is up 2%, as dividends, the share
buyback, AVIF amortization, and restructuring costs offset operating profit. Integration
restructuring costs declined by a third and should be approximately zero for 2018. AVIF
will also be lower in the future, once we complete the sale of FPI. So, we should have
improving prospects for NAV growth, subject to the likelihood of additional return of
capital to shareholders in 2018 and 2019. Basic earnings per share more than doubled to
£0.35.
Okay. Turning now to the businesses. UK Insurance delivered impressive volume and
profit growth in its core segments. Long-term savings net flows nearly doubled to £5.6
billion; bulk annuity sales tripled to £2 billion; and protection VNB was up 21%. General
Insurance net written premiums were up 4% with the combined operating ratio stable at
93.9% and an improved underlying COR. Andy Briggs has done a really terrific job bringing
together a unified business focused on customers and winning market share where we
want to compete.
Our product segments increased profits by 7% for the year. Now, this includes profits from
our legacy book, which stayed strong at £331 million. Although as previously guided, it will
decline gradually over time. And the net profit contribution from other items, which
include assumption and other changes, was significantly higher this year at £290 million,
primarily because of the release of longevity reserves, which amounted to £710 million,
partly offset by higher expense reserves and other provisions, which totaled £420 million.
So, let me stop and explain this. As we've guided in the past. We normally expect this
other line in UK Life to contribute about £150 million to £200 million of operating profit
annually as we take action to improve profitability and as prudence in our book unwinds.
Much, but not all of this, is related to our annuity business, which has over £50 billion of
reserves and is growing.
In 2016 and 2017, our own mortality experience, which is broadly consistent with the latest
industry tables, showed that we had significant prudence in our longevity reserves. We
released some prudence a year ago in the 2016 results and decided to release more now

Page 8 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

in our 2017 results. We factor in our own experience on a rolling average basis over
several years, so the adjustment does not happen all at once. Accordingly, unless
mortality trends reverse, we could see a further release of longevity reserves in 2018 and
beyond, but of course, we won't know until more time passes.
I should also point out that we try to benchmark ourselves relative to others in the UK
industry on longevity. And based on the data we've been provided, we believe we are
near the more conservative end of the spectrum and remain so even after our 2017
releases. Please note that while we're not counting on future reserve releases we will
manage our pace of spending on other improvements and investments in the business,
with an eye on the net impact of this other line on our overall results. In part, this may help
fund incremental transformation of our business that will increase our operating
advantages in the future. What we are focusing on is growth in the product segments in
the UKI business, which came in at a very satisfactory 7% in 2017, and upon which we want
to build in 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Speaking of underlying growth, let's get back to our four core segments, where we're
picking our spots and winning more business. In fact, new business profits were up 13% to
£391 million. And looking at the four core segments, the long-term savings profit was up
30% on the back of higher assets and consistent margins within our target range. This is a
big business with assets under administration up 13% to £118 billion of which platform
assets increased 56% to £20 billion.
Annuities and equity release operating profit was up 11% on a 58% increase in sales with
margins returning to within the target range on new business. Last year, our annuity
margins were unusually high as volumes were lower and we were allocating attractive
investment assets across that lower volume. This year, we've improved our capabilities
and increased our appetite for larger BPAs, although still not chasing jumbo transactions.
We remain disciplined on margins and capital usage. This is a good area for us to create
value from our ability to originate private debt which we do so as part of the balanced
portfolio business. We're not overly dependent on this line, although we do expect to
grow it as long as we can get the returns we want and can manage the risks effectively.
In protection, volumes were up, but operating profit was down 6% as we've experienced
some large losses on existing business. This may weigh on profit in 2018 until rate
increases work through the group protection book.
On the GI side, we enjoyed very solid performance with broad-based organic growth
across Personal Lines and Commercial Non-Motor Lines. Along with this growth, we also
improved the normalized accident year combined ratio by 1.3 points on better
underwriting. Weather remained benign and we had a bit less favorable prior year
development resulting in a combined ratio of 93.9%, identical to last year.
Together, all this drove a 4% increase in GI operating profit to £408 million. And
considered in its entirety, the combined UK Insurance business is demonstrating just how
powerful it can be, delivering £2.2 billion of operating profit and 13% growth through
Aviva's emphasis on satisfying customers and becoming the distribution partner of choice.

Page 9 of 31



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

On Ireland, this is a market where we think we should be able to extend the Aviva
business model very easily. We have an excellent brand recognition and reasonable
market share and we have the opportunity to take more share by deploying digital
resources and enhancing our customer experience. Once we complete the Friends First
acquisition, we'll be the largest composite player in Ireland. Our results there have been
good with operating profit up 18% to £86 million. Our GI combined operating ratio
improved again to 91.4%. Net written premiums were up 15%. And the Friends First deal
should become accretive very quickly, so we expect our Irish business to carry forward
good momentum on profits. We're counting on John Quinlan and team to keep delivering.
Switching over to Aviva Investors. This is a business centered in the UK but serving our
insurance operations and other investors all over the world and building its reputation
under Euan Munro based on outcome-oriented solutions. It's more and more becoming a
partner of choice for institutions and distributors. And it has enough scale to operate on a
very low cost basis, hence, the improved profit margins and growth in 2017.
Aviva Investors built on the momentum it created the prior year with operating profit up
21% to £168 million. The operating margin increased from 27% to 29% with revenue
growth once again outpacing increases in expenses. Revenue from external clients
increased to 34% of the total, up from 32%.

Bloomberg Transcript

The AIMS range of funds grew 40% with AUM now up to £12.6 billion although momentum
stalled for midyear as AIMS hit a slow patch in terms of relative performance. And profit
also benefited from more success in our growing infrastructure asset business with
origination volume at £4.1 billion, up 24%.
So, a good year from Aviva Investors, but we remain thirsty for more growth here. The
business remains at about 5%of our total profit from major markets, and we'd like to see
it contribute a lot more than that, ideally 10% or more, which means that Euan, David
Cumming and the team have to keep working hard to outpace the rest of Aviva.
And next, over to France, where Patrick Dixneuf has instilled an improved culture, greater
focus on efficiency, and a more strategic view of the future of the business. By way of
background, France is Aviva's second largest profit and cash generator and has a very
attractive distribution footprint through five channels. Aviva's opportunity in France is to
grow by unlocking the potential of that distribution which we plan to do by providing an
enhanced composite offering under one Aviva brand.
Business conditions in France improved significantly in 2017, but this is only part of the
story for us. Aviva's operating profit was up 13% in constant currency and 20% in sterling
to £507 million as we outperformed the overall market in terms of life premiums and GI
premium growth. Our mix on the life side continues to improve toward protection and
unit-linked products, and we made progress on reducing crediting rates on participating
business.
In GI, our COR improved to 94.5%, on better underwriting and lower large loss
experienced. Overall, we're pleased with the progress in France in 2017 and believe that,
Page 10 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

by focusing on expense efficiency and the productivity of our distribution channels, we can
improve performance further.
Now, Canada, where I'm not going to talk about growth. Here, the main story is an almost
seven-point swing in prior-year reserve development, which was 5.4% positive in 2016
and 1.3% negative this year. As a result, the report combined ratio deteriorated to 102.2%
and operating profit dropped 83% to £46 million which is our weakest result in years. So,
the first question is why, and the second question is what are we doing about it? Okay. So,
why?
Over the seven years through 2016, reserves developed favorably by 3.8 points per year
on average, primarily driven by Ontario auto reforms in 2010 and 2012. This was bound to
run out, and we were expecting it to run out. But neither we nor the market anticipated it
early enough and had not adjusted rates sufficiently far in advance. So, we were a bit
caught out when motor bodily injury claims started to spike upwards.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've had some other negatives in Alberta and the Atlantic provinces, but that's really
the crux of it. It probably didn't help that we were integrating the RBC General acquisition
at the same time, but that's an explanation, not an excuse. We should have done better.
So then, what are we doing about it? Well, I've already mentioned that we've made a
management change, bringing in Colm Holmes as CEO. Sometimes a fresh perspective is
needed, and Colm brings a great sense of best practices from our UK business and his
experience elsewhere. In addition, we're pushing hard on rate. We've increased some
rates, filed for other rate increases and will file for additional rate increases throughout
2018. Market CORs had been elevated across Canada, so we're not alone in raising rates.
This will have the biggest impact for us over time even if it has a marginally negative
impact on top line volumes. I'd rather have the underwriting profits any day. We're also
taking some underwriting and business mix decisions. We're changing some claims
management practices and we may exit some unprofitable distribution partners. Finally,
we'll take another look at expenses and cut in some places while reallocating in others.
So, looking forward, this should mean a bounce back in 2018, but it won't be all the way.
January and February have not started well with elevated claims frequency in difficult
weather, and it will take time for rate increases to earn through in the results. So, this will
be a 2018 and 2019 recovery story, with us looking to restore the business to a 94% to
96% combined operating ratio by 2020. Let me finish this part of the story by saying that
we still like our Canadian business and look forward to it getting back to market-leading
CORs and a mid-teens return on capital. We think the business can be further enhanced
with innovative propositions and learnings from our composite model elsewhere. So,
Canada remains core to our strategy over the long run.
Okay, turning back to Europe. In Poland, we had good bottom line results with operating
profit up 26% to £177 million. We were very efficient in Poland and earned a high return on
capital. Adam Uszpolewicz and Maciej Jankowski run a tight ship. We're a full composite
player in this market with offerings in life, pensions, GI, health and asset management.

Page 11 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This is a market where we'd like to build even more scale, possibly through bolt-on
acquisition.
On the life side, we've doubled our market share of the profit pool over the last 10 years
to 15%. And about 90% of our life business is recurring premiums, which is higher than the
market average. So, in 2017, we maintained a favorable sales mix consisting of 85%
protection and unit-linked business, although sales volumes and VNB did not hit our
growth targets.
GI profit increased significantly as the COR improved to 86.7% on higher volume and as
we consolidated our JV with Bank Zachodni. Overall, we're the number two player in the
Polish market, earning a very attractive return on capital and believe we can consolidate
an even stronger position with customers extending Aviva's capabilities here.
In Italy, under Ignacio Izquierdo's leadership, Aviva's ambition is to leverage the group's
capabilities to create market leading propositions in four key customer segments
delivered across all distribution channels including banks, agents, brokers and direct. For
example, we're experiencing very good sales of our capital-light hybrid product through
Fineco and others with volume up 76%. This has driven very strong net inflows of £2.3
billion which are up 38%. Value of new business more than doubled to £179 million and we
expect life profits to follow as we overcome the first year strain of these higher sales
levels. GI COR was 94.2% with broadly stable underlying performance. And we're
exploring opportunities for further growth in GI including more commercial business. So,
as a result of future – excuse me, as a result of recent sales momentum, we're now
moved up several places to 7th in Italy and believe we can do much better than this,
generating higher levels of Aviva brand awareness and franchise value along the way.
Finally, Singapore. Operating profit in Singapore was up 10% at £110 million despite
additional spending to build out the Aviva Financial Advisors network which increased the
number of advisors by 60% to 673. Our CEO in Singapore, Nishit Majmudar, has done an
excellent job building this innovative distribution channel from nothing over the last two
years. As a result, value of new business has grown 29% to £123 million with double-digit
increases in savings and for protection products. Our small loss on GI and health narrowed
which is important for Aviva's customer composite strategy in this market. And we
consider Singapore to be an important hub for us and one of the leading wealth centers
in Asia. And over time, we would target double-digit profit growth as the Aviva Financial
Advisors network generates higher volumes of sales.
Okay. Switching away from the business units and back to Aviva overall. We remain very
well capitalized with a Solvency II cover ratio of 198%, well in excess of our working range
of 150% to 180%. Our underlying capital generation of approximately £1.7 billion is similar
to last year as we invest in future growth and did not generate as much capital surplus in
Canada.
Other capital actions were significant again in 2017 and were driven by a £700 million
positive from the Friends Life Part VII transaction. This is more than we had initially
expected and will enable us to remit more cash up to the group center in the form of

Page 12 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

special remittances in 2018. You can see that we paid £1.1 billion of dividends and returned
another £800 million through share repurchases and paying down hybrid debt.
As we'll come on to in a couple of slides, we clearly have more room to do more of that in
2018. Now, our Solvency II cover ratio may trend still higher, although our capital
management decisions should moderate that trend as we redeploy or return capital that
we don't need in the business. This will be a multi-year process as we work to optimize
the balance sheet still further.
And as we anticipated, cash remittances were up strongly in the year, improving to £2.4
billion. Special dividends following Friends Life capital synergies accounted for £500
million and should account for more in 2018. We've secured use of a dynamic volatility
adjuster or DVA for use in France, which is a positive for dividend capacity over time, and
we may be able to optimize our capital further in France. For example, we hope to be one
of the first to implement the new French supplementary pension fund, FRPS. Central
liquidity also remains strong at £2 billion and we expect more cash from our divestitures
of Spain and FPI, as well as future remittances from our ongoing operations. So not
surprisingly, we're in a good position to fund future growth as well as address our capital
management objectives throughout 2018.
Our capital management priorities remain consistent with what we've stated before, with
a preference for organic growth and a progressive dividend, followed by a combination of
repaying expensive debt, bolt-on M&A, and additional capital returns. We expect £2 billion
of capital redeployment in 2018, and another £1 billion in 2019. Of that £2 billion in 2018,
approximately £900 million is planned for repaying expensive hybrid debt and £100
million is for the closing of the Friends First acquisition in the middle of the year. The
remaining £1 billion is undecided, but will be redeployed or returned to investors as
pictured here.
Now, as Mark said, one of the things we're looking at is the possibility of a liability
management exercise concerning one or more tranches of preferred securities issued by
either our General Accident subsidiary or Aviva Plc. The rating agencies don't count them
as capital anymore and they likely will not count for capital for Solvency II purposes from
2026. So they no longer serve their originally intended purpose. Essentially, they're now
just the equivalent of very expensive senior debt with coupons that are not tax deductible.
So while we've not taken any decisions, we note that these securities are subject to
cancellation at par upon a capital reduction approved by ordinary and preferred
shareholders voting as a single class. Now that we're in excess cash and capital position, it
may make sense for the company to address these securities now or some time prior to
2026.
So as we work through the alternatives, one of the things we're considering is how best
to balance the respective interests of ordinary and preferred shareholders. Any event, it
should be clear that one of our priorities is deleveraging and eliminating high cost debt
from our capital structure, primarily to improve ongoing cash flows and dividend capacity.
And we'll also look for accretive bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our existing

Page 13 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

businesses; however, we do not count on finding them. And if we do not find what we
want, we will return more capital to investors either by repaying more debt, buying back
stocks as we did last year or possibly through a special dividend in connection with yearend.
Now, frequently, we're asked where we're investing and where we're disinvesting. As we
complete our divesture program, this is now less about which countries we favor, as we
see opportunities across all of our major markets, and it's more about capabilities. We are
investing for the future by building data analytics and artificial intelligence capabilities,
adding to our distribution capabilities, and expanding in Aviva Investors, bulk purchase
annuities, and Global Corporate and Specialty insurance.
At the same time, we're driving more efficiency from our operations by improving cash
remittances, shifting more to a global shared services model, commencing a zero-based
budgeting program, addressing our legacy IT systems, and further optimizing our back
books. We obviously still have plenty to do. And the benefits of these actions will enable
us to keep investing for the future and growing the company sustainably.

Bloomberg Transcript

So on the topic of growth before I hand back to Mark, I want to talk a little bit more
specifically about the outlook for the future. To do so, I'll start with the bridge showing
how our operating EPS progressed from 2016 to 2017 and use that as a basis for helping
you think about how 2018 may turn out.
The key figure on the left is an underlying growth rate of 6% in operating profit, which
underpins the overall operating EPS growth rate of 7%. Yes, we benefited from FX, but
the growth of our businesses in constant currency was still strong. Foreign exchange and
perimeter changes basically offset each other.
As you can see, the balance sheet was actually a net negative contributor to growth with
the incremental positives in UK Life more than offset by the less favorable reserve
development in Canada and UK GI. We had some weather and other non-recurring
negatives, primarily hedging activity, as well as some positives from a lower effective
operating tax rate. So with all that background on 2017, we can then look forward to the
outlook for 2018 on the right side of this slide.
Our businesses will perform as they will, but Mark and I are asking each of the major
markets to hit an earnings growth target which is higher than 5% and, in some cases,
considerably higher. We think Canada will take time to bounce back. And so we're
expecting at least some progress in 2018 and more in 2019. Now, also keep in mind that
last year's buyback and debt deleveraging happened late in the year, so it only had a
partial impact on 2017 with more to follow on 2018. And additional capital management to
come would benefit us some this year and more in 2019. And this is helpful because
we've had a series of business unit sales, which affected us in 2017 and will affect us again
in 2018 as sales complete in the middle of the year with some residual effect in 2019. So
debt deleveraging and buybacks are neutralizing the dilutive impact of asset sales. Now,
tax helped us in 2017 but our effective operating tax rate is likely to be a little higher in
2018, depending on the business mix of our profits.

Page 14 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

So now for the punch line. Taken all together, you can simplify this and just say that our
EPS growth in 2018 really depends on how much organic growth we get from our major
markets, at least that's the way I see. And since we have a lot of conviction around those
businesses, we're bringing forward management's target for operating EPS growth to
exceed 5%.
So in conclusion, Aviva has moved past an inflection point with operating EPS growth of
7%, excess capital, plenty of cash, and dividend growth of 18%. I'll remind you that in
addition to growing EPS, we also expect to increase the dividend payout ratio to our new
target payout ratio of 55% to 60% by 2020. Cash dividends have increased 83% during
my tenure over the last four years, and we want to keep them growing sustainably for
years to come.
Back over to you, Mark.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Thank you, Tom. Well, I think we should just get straight into questions, actually. So if you
can maybe facilitate that? Hopefully, you have the microphone balls there. And I've got all
the operating heads up here too, so we can probably pass the questions around a little.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Let's start with Greig, and then actually go back to Andy.

Q - Greig N Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions. One is just in terms of sterling millions, the
management actions that you did this year, which are ahead of expectations, what's the
sort of headwind? Obviously, that's capitalizing future profit. What sort of a headwind
does that produce for 2018? That's question one.
The second one is in terms of the IFRS GI reserves, what is your percentage margin over
best estimate and how has that changed year on year?
And the third question is I saw in the press you've had some issues with your platform
migration in the UK. I mean, we have the case study (50:14) ended up paying £0.5 billion
when things went wrong. I just wonder if you could update then, tell us if there is going to
be some fallout in terms of net client cash flow costs from the platform migration (50:24)?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah. So Tom will take the first to capital. And Andy, if you can talk about platform?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Page 15 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Yeah. So I'm assuming by talking about management actions, you're effectively talking
about the other line in UK Life where we were up about £139 million year over year. Is that
right? You've...

Q - Greig N Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Because, obviously (50:38)?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Well, I don't know that we will. And again, one of the things that I tried to say was that as
we look at our experience and longevity, effectively, we're at the conservative end of the
spectrum. And as it appears that trends are showing less improvement in longevity over
time, that's causing us to need to release reserves there. So we did some of that in 2016,
some of that again in 2017. And I think my guidance for you around that other line is
although we've said that we would expect it to be £150 million to £200 million, we would
expect it actually to be elevated over the next few years. So we probably will be over that
£200 million point. So I don't know that there's going to be a drag there.
Your second question was around the amount of margin in our IFRS reserves on the GI
side. We don't disclose exactly what that number is, but I would tell you that the way we
look at it is at a specific point. We don't have much of a range around that and all of our
businesses are reserved at that level right now, so we haven't had any decrease in that
margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Andy, (51:48)?

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Good morning, Greig. So on the platform, very successful year last year, we saw our longterm saving net fund flows double to £5.6 billion, total assets there up to £118 billion.
Within that, the platform is £20 billion. Because of the success and our commitment to
that market, we decided we needed to upgrade to more modern technology that will be
scalable. We have had issues with that as has been well publicized. We're working hard to
– with advisors and their clients to resolve those issues. I mean, in terms of potential
financial impact of that, not material in the context of a £2.2 billion UK P&L.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Just, Greig, if I can just add something on the longevity release. So I've read a couple of
notes that are suggesting if it was conservative or not , and – but looking a bit too
simplistically, the issue is not whether you use tables from 2015 or 2016 or 2017. The
primary factor there is your calibration against those tables. And you don't just take the
tables and plug them in. It's not that simple. It's your calibration. And we are at the very
conservative end of that which is a far bigger issue.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Page 16 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Ashik?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, good morning. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Hi.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

I've got three questions. Slide number 6 looks pretty interesting. I mean, flagging that six
markets out of your eight has delivered double-digit growth. Having said that, if I look at
your 2018 plan, you're still flagging around 5% organic growth. So, which markets do you
think will continue to do double digit and where you would be a bit cautious on double
digit, what you delivered this year? So, that would be my first one. The second one would
be, can you give us some color about your protection business in the UK? What went
wrong and what would be the recovery path for that? And same on Canada, I mean, yeah,
you're guiding for 94%, 96% by 2020 but will it be back-end loaded, front-end loaded?
Any thoughts on that would be great. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. Just – so the markets, let's talk about the growth. So, I'll tell you what we're
promising to the market, what our targets are. And that's greater than 5%. And to do that
you need a mix. Now clearly, you've seen higher than that in various markets and different
markets from different positions.
I'm – we're not going to give any more guidance on that today. We need a little bit of
wiggle room it's one of the benefits of our diversity, right? That you can pull those levers,
frankly. But we would expect greater than 5% but I'm not going to give any more
guidance. You can see though, all of these markets on a couple of slides later than that.
All of these markets have different advantages and you have some tailwinds.
The UK is pretty strong for us at the moment, pretty much across the board. France is
very much – pretty much, France has got some just a new impetus and a new momentum
and a clearer strategy, and you've seen that happened. France is going to have
efficiencies in it, but I'm not going to give any more guidance on that today.
On the protection book, Andy, you want to cover, and then Maurice, because Maurice is at
the front in Canada.

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Yeah. So, I think that the key point I'd make is in the UK we're unique in being a composite
player across all the major markets. And that strategy is working really well for us. We're
finding particularly corporates meeting, multiple needs with us across different lines of

Page 17 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

business. So, protection is one line of business, and that we're seeing much stronger
growth in from the structural drivers in long-term savings and annuities and equity release.
But in terms of protection, basically, two drivers on the back books. So, you can see the
new business profits on protections still grow 11%, but the back book we just had a
number of larger claims just as you get in insurance businesses from time to time. And
then we have seen that the claims experience in some parts of our income protection
book has been higher than we were assuming. We'll address that through rate going
forward. But for me, it's a great example of the benefits of the composite model. We've
delivered underlying profit growth in the UK of 7% before you consider all the
assumptions changes. And so, we can absorb that impact on existing business in
protection and still deliver strong growth.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, Ashik. Let me respond to your Canadian question. I mean it's a great
business as Tom and Mark have said but it's had a disappointing year. So, firstly, let me
give you some market context and that will actually help then explain why I believe and
why I'm confident that we'll get back to our target operating range in the period that's
been (56:26).
So, I think the most important part of the market context – first, you've got to understand
that 48% of our Canadian business is Personal Motor, right? Now, if you look at the last
seven years that served us incredibly well. So, what actually specifically happened to the
motor market in 2017? So, you've heard us talk about frequency and that was part of the
issue, but that wasn't the real underlying issue. The real underlying issue was increase in
frequency in injury claims. Now, why did that happen? Why did we get to see more injury
claims?
Well, what we've had across Canada is discussions about regulatory reform and it's no
different than what we talk when we talk about regulatory reform here in the UK when we
had Whiplash when I was running our UK business or if I look at our Irish business when we
talked about motor reform and the COR was 114% and I reflect on it at 91% today. What
happens then is the actors in the system namely the claims farmers and the plaintiff bar
looked to rehash, recycle their files.
So, we saw an incredible increase in injury costs. We also saw, albeit a more minor point,
some increases in claims inflation on the back of physical damage. So these factors have
actually coupled to see the motor market actually move north of 100% combined
operating ratio in Canada. So on that, am I disappointed? Absolutely, I'm disappointed.
Am I confident that the actions that I'll walk you through are going to get us back to our
combined operating ratio target of between 94% and 96%? Absolutely.
So, let me highlight a few of those actions. There's a whole series of actions, but let me
give you three sort of key thematics, we got actions underway in rate, we've got actions
underway in underwriting, and we've got actions underway in indemnity management.

Page 18 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Let's start with indemnity management. That's how we manage the claims. So when
you're having an increased flow on older files, there are two things that you have to do.
And actually things that Aviva is very good at and we've demonstrated that both here in
the UK and Ireland and, historically, also in Canada. It's managing defense for (58:44)
programs and it's also managing fraud.
Second thing, underwriting, things that we can do. You got to look at your mix of business,
right? You look at your selection of business, you look at your filters and you look at your
deviations and you tighten those up. And most importantly is rate. So, what's happening
right now? We started to respond in Q4 of last year. We currently have about 5 points of
rate moving through the entire Canadian book. I expect the rate to accelerate particularly
in the regular lines. And if you take these three actions in combination, that's what gives
me confidence that our Canadian business will go from 102.2% back to the target
operating range of 94%, 96% over the next two years.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Just to finish that off though, specifically, in terms of whether it will back-end loaded or
not, it will tend to be back-end loaded because, as Maurice says, those rate changes take
time to flow through. So, I would expect this to start benefiting us more in the latter half of
2018 and into 2019 as opposed to right now.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We have a question from Andy Hughes, please. Andy?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Good morning. A couple of question (59:51), and the first one was on the Friends Life cash
generation remittances. I think you said you were well ahead of plan on the underlying
cash generation. You're showing £750 million out of £1-billion-plus remittances from
Friends Life. Just wondering, how far ahead of plan are you versus the original plan of £1
billion?
And I can see, in France, you've got a DVA locally, which boosts the solvency in France.
Does that improve the dividend flows going forward in France? I understand you guys
consolidated that at the group level.
And the third question is in terms of liability management. Obviously, you said sometime
before 2020. But if you – is there a time line on that? Say, for example, (01:00:33) on the
M&A budget that if it's not used by the end of the year, you'd do some sort of special
dividend. I'm just wondering, if you don't do the liability management by the end of the
year, is that also directed to buyback? Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

You take the first one. I'll take the DVA...

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}
Page 19 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Okay. So, first, on how far ahead we are on the Friends Life capital and cash, we're not
giving a specific number on that. Again, we set a target of getting £1 billion. We're going
to be ahead of that. By how far, we'll just have to see as we get through 2018 and 2019.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

You have to say (01:01:08) it's significant.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. But – and we will keep reporting that separately. So, again, that is one of the things
that will help us get to our cash remittance target. And DVA, yes?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Look, DVA has been an ongoing bane of Life and that it was a key part of the Solvency II. It
wasn't recognized at the group because our regulator, the PRA, didn't recognize it. We
then got it recognized in France, which does help. It gives you a fair bit more headroom to
help dividends come out from France. The interesting thing you would have seen, though,
or some of you may have picked up was the (01:01:46) put out a report on DVA
specifically saying that it was part of Solvency II and needed to be implemented.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would expect that to cause a rethink in the PRA. It is meaningful to us. Regulators tend to
take – give with one hand and take with the other. So, who knows what the net impact
would be? But it will be positive for us at the group level. And in France, it is certainly
helpful for securing dividends, if that makes sense.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And then, on your question on liability management, that's a good question. So, let me try
to address a number of things there around that. We think it's an interesting question
because these are very expensive securities that don't count for capital for us anymore.
So, it's important that we take a look at them.
At the same time, we want to be very deliberate and careful in terms of how we
approach them. And so, we've been taking our time to work through what the possibilities
are there. And we're continuing to do that work now, so we haven't concluded on a
specific action. But we would expect to come back to that in a relatively short timeframe.
To the extent that we don't do anything with those securities, yes, we still have our capital
redeployment budget for this year. And so, that would imply a higher buyback. Now, last
year, at this time, we said that we were going to do a buyback. We weren't totally specific
on timing or size. We ended up buying back £300 million over the course of the summer.
It'd be natural for us to do something similar to that this year possibly with some liability
management. But it may be that we end up doing more in terms of a share buyback over
time.
And so, again, one of the things we're working through is, should we go ahead and launch
a program now and then extend it, increase it later? Or should we wait a little while and
Page 20 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

figure out what we're trying to do with the liability management before concluding that?
So, all of that is very actively under consideration, and I'd expect us to be able to come to
these conclusions relatively soon.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And on M&A, if we don't use that, as Tom said in his remarks, yeah, we need to deploy
capital. We're on the low end of the range. And so, we'd be looking to use that...

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Can we go to Ravi, please?

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. I have three questions, please. The first was just a
follow-up on the cash. In relation to Canada, obviously, you've guided to kind of lower
levels of remittances going forward. But you had, in the past, talked a bit about potentially
moving some of the Canadian business into the internal reinsurance mixer and that might
ease the flow. So, I was wondering if you could give us an update there, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly was just on the NA optimization progress you've made on the UK annuity
book and how much of the book has been shifted into a liquid asset versus the numbers
you've talked through previously, if you could give us some information there, please.
And the third was just on Aviva Investors. Obviously, the £4 billion of infrastructure that
you've referenced is quite a sizable figure. I was wondering if you could just elaborate a
little bit more about the plans there and where that could potentially get to. Thank you.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. So, on the use of the mixer in Canada, that's something that we're still working on,
something that we would like to do. I can't give you specifics in terms of timing because
we've got to work through the regulatory environment in the way that works, but that still
is a possibility for us which would improve our overall liquidity. I'd say that's not a must-do,
though. I mean, again, this is a temporary phenomenon in Canada. They should come
back, and we've got enough cash and liquidity right now. But it doesn't really change any
of our capital planning.

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

I'll pick up on the annuity side. So, we did £2 billion of bulk new business and £1.5 billion of
individual annuity new business last year. We also moved £650 million of the back book of
annuities into illiquid assets. So, £650 million move, giving £86 million, I think that's £86
million profit from that. We're now in a position that £25 billion of our £57 billion is in illiquid
assets, so that's 44%. We previously said we'd happily have over half in illiquid assets. So –
and I think the key point for me here is, if we can't originate new business at attractive
rates, we'll just use the assets on the back book. And hence, there's a pretty good check
and balance to be confident of the P&L growth and progress in the P&L and being
disciplined on new business pricing.
Page 21 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Euan, on the liquid?

FINAL

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Just on – there's a great alignment of our businesses here. And I'm having the opportunity
within Aviva Investors to build on illiquid asset business on the back of the demand from
the UK Life business. So, the £4 billion – just for your information, the £4 billion that we
originated in illiquid assets last year, around £3 billion went to the Aviva business and
about £1 billion went to third-party investors. And in the very long term, we anticipate that
that mix will change because, obviously, there's excessive – there's a greater demand at
the minute from the UK Life business.
So, we would intend to keep cranking up our origination capability. One big part of the
investment in the Aviva Investors is in that illiquid origination team because it's also an
ideal asset class for defined-benefit pension plans. And, obviously, if they're already
invested in those kinds of assets, we know they have appropriate assets before moving
into the bulk marketplace. So, if we're already in conversation with them, managing their
pension assets, there's a natural conveyor belt into the UK Life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And just a further addition on the liquidity point before. None of our plans – none of our
capital return plans are impacted by Canada. In fact, as we've realized, we've actually built
up quite a buffer in a number of subsidiaries in terms of capital and cash. And over the
next period of time, we'll look to bring a bit more of that up. But it's not the top of our
priority list right now because we have plenty of capital and cash at the group. So, it's just
not really a key issue for us.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Okay. Gordon Aitken, please? Hi, Gordon.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Good morning. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions. First, a follow-up on the rerisking of the annuity assets. Just maybe give us some numbers around that. So, what was
the blended yield on the annuity assets in – maybe in 2016. It's obviously improved in 2017.
If you do push to 50% illiquid, where could it get to?
Second point, on mortality, if you could comment on the 2017 CMI tables that were
released last week, and I know you say that tables are less important, it's all about the
calibration but – and you were more conservative there. I just wondered, looking forward,
have you got the calibration right now?
And the third point, on M&A, I mean, Aviva and Standard Life really for the last 20 years
have been the two big UK Life businesses by market share and that Standard Life
business was for sale at a relatively attractive price. Just wondering why that business

Page 22 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

wasn't appealing to you especially since you still have the expertise to manage heritage
businesses from the Friends deal. Thanks.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

You take the first. I'll take the...

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Well, on the asset yield on the annuity business, I don't think we actually disclosed that. I
don't know if you want to comment any further, but I don't think we provided that detail.

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The way to think about it going, we talked on existing book of annuities of our margin in
the range of 55 to 70 basis points. We were at 69 basis points of IFRS profit margin last
year. If you kind of work it through, basically, if we hadn't done any back book re-risking,
we would have been at 55 basis points, if you kind of take that £86 million off in your
models. So, the back book re-risking is the opportunity.
I mean, if we've got £25 billion of £57 billion in illiquids and we're happy to have over half, I
think you're going to do the math yourself. And last year, we did £650 million, got £86
million of profit from it. So, you can see the potential profit over a number of years that
we can generate here. I mean, the other observation I'd make is that we've got here one
of the key structural growth drivers in the UK. One of the reasons we like the U.K. market
is the structural growth from the DB to DC shift, the aging population and auto
enrollment.
So, our expectation is that the volume of assets coming out of DB into DC or bulk annuity
is going to grow significantly. And that's why we're confident that our 7% underlying
growth we delivered this year, we can sustain strong growth in the U.K. going forward.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. So, on mortality, let me take this as an opportunity to be a little bit more expansive
and talk about the three elements of mortality that we had because I'm sure others have
got questions around this. So, there were three things that we did. The first was around
anti-selection, where we've got a £170 million release. That actually is related to a
calculation we put in the prior year in 2016. We had some benefit in 2016, but we wanted
to be again careful and prudent. And so, all of that didn't flow through 2016. We allowed
that to have some more testing and seasoning. And as we go through the year, again, we
found out that our calculations proved out. So, you sort of don't have any choice and need
to release that. So, again, that's an example of sort of how we're managing period to
period.
I'd also comment, again, just generally that because we believe we're at the conservative
end of the spectrum in terms of longevity, when we are presented with new evidence
that suggests that our reserves are even more prudent, unless you don't have that much
latitude, we can't get to a point where we're unreasonably prudent to have sort of excess
Page 23 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

upon excess in terms of longevity. So, effectively, we've got to take that evidence and act
on it.

FINAL

So, if you go then to our mortality experience where we had a £200 million release this
year, what we do is we look at that over a number of years and we've got a rolling
average, looking at experience and how that auto affect our assumptions going forward.
2016, if you talk to the actuaries, looking at our book, was very heavy. And so as we
factored that in, we've actually reduced how much weighting we've put that in, in terms of
the averaging. So again, there's another element of prudence that we factored in even
though we've got a release. It could have been more if we're just on a straight rolling
average. And again, we're going to have to look at that experience going forward. And
again, that may be another one of the reasons why you see this continuing to develop
favorably in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, finally, we've moved to the CMI 2016 table. We're always trying to use the latest
information that we have time to really vet and parameterize properly. Here, as we've
looked at that translation and looked at the parameters, we've actually made those a bit
more conservative in terms of how we translate from the actual table to our underlying
assumptions. So all through that, yes, there are releases, but there's also a bit of
prudence. And as I said in my remarks, unless trends reverse if we continue to see
confirmation of these trends, it means we're going to have more excess prudence that
we're going to have to go ahead and release. And so if you look at CMI 2017, we haven't
analyzed that yet, but sort of the quick read suggests that it's confirming the trends that
we've been seeing, so we may be having this conversation again next year.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

We won't have a choice. And going on your last point in M&A, I'm not going to comment
on our competitors or their valuations. I'm not going to go there. But I can tell you it wasn't
on our radar. And we've spoken to a lot of investors and investors are saying to us, giving
us a very clear message, they're saying keep the strategy, keep the script, and that's
what we intend to do.
Now, keeping the strategy and keeping the script is – they're saying, quoting one, go out
and find treasure, but find treasure chest, not sunken galleons, if you know what I mean.
And so we are doing bolt-on acquisitions. We have a target this year for £600 million.
Now, could we use some debt in it? I guess we could. I'm not going to tie my hands totally
on that, but it's bolt-on acquisitions. We're sticking to script. I want a consistent message. I
actually want us to be boring or I just want us to grow EPS by greater than 5%, and I'm
going to grow dividend by more than that. It's not that complicated.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Jon, please?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Page 24 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Good morning. It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please.
First on Canada, could you give a little bit of color please in terms of where the rate
increases you put in through the book sit versus claims inflation? You've mentioned the
issues in motor, are you putting through more than 5% in motor? And what do you expect
to see in terms of claims inflation given the actions you're putting through in terms of
selection, et cetera? It's the first question.
And then, secondly, I'm assuming that the guidance you're giving for the Canadian
combined ratio doesn't assume any regulatory reform. And I think at the Investor Day in
Poland you were talking about potential regulatory reform. Can you talk about what the
time line on that is now, certainly it may or may not be?
And then just finally on Italy and the IFRS earnings, you called out the strain as being the
major driver for why the earnings were pretty much flat. The hybrid product, I just wonder
if you could talk a little bit about whether that's unusual given you had very high volume or
in a normal year is the strain on that product such that you should be able to grow the
earnings and the volume? Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Do you want to take the Italy one first and then we'll hand it over to Maurice on Canada?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. And then, Maurice, if you want to add on Italy as well. So on the hybrid
strength, there's nothing unusual about this. This is more just due to the volume that
we've got this year so we may see more strain in the future if we continue to have high
levels of growth. We don't dak (01:15:26) this product consistent with the way the Italian
regulatory environment works. So there may be similar strain issues in the future, but
we're sort of being long-term greedy here in terms of looking at the overall amount of
profit that we can generate from this business on more – on the sort of slower sales
levels this ought sort of work its way out. And then you'd see actually that future
profitability being enhanced and enhanced growth rates on more normal sales volumes.
Maurice?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Tom. Just a follow-on on Italy. So the hybrid product which you alluded to,
so first in the composition of that is actually 30% with product with a par guarantee and
70% unit-linked. And if you look at what's happened in Italy on the back of the recovery,
you've got a huge savings propensity. So we currently have some of the best flows, the
savings flows in Europe or in Italy.
So we had €2.7 billion of net flows last year. The year before that, we had €2.3 billion
flows. As Tom said, we don't dak (01:16:25) the associated cost and those flows are
accelerating. So I think we're feeling pretty good about the Italian results as we move
forward.

Page 25 of 31



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

So Canada, really three questions. So one is a comment on frequency, a comment on how
do I look at the current five points across major lines and let me talk a bit about auto
reform. So certainly on frequency, I think the one thing I'd – probably I'll add a little bit
more color, motor frequency across the world has been falling each of the last nine years.
Now, we've had a little bit of a blip in the last 12 to 18 months, which is due to distracted
driving. The problem here is that of claims management or claims farming. And so it's the
injury frequency. Now, that's driven by the lawyers and the third parties on the fear of
government reform.
So clearly, on rate, listen, if you take the rating environment in Canada, two things you
ought to know. In Ontario and Alberta, it's regulated motor. So we have to follow and wait
for approval. In Quebec, it's not. So they differ slightly. Clearly, we need to take more
rates in the two regulated lines because you have a lag between the time you file and the
time it gets approved. But we're also looking at property lines and taking excess rate. We
have a very strong property book, so we're taking rate there, and commercial lines across
the country are unregulated.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we're looking at the overall expected loss cost in our overall premium pool, and we're
taking rate where necessary. And we'll make the trade-off as need be from volume and
profit. The 1022 (01:17:48) in the recovery plan doesn't factor in a definitive date on when
we'll get regulatory reform. If we get regulatory reform, certainly that actually probably
accelerates the recovery.
So the biggest regulatory reform that we're looking at is on Ontario auto. So the
government released something called the Marshall Report. And effectively, without going
through the 300 pages of that Marshall Report, that the finding was that if you look at the
claims spend, 50% of the claims spend does not go to the injured person. It goes to all
the players in the system for report writing, for administrative costs, for all of these sort of
costs which actually don't go there.
What they've actually recommended in the Marshall Report is to put caps and limits on
different types of disabilities. It's no different than taking the whiplash abuse and saying,
you know what, we're going to go care, not cash, and get rid of sort of all of these sort of
practitioners.
Listen, I'd love to say that's going to come in at a certain point in time. We have a
government that's just about to go into election. But what's driving it's no different than
what we did in other jurisdictions. We're saying we need this for consumers who are
paying too much for motor insurance. Every government we talked to agrees when it gets
enacted, when it goes to the stakeholder engagement, and when it finally changes, that's
an additional lift that we don't have. Thank you.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Two final questions. Angel and then across to Andy Sinclair. Thanks.

Q - Angel Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}
Page 26 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Hi. Angel Kansagra, HSBC. Three questions, please. Firstly, on the capital generation, so
you have £1.7 billion of underlying capital generation which hasn't changed from last year.
What should we think about that in terms of future trajectory? And also on capital
generation there is other line which is negative £1.1 billion. Can you give us some more
details around what that was?
The second question is around the negative up to 2 points of impact on operating EPS
going forward, a tax impact which is in your outlook. Can you give us some more details of
where that is coming from?
And the third one is potential bolt-ons, M&A. So you mentioned that you would like to do
something in GI in Poland. What are the other areas you're considering? Would it be
Canada where you want to be a composite? Thank you.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. So on capital generation, the £1.7 billion number, I've said in the past that it could be
a little higher or lower from period to period. We're looking to invest in the business. And
so if we can find opportunities that may cause some short-term capital in order to
generate future benefits, given our capital position we want to keep planning those
seeds. But that's been relatively stable overall. And so I would expect it to be in the same
area.
Ultimately, we're trying to drive that number up. So I'd like to see that progressing north
of £2 billion over the next few years. In terms of the other negative, we've got some
diversification some other things that work out at the Group Center. So there's actually a
lot of detail there in terms of what some of that other negative is. I don't think we actually
provide all the detail there.
And lastly, let me come to the tax implications. Our tax rate this year benefited by some
non-recurring items where we've been able to use some tax attributes this year that
won't recur. So that could be a little bit of the negative for next year.
And then if you think about our mix of business, what really drives our tax rate is where we
get the profit from. And so Canada was down quite a lot this year. That's one of our
higher tax jurisdictions. If Canada is coming back up in the mix, you would expect that to
be a drag on the tax rates. So that's why we've guided to something a little bit higher than
where we were for this year.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And look, in the M&A, the answer to that it will depend. I mean, where I would like to do it
and where we can do it may not be the exact same answer because it would end –
because M&A, and I think you've seen we're being pretty ruthless on M&A both buying
and selling. The multiples we got for selling out of Spain were extraordinarily high, and the
multiple we got buying in Ireland was extraordinarily low. So I like that.

Page 27 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Where would I like to buy? I'd like to buy more in Poland. I'd like to buy more in Turkey.
Canada, I would certainly like Canada to be a competent business, but we're not going to
go and spend a whole lot of money making it like that. But we'll see what we can do.
Canada, we may look at things like bulks, which we could do relatively simply without
brand there as well.
So, I think you can assume two things. You can assume existing territories that would help
with scale. You can assume it needs to be accretive in a very short space of time or time
will tell anyway. You can assume we look at dozens for each one we actually get
interested in. And you can assume that we're not going to buy something just because it's
there unless you give it at the right price. So, I mean, pulling that together and it all
depends, but we will be a bit opportunistic. And, I think, we've got a pretty decent track
record of doing this as well.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Lets' finish up with Andy.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three from me, please. Firstly, on workplace
pensions, your probably number one competitor has effectively walked away and said it's
not really possible to make money in the administration of workplace pensions without
getting the asset management mandates as well. I just wondered if we could get your
views on that and probably, if you still think it's feasible to make money on administration?
Secondly, on Canada, I just wondered if you could tell us the profitability of the RBC book
over our full year 2017. And thirdly, I just wondered if you could give us an update on AIMS
flows and request for information now that we've got a bit of a pickup in volatility. Thanks.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I'm going to (01:23:32) our number one competitors. But, look, we have – I'll get Andy to
comment on this as well, but we have an advantage – a big advantage. We do have scale
across our book. And we have a pretty big scale advantage that we are using. We have a
balance sheet and a brand. And, Andy, do you want to pass, comment about it, not this is
a competitors better position?

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Sure. So, I mean, two comments I think I'd make. Of our £118 billion long-term saving
assets in the UK, £68 billion is workplace pensions and our margin on that book as a
whole is 25 bps. So, basically, we are profitable. It's the majority of that long-term savings
book.
I mean, I think the composite strategy comes in here though because what we find is
we're growing ahead of the markets, basically through the composite strategy. And if I
can give you a good example of that would be Pearson Group, where we actually started
off with our corporate pension scheme. We went from there to win their healthcare and
Page 28 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

then won the £600-million bulk annuity from them. Morrison Supermarkets, we started off
with their healthcare and moved from there to win their workplace pension scheme.
So, we're finding that in the large corporate market, the composite strategy is really
working well for us and it's why we're growing ahead of our competitors. So, that, coupled
with the scale. And then, also the digital capability, we've invested a lot in digital. And
while a lot of our focus has been on the sort of the new direct-sell side, it really is having a
big impact across all our businesses in basically bringing our administration costs lower,
and hence margins higher.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Canada?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

So, Canada, on the RBC transaction. Look, we're very, very happy with that transaction.
We think it's expanded our capabilities, and it's going to be a good deal for us over the
long run. In the short term, that's heavily an Ontario motor business. So, although, we're
not disclosing its profitability separately, you would expect it to be suffering from the
same market issues that the rest of our business is. So, we look at that as something
temporary that we've got to work through, and the long-term benefits of the transactions
still hold up quite well for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Just picking up on the AIMS flow point. And to give you some additional color, as you saw,
we put on £4 billion into the strategy last year. An actual fact, institutional flows were much
higher than that and retail flows were negative. And the rationale for that is quite simply
that when simple strategies like passive – owning passive equities or even simple balance
funds, when they're doing very well which they inevitably do well when the stock market is
going up, it's means that risk managed solutions where you're worrying about the
downside can look quite pedestrian. And there's no questions AIMS look like a pedestrianinvestment strategy last year.
The good thing about institutional investors is they understand that they want exposure to
the stock market. They shouldn't pay for it. They just go and buy exposure to the equity
market. So, they don't want to buy Vita. And the other thing is that when they're looking
for decent returns but they have capital constraints or risk constraints, they have to
choose among a small number of players who are offering that sort of proposition. And
we actually saw consultant ratings increase on AIMS and we saw flows from institutional
investors increased last year. And this year is a better environment. A lot of active
managers have wished for volatility publicly. And they know they've got it. They wish that
they hadn't.
AIMS is actually up. A very few multi-strategy funds are up this year. Equities are down. As
you know, the UK stock market down around 6% or so year-to-date with AIMS being up.
That's a much better environment for retail customers and, obviously, institutional
customers don't mind that either.
Page 29 of 31



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

So, I'm not going to give a forecast. Customers do assess performance over long-term
periods. And the AIMS performance has been disappointing for 18 months or so. So,
we've got the consultants and the institutional investors certainly on site. They still support
our investment strategy. It's a question of how attractive is the style of investing going to
be and that is a function of the markets.
One of the things I would say that is not understood is that if you want a simple balance
fund or a multi-asset fund or a diversified growth fund, we do them. The multi-asset funds
and Aviva Investors were up 8% last year. And AIMS is often compared with those funds.
So, do compare our multi-asset funds with other fund managers, balance funds and you'll
find we're actually pretty good at that as well.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

A - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Thank you, everyone. I'll hand it back to Mark to close the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

A nice add for Aviva Investors (01:28:29). Where we are as a Group? We're in a pretty
good place at the moment. So, you can see broad-based growth. I mean the question
that we've been asked a lot over the last couple of years is, where is the growth coming
from? I think we're sort of showing this. We're being far more specific on that this year.
And the interesting thing is that the strategies, the compass of how the strategy and the
digital part of the strategy are working, probably, yeah, there was – for me there was
really only two surprises. Most of the year went pretty much as it was meant to be.
Obviously, Canada was a disappointment. I'm sure we've all learned a lot about Canada
today.
But the other thing was what Andy was talking about in terms of the impact of the
composite digital strategy. Frankly, the consumer side, even though we passed the £1
billion mark, the consumer side took longer than we thought to get the propositions out,
but that's now gone pretty well. Where we outperformed and it made a significant
difference to the group was on the composite digital strategy particularly in the corporate
side.
You gave the example of Pearson, but there's actually many more and things like HSBC
and that partnership and others as well, that's where we've seen the traction perhaps a
bit earlier than we thought. And I think the UK composite digital model is a pretty good
blueprint for some of the other markets as well where we're getting the traction.
So, on that note, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure there'll be follow-up discussions with the
IR team. I know Tom, I and the team have a very big agenda. We can't get to Andy on the
next few days, but we'll do our best, and thanks for joining us.

Page 30 of 31



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Page 31 of 31

