Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Y 2017 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Anne Richards , Chief Executive Officer of M&G Investments and Deputy Chief
Executive, M&G Prudential
Barry Stowe , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, North American Business Unit
Chad Myers , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, North American
Business Unit
John Foley, Chief Executive of M&G Prudential
Mark FitzPatrick, Chief Financial Officer
Mike Wells , Group Chief Executive
Nic Nicandrou, Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia
Paul Chadwick Myers , Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President
Paul Manduca, Chairman
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Arjan Van Veen, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Greg Mason, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Presentation
Paul Manduca
Good morning, and thank you for joining us for this results briefing. As you all have seen,
the Board's announced today, our intention to demerge M&G Prudential, our UK and
European business from the Group. We've been clear for sometime about the
importance of creating optionality within our corporate structure. After a rigorous review,
we've now decided to exercise one of those options in the interest of both businesses
and of all our stakeholders.

Page 1 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

As a standalone business, M&G Prudential has strong capabilities in the growing savings
and wealth management marketplace. It will be focused on outperforming its UK and
European competitors and will no longer compete internally with our businesses in Asia
and the US. Following the demerger, Prudential PLC will focus on the opportunities we
have in the two largest insurance markets in the world meeting the needs of the fastgrowing middle class Asian community and Americans approaching retirement. We're also
enthusiastic about the progress we're making in Africa. The two independent groups will
be headquartered in London, which we regard as the preeminent city from which to
operate global financial service businesses. We would expect both to be members of the
FTSE 100. The Board believes this demerger is in the best long-term interest of all our
stakeholders. Customers will receive greater focus, employees will be more closely
aligned with their businesses, and we are confident that this demerger will create market
value. Today's strong full year results demonstrate the positive momentum across all our
businesses.
With that, I'll hand over to Mike, who will talk you through our results and provide some
insight into the proposed demerger. Thank you.

Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Chairman. Well, good morning everybody. You had a slightly quieter morning
than I've had. It's been an interesting set of results to try and prepare a summary for you
today. I think one of the comments that a number of you have said earlier is an awful lot in
this pack. And there's a couple of takeaways. We are going to do our best to get through
that as always we'll stay and answer any questions you have on a variety of topics and
metrics and things are to report in this.
I want to start at the -- if I may at the top, if you look at the scale of what was done last
year, so another incredibly strong record year of earnings. The combination of M&G
improved successfully, some of the businesses we've increased stakes and decreased
stakes in and all of the various dynamics. I said to a number of you when I first took this
role that one of the things people underestimated about this Group is its bandwidth, its
capability. And I hope one of the things you'll takeaway from the just sheer amount of
materials it's in here and completed projects and work streams in here as the folks in this
front couple of rows even back at third row is -- are capable of producing a tremendous
amount for you as shareholders and I certainly owe them my thanks. So another strong
set of broad good financials.
To start on, if we could -- actually I'll take this. All the key metrics, so new business profits,
cash, embedded value, earnings, dividend, capital, all right. Embedded in that is the focus
on quality of earnings, health and protection focus, Asia, you have IFRS up 15 in Asia,
health and protection up 26, the US, the increase in the fee level, the UK record net flows
into M&G at over 17 billion and with-profits fund as well as 9 IFRS earnings up 10 and the
M&G Prudential dividend paid and again all of this while maintaining a very robust solvency
level.
So very pleased with the strength and breadth of the financials and some of the
optionality we'll talk about later today simply comes from the fact that we have the
Page 2 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

strength to do this from and that we're doing this from businesses that are all working
well that we're not solving for anything as we get to some of the more strategic
conversations today.
Not to be lost in our discussion, all of the 2017 objectives have been achieved. We go
back to the -- I gave my 23 years, so we ran three sets of objectives over time to Asia
primarily with some good metrics in them, but I think it was fair to say they were to
demonstrate proof of concept. At various points, there was tremendous debate about
the resilience and validity even of our Asian assumptions. I'll date myself with this number,
but when I started in 1985, the IFRS earnings in Asia were 11 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So yes, I've been here that long and they have done that good at job both
reasonable takeaways from that, but it is incredible, the job these -- the teams have done
and the resilience and the percentage of that earnings now that's recurring regular
premium, health and protection focus lately, but that recurring earnings stream over less
dependence on new sales, more dependence on us doing the right thing to the existing
clients, giving us cohort after cohort our profitability for our shareholders.
While Asia was growing, while they're meeting those objectives, you also saw material
changes active management of the portfolio. So that's everything from the businesses we
chose to exit, business markets and products we chose to exit, to businesses we
entered, new marketplaces. In this period of time, you have, you have Laos, you have
Cambodia, you have our African expansion, you have product expansion, new distribution
relationships, all taking place. So this wasn't just to chase a handful of public metrics sort
of exercise. The overall quality and capability of the businesses improved throughout this
period of time and again put us in a position capability-wise, not just financially, that we
can do things that we couldn't do in 2012.
And as I travel a region, it is very clear, some of the capabilities that the Group has that
are new, some of the stuff that's emerging in the sense that it is more forward looking,
it's yet to hit scale and some of the things that are actually benefits of scale, all coming
through. So tremendous financial metrics, but also I appreciate if you looked at some of
the other attributes that are included in the automation there at the top, 90% of the
applications now are auto process, 50% under auto written,we've entire markets now or
the entire China as Nick highlighted in November where almost the entire process is
digital. We are getting better and better and better what we do each year.
Structurally, if we go back a decade, the Group mix and its scale has evolved. So if you go
back to 2017, embedded value of the Group was about 15 billion and half of that was the
UK. You bring that forward to this year, the embedded value is 45 billion and 72% of that is
international. So, the nature, currency, kind of earnings, what those earnings react to and
all of that has changed. So, we're looking at some of the strategic decisions. This is one of
the lenses. It's not just the absolute scale that these businesses -- the interdependence
financially has reduced, but it's the -- what attributes do they share, what capabilities they
have has changed and from a market point of view how we look at the Group is nothing
more than a reflection of what the Group has actually become and then a view of what we
think the next 10 years out looks like.

Page 3 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

So if you all have your own various views of that, but if you take this out another decade,
the international component if left alone would be even larger, right, and we'd be having
a very different conversation about structure. So we've been very active managers
through this period of time of the portfolio. Again, we've entered next of markets,
entered next of products, distribution channels, sold non-core businesses, okay, deemphasized businesses. So this has not been a run it for top-line decade, this has been
improve the quality of earnings, improve the resilience, improve the recurring earnings,
and I think that comes across in our performance.
But now we're in a situation where both the UK and the international business have scale, I
think, by any attributes, which brings us to the announcement of the demerger. So what
are we trying to achieve? One, better alignment. If you think at the time, you'll see the
capital reallocation -- you see capital allocation and alignment, you see resource allocation
that we want the people's focus, the government's focus on the markets that are closer
to the consumers and where they are, okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

The amount of time that John and Anne spent on the PLC Board, okay, would be spent
100% on a UK European spent -- focus Board, all right, just a simple example. The choice
is on how we allocate capital, right now, the UK competes internally, as it should, okay, for
opportunities we have around the globe, okay, those may or may not be higher rates of
return than we get in the UK and those again -- returns may have different characteristics
and how they react to the pound or news here or news in emerging markets or news in
the US or political news, anywhere now, it seems to be endless.
Those factors all are changing. So what we know is PRU -- M&G Prudential is large enough
to compete domestically with any firm in its space, it has the breadth of product,
capability, management team, technology, it's got everything it needs to succeed
domestically. The value of being part of the Group that the Group brings to it is
diminishing. So we look at the strategy, you look out and say, are we the logical owner?
The conclusion of the Board is maybe now but certainly not over the next decade, okay,
so this is the right time for us to do this, right decision, right timing, and we think it'll unlock
benefit for all of our stakeholders.
What you will have? A shareholder today will have the same economic interest if they do
nothing and just hold the two shares when the demerger takes place, you'll have one as
the Chairman said FTSE listed, Prudential PLC, which will focus on United States, Asia and
Africa. And you'll have one share of M&G Prudential which will be a national champion on
the savings and retirement space, investments space here in the UK and Europe, okay.
So no -- if an investor said, I want to keep what I have, you can. The choice goes back to
the owners of the company and how they want to allocate their capital between the two
businesses, and what they think is the right mix or if they want to do absolutely nothing,
okay. It's -- the ability it is the dividend policy in the interim remains unchanged and we
cannot comment on the dividend policy of a future entity that doesn't have its Board in
place, let's be very clear, that's not our gift, but the divestiture itself doesn't affect the
dividend capability of the firm in either structure.

Page 4 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

So it's not an economic decision, I got asked earlier a couple of times today, what's the
dividend policy going forward? We're only responsible for dividend policy of the entities
we govern. So until that's done, obviously there is -- that's up to the new Board. But both
entities should be competitive in their marketplaces on all financial metrics.
What stays the same? Same risk, same governance, both based here, both
headquartered here, again listed here, primary listings, we believe in the metrics that
FTSE 100 included. So from an index point of view, they'd still be in the FTSE 100, from a
execution point of view, from a tools point of view, it's the same people, okay, it's the
same culture, it's the same execution that you're seeing today, this is -- they've just split
into two teams.

Bloomberg Transcript

So all of those things that produce the results, that got these businesses here remain
intact. And that includes a risk management governance, all of the elements that control
the quality of those earnings, quality of those sales. So we think it's a great combination of
changing the piece. It gives greatest optionality and greatest benefit to our stakeholders
and keeping in place the piece that produces the most consistent results and most
consistent outcomes again for the same stakeholders.
So what is M&G Prudential space? Where is it going to go? Well, we envision as a marketleading savings and investment business and again delivering very attractive returns on
equity, its ambitions are clearly to take some of the things that are working well in M&G, in
Asia some of the things that are working well, with the UK life side with M&G already
there's already work streams in place to share distribution. There is work streams in place
to share the digital platforms. We've taken the investment that shareholders made last
year and I'll give you some update on this in a second, but the progress made is towards
a single model not two as we committed to you, all right, so there are synergies coming
out of that, and the marketplace, from a consumer and institutional point of view, has not
only accepted the logic of the business model, but it's embraced it. You see that on the
strong financial performance, you see that on the net flows and you see that on the
operating income.
We did not lose clients because we merged the entities, we did not lose mandates, okay,
the both sides of the house had record flows and as a percentage of flows in the market,
tremendous market share. So we think this is working and we think it's a unique set of
portfolio skills, a unique set of balance sheet products and unique set of with-profits
products that the business brings to bear.
And again benchmarks nicely against competitors. Those flows in particular, you see on
the M&G side, on the left here, 17 billion in net flows and on the PRU Fund a record 9
billion of net flows combining with the expense management and all of the upgrades in
technology and operational models are doing net at a 10% increase in operating profit for
the year. So headline numbers are great, performance for the consumers, institutional and
retail have been excellent, 90% of the institutional products that M&G has now, their
three-year return is over the median with their sectors. These businesses are performing
well, they are not distracted, okay, it's business as usual while they're getting integrated
and while they're finding synergies as we committed to they would and the outcomes are
measurable.
Page 5 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

So a quick update on the merger and transformation progress. So we committed to 145
million of shareholder cost reductions at the end of the program, that is on track. You've
seen the combination of shared services, we've announced the TCS project where
they've replaced Capita and we're working on that transition, this is technology that is
available now up and running, agile, the kinds of tools that we want in the business
immediately, it's also consumer facing service capability that we want to upgrade and can
very, very quickly with their capabilities.
M&G is ready for Brexit regardless of the shape, the SICAV platforms we did up in
Luxembourg were -- almost everything we need done there is complete, there is one
minor project left, I don't want to put too much pressure on the team there, it'd done by
later today, but it's coming soon. But we are in a position for anything the political
environment can throw at us within reason on that front.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we said before, the Group's not particularly sensitive to Brexit, but we were sensitive
to M&G's relationship with European clients and distributors and so we have addressed
that with fund structures. And then, now we're seeing the teams work together on what
more can we do what more -- what are the synergies and distribution and relationships,
what do your clients think of the products that are held more broadly by what was the
other side of the house before, I mean, some very good progress there and that's just
going live now.
And then finally as a very early this morning, the $12 billion annuity transfer to Rothesay. It's
part of a larger capital management transition, if you will, we committed to you to get to
met the actively manage the capital on the balance sheet, particularly in PRU UK. So you
have the -- we're announcing today the 12 billion transfer the part of the back book to
Rothesay. So that's a reduction in credit risk immediately. We also are moving Hong Kong,
which was originally discussed with you as a -- it will be earned out, we're pulling that
project forward instead of an earnout, we'll transfer it, we think through the middle of
next year is the current time-frame.
And then the last piece on the Rothesay transaction will be the Part VII, the full transfer,
and that is subject to court approval. So we anticipate from the current information we
have and again this is outside of our gift that, that will occur sometime late 2019. So when
you're looking at milestones and what do we need to do, to be ready for demerger, it is
not a set date on the calendar, it's complete the work here that produces independent
balance sheets, strong balance sheets, well capitalized firms, and then we'll go off, rather
the half-year or full year results that follow that, so we don't incur additional shareholder
expense for the demerger.
So -- and the backbook transaction with Rothesay released a little over a billion in capital
and that's going to be retained in the Group to maintain the structural and strategic
flexibility we're talking about here today. So the international business, so we're well
positioned, we think to lead in the markets that, that entities will compete in. Most
interesting stat came out of the work going into this was Asia now has a million people a
month entering the working population, okay. So we've looked at the demographics in
Asia multiple ways, but we as successful as the team is there, we've shown you this last
year as successful as our market positions are, as well received the products are, the
Page 6 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

demand, the structural elements are still growing as fast as we can produce solutions and
distribution to address them. So, we think the structural demands in Asia remain unique,
there is a variety of different ways to measure it, but we think it still has tremendous
upside and obviously we want to capture that, and we think the new structure better
aligns us for that, focus its execution and should create value for everyone.
The US as well, you've more clarity now on DOL, you have more clarity on the shape of
the marketplace and who distributors want as partners, to access capabilities are up in
that space, they've already launched fee-based product, they've got over 100 firms, we'll
come back to that in a second, but they're learning how to be effective wholesalers of a
different product, a different structure in a different space. So, they're very well positioned
to compete and I'll come back to some of the dynamics on them in a second.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to give you a slightly different look at the success in Asia. So we've talked about
number of countries where we're top three, nine -- eight countries with double-digit
growth. You've seen that before. But here is the different cut on the actual size, the
absolute size of the businesses we have in Asia now. And this goes back to scale and this
goes back to -- we do compete with new competitors, their ambitions in Asia are X
amount of countries versus necessarily profit per country and things and that can be
challenging and it's one of the many things the local teams have dealt with for, as long as
I've been here.
But I thought this was a really good cut at what you own in Asia. So there are -- the sheer
size of these businesses now, as individual entities, continues to grow, continues to grow
profitably, the focus on the team is on profit, it is not on top-line, they are limited in some
of the products that they -- we won't let them compete with, and it can vary by market
based on the irrational behavior of competitors or the credit risk we perceive there or the
capital intensity or all of the above.
But we think the quality of the earnings we have in these businesses continues to improve
as do other key metrics around it, but the absolute scale of them, I think, is something the
team there needs to be very proud of and then of course as you would expect new
business profits of 2.4 billion, the IFRS operating profits up 15, the free surplus generation
we just keep adding profitable cohort after cohort after cohort to this business. And that's
the right way for us to build it.
You see the new business profit number, health and protection up 26%, it was great
metric for the team and then again the margins continue to stay healthy, but there is a
quite effective utilization of the brand, there's a much more learning cross-border as
these business gets bigger there. If you almost went down the size of these businesses,
the issues that the CEOs and their teams deal with get more similar. And so the
relationships and the sharing gets more enthusiastic and Nick and the team have done a
very good job now in each successive management teams bringing a slightly different
style to it and getting in to more closer and closer together and share more and more as
these businesses get more mature.

Page 7 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

One more Asia demographic slide. Just another -- just why health and protection? Upper
right hand corner, there is no material change in the amount of money that Asian
consumers are spending out of pocket if anything, it's up. In my travels there, it is
generally one of people's very -- it's one of the earliest conversations they bring up on
personal concerns and education tends to be the second for family members and so the
changing demographics in the markets we're in is driving a lot of that, if you're in Mainland
China, the one-by-product -- the one child policy is a young couple is concerned about
helping fund retirement for four adults and that's true in multiple other markets where
historically that family was the retirement plan.
So there is quite a focus by the parents and the working children on the liability of that
model and how you fund that, we get, it's -- we're in front of social need consumer
demand and aligned with political and regulatory models with the products and services
we're bringing in, you see that in a variety of markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the working age piece, we just talked about the number of people entering the
market. Penetration stays low. On the upper end of the market, you are seeing a very,
very fast growth in -- and you hear this from competitors that own advice platforms there
in wealth management, in wealth solutions, as the consumers there get more
sophisticated as in every market. They're looking for ways to diversify, participate in
markets globally and we have East Spring well positioned to capture that, but it is -- the
pace of that market and the resources being thrown at it by banks and advisory firms is
dramatic and we intend to play a material role in that than we have to-date.
Shifting to the US for a second. So, the US success can be summed up, so the 2017 was
again another great year for the US business. It was a great year if you are consumer and
you own the product, again you own the top performing product in the industry, okay, the
volatility and everything that went on in the market in the early year, your short-term wall
and all that dramatic stuff as in the headlines, there was a few political headlines in the US
last year. These consumers know that when they got to retire, they have X amount of
income coming. And it is no different than with-profits client in the UK, looking to smooth
the edges on the market. Now that said, the amount of exposure, the amount of -- the
value of the guarantee, if you will, to our consumers from their market positions, the value
of their accounts has never been lower, because their accounts have done very, very well.
They have participated in the market.
Remember, these weren't forced allocation models, these were not well controlled
models, okay. These consumers got to own the underlying funds of some of the top
asset managers in the United States, they participated about 70-30 in equities,
disproportionally value funds, with very good fund managers, again actively selected,
actively added and deleted based on performance, okay. And the balance of it is in bonds
and guaranteed funds, and they've got a very good return relative to market and they
own the product for accumulation until it's time to retire exactly as it was designed to
perform. Okay.
So with that, with a quality of product, you get some very good outcomes. You got a
profitable business that generates a lot of cash. I know there's been a lot of discussion
about competing models in the US and for those of you that haven't been sitting here a
Page 8 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

long time, we never believed in the GMIB product, we never believed in some of the
distribution models competitors took, we took a lot of heat from that for a number of
years, because we wouldn't do it, okay, and the difference is, you own a company that's
produced 4.4 billion in cash to the center which by any public metric I can get is more than
all of our competitors combined. Okay.
So it is a very differentiated company than some of the other firms that it competes with.
It isn't there aren't good competitors in the space, but this is the best competitor in the
space. Okay. So what is that position -- how does that position it for what's coming? Well,
if you're consumer, you have the best return, if you're an adviser, it also is rated highest in
service including the mutual fund companies in the United States, so your reputation for
service, the time you spend, interacting with your clients, because there Jackson is
appropriate, okay, that matters to advisers, they hate service issues and companies, it's
performed as they suggested it would, so we have trust with advisers, it also has the toprated wholesaling teams, the support for the advisers in the United States, okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Well that's good and that's retroactive and it's measurement, quite matters is as the
landscape is changing and the emergence of the fee-based products and emergence of
a post DOL platforms where a brokerage firm has to decide who are they going to invest
millions with, the link-up technology wise with the company, one, they've got to believe,
the fund firms committed, they've got to believe they have the technology in the other
side, and they got to believe they can actually add enough value to warranty investment
and manage the risk in a way that won't damage the reputation of the firm.
Okay, the product approvals now and some of these firms go all way out to the general
counsel's office, it's no longer a head of insurance or a head of asset management that
makes the call. So Jackson's reputation, historic success, client orientation, wholesaling
capability, technology, suddenly put it at the front of the pack, if you're running a
brokerage firm and saying whom I going to put on my new post DOL platform, okay.
Now, we will manage capacity on that as we have managed risk exposure on that as we
have and everything else in Jackson, so we can't be everybody's product, it's a little
different structure that way. But that's a capability the firm has as well. So Jackson is
incredibly well positioned to deliver on where the US business is going, has a very
profitable existing backbook and again very happy clients, they're staying longer than we
thought, depending on the accounting metric that's good or bad, on an economic basis,
it's only good, these are very profitable relationships for them and for us.
All right. I'll mark it up here in just a second. So I've argued, what I think since I took this
role and some of you before that, I think this is the fairest cut to look at us, at any point in
time and ensure just because of the nature of our business and some of the accounting
can move one of these needles for a period of time if they choose to, pretty hard to
move all of them consistently, and again, I think this is the best report card on the Group. I
think it shows the growth is not only in earnings but it's future earnings, it's also in cash,
and that should translate too and it has a consistent growing dividend. So again, today we
announced an 8% increase in our dividend, it's well supported and we think from again, if
you own the shares well, if you go back to 2006, it's 8 billion now in distributed dividends,

Page 9 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

it's a high-quality dividend, it's a highly predictable dividend. And I think that's -- it should
rate as a -- at the upper end of its peers. There is a lot to go through today.

FINAL

And I think with your indulgence, I will hand it over to Mark and then I'll come back
afterwards for Q&A. And again, we will bring the whole team up here and go through any
part of those materials you want at the end of Mark's presentation. Mark?

Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon to you all. It is understandable, of course, that our
strategic announcement today has drawn most of the interest, but hopefully not to the
complete exclusion of our financial performance in 2017. This set of results adds another
period in a long established trend of growth in scale and in quality. This really underlines
that we begin the M&G Prudential demerger process from a position of strength right
across all our businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this in mind, I will cover three main areas: First an overview of the key financial
highlights; second, a more detailed look at each of our major metrics and the drivers of
the performance in the year; and third, I will provide some financial commentary on our
plans to demerge M&G Prudential.
So starting with the overview of the Group's financial performance for 2017. We have
delivered good financial progress with increases across our main profit metrics alongside
higher levels of cash remittances and 8% growth in the ordinary dividend. Our
performance has been led by continued positive momentum in Asia, although all of our
businesses have made healthy contributions with asset management in particular having a
standout year.
Turning to our key operating metrics, IFRS operating profit increased by 6% to 4.699
billion, new business profit was 12% higher at 3.616 billion, and free surplus generation at
3.64 billion on a headline basis and was up by 9% on an underlying basis before variances.
Throughout the year, we have continued to enhance the mix of our businesses by
growing fastest in the products, geographies, and channels that offer attractive and
sustainable returns through efficient allocation of capital. This continues an established
progression that speaks to the absolute and the relative strength of our products and
distribution platforms in our chosen market segments and the disciplined focus with which
we execute our strategy.
Our fee-based businesses have also benefited from favorable investment market
performance, delivering good outcomes for both our customers and our shareholders as I
will reference in due course. Currency effects have added between 3 to 5 percentage
points to reported growth rates in 2017 although with sterling strengthening over the year
this is likely to reverse in 2018 based on current spot rates. As in previous years, we
continue to reference constant currency movements as a better indication of the
underlying financial progress of the Group. Our healthy balance sheet and Solvency II
surplus remains key to our ability to successfully absorb movements in macroeconomic
and other external factors.

Page 10 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Moving on to each of our key metrics in turn, starting with IFRS operating profit, up 6% to
4.699 billion. Now the trends here are consistent with those I flagged you at the half-year
stage, in particular, those are that, one, Asia remains the fastest growing part of our
business; two, that each of our businesses in Asia, US and UK and Europe have delivered
growth in earnings across both life and asset management; and three, that consistent
with our strategy, in the areas that we are looking to grow, we are growing. As you can
see on the right hand side of the slide, the largest contributions to IFRS growth are
coming from our Asia businesses followed by Jackson's US fee earnings on variable
annuity business and a significant uplift in the underlying profit from M&G Prudential.
These operations underpin the Group results for 2017 and remain the focus of our growth
ambitions and capital investment. We have also indicated in the past that there are some
areas that we expect to contribute less in 2017. These include the spread-based earnings
in the US, where reinvestment yields remain below the portfolio return.

Bloomberg Transcript

Outside the business unit results, operating profits also include the investment we have
made in systems to improve our capabilities across the Group. The costs related to M&G
Prudential's merger and transformation we announced in August and higher interest costs
from the debt issued in 2016. So overall, another good year of profitable growth, based
on superior strategic positioning, disciplined execution and a very distinctive and attractive
mix of earnings.
Turning now to the IFRS performance of each of our business units, starting with Asia.
Both insurance and asset management have contributed to a strong result with growth of
15% and 18%, respectively, highlighting the positive momentum across our regional
portfolio of 26 businesses. Fundamental to our progress across our life insurance platform
is our continued focus on higher quality earnings. This is evident through the compounding
benefits of the growing renewal premium base and a clear preference for insurance risk
by writing health and protection business.
On both of these metrics, we have achieved growth of over 20% in 2017, which drives the
overall result. It is by continuously improving our scale and enhancing our business mix that
we are able to show such broad and repeated levels of growth replicated across country,
channel and product. In asset management, East Spring has had another good year. The
18% earnings growth reflects a significantly higher asset base, which was up 20% on an
average basis due to net inflows and positive markets. Although this was partially
moderated by slightly less favorable mix of client AUM, as you can see in the slight
reduction in revenue margin, the overall result benefited from a stable cost-to-income
ratio, and a healthy contribution of GBP17 million from performance fees. With combined
IFRS profit of 1.975 billion in 2017, our Asia businesses have exceeded their 2017 objectives
and continue to generate high levels of growth with increasing quality and breadth.
In the US, the accumulation of variable annuity assets continues to drive Jackson's
earnings. Average separate account assets increased by 17% to GBP125 billion, primarily
due to strong investment performance consistent with the rise of the US and international
equity markets in 2017 and another year of positive net flows. The remuneration choices
of our commission based distribution partners continue to move away from upfront
structures towards trail. As a result, the level of separate account assets under
Page 11 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

management is expected to have an increasingly direct relationship with trail commission
costs. Currently, roughly 40% of our commission base VA is on trail basis. However,
excluding these commissions, Jackson continues to lead the industry on administration
expense efficiency, highlighting our cost discipline and lean operating platform.
Overall, fee-based earnings increased by 12% to 1.788 billion. Earnings from spread-based
business decreased by 6%, reflecting the impact of the anticipated reduction in spread
margins. This move down in spreads is due to both lower reinvestment yields and lower
positive contribution from duration management swaps as they continue to roll-off.
We would expect these trends to persist, although continued upward movements in US
yields may help to reduce the speed of the decline. The recent US tax reforms are
relevant for all of our major financial measures, but do not fall evenly across years or
reporting metrics. So to help you, I'll try to summarize the major impacts together on this
one slide. These changes are ultimately positive for Jackson as they should result in
higher levels of retained earnings and capital generation, all else being equal.

Bloomberg Transcript

The 2017 year-end balance sheet impacts primarily relate to a lower level of deferred tax
assets. So for IFRS, this reflects a lower corporate tax rates on the net DTA balance. For
EEV, the reduction in DTA is outweighed by the positive effects of the more favorable tax
rate on future profits. And on Jackson's statutory capital position, the impact at the yearend includes a combination of DTA calculated at the lower tax rate and the removal of the
carry back of net operating losses previously allowed.
Notwithstanding this, Jackson's obviously remains in excess of 400%. The stated yearend statutory capital position does not take into account any estimates of the impact of
required capital as at this stage the NAIC is yet to make public how it intends to
incorporate tax reform into its assessment of capital. We expect a period of engagement
between the NAIC and the industry to follow over the coming months, likely incorporating
some of the other outstanding reform areas such as the C1 asset risk charges. We will of
course participate fully in these discussions and update you once this position is clearer.
Going forward, we expect Jackson's effective tax rate to improve by roughly 10% from
around 28% to approximately 18%. This decline in ETR incorporates new headline
corporate tax rate of 21% and the continued benefit from the DRD which is worth about
another 3 percentage points under the new tax regime. At a Group level, we expect the
effective tax rate rolls a benefit and reduced of around 16% to 18% going forward. This
lower effective tax rate will be beneficial for earnings and capital generation over the long
term.
In the UK, our newly combined businesses have delivered a very encouraging
performance with IFRS up 10% overall to 1.378 billion emphasizing the benefits of its scale,
distinctive investment capabilities and well seasoned in force life portfolio. M&G Prudential
continues to work towards this transformation to a modern savings and investment
business and is on track to deliver the 145 million annual savings we set up in August.

Page 12 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

In life insurance, core earnings remained in line with our expectations at around 600
million per annum with the 7% increase in the transfer from with-profits offsetting lower inforce annuity profits, following longevity reinsurance transactions in 2016 and 2017.
The higher transfer from with-profits includes a rising contribution from PruFund business,
which now accounts for 15% of the total at 42 million compared with 10% in 2016. Given
the fast growing scale of the PruFund assets, we expected to become increasingly
material to the UK result. Other movements in the life result are slightly higher overall than
in 2016 and these comprised three main elements: First, a lower level of contribution from
management actions as I flagged at the half-year stage; second, a one-off impact of 204
million as a result of moving the basis of our longevity assumptions from CMI '14 mortality
tables to CMI '15'; and finally, an increase of GBP225 million in the provision we set aside
for the review of past annuity sales following confirmation from the FCA on the approach
for assessing the cost of redress. Our provisions does not include the benefit of potential
insurance recoveries of up to GBP175 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

In asset management, M&G has had a great year with external net inflows of 17 billion at
record levels and external AUM finishing the year up 20% at GBP164 billion. IFRS operating
profit has moved up with these underlying drivers, benefiting from higher revenue, a small
improvement in the cost-to-income ratio and higher performance management fees of
GBP53 million.
We have seen good results in both retail business where Europe continues to lead our
progress and in institutional where we retain a healthy pipeline of future capital
commitments on top of the net inflows that exceeded 6 billion in 2017. With this
performance and a positive outlook, M&G Prudential is well positioned for the ongoing
transformation process and to begin the path to demerger.
Moving to the rest of the P&L account and covering the remaining items outside the
business units results.
I've included within IFRS operating profit there are three main items to note: Firstly, the
additional restructuring costs of GBP44 million relating to the M&G Prudential merger and
transformation program; secondly, the GBP50 million cost of implementing the Aladdin
platform across the Group; and thirdly, the additional interest costs of GBP65 million
related to debt issued during 2016 together with currency effects.
Within the non-operating result, investment variances primarily relate to negative marks
on derivatives used to protect against downside equity market risk in the US VA portfolio.
These are in line with expectations, given the appreciation in equity markets and
consistent with the movements we saw in the half year.
On an EEV basis, the positive offset of higher future fees from higher account values
results in an overall gain, which is a better indication of the full economic effects. 2018 has
been a more volatile year in the investments market so far. Throughout this period, our
hedging program has performed as expected generating positive, below the line
movement at the low point of the S&P. And we have no reason to change our approach in
Page 13 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

light of these recent market fluctuations. Including the impact of tax reforms already
discussed, the gain on the sale of our US broker-dealer NPH, currency effects on sterling
strengthening and the dividend payments in the year, shareholder funds has increased by
10% on a IFRS basis and by 15% to 44.7 billion on an EEV basis driven by operating returns.
Moving now to new business, new business profits increased 12% to 3.616 billion with a
broad mix of growth across each of our businesses. This was higher than the 6% increase
in APE sales and includes the benefit of continued improvement in Asia's mix towards
better quality business with higher returns. As I flagged at the nine month stage, the
tailwind seen earlier in the year from the rising yields was no longer a significant
contributing factor in the rate of growth by the year end, although the higher level of
yields remain a positive for the overall economics of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Asia NBP has increased by 12% with health and protection contributing growth of 26% as
we continue to pivot the business towards protection income, in line with our strategic
focus. In Hong Kong NBP was 8% higher and outside Hong Kong, NBP was up 20% and
both agency and bank assurance channels recorded double-digit growth. Reflecting the
progress we have made in this regard, the economics of the new business we wrote in
2017 are at their highest level ever. So behind the sales performance remains our focus on
improving quality and economic returns, attributes that we continue to emphasize across
the business.
In the US, sales were largely unchanged on the prior year with growth in NBP mainly the
result of the lower assumed tax rate on future cash flows. Jackson continues to make
good progress to position for the growth opportunities in the advisory market, building
fee-based platform arrangements with many of its major distribution partners. New
business from these sources remains low by comparison to the traditional commission
based business, but is accelerating and we are encouraged by the early progress made
to date.
In the UK, new business trends remain favorable with stable economics and sales driven
by individual pensions and income draw-down within the retirement account wrapper,
which now stands for 81% of APE in these segments. The success of this business means
that sales through the retirement account are nearly 2.5 times the peak volumes of retail
annuities, that we wrote in 2008. This demonstrates clearly the strength of our product
proposition and the ability to adapt to external change and to capture the opportunity
that this brings. How and where we invest our capital and how we manage that business,
ones it's on our books has a direct correlation to the conversion of in force value into cash
and capital generation.
To capture the underlying progress of (inaudible) the expected return from the in-force
life portfolios and the contribution from the asset management businesses. This highlights
that each of our businesses had generated growing contributions as expected, given the
growth in the life portfolio and the stronger year for our asset management operations.
After investment in new business, the underlying movement in 2017 before variances and
restructuring costs, was an increase of 9% compared to 2016.

Page 14 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Moving to the breakout boxes on the right, contributions from assumptions and
experience variances were in line with 2016, after adjusting for the one-off contribution
from the contingent reserve financing in our US business in 2016. We continue to reinvest
a significant proportion of our free surplus in new business, given the returns and growth
potential that are superior marketing position and capabilities provide. Asia remains the
primary destination of our new business investment, accounting for over half the total in
2017, reflecting the relative scale of the opportunities there.
In the box on the lower right of the slide, you can see the increased investment in the UK
and Europe, this is primarily due to the higher level of new business within the period and
remains highly efficient, given the attractive returns available. Under Solvency II, this
includes an amount that relates to the with-profits business, reflecting shareholders
participation in the downside scenarios of some 1/200 stress events at current interest
levels. In the context of PruFund having gross inflows of 11.8 billion this year, this is a
fraction of what would be incurred in writing new annuities with the payback that is over
three times faster and returns that are over four times higher. The benefit of the recent
strength in PruFund flows is now starting to emerge more significantly in earnings, as I
covered earlier and validates our strategy to prioritize growth in this area.
My next slide shows how cash and capital generation moves through to central cash, the
strength of the organic capital generation comfortably funds new business strain with the
majority of what remains remitted as cash from the life operations to the Group and the
balance used to reinforce the capital position of our local businesses as they continue to
grow to scale. The chart on the right shows how cash remittances of 1.361 billion from life
operations and 427 million from asset management, we used to cover the growing
dividends and corporate and other costs such as the net retirement of debt in the year.
We continue to run the Group to a robust solvency capital position with the shareholders
Solvency II surplus of 13.3 billion at the end of 2017. As expected, given the growth in the
business, both owned funds and the SCR have increased over the period, but the scale of
the surplus has also increased and the cover ratio remains largely in line with the prior
year at 202%. Our strong Group solvency position is replicated at the local regulatory level
2 with capital well in excess of regulatory requirements. The impact of US tax reform is the
main reason for the reduction in the US RBC ratio, which I've already covered. However, I
would also remind you that a US RBC does not include the benefit of swap gains from use
of the permitted practice, which if included would add another 45 points to the year end
ratio.
My next slide provides you with the usual bridge between the 2016 surplus and the 2017
position. Operating capital generation of 3.2 billion remains the key driver of the change,
which has helped to absorb the adverse day one impact of US tax reform, as well as
funding the dividend payments and sub-debt redemption. In addition, management
actions relating to the UK have added 0.4 billion. The sensitivities on the right hand side of
the slide, continue to demonstrate that our Solvency II position remains resilient to market
stress, while retaining the upside potential from favored market position. We continue to
hold significant levers within the Group and at business unit level to manage external
market effects combined with appropriate headroom in our solvency surplus to act as a
buffer when required. It is the strength of our operating capital generation and the risk
Page 15 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

management practices that we have in place around this, that have enabled our
businesses to successfully navigate external economic stresses without disruption to the
underlying businesses.
Now my final slide on the 2017 results, I just wanted to take a step back and provide a
view of the major drivers of earnings growth and the quality in the period. It is truly these
measures that generate the consistency of the Group's financial progress, support the
resilience and sustainability of earnings through the economic cycle and provide the scale,
which benefits our operational and strategic delivery.
In Asia, our growing base of recurring premium business means we start each year with a
clear earnings base, which compounds with the subsequent year of new regular premium
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I have already highlighted, our strategic emphasis on health and protection is also
increasing the proportion of earnings derived from insurance income, another indicator
that our growth is a high-quality growth. In the US and in the UK, it is the distinctive
structure of the product proposition and the performance of the funds available to
customers, that continues to underpin net inflows and appreciation in asset values on
which our fee earnings are based. Across each of our businesses, these key drivers are
growing well. Taken together, the combined effect of continued and consistent
operational delivery is highlighted in the 15% uplift in embedded value to 45 billion at the
end of 2017.
Now stepping away from the FY '17 results and turning to the UK Annuity sale for couple
of moments. This is a major step in the continued de-risking of the UK Life business
representing the transfer of around the third of our shareholder backed annuity portfolio.
This is a positive development with attractive terms achieved. It validates the quality of
our UK Annuity portfolio and is another example of our ability to execute well.
This sale will ultimately see a reduction in capital held against both credit risk and longevity
risk. Credit risk is a larger component of this where we have reduced credit exposure for
UK PAC on the Solvency II basis by around 30%. On completion of the Part VII transfer, we
estimate that the sale will lead to $1.3 billion reduction in the SCR and a 0.2 billion, sorry,
pound -- and a 0.2 billion decrease in owned funds resulting in increase in PAC's capital
surplus of GBP1.1 billion. Of this, we expect to recognize 0.6 billion at 30th of June under
the reinsurance agreement.
The capital benefit from the sale will be retained to support the UK demerger process. It
puts the solo UK regulated insurance entity on an extremely solid capital footing at the
outset of the demerger with the pro forma cover ratio of 150% as if it was all completed
at the 2017 year-end, including the transfer of Hong Kong subsidiaries. In reality, we would
expect organic capital generation over the period before completion to build this number
further. This provides us with maximum flexibility as we work to optimize the capital
structures of both entities prior to separation.

Page 16 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

While the impact on the EEV is less than 1%, on an IFRS basis, we expect to incur a loss on
sale of up to 500 million in the first half of 2018. Going forward, your estimates for M&G
Prudential's IFRS profits should recognize that the annuity portfolio being sold, contributed
approximately GBP140 million to the 2017 UK core life operating profit of 597 million. This
transaction is a significant milestone for M&G Prudential, as it continues to transition
towards a derisked business model and an appropriate balance of risk exposures.
I would be remiss to be not to share with you some of the high level steps we will be
taking to effect the demerger of M&G Prudential. Although many activities and actions will
run concurrently, as you'd expect, the exact timing of each will be the subject of various
factors, including regulatory approvals, the Part VII process, and for the debt management
operations, suitable market conditions. We will look to minimize any associated costs
during this period, and looking ahead, we will provide you with updates as we move
through this process.

Bloomberg Transcript

To position the businesses for separation, we will optimize the capital structure of each
entity to ensure they're both appropriately and robustly capitalized. It will necessitate the
creation of a new holdco entity for the UK operating companies and the realignment of
the Group's debt capital position across the Prudential PLC and M&G Prudential entities.
This may include redemption or debt liability management for issued debt.
As you will be aware, many of our Asia businesses started Life with branches of the UK
with-profits fund, which provided a highly effective approach to launching new territories.
Over time, as they have grown in scale and to align ownership with operating or
regulatory structures, these operations have moved under the ownership of the Asia
business as subsidiaries. The last of these is Hong Kong, as the largest and by far the
most complex is being more appropriate to adopt a two-stage process. We completed
the first stage in January 2014 with the domestication of the Hong Kong branch and for
the second stage as part of the M&G Prudential demerger process, we will now
accelerate our plans to transfer ownership from the UK Life business to our Asian entities.
At this stage of the process, we have had very close engagement with all stakeholders,
many of which are firmly in motion.
So, in summary, a very encouraging financial performance during the year of significant
change for the Group alongside continued positive progress in the key earnings drivers of
our business and 8% growth in the dividend. These results are demonstration of the
outcome of the strategic decisions over many years, the scale and positioning of each of
the businesses in their chosen segments, and the discipline with which we execute the
growth opportunity and proactively manage our existing business portfolios.
By both growing and enhancing the quality of the business that we write, while remaining
and maintaining a robust capital position, we are simply reinforcing our confidence in the
financial outlook for the Group. This resilient underlying position with all of our businesses
performing well shows that we begin with the demerger process from a position of
strength, following which, both Prudential PLC and M&G Prudential will be better placed to
maximize their value creation potential.

Page 17 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Thank you, and with that, I hand you back to Mike.

FINAL

Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. So, in summary, again, strong growth in Asia, right balance of the
business, the US continues to deliver, and probably, the UK, the strong performance
underlying the rationale for creating a simpler, more focused strategy there, and again,
adopting the structure to maximize the opportunities for all of our businesses. So what I'd
like to do if we could is invite my colleagues up the -- to join me for the Q&A and then we
will address any individual concerns you have, quick questions you have in just a moment.
Could we get the mic working please for Jon?

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, this is Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Thank you. I've got three questions, please.
Firstly, thinking about the go forward pre-PLC business, so US, Africa and Asia. How should
we think about the binding constraints on capital for that business. Seemingly you're going
to be try to get ahead of the Solvency II framework, but I guess, the advantage of
Solvency II did have the Asian business, of course, if you get diversification benefit you
could step-up some of the (inaudible) the protection business, so I guess, I am asking,
how do you harvest the diversification benefits across the go forward growth business?
This is the first question.
And second question, just looking at Jackson's capital and there was a lot of moving parts
I get in that business and that market at the moment, the sort of 400% number you have
got on the sort of headline basis. You've got a few things to come through, you
mentioned C1 changes, I guess, we still haven't seen the impact on UVA framework. So
can you give some color please in terms of where you think the RBC ratio will settle down
for the market and then what impact there is on the (inaudible) of Jackson's capital back
up to the Group going forward?
And then final question, just on China, interesting to see your views on what's happening
in China, there's obviously a lot of moving parts at the moment with the merger with the
regulators et cetera, the regulatory environment seems to be quite fluid. Can you talk a
little bit about how you see your business evolving, how well positioned you are? Thank
you.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. Great. I think we will divide these up and so binding constraint on capital, Mark, why
don't I start and you finished. We've always said that in outside of the UK, the binding
constraints to local capital regimes, it's not a -- if you think of dividend fungibility of capital
that's the driver and the -- where the other jurisdictions recognize Solvency II, their privacy
is, they are on regulatory regime and how we treat it. The other thing, it should be, will
remain is, we don't run any of the businesses to regulatory minimal capital. There isn't a
jurisdiction we do business in that they don't look to us to maintain what is almost a AA
level, if you're going to put a rating agencies who are to mark on it, but if you want to
Page 18 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

have long-term relationships in these markets where the regulators are much more
holistic, much less resolution recovery focus than you see in Western markets, particularly,
obviously, in terms of Asia. So they want to see reinvestment in the community, they want
to see how we treat clients, they want to see the -- our charitable activities and they want
to see a well-capitalized foreign entity again, because you're competing with domestics in
every market.
So we probably could bring some of them down closer to regulatory. But if you want a
long-term, we want a 90-year position in the market, they have to see you as committed
and not as a foreign player that comes in and strips as much as they can in every year. So
there's a lot of reasons to maintain well-capitalized firms in the local basis, and then those
roll up to Solvency II.

Bloomberg Transcript

We never said, as we discussed and was debated early on of our dividend policy of
Solvency II, I still don't believe that's the prudent metric for, because it's not a cash metric,
it's a capital metric. So it doesn't affect us on dividend, the divest -- it doesn't affect the
financials, if you think about it from a dividend point of view. There is a -- so the intent is to
maintain a very well-capitalized international business with capitals levels that rival anyone
that we -- anyone we compete with. You can look at that from as the regulatory college
and our key regulators get together and adjust and that's just starting now, they're aware
of it, but they're not, that is work that is in its early days. So I can't -- I am not going to
commit to you what that model is -- the final model is going to look like.
But our intent is the Board and Management of the company is to maintain highly
capitalized, highly rated entity, similar to our current position that's in -- effectively in
compliance with all international capital standards, because we're just too big to not be.
So I get asked earlier this morning when I was with the media, does (inaudible) matter, it
doesn't matter, it's not been a binding constraint for us. We understand the framework.
We understand the framework is changing. This is no -- this is not about adjusting a
ownership model to adjust to a regulatory or a capital model. We'll maintain wellcapitalized businesses, heavy liquidity, our in-house bias would still be cash net, capital as
we've discussed many times, it's so cash flow testing and we'll share with you more and
more metrics on how we do that is, I think, we're pretty transparent on how we stress the
businesses. If you want to add anything to that?

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

The obvious point is that we're going to continue to be subject to Solvency II until the
point of demerger, so we will continue to run the business and be very focused on that.
And then over the course of that period as we discuss with regulators in terms of what
the new capital position and capital model will be, we will then be in a position to
communicate that through.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Barry, on Jackson's capital.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}
Page 19 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

Yeah. You're right, John, there are lot of moving parts, I mean, the principal impact that
we had this past year was Tax Reform, so that -- and I think you called that out Mark in
your comment. So that's over $600 million impact on free surplus generation. That's a
one-time here. So I would say to you broadly at the risk of being too forward looking, I
would say, we broadly should be optimistic about Jackson's ability to continue to generate
cash.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Chad, do you want to comment on the future direction of NAIC and some of that work?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Chadwick Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

So the -- I would say, there's a couple things coming down the road. What we don't know
yet is the timing or the magnitude, so we do have the NAIC. They will presumably react
with respect to the denominator portion of RBC. We don't know yet what the magnitude
of that will be or the timing and they have not actually formed the group yet to do
anything about that. They already have an ongoing process with respect to the C1 factors
that's expected to come in, in 2019, our hope would be and we will have this conversation
with them when they have the appropriate folks in place. We think those two are best put
together, because our interactions between their view on long-term default rates and the
taxation and recoveries come through there. So hopefully that would be come together. If
it does, that would be better, that would be a 2019, if they came together, if it doesn't the
potential for a 2018's denominator, 2019 C1 factor and we think 2020 Oliver Wyman, so
there's things with NAIC our own project. So there are things coming down the pipe that
will presumably, again we don't know the number, that will presumably put downward
pressure on the RBC ratio. That said, I think everything we've seen suggests that we were
generating capital we don't have anything at this point that would imply that we don't -can't continue for dividends at the level we've been remitting in, so hope that answers
your question.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Nic, on China.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. So on regulatory developments, yes, we've seen the creation of a new regulatory
body, to regulate both insurance and banking. I mean, look, we see this as the outlooking
of the decree, if you like at the October party Congress, which is -- which set that activity
objective for the industry to return to its core. In other words go back to its derisking
purpose, play a role in the financial development of the economy as also financial stability
and in time improve the provision of health services and also care for elderly.
So, I think, it's step one, I think the other reason why this has come together is to
ultimately implement the liberalization of the sector as well. Now, in order the regulators
need to build up their regulatory capacity in order to regulate the sector that potentially
more than 50% -- more than 49% can be owned by foreign companies. So this is pretty
much in line with the direction that was set back in October. We don't think it will impact

Page 20 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

our business in the short or medium-term. If anything, a stronger regulation is good for
businesses such as our own.
Now should I give a business update on China more broadly and the opportunity? So,
again, with the benefit, I guess, of spending more time there since I addressed you at the
Investor Conference, I am kind of even more excited about the prospects in that market
both on the Life and Asset Management side and our ability actually to harvest those
prospects. So now, I mean, you heard me talk about the opportunity, I can put some more
numbers on that now. China is now the third -- officially the third largest market in
insurance, in terms of premium income, it's got to the kind of $500 billion level, if you look
at the insurance assets that are managed in that market, it's got to the 2 trillion level, 2
trillion is 20% of GDP and in most developed markets, the penetration of insurance assets
yet to be something of the order of 270% of GDP. So that's yet another indication of
growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Out of the 1.4 billion Chinese today, only 115 million have insurance, any form of savings or
insurance and typically they would hold about one-and-a-half policies per individual. Again,
you contrast that to Japan which is the world's second largest market and typically on
average people hold seven policies per person. So that just talks to if you like the
opportunity there.
And one final stat for you, a lot of the development of the sector has been focused on
savings, health is becoming a big part of that market, 32% of expenditure is out of
pocket, you compare that to low-single digits in Europe and another developing a statistic
is that a quarter of the world's diabetic population is, which is around 114 million people,
are based in China, so the spend just for diabetic treatments is about 110 billion. All these
are opportunities for companies like ourselves who play both in the savings and the health
space to play a role.
And on the Asset Management side, the market at the end of '17 was $1.8 trillion, that's
about 15% of GDP. Again, in the EU, Asset Management -- Retail Asset Management is
75% of GDP. So six-fold increase. So, I think, a China when it comes to Asset Management
flows will just dominate those in the next few years. So what have we done in the course
of the year for our business? I think we continue to broaden on the Life side of footprint
and to grow into that. And that's -- that has a compounding effect on the numbers, on the
financials of our business. So we expanded -- we added another branch, another province.
So we now have 18 in total. We added the Sichuan Province and we're delighted to have
such a broad footprint across China, because even though China maybe liberalized in
terms of shareholder ownership, there is nothing to indicate that the rate at which they
are approving new licenses and new provinces will change. At the same time, we added
three more new cities. So we've gone from the 74 that I spoke to you on a lot back in
November to 77 as we expanded our presence in the Henan province, which is an
important province because it's got 94 million people and it's the fifth largest economy in
China.
We're growing out our agency distribution. We've increased the recruitment rate by 48%
since last year, we now have 44,000 agents, that's twice as many two years ago and four
times as many four years ago. And the sales are increasing at 46% on the agency side.
Page 21 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

On the banking side, we're increasing even faster at 51% as we leverage more than
4,000 strong branch network that we have across -- that we distribute across our
business.
On the quality side, we're building the health and protection piece very fast given some
of the statistics that I mentioned earlier. 41% of our sales in China are health and
protection. In fact, even a bigger, a richer proportion of the mix in health was written in the
second half in terms of health and protection, more than 50%. This is driving the new
business profit up and you've seen that double. Building up the digital capabilities, it's one
of our most modern businesses, both at the point of sale, where we can issue 8 out of 10
policies that are issued are in 30 minutes. A lot of work on claims, 99% are processed
digitally. 17 services done on a need basis and all that is -- and a lot of the queries now
being dealt with by chatbots, generally 20% to 30% of all traffic from agents and
customers are now going through these chatbots. And it's important in a country like
China given the importance -- given that it is leading the digital economy.
Well, I can give you two more stats on that, 35% of all financial services customers will use
digital means to transact and the payments that are made using digital platforms in China
are 50 times the level that you see in the US. So unless you are kind of highly automated
and digitized in this market, and this business is pretty much leading the way within our
portfolio, very excited about our prospects. Thank you for your question.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) One other number you did leave out, CRRC rated the business number one,
which is no small feat.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from BAML. I have got three questions on China. I think
I have three questions. Number one, is the demerger contingent on completion of future
UK annuity deals, you've still got two-thirds of the book and have you got the bandwidth
to deal with multiple processes?
And secondly, if those annuity -- future annuity transactions do take place anything like the
one you've just announced, would that imply that excess capital would build-up in the UK
business? And if so, what would be the plan? Maybe, too early to talk about that. But the
main point is, would there be excess capital emerging in the UK businesses, if those
annuity books were to go as well?
And thirdly, just a quick one on the US RBC. Chad, can you remind us of the organic rate of
build in RBC points given that you've just seen a significant drop, what's the organic rate
of build, let's say, before paying any dividends to Group? Thank you.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So on the demerger, no, it is not contingent on any future management actions. It is to
Mark's point though, we need cooperative debt markets, it's probably there, if you said,
what's the variable and we need a court system to approve a Part VII, those two are
Page 22 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

outside of our control, but we're confident on the debt side and we're reassured I would
say on Part VII. I don't think there's any obvious barriers given the process and the
regulatory support. John, you want excess capital?

FINAL

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Well, on the question of where we do more, we'll keep that option alive, but we have
nothing on the table right now. You know, it's a big deal and we only closed at 3 o'clock in
the morning and that's why David is snoring away out at the back there. But it's the
biggest that's been done and I'm really proud of the team for doing it. In terms of capital,
well, we have to remit our capital of the Group. So that tell us what to do with it. But we
take this, the annuity book like the rest of our business. We will evaluate it, what's best for
shareholders, what's best for our business in the longer term. And for the moment, it is
not right.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Blair, on bandwidth, I think if there's one thing we demonstrated this year, it's
bandwidth. I think we tell the teams endlessly, it's business as usual first and all these
projects are sort of nights and weekends. And I think we can -- if we chose to do another
tranche, we could, but it is a -- it would be more about optimizing the capital for the new
entity, and then if it's excess, it's excess and we look at distributing as we always would.
Chad, on RBC capital generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 21189527 <GO>}

Yeah, so Blair, the underlying tends to be around on stat basis, around 1 billion, I'd say is
the underlying capital formation that we typically would see. That said, we are in a position
right now where stat reserves are floored out. So we get a little bit of a asymmetric
dynamic going on now in terms of no real offset for -- no economic offset going on in the
stat reserves for the hedges that are coming through, which has tended to drag, call it
300 million right now run rate. So the underlying run rate is closer to 1 billion, 1.1 billion, but
there is a drag right now because of where the markets are. It's actually a good problem
to have, but doesn't look as good on the numbers.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty)

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Use the Mic.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty)

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 21189527 <GO>}

Right. So I mean, 1 billion would be equivalent to about 100 in RBC points.

Page 23 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty)

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 21189527 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, I'd say, it's an equivalent number right now.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, Oliver?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. I'm going to try again on the UK. Is the 1.1 billion release or
improvement, it's a surplus, an approximate figure that we can take for future tranches of
12 billion if that happens. Secondly, within the solvency ratio of the UK insurance business,
how much debt is effectively injected down as presumably Tier 1 capital from the center?
And then the third question is on M&G's capital position. What is M&G's current capital
requirement and how much capital has M&G got within the business?

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

John, you may start us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Yeah, so -- no, Oliver, you wouldn't be able to extrapolate the capital release from the
book across the whole book because what we would I think have loved to have done,
would have been to slice the book vertically and sell components of it, you can't do that.
We've broken the book into various cohorts, if you like, and they have been sold all to one
counterparty, but they could have been sold in different blocks to different people and
they will attract different prices. The other thing is that, it depends on the market as well
at the time. So if you look at where we've done this trade, it's a different price to where
other trades have been done. So there are that combination of factors. So I don't think
there is any ability to read across directly.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Sorry, UK debt, Mark do you want to take that?

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So in terms of the UK debt, so at this stage, what we're going to look to ensure is that,
each of the businesses are well capitalized and well set up for success in the future. We
will be able to share with you in the future and due course more information about what
that capital structure would look like, but at this stage, it's too early to say.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty)

Page 24 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

At the moment, no. (inaudible)

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

And then M&G capital? Anne, do you want do that or Mark?

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

I've the number, but not sure that what we've actually said publicly on the number before.
So --

A - Unidentified Speaker
I don't think, it's -- but it's not a particularly material number at all.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Not in the grand scheme of things, though.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Well, that's enough.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Greg.

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Greg Mason, KBW. Three questions. One is, if you look back
over time, as you were discussing earlier on, the bank -- the Asian bank insurance deals to
be (inaudible) into the Group, top of the head it's about GBP3 billion over the last five
years, going forward, you have to renew deals, possible new deals. So in terms of, I was
thinking about free capital generation in Asia, including that item, what sort of number do
you think we should be budgeting annually for that number. I have something like GBP300
million, GBP400 million per annum, it might be wrong?
Intertwined to that question, are there any -- currently any contingent loans between Asia
and any other parts of the Group, because they used to be. Second question, it was a
two-part one. Second question is like, all mutual heavily incentivize their management to
do the separation. I think cumulatively this year got GBP9 million, something like that for
this year and (inaudible) --

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Can you show me that later?

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

Are you going to modify your LTIP schemes in anyway for the separation because -Page 25 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. So let me go to a couple --

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

FINAL

Last question, sorry.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

But, that was three.

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

But that was a two-part --

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

All right.

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

Contingent financing in the US. I was just wondering what the contingent reserve funding,
what capacity is there to do, how much extra capital can be released into the RBC ratio
through further tranches of that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Right. Let me do the first couple. So we've never disclosed the, I think, most of the bank
transactions have copy agreements so I'm not going to the specific numbers and we
don't give forward-looking capital creation statements in Asia. Although, you can see from
the metrics on here, our expectations on the backbook and the percentage of recurring
earnings, which I think gets you a lot of weight to your question from the materials we
have distributed.
On the -- there is no management incentives tied to the structural changes in the Group.
We will have to adjust our LTIPs, we've extended out in a duration that would go -obviously, those awards will go past the separation date, we'll have to work with our
Board (inaudible) have those deliver the arguably probably the dual shares. But there is no
financial incentive for anybody sitting up here to do this outside of their normal
responsibilities as the stewards of the business.
And then you asked intercompany, which I don't think we've done yet, I think, that's
probably best way to come back with all this at once for you and the two will look in the
performance, I think, that's probably a fair look at it, but it's not material.

Q - Greg Mason

{BIO 15241526 <GO>}

Obviously (Technical Difficulty)

Page 26 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Not much, the contingent financing.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

Not much.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

The contingent financing.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Not. Not.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Again that's where we did last year (Technical Difficulty). So there is nothing else there on
contingent finance in US.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Thanks. Arjan?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Arjan Van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thanks. Arjan Van Veen, UBS. If I could ask two questions, please. One thing, I suspect, the
main one is the Hong Kong transfer of ownership. And I think that anyone that in your
release saw a date around which is end of 2019, actually the UK Part VII transfer is -- it's
within the UK. So I wouldn't necessarily think that is a show stopper unless you want to
move capital out of the UK. So just maybe a bit more color around where you really need
the approvals to make go through in some sense of timing.
The second one was, and next is on the Hong Kong RBC quantitative impact study that
came out recently, minus 10, I guess, your portfolio would be quite benefited by the
proposed changes. So if you can maybe talk a bit about that and how material it could be
for you?

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So, you're correct, the long work stream in the project is -- the transfer Hong Kong is
actually, so we've discussed that with all key stakeholders and we don't anticipate that.
We've got to work through all of the granular details, but we don't anticipate any barriers,
it's just -- it's a lot of work to get the regulatory models in all of the various stakeholders
sign off on it, but everyone is aware of the transaction, we're not surprising anyone with
this, we're not -- we've effectively pre-cleared the activity with all the key regulators. So,
again -- we're responsible for following their processes. But we think that's our work
stream, not a approval issue.

Page 27 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

FINAL

The Part VII is a UK issue, it is depending on PRA bandwidth and court bandwidth. So we
don't want to try and anticipate in front of you that we can manage. The PRA, we have a
good relationship with we know how that will go and there have been briefed all the way
through this process and supportive the court side. We know what's best practice. We
know what outside firms can, (inaudible) general counsels here at the right way to do that.
But we are getting into a different space and I think we have to be conservative on our
estimates there. But those are the two long ones.
And then, again on the regulatory front, we've got to get all the regulators onsite brief,
ready to go in their normal course of meetings, right, so you probably a couple of
meetings each. So that's got a good nine-month plus window to it too. So that gets you to
the timing.
And then on the financials, I mentioned earlier, we anticipate we will go off of for a half
year or a full year results. So we have audited financials to basically materials off of and so
we're not incurring any unit cost to do that. We're trying to keep the frictional cost of this
to a minimum. So it's a -- that would define timing as well, when the next window would
be, okay. But we will keep you briefed on those as they occur. We'll keep the releases be
very public on the work streams. But it's work dependent, not an ambition calendar wise.
Your other question.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

The quiz in Hong Kong.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

The quiz in Hong Kong. Thank you.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Well, it's too early to draw any definitive conclusions the quiz that was undertaken,
kind of was only partial, not all the parameters were tested, for example, they didn't test
on that allowance for diversification, they didn't include any risk margin. So that is all to
come in subsequent quizes, and of course, their level of the liquidity premium that they
included in the quiz may well or matching adjustment for one to another expression may
well change.
So there'll be another quiz in the course of 2018 and probably another one after that,
we're looking at an implementation in 2022, some time away to align with the potential
introduction of IFRS 17, so we got those two changes to look forward to. But as to your
point, whenever we've moved to a more risk-based regime in many parts of Asia, given
the nature of what we do, which is a regular premium with a very heavy health and
protection content, then we see that providing tailwinds we saw that in China has been
moved to CROS [ph] with our solvency level increasing from indeed to kind of 150, 160,
170s to the high 200s to a 19% at the end of 2017. So too early to say but directionally, it
should be positive.

Page 28 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Andy?

FINAL

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Hi, Andy Hughes [ph], Macquarie. Three questions per company. (inaudible). So first one
is, just to understand the debt structure that seems to be the more complex bit of that
was going on. So if you to issue replacement securities in the UK, would you still get the
grandfathering? Or would you just -- are you saying that, any new debts raised in the UK
would have to be Solvency II qualified and you'd lose the grandfathering result to switch?
Second question on the holding company for the remaining business, (inaudible) at that
stage in the remaining PLC business which is no longer on the Solvency II. So presuming
any future debt that you raise post the demerger will be senior debt. So does that kind of
mean there is an incentive for the sub debt holders to kind of switch. And that's one way
in which you can get people to move from the PLC into the UK business.
And the third question is on Malaysia. Obviously this year planning by the end of June to
sell down 30% of the Malaysian business, which I guess could be a GBP1 billion and so
how much do you think it might be and are there tax implications from that just comment
on the ease to do that and while we're on potential disposals, are you still fully committed
to the two Indian businesses getting the valuation there.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the last question would be on the US --

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

That were the sixth. Let's call it six, okay.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Yeah, I just wanted if Jackson had to diversify its product mix a bit through M&A as a result
of the demerger process or whether you're going to keep that as it is? Thanks.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. So, Mark, can you start with debt.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So in terms of the first two debt questions and I'm not really in a position to say much
more than we've said in our release in terms of the debt, because we want to be able to
have a conversation with everybody, want to be able to have conversation with the
market in terms of what we do and how it is that we're going to do it. We haven't had any
conversation yet in terms of the regulators in terms of what we might do around
grandfathering Solvency II components. So I think we would look to have those
conversations and be able to give you an update in due course around that, and
therefore and that would also be the answer to the question in terms of the future debt
and the senior debt. I think we'll be able to give you a lot more color about that in due
Page 29 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

course. But at this stage, just want to give you a sense of the fact that the underlying
position is one of ensuring that both entities are going to be well capitalized strong set
out for success.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

Nic, you want to discuss the conversations with Bank Negara on Malaysia?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. So as you Prudential today enjoys kind of a 100% of the economics of our
conversion business even though kind of the law suggests that foreign ownership -foreign entity ownership is limited to 70% that's not unusual, we're not unique in doing
that. So our ability are otherwise to continue to operate on this basis is under discussion
with the authorities. We don't have an update for you at this point, but we hope to be
able to update you shortly. I mean I'll go back to what Mike said, look, the what one of the
things that is great about this Group is our ability to adapt to new situations. And whatever
happens in relation to the level of ownership that we would have we'll remain very
focused on driving value for your shareholders.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

You want to discuss India as well?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

India -- I mean, we like India. I gave you a lot of stats earlier you know for China, I could do
the same and I will you know for India. You have sizable population, 2.8% penetration on
the insurance side is predicted to increase to 3.9% like 2025, protection gap of USD8.5
trillion, 60% of healthcare costs paid out of pocket and you have 1 billion out of the kind of
1.4 billion Indians not being covered from a health perspective. On the asset management
side, retail funds, I mean that's even more nascent, it's USD350 billio, about 12 million kind
of people in India own retail asset management funds, it's 12% of GDP. This is both sides - both sides are likely to grow. And we have a good presence in the life company we have
a player which has around 13% market share, it's growing itself -- it grew its sales last year
by 26%. It's growing its market share, it's well balanced by reference to both product sets
and distribution growing its distribution force and doing more through the 4,000 or so
ICICI branches. And on the asset management side, we have number one player there,
again 13% share today managing of the order of I want to say around 17 billion sterling on
an AUM on 100% basis. So very strong distribution platform and many very highly
performing funds and the good thing about the asset management side is we can own
50%, which is a great place to be. So now we like the country and and the opportunities
to do more of these.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yeah, I guess, anyone, but I'd add to that. We've been down there together earlier this
year on 20 year anniversary for us there. We talk about being active managers of the
businesses, it's not trying to time the share price on a -- on the public piece of the Life, it's
the decision is more, is it a market we want and earnings and capability position and over
the long haul. And if we do, what structure can we own that in. And then how good are we
Page 30 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

at managing that structure and that's more of the lens, so yeah, I mean the last time I
heard there some of the multiples that people are throwing around on asset managers,
what it tells you is everyone's trying to get what we have, I guess someone's going to pay
this, quite impressive. They're paying a fortune relative -- at this point in time for an entry
point because they believe future now. Do we believe that we have the same view? We
actually have a -- we think as a Group, we think as a Board that India is a part of our future.
So the question is out from an earnings point of view, from a capability point of view, from
products distribution, how do we want to do that, not do we think this is their share price
for the lifeco or and again there is restrictions in what we can and can't do there. It's -- the
market favors a bit the domestics, so it's a balance. But we like India and I'd say, if you're
looking at it we're long.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Andrew.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good Afternoon. Simon (inaudible) speaking. I just got one question. You were talking
about concluding or the Board concluding, but the UK PLC was not the logical owner of
the UK business, so wouldn't be fairly soon. Can you go through the parts of that decision
and why the thinking would not apply also to the United States?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yeah, I think it's, again it's multi-dimensional , it's not a single that was not the reason that
were sole reason we're divesting it. If you look at it and say go back to the other
comment I made about what is the business unit getting from the Group is a fair lens,
what is the shape of our earnings going forward, what's the capital allocation. I mean all
these lenses are applied and the things we thought that had the most leverage
management focus, the alignment of the capital as you see moving Hong Kong and
getting the quality capital. The quality up, the quantum down. Therefore the return on
capital metrics better, how does that look in the overall Group and how does it look in its
relative market? It looks fantastic in its relative market, it still has to compete heavily with
the other business units in return and it's just a function where it is. It's a more cash centric
earnings, which is a good thing, given it's the UK and the dividend demands of the listed
entity here. And the market is more mature, so the earnings characteristics of stability,
currency, things, they have a different appeal. So one of our views is as investors you may
want to choose you have those characteristics, not just the absolute return on the
earnings, that maybe part of your decision, you want pound denominated, you want less
impact from political statement in Asia whatever I'm seeing or you are an emerging
market portfolio manager and you want more emerging market earnings and the
characteristics that come with that and the waiting in the UK diminishes that.
So all these things were part of the decision. The best part of the decision was there was
no -- nothing to solve for and probably the most difficult part, so there isn't anything
broken, it don't need -- there isn't a part of the asset management businesses that isn't
developed or isn't a part of the distribution. There isn't a part of the skill set, there isn't an
issue on management. So it's the why now was one of the most challenging because it's
working very well. And if you think is as stewards of the shares and the capital, that is the
Page 31 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

right time then to do it. You don't -- we shouldn't wait till something isn't the way we
should -- isn't the way we want it, right, let somebody else fix it. That's -- I've seen that
argument, dozens of time you've seen it play out in the US recently, right, so this isn't a
good bank, that bank, this is too good businesses, and we think that's from our
stewardship point of view, the right time to make that call. So it was a very -- this is a long
strategic processes that started a dozen years ago and it's evolved (inaudible) been the
US the various times. I think the fundamental -- on the international businesses, do we
believe their sharing of skills, capital, do we (inaudible) benefit? The answer is yes. We
believe what the US knows about as a liability management, retirement, those things can
benefit our Asian business where they're going yes, retirement will be the next frontier in
Asia. It's already emerging in certain markets in Asia and so there is capabilities. But we'll
come back to in Singapore with a more clear look at some of the things that we want to
do together with them, but I would think of it as good diversification benefit, good
capability sharing and future product if not format capability sharing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Even in some of the -- we have a few markets in Asia where there's pretty robust
retirement plans from the government, Singapore is a good example, still good asked
about supplemental retirement plans when you talk to people, it's -- they are savers and
they want to see -- they like some of the products they see elsewhere. So there's a lot of
markets that we can do things we haven't done yet with capabilities we have in Jackson.
Andy asked a question about diversifying Jackson. There is not a US life company board
CEO that wouldn't kill to diversify into Asia with the footprint we have. I think that's a fair
statement. They would -- so this gives us a great diversification US exposure leading
position retirement income market and growing in the US leading positions in majority of
our markets in Asia and we like the combination. And yes, there's more we can do in the
US and we keep looking at different things.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Ravi?

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I have three questions please. The first
one is on the Asian business and the strategy there. I think you alluded to some of it just
now, but I guess there's a lot of competitors that you just referenced both in the US, in
Europe, and also very large players in Asia who are looking to expand their scale in the
Asian market and looking for good quality franchisees. So can you talk to us a little bit
about the thought processes around, were one of those companies to approach, how
you would think about that as an eventual outcome given the demerger that's currently
going on please?
And the second one is on the PRU -- M&G PRU go-forward strategy space. One of the
areas that the business is perhaps arguably sub-scale is on the distribution side and you
don't have a retail investment platform where many of your (inaudible) do, I was just
wondering if you could comment about whether there is any ambitions to expand product
or distribution capabilities please?

Page 32 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

And the third one was just (inaudible) debt questions, but maybe it would be quite helpful
I suppose is to understand the leverage capacity and so in that context, I know you talked
about 500 million write-down through equity following the annuity sale, but could you just
please remind us what the IFRS equity for the UK entity is please?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. So so the housekeeper sort of question. Again, without putting a number, we think
that two businesses are worth we think and their markets are pretty large, and so is there
any greater risk of PRU PLC being acquired with or without M&G PRU? The couple of firms
that might be capable of doing it, I don't think the additional value of PRU -- M&G Pru and
the model would have made that make a difference in their question and the ones I think
can are known for doing hostiles. Yeah, it is always incumbent on us as a management
team to demonstrate we're the best stewards of the business. And so we get up
everyday having the right to recognize . So can we run it better than them? (inaudible) are
getting returns that are competitive with anybody globally, are we growing in a way that
produces quality results that are sustainable, all those things are the things that make you
attractive well, so would be the difference.
At the end of the day, would be the Board's decision if something came with an obscene
amount of money for the business and that's something that the Board obviously has to
consider, but it is by no means, you can back into the likelihood of it, I think we can, yeah, I
think these businesses are competitive in and I think we hold around with anybody
globally. So I mean we have plenty of scale. We don't need to do any sort of other M&A
with someone to get attributes that we don't have now. One of the -- it's on one of the
slides and I probably went by too fast, but just given the amount of (inaudible) there is no
-- the resources we need to do new things we have not talking a lot about today just
because of the time, but from the smallest most innovative startups to the largest tech
firms you could think of in the world, we're really good partners and they want to do
business with us. They want our brand, they want our data, they want our scale, they want
our market positions. So we don't lack, I mean it's an interesting test about I think of our
relevance, they see us as someone who if they commit resources and in some cases their
companies too on the smaller firms that will, we're going to be there, that we're going to
succeed and honestly from a personal point of view, I think it's one of the more -- it's one
of the things I've learned in this role as one of the more fascinating looks at the business,
because it's very much about, because they have to frontload so much of their work and
they tie-up bandwidth much more than is to us and it's a very interesting sort of
affirmation how we are as a business. We have to be good enough.
We talked to (inaudible) here, we have to be good enough to partner with them. We have
to have tools they can connect with, data models they can connect with. We have to be
modern enough, but I think you'll see us over time. You'll see more partnerships laterally
and things that are different than the model now because we can't in because to them,
they see us as a good business prospect for their long-term plans and again that -- it
goes back to, is this a viable business, is this the right ownership structure, is this the right
team. I think all of that Is embedded in there, but we've really got some interesting
projects coming up. And again they're not going to pure financial basis there. People are
bringing us the newest and best stuff and a lot of cases where we're putting it right to
work, really great.
Page 33 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

But no -- so I don't worry about hostile. So we have procedures around housekeeper that
we look at all those combinations, partials, full, everything and we'll continue those
diligently on those work streams as well. UK retail platform John or

FINAL

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Go-forward strategy. Thanks for the question, I feel Nic (inaudible) coming on because I
think we've really got a big opportunity here, I mean Mark put up the slide earlier on about
how we see the opportunity, but the issue I think we have right now is two-fold. First of all,
we are spending a lot of money to build the right platform for our business and that's
happening as we speak and we are very confident about the outcomes there. The other
thing I would point to you is that we have signed -- recently signed this administration
partnership with TCS that puts us in a fantastic position to do far more with a partner who
is already digitally enabled easier to do than and the last thing is that we look at what's
happening, we've got 36% increase in PruFund, we've got 17.3 billion of inflows into M&G. I
mean one of the issues we have is deployment of capital and Anne will give you an idea
of what that looks like in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

If you look at the the level of capital that we have, I won't give you precise number, but
the assets that have been awarded not yet funded, (inaudible) not yet invested
(inaudible) largest capital queue that we've ever had. And if you just roll back a little to last
18 months or so, we've launched more than 20 different investment strategies and
capabilities and funds of different, all of which are net inflow, if you like, so the range of
capabilities and the distribution of those capabilities we already achieved and the flows
that we got back is pretty comprehensive. So I think there's a lot what we can do on the
digital channels as John has mentioned, but actually first and foremost, have you got the
capabilities in the marketplace that the market actually wants to buy and that's the
marketplace across all of the channels, institutional, wholesale, across Europe as we've
seen as well as in the UK and the evidence suggests that we probably do if you look at
infrastructure where we've been doing stuff alternative credit private assets as well as the
go anywhere bond funds, the multi-asset funds, I mean the range of what we have that
the market is interested in is quite compelling. So I think there's a lot more that we can do.
And I think bringing the two businesses closer together will help accelerate, but you know
we're doing it for (inaudible).

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And then the debt question, is there anything more there?

A - Unidentified Speaker
We will have more to say, in Singapore on that as well. I think we really want to showcase
what our strategy and where we think we are going when we get to Singapore.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

And Ravi, in terms of the IFRS equity position, I think you should work on about 6 billion is
what's in the accounts for the UK annuities piece, so that should give you a sense
(inaudible).
Page 34 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Okay. Abid?

FINAL

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi, afternoon all. It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. I just have two questions if I can.
Firstly, on the UK, just wondering what sort of Solvency II ratio do you think is ideal for PRU
M&G going forward? Is 150% too low and is that the sort right about level?
Secondly, on Asia agent distribution, can you just share your thoughts around the longterm viability of the agency channel in Asia. Do you think there's a threat from the rise of
online distribution platforms, particularly in China. How do you see that space evolving?

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So on Solvency II, no, I think it depends on, I mean I think I'll let Mark comment on this as
well. It depends on what the nature of the liabilities are and what the nature of the capital
is. So one of the challenges with Solvency II is not a 150s or alike and you cross
jurisdictions and there are even less so, but I think given the mix of liabilities and the other
piece with M&G PRU is you have the back staff, but the earnings from the asset manager
as well. So it's got a new source of liquid earnings, liquid capital generation. So we haven't
said what the ultimate number would be. But if you said to me, is that a strong number for
that firm given the liabilities that has what its capital structure looks like and what its
earnings prospects look like to generate capital. I think it's a healthy number. You wanted
to (Multiple Speakers).

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

And remember that 13% of the credit risk is gone and then when you move Hong Kong an
element to the interest rate risk goes with that as well. So the risk profile of the business
is significantly reduced, significantly less volatile, and therefore you need to look at that
lens, what is your preference to cover ratio.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

If you're in the UK the packed Board meeting, the first lens really is Solvency II, second
lens is own risk appetite. And if you think about that's everything from our sensitivity
interest and equity movements and it's all of the things that you say -- do we believe this
is something we should be doing relative to everything else we're doing, it's much more
personalized by company than it is sort of the more standard metrics. So both by -- both
are important and both are certainly important in governance model. But I think it's fair to
say the first lens is how does it fit with the risk appetite. So if you reduce the risk, the
amount of capital you are holding theoretically should come down, again subject to
market norms and all of the regulatory and everything else, the more risk you are taking
obviously the higher it should be, but it will be well capitalized and everyone will have the
agreement we need on that from key stakeholders before we let it go. Asian distribution -

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}
Page 35 of 40



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Clearly, we are alive to the trends, where we have seen digital distribution gain traction
has been predominantly in the P&C space and kind of very simple low case size kind of in
the health space. Whenever it's come to high case size or something more complicated
and when you're in Hong Kong you're talking about critical illness products that cover
about a 113 or so different conditions. Whenever you've seen it increasing complexity,
then they don't get a lot of traction. In fact we do -- we have our own sort of digital
distribution, we have 1.6 million customers in Ghana alone just doing very slow case size
protection and health business on the phone literally a couple of dollars a year.
So our view is that digital channels will complement kind of rather than replace, what we
currently do, what's distribution, I think the winning strategies ultimately will be ones that
combine both online and offline, online typically to do research and then offline when you
have to deal with (inaudible) be it on the telephone or face-to-face. And we are
developing the tools today, and there are many examples I can give you pretty much
across all our businesses to equip our agents, to equip the people that sell our products
in the branches in a way that enables them to do it as digitally as possible and then fulfill
ultimately what the customer wants.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And parts of that I think at the consumer level are they expect the paperwork, the forms
of processes to be more digital. So if you're in our Singapore, you take your ID card and
our app scans that and pre-populates all the fields and the consumers expect that it's the
and maybe leading edge for insurance, but where they are elsewhere other people could
do it. So part of our competitive study is the other experience the consumer has not
necessarily what our insurance competitor does and a lot of it is ease of use, not
necessarily purchasing. In China, they're doing photos, as well as that is all digital on the
app and issued almost immediately but facial recognition, but they are taking a
photograph because that is a more common way to access security and so there's going
to different dynamics to, we have to follow whatever the, let's make sure we meet the
clients' expectations wherever they are and those certainly are more digital the further
ease to get.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

All right. Nick?

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of Societe Generale. I will make this very, very quick. Just a couple of
questions on the US. First, are you thinking of moving away from variable annuity equity
guarantees, I mean we maybe at the top of the equity market, who knows, are you
concerned that you are maybe putting on too much equity risk and you want to do more
with products like lead access et cetera.
And then the second question is, could you tell us the size of the net amount of risk? And
Mike, I was very intrigued by your comment that policyholders are making very good
investment returns from their variable annuity assets, which I'm sure is true, but the net
amount of risk is fairly large I believe, and so that is an under-performance versus the

Page 36 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

guarantees. And I just wondered what's your thinking was on why that is happening? I'm
not -- let me make this clear, I'm not suggesting that the net amount of risk is the amount
that can be exercised immediately at all, but as an indication of performance of those
assets, it does suggest that not all policyholders through that own selection of funds are
actually achieving such growth returns. Thank you.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So I can do as much in (inaudible) as Nic can do on China, if you want to do this. It is one of
my least favorite metrics. And I think you mean if the return -- if the clients (inaudible) you
see the appreciation on one of the slides we showed earlier and you know the
guarantees are sub 5 (inaudible) guarantee after their money is depleted. So if you just
think of simple economics, if their earning in the sevens net and the guarantee is sub 5,
it's very difficult for the net amount risk if it produces a number that's negative to be
indicative of them underperforming the guarantee, okay, so it captures a variety of other
metrics. The less you sell, the better it looks as just I mean, a whole bunch wrong with it as
(inaudible) we've used before we can (inaudible) in second a comment on, but Nick on the
guarantee on the are we exiting the business because we're timing the top of the market
no, I think we said before we reset the guarantee level annually.
So they effectively go up on the contract anniversary the client as does the fee for the
guarantee. So if you and I created a variable annuity company today to enter the market,
right, and we sold a contract today at this S&P level assuming they only buy the index
fund, they can buy an index fund, we have the same, we would be the same pricing point
as Jackson will be with the client renewing today on the guarantee fee. So the fees for
the guarantee stay with the underlying exposure we have to the equity market, which is
that we're not trying to money in the guarantee fess, but it's plenty as the equity
exposure. So no there is no intention and the client behavior has not changed, we've seen
a 1% or 2% increase in their equity exposure, it's still nowhere near our pricing
assumptions. You wish for the consumers in the retirement accounts there slightly less I
guess pro cyclical and their movements, but it's a nature of US consumers are fairly
cautious with retirement money. So we've not seen any material shift in consumer
behavior, but Chad you want to want to fill in some color around that?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 21189527 <GO>}

Yeah. I would say, the net amount of risk is probably the least favorite and we don't use it
for anything for managing the book something that others disclose. So we've made
disclosures in the past. It is the best example I can give you, just in terms of the flaws of
amount of risk of the you had somebody who had $100,000 policy, had bought a policy
with a $100,000 that had a benefit of $100,000 left. There's $50,000 of account value.
So that would be measured as 50,000 that amount of risk. If they were 95 years old and
they will take out $5,000 a year out of their account, that's going to show up as a
negative indicator in terms of the amount of risk. The chances of them being able to
actually access that for us to go on risk is roughly zero . So that's why we don't like -- we
don't like the measure and if you look at the overall (inaudible) minus, I mean, our average
policy is basically at the money. And as Mike said they step up annually with the market
guarantee. So we are at a position now, I mean it's actually book is in the best position it's
ever been. And even if you look at the net amount of risk, which is a flawed number, you'll
see that it's as good as it's been over the years as well.
Page 37 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So we're going to keep riding, Nick.

FINAL

A - Paul Chadwick Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Just one other thing I'd just add on that in terms of -- the markets might look frothy from
the equity side, interest rates backing up are actually quite helpful in terms of the overall
value guarantees stuff that's indicated.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

We want to do -- we got three more. Do you want to call with that, then we'll go to break
for dinner. Is that fair?

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

(inaudible).

Q - Unidentified Participant
Just a quick question. Just interested in where you're going to headquarter the
international businesses in London (inaudible) operations in London (inaudible) Singapore
or America would be much better location. Is that something you'll review over time I
mean is the next year's announcement or are you committed to London?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

No we're committed to London, I think you still got Africa, we don't have I think M&G and
PRU to tell you that however motivating visits are from JHO to the business units and not
critical and in the day to day operations of the current structure. So I think where the
Group is centered is not an operational issue. It's a sovereign functions of the business. So
it's everything from the rating agencies, the listing requirements, the interfacing with you
folks the capital allocation, the preparation of financials, risk management, compliance
side, those functions and those are staffed and work well here. I think another argument
I'd make on a practical front is with everything, if you, so we're talking to management,
what we're saying is, it's business as usual, all right and this stuff is done, just
proportionally by Group and on the nights of weekends they said earlier.
The exercise to do a re-domicile would be massive, you would have every turnover, you
would be replacing people that you know are already good and you may or may not get
cost savings or some new -- I have heard the theory, I get a new investor, we find Asian
investors have no problem buying shares on the FTSE and they tend to gravitate towards
our most liquid, we are on Hong Kong, we are on Singapore, we have an ADR in the US
and we are here. The large investors tend to gravitate to the most liquid market which is
here. So we don't see any distinctive advantages, we like the rule of law, we like the
talent, we like living here, there's a lot that says London.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Okay. Alan?
Page 38 of 40



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin, Barclays. Just one question. It is PRU Plc is not initially best owner of
MG Prudential over the long term, someone else thought they were a better owner, if you
consider a say over the business or just the merger single draw process?

FINAL

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

It would the Board responsibility to look at anything that can had, but I think, again given
the current success of the business, is it, there are other --there are other businesses
about the same size in the UK and if some one was the buyer there, they have different
characteristics each I recognize this is the best one and it's, but there is the question of
we can manage -- if that process occur, we can manage it, but I think our preference and
our intended model would be a standalone entity. When you're in the marketplace, you
are subject to market activity I mean I wouldn't diminish, so that can happen, but I -- we
don't anticipate that being the outcome.

A - Anne Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Final question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, back to the 6 billion IFRS net assets annuity, is that for entire UK annuity book or just
the slice that you sold and what are the equivalent numbers in EEV terms? And then a
follow-on to that, should I allocate the 300 million EEV loss, is that on the annuity disposal,
the frictional cost of the demerger, which should I be worried about your EEV
assumptions?

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So the 6 billion is the overall, so the whole piece, and in terms of the, can you -- would you
mind repeating the second question?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Is the 300 million EEV loss a frictional cost of the demerger?

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

That 300 million is effectively a loss of the result of the -- loss of future fees from the
annuity piece. So I wouldn't see it as a frictional cost of the demerger. So it's a result of
the sale of the annuity book which is something that we closed today and is effectively a
co-part of the derisking of the UK business.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Have everybody done. All right. Thank you for your patience and attention through a very
long session and your support through the year. Our next meeting is Singapore,
November 14 or 15. We hope to see you all there and we'll see -- if there are any
questions, just follow-up with our team and we'll be back in touch. Thank you.

Page 39 of 40



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-14

Page 40 of 40

