Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Q4 2017 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
David Louis Richardson, Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director-UK
Corporate Business
Rodney Malcolm Cook, Group Chief Executive Office & Director
Simon George Thomas , Group Chief Financial Officer & Director

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Angel Kansagra, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Charlie Beeching, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Good morning, everyone. I am Rodney Cook, CEO of the Just Group. And this
morning I'm joined by David Richardson on my right, who is Deputy CEO of Just; and
Simon Thomas, our Group CFO. I'd like to thank Nomura for the use of their conference
facilities and welcome all of you today and also those on the webcast. We do really
appreciate your continued interest.
As usual, I'll start off by giving you a brief update on how we see the business. Simon will
then go into the details on the numbers, and David will talk fully about our capital position.
And after that, we will take some questions.
Now, please note in the presentation that unless otherwise stated, all of the comparative
figures are presented as if our merger had completed at the start of 2016 rather than in
April. So, finally, as you know, it's a busy reporting day with other companies. We aim to
finish promptly at 11:00 so that you can get to the next analyst presentation in time.
Before I jump into the results highlights, I'd like to just take a quick moment to restate why
we do, what we do at Just. David, Simon and I this morning are going to spend a lot of
time talking about the what, so let me start by briefly adding in the why.

Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

So, as you know, we believe everyone deserves a full, fair, fulfilling and secure retirement.
Now, we focus our attention and we deploy our resources to improve the lives of people
in later life. And in order to make this happen, we positively disrupt markets, as you've
seen in the past. We campaign and we make our case to politicians and to the regulators
in order to improve competition in the market and to protect consumers. We innovate and
we solve problems for our customers.
Our mission is to help people achieve a better later life, both directly but also importantly
indirectly through our distribution and corporate partners. Just to be clear, that purpose
motivates over 1,000 of colleagues at Just every day.
So, moving on to the results highlights, you'll see that the main operating highlight today
is the 9% new business margin. This is up from just under 7% in 2016 and reflects our
continued focus on pricing discipline. And that focus on margin over volume has driven a
37% increase in new business operating profit and helped also to deliver the 35%
increase in total operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're today announcing that we've achieved £52 million in synergy run rate savings, and
that is 30% higher than the announced original target in 2015. And we have, in fact,
delivered that a year ahead of schedule. Now that the merger is completed, effectively,
we will give our full attention to how we can further disrupt markets, diversify our business
model and we will be focusing our investment on innovation rather than integration.
Simon is going to make sure that the level of investment is both affordable, it's within our
profit expectations and it also delivers suitable returns. But we think our markets are ready
for further change, customers are demanding it and we want to be at the forefront.
You'll see that we have significantly improved during the year our capital structure and our
financial flexibility. You might recall in July, we agreed a £200 million revolving credit facility
at twice the level of our previous senior term facility and on significantly better terms.
Then, in August, we announced inaugural single A and single A+ credit ratings for certain
group entities. And last month, we put our new credit rating to work and issued a £230
million Tier 3 subordinated bond at 3.5% coupon, which would, as you see, have taken our
capital position under Solvency II to 156% on a pro forma basis.
Embedded value per share up 4% to £2.28. Tangible IFRS net asset value at £1.65 at the
end of December. So, overall, we see a lot of positives and we are well positioned for
2018. The board of Just is expressing its confidence via another 6% dividend increase,
and that takes the total for the year's dividend at £0.0372.
Now, can I move on and remind you of the attractive growth markets in which we operate.
However, talking about growth markets, I would want to remind you that our strategy has
been and will continue to be growing profit rather than headline sales. And we have used
those growing and expanding markets in order to take the most attractive risks. That gets
easier the more you have to choose from.

Page 2 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

So, on slide 5 is the depiction of our three product segments and you'll be familiar with
the seminars that we run on each of those in 2017. At that time, we also detailed our
leadership positioning in each of those sectors which are quite exciting markets in financial
services. As a retirement specialist, we have differentiated ourselves through continuous
product innovation, exemplary customer service and unparalleled distribution reach. And
this means that our market leading propositions are making a real difference to help our
customers achieve a better later life.
So, firstly, the top-left chart, Defined Benefit momentum continues to be strong with LCP
estimating the 2017 market would exceed £12 billion, and of course, that doesn't include
comments on such as the Prudential deal announced yesterday, of course. Can I say that
the industry pipeline we're experiencing is as strong as it has ever been, and that includes
our small to medium-sized segment. You know that we concentrate on transactions up to
around £250 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Recent high profiled DB pension scheme issues are expected to result in a renewed
focus on deficits in companies. Even perhaps at the expense of dividend payments to
shareholders of sponsoring employers. Just to remind you Hymans Robertson's research
suggest that the DB de-risking market will continue to grow substantially during the next
decade and they forecast £700 billion of de-risking opportunities through to 2031. Now
that implies around £45 billion per annum, which is of course well ahead of any historic
level achieved. So, I'll leave DB there, but suffice it to say, we remain very positive about
that market and our participation in it.
On the top right-hand side you'll see Guaranteed Income for Life or GIfL where the
outlook is also positive. That chart indicates that the open market GIfL volumes increased
by around 11% over the year. Now that growth is significantly higher than the growth of
overall market, and just to remind you we participate only in the open market. It says there
that open market sales represented 48% of the total volume and that is the highest level
achieved post Pension Freedoms.
It's good to see the drivers we have described to you many times in the past actually
translating integrated propensity for people to shop around. And we see no reason why
the open market can't eventually exceed 80% of the total, up from that 48%, driven by
continued regulatory pressure for people to shop around.
So, adding that up, we think by 2021, the open market could represent £2.9 billion per
annum, up from last year's £2.1 billion, and that would represent compound annual growth
of 11%. But if things go well, the upside could be considerably more.
And then thirdly, to the area that we operate principally as an asset for those two other
businesses, lifetime mortgage market is developing particularly favorably at present.
Shown in the bottom left-hand chart, you'll see that the market grew 42%, and that's on
top of 34% the prior year. So very substantial growth in the last few years.
At our LTM seminar last year, our estimate was that the market could more than double to
£6.6 billion in 2021. Obviously, that market has been growing faster than either of the DB
Page 3 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

or GIfL segments above, and that's what funds our mortgage advances. That has been
meant that we have been able to achieve all of the mortgage volumes we require at
attractive spreads, helping our positive overall margin story which I've already pointed out
to you.
Now, new capacity is entering the lifetime mortgage market, we fully acknowledge that.
But that has been fully met by stronger and increasing demand. And we have maintained
our disciplined approach to pricing and LTM selection.
As we've shown and demonstrated, lifetime mortgages offer a very attractive riskadjusted yield as well as being very suitable for duration matching particularly for Defined
Benefit. So, all in all, we continue to be excited by our strong positioning and distribution
capability in each of these growing markets.
So, with that, I'll hand over to Simon, who will take you through the details on the numbers.
Simon?

Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Rodney. I am Simon Thomas, Group CFO, and I'd like to welcome all of you here
today. Today's numbers show that our strategy is delivering real benefits to our
shareholders. We've had an impressive year and are proud of the progress that we've
made, but there's plenty more to do.
So, if I go straight into the summary IFRS results, this slide shows the overall summary
results, and I'll provide some more color on the key lines. Our adjusted pre-tax operating
profit grew by 35%, and the underlying operating profit by 21%. Both of these were driven
by the 37% increase in new business profit. This is a real vindication of our disciplined
pricing approach with the benefits of the cost synergies making an impact.
I'll go into a bit more detail on new business and in-force operating profit in a moment.
Operating experience and assumption changes were unusually large for us. The starting
point here is the £52 million run rate of merger cost savings. Although this mostly relates
to new business, some relates to in-force book and given clear evidence that our per
policy costs are below our pre-synergy reserving assumptions, we've released some of
the expense reserves.
We've also decided that it's time to strengthen our mortgage mortality assumptions, but
still reporting a net positive P&L benefits of £35 million in relation to operating experience
variances and assumption changes. I'll go into this detail in just shortly.
The other group companies mainly – result mainly includes our continued investments in
HUB, our corporate solutions and distribution business, and our Central costs. As Rodney
said, we'll be investing in our business during 2018, and this could add as much as £10
million to this line next year or in 2018, should I say. The increase in the reinsurance and
finance costs, reflect the full-year cost of our £250 million Tier 2 debt issued in October
2016.
Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Now looking at sales in a little more detail. Retirement Income sales were up 4%, driven
by solid performance in both DB and GIfL product lines. We've already touched on the
long-term growth drivers in these areas, and I'd echo Rodney's enthusiasm for the
exciting DB de-risking growth market. DB sales were up 6% on improved margins, as we
maintained our disciplined pricing approach. We remain focused on relatively smaller
transactions, where our asset liability management works best, and where our medical
underwriting can add most value. We completed 22 transactions during the year.
For 2018 and beyond, we're already benefiting from our track record of product
innovation, with the launch of our DB Choice proposition in November, which has been
positively received by EBCs. The trend towards writing business later in the year, may
become less pronounced in 2018, as the market is uncharacteristically – has been
uncharacteristically busy for the time of year.
Our pipeline is robust with multiple potential transactions of various sizes in our target
segment. GIfL sales were up 5%, again, reflecting our disciplined pricing approach and
rigorous risk selection. The open market is slowly gaining traction. Our own distribution
company hub and others like it are establishing panels to help retirees purchase a better
value GIfL from a wide choice of providers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Previously, they may have just defaulted to the company that happened to help them
save for retirement. As for mortgages, despite the strong market background we have
managed advances to take a risk based approach towards our mortgage appetite. We
use the longer duration characteristics to these assets to provide an optimum backing
ratio relative to the shape of the liabilities we write during the particular period.
This reduction in mortgage volumes is a reflection of our pricing discipline and reselection.
And spreads have remained satisfactory. Mortgages exemplified our strategy of
controlling volumes to optimize profit during 2017. Now, turning to new business margins.
Our 2017 new business margin of 9% was a further significant improvement on the 6.8%
margin achieved in 2016.
We were able to maintain firm pricing discipline during H2 and have improved margins
beyond recognition from the low points of about 3% after the Pensions Freedoms.
Combined with Retirement Income sales of 4%, this margin expansion led to a 37%
increase in new business profitability in 2017. This margin expansion was driven by the
same key drives that we discussed at the interims.
First, we've been particularly selective in 2017 in our GIfL and DB business actively
choosing more profitable even if it's meant a lower market share. I flag that general
market pricing discipline has also been maintained.
Second, margins were helped by continued attractive mortgage yields. Demand for
mortgage yields has significantly increased in the market as a whole, but our own appetite
is a function of our own DB and GIfL volumes and their duration. We're therefore being
more selective on mortgage pricing enabling us to broadly maintain our mortgage spread
even if it's meant lower mortgage market share.
Page 5 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Thirdly, as we discussed in September, we allocated more mortgages as part of the asset
mix, you'll recall that we previously target a 25% ratio of mortgage advances through
Retirement Income sales. We now use a dynamic approach based on the shape of the
liabilities that we write, and in 2017, the LTM Retirement Income backing ratio for new
business rose to the upper 20%, allowing us to capture higher spreads across the
portfolio. And the final driver of the margin is the synergy benefits, which naturally are now
being felt to a greater extent than in 2016.
Looking ahead to 2018, we're seeing and hearing about more mortgage supply and
competition, therefore coming into the market. However, our markets are constructive
and on that basis, I probably expect to see our margin to be in excess of 8% for 2018.
Now turning to our in-force result, in-force profit fell by £4 million from £75 million in 2016
to £71 million in 2017. Here the impact of higher opening actuarial reserves was mainly
offset by continued tightening of corporate bond spreads, and lower earnings on our
surplus assets. In 2017, bond spreads continued the trend seen in 2016, and tightened by
about a further 35 basis points, which led to a reduction in the in-force earnings of about
£5 million and therefore represented the main reason for the reduction in this caption.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I have said before, I'd flag that we don't lose this benefit, as the capitalized impact of
the spread tightening on defaults is captured in the investment and economic variances
line. This year, we have seen a benefit of £34 million created by the spread tightening and
it's recognized in this investment variance line, which I'll come back to in a couple of slides.
The other factor affecting the in-force margin relates to earnings on surplus assets.
Wherein 2016, we had higher number of mortgages in surplus and over the last two
years, this amount has reduced therefore reducing the earnings on surplus by about £2
million.
Looking ahead, and subject of course to spread developments, I'd expect the in-force
profit to get back on track, more closely following the growth in reserves. Next, given their
size, I wanted to talk through the operating experience variances and assumption
changes. You will see that we reported positive operating experience variances and
assumption changes of £35 million. This is the net result of some larger movements.
Firstly, a £90 million release in reserves captured from the integration expense synergies.
Rodney highlighted that we're at a run rate savings of £52 million at the end of 2017. Now
although most – this mostly relates to new business, some of it relates to the in-force
book. And given clear evidence that the per-policy costs are below our reserving
assumptions, we've released some expense reserves.
The £90 million represents the capitalized effect and along with the improvements in the
new business margins is another tangible benefit of the merger. However, conversely, the
first half trend of higher-than-expected mortgage mortality continued in the second half.
This was the main driver of the £15 million negative operating experienced at variance.
In the light of that experience, we decided to strengthen our mortgage longevity
assumptions, which was partly offset by releases from our standard underwritten DB
Page 6 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

book, resulting in a net £30 million increase in reserves. As part of the year-end basis
review, we've generally moved to the new CMI mortality improvement tables for our
standard underwritten books. We do not generally medically underwrite the licensed
Lifetime Mortgages and the borrowers, and we've therefore seen the impact of the lower
mortality improvements on our mortgagees. This has prompted us to prudently
strengthen our assumptions by assuming that we'll accrue interest on these mortgages
for approximately one year less and get repaid sooner. We then conservatively assume
that the proceeds are held in cash rather than put back to work.
Similarly, we've looked at our mortality reserves for our standard underwritten DB
business and found that this book is exhibiting similar characteristics. This means that
reserves here can be reduced, partly offsetting the effect of the mortgage changes. And
this is a practical example of the hedge that we have between our Lifetime Mortgages
and our GIfL in DB liabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now moving onto medically underwritten business, primarily the individual GIfL, but also
the rest of the DB book, it's important here to consider the interaction between the
mortality of people we've medically underwritten and general population data. We're
doing this as part of the process of integrating our IP from both the Just Retirement and
the Partnership sides of the business. We expect to complete this in 2018. Our analysis so
far supports the existing medically underwritten basis which we have therefore not
changed. Overall, we're comfortable that our reserves continue to remain prudent
following these changes.
Now, next, I just wanted to look at our statutory result specifically the non-operating items.
This is the only slide in the pack where the comparative figures are shown on a statutory
basis including 18 months of Just Retirement and 9 months of Partnership. I want to
highlight a few areas.
First, non-recurring and project expenditure of £12 million was down from £21 million. The
main costs here include the cost of the combination and reorganization of JRS and
TOMAS to form the HUB group, IFRS 17, and a continued but reduced charge for Solvency
II work.
The Investments and economic profit line has made a net positive contribution of £23
million. This was the line that benefited from the tightening of credit spreads to the tune
of £34 million, which as I explained earlier represents the capitalized amount of the
spread tightening and the reduction of the in-force operating profit result by about £5
million. This line also includes the negative effects of slightly rising interest rates on our
surplus assets and the other changes to our economic assumptions.
Merger integration costs of £26 million were incurred as the integration program came to
a conclusion. Further integration efficiency gains will come, but these will be captured via
normal BAU activity. The total investment of £67 million of integration costs has released
£52 million of run rate savings which confirms the success of the deal. And finally, the cost
of amortization of intangible assets is flat over the year.

Page 7 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Now moving to our Tier 3 bond issuance after the year-end in February; our credit story
improved significantly over the last year or so, especially since we achieved an investment
grade credit rating, Together with favorable market conditions, this allowed us last month
to issue £230 million of seven-year Tier 3 capital with a 3.5% coupon.
Our year-end gearing level at 16% was lower than our sector peers but our pro forma
leverage ratio would now be in the middle of the pack at 25%, a position we're
comfortable with. Fitch has confirmed our existing A/A+ plus ratings with a stable outlook.
The support feels like a real vote of confidence in our model and we'll use the debt
proceeds to strengthen our capital position so that we can invest in the business and take
advantage of profitable growth opportunities. You will also recall that in July, we
announced a five-year revolving credit facility. This gives us flexible access to liquidity at
interest rates broadly 100 basis points less than the previous senior term facility. The
facility remains undrawn and gives us up to £200 million worth of liquidity if need be.
Overall, following the recent Tier 3 issuance our capital and funding base is significantly
more efficient than at IPO, and we've made real progress on the cost of debt.
Now, I'll hand over to David to take you through our capital position.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone and I'm going to focus on the capital position before handing
back to Rodney for concluding remarks. So, first of all, our Solvency II capital coverage
ratio was 141% at the end of 2017, and that compared to 148% at the prior year-end. To
enable a like-for-like comparison, we've restated the year-end 2016 figure, assuming a
TMTP recalculation at that date even though it was only recalculated at year-end 2017. The
reduction in coverage ratio we saw during 2017 was expected, and I'll take you through
the moving parts on the next slide.
You'll see in the chart in the bottom left that we have added an extra column to show the
position as if the new Tier 3 debt had been in place at year-end, increasing the pro forma
Solvency II coverage ratio to 156%. The board remains comfortable with both the level of
surplus and the coverage ratio. Economic movement since the year-end reporting data
have actually meant solvency has improved so far in 2018, but we'll wait until the interim
results to update you on that. Until then, you can use the sensitivities provided later to
inform your own estimates.
As you can see from the chart on the bottom right, our capital structure is now taking
advantage of more of the features available to us under Solvency II. We have utilized
some of the hybrid capital capacity available to us, making our Solvency capital structure
less equity-dependent and as a result more efficient, that being said, 117% of the SCR
continues to be covered by unrestricted Tier 1 own funds.
The economic capital ratio at year-end was 238%. This further demonstrates the
significant capital strength of our balance sheet. This is much higher than our Solvency II
Page 8 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

capital ratio as it reflects our true economic view and does not contain the more onerous
elements of Solvency II, such as the risk margin or inefficiencies introduced by the
structuring required to make lifetime mortgages eligible for matching adjustment
treatment under Solvency II.
You'll notice that during 2017, our economic capital ratio increased by 22%, even as the
Solvency II coverage ratio fell by 7%. As we lay around more new business under the
Solvency II regime, don't be surprised if the gap between economic capital and Solvency II
continues to widen.
The board has proposed a final dividend of £0.0255 per share, a 6% increase on the prior
year. Added to the interim dividend, this makes a full-year dividend of £0.0372 per share,
also up 6%. The dividend is supported by our resilient capital position. Now the payout
ratio is not something we intend to change significantly in the short term, however, it is
intended to be progressive, subject to continued earnings growth, opportunities to invest
in the business, and of course, the satisfactory capital position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now moving to the next slide, I'll take you through the change in the Solvency II surplus
during the year. So for those of you online, we're now on slide 16. This chart shows the
development in our Solvency II surplus over 2017. I'll step through each component and
how we expect them to develop in the future. And please note that all the figures here
are net of tax.
First of all to compare like-with-like, the waterfall we've shown here starts with the yearend 2016 position, as if the TMTP had been recalculated then. This gives a starting
Solvency II coverage ratio of 148% and a surplus figure of £666 million.
Over the period, in-force surplus was £128 million, a little higher than my original guidance
at last year's full-year results. This represents the gradual release of all the prudent
margins in Solvency II, including risk margin and SCR, and it allows for 12 months
amortization of transitionals. Looking forward, we expect this figure to grow by around
15% per annum over the next few years.
New business strain over the period loaded for post-synergy cost levels was £105 million.
On £1.9 billion of new business premiums that represents a strain of around 5.5% of
premium. This is in line with our mid-single-digit percentage of premium guidance and this
remains our expectation for the future. We also continue to expect to achieve a mid-teen
return on shareholder capital deployed in new business and indeed exceeded that during
2017. As we've previously explained, the amount of new business strain and the IRR are
subject to a number of variables including business mix, customer rates, the level of
mortgage spreads, risk-free rates and other economic variables.
The dividend and interest cost captures the dividends paid during 2017 and also includes
the full 12 months of coupon on the Tier 2 debt issued by us in October 2016. For 2018,
full-year interest costs are expected to be £40 million pre-tax which you can net down for
taxing your projections and add that to your forecast of dividends.

Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Now, Simon explained, we've made great progress in achieving £52 million of run rate
merger expense synergies, however, there is a lag in converting those to actual cash
savings. During 2017, there was a £22 million cost overrun versus the expected 2018 cost
base, which was in line with our expectations in addition to £21 million of merger
integration costs.
And finally, there was a positive benefit of £76 million from other items during the year.
The largest single component of this was the impact of the merger expense synergies
that Simon explained earlier. This led to an increase in Solvency II expense reserves of just
over £60 million post tax. Adding all that up, that means an aggregate on a like-for-like
basis we achieved a stable surplus in pound terms during 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, looking forward, the growth opportunities in the DB de-risking market are exciting.
And our recent Tier 3 debt raise will allow us to target a high level of growth. In addition,
we've decided to invest in our business to grow in new areas and diversify our sources of
revenue. As a result of these decisions, we expect the business will reach a capital neutral
point in pound terms during 2020. We expect the Solvency II coverage ratio to reach its
low point in 2020 and to remain above the board's capital risk appetite throughout that
time. Of course, there are lots of variables which will affect the actual capital ratio
development over time, but that is our base level expectation, and is consistent with the
five-year business plan approved by our board.
Now, let's move on to the Solvency II sensitivities. The chart on slide 17 shows the
sensitivity of our capital position to the key risks that our balance sheet is exposed to.
Overall, the picture is one of a resilient balance sheet with scope to absorb various stress
scenarios and still support the growth of the business. Note that these sensitivities are on
a pro forma basis including the Tier 3 debt issued in February. They make no allowance
for any potential management actions to mitigate the impact of the scenarios modeled.
So, first of all, we can absorb falls in interest rates. A 50 basis point fall from end 2017
levels would have left the Solvency II coverage ratio 19 percentage points lower. For falls
bigger than 50 basis points, we have positioned the balance sheet so that the effect on
the coverage ratio is dampened to changing risk-free rates after TMTP recalculation.
And to be clear, a 50 basis point fall does not automatically trigger a recalculation of the
transitionals, and as per the previous slide, the TMTP was recalculated at the end of 2017.
Thus far, in 2018, rates have actually risen, which is a positive for our balance sheet, and
the sensitivities shown here allow you to estimate the impact of market movements, both
pre and post TMTP recalculation.
You can see that credit spread expansion is manageable in a Solvency II world, and a 10%
increase in lifetime mortgage early redemptions would be a net positive for our Solvency
II position, in contrast to IFRS, because the associated risk capital is released earlier than
expected when you get those elevated redemptions. Our principal balance sheet risks,
otherwise, remain property and longevity. Our exposure to property risk primarily relates
to our no-negative equity guarantee on Lifetime Mortgages. The property stress
represents a 10% permanent fall below our assumed long-term trend for property prices

Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

and assumes no subsequent recovery of that fall. In other words, it's a permanent step
down below the long-term trend with no subsequent mean reversion. Now, this stress
would have reduced the Solvency II coverage ratio by 12 percentage points.
Current property price trends are not uniform across the country, and this is where we
benefit from a geographically-diversified lifetime mortgage portfolio with a low initial loanto-value ratio. As for longevity, trends are actually favorable. The latest CMI analysis shows
that the rate of improvement has continued to fall. People are living longer than ever
before, however, the incremental gains are harder to come by and the rate of
improvement has slowed down to a crawl. You can see a good depiction of this on slide
25 in the appendix to this presentation. There is now general agreement in the industry
that has slowed down in the rate of mortality improvement that we've seen in recent
years now reflects a trend as opposed to a blip.
The 5% uniform increase in longevity shown here would represent material surprise to the
business given the credibility of our accumulated mortality intellectual property. But again
this is a risk we could absorb should current trends dramatically reverse.
And with that back to Rodney for his concluding remarks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Thanks, David. I'd like to just quickly restate our equity stories so we can move on to
questions. It hasn't changed; firstly, our markets our growing and profitable. We've been
maximizing profits as you've seen through risk selection rather than pursuing headline
sales growth and we expect that growth and process to continue.
We have sustainable competitive advantages in these markets driven by our medical
underwriting, our extensive distribution franchises, and importantly, our mortgage
origination capability. These advantages power our risk selection and are translating into
higher profits. The third one, these improving returns mean we remain confident of
achieving a self-sustaining capital position, our balance sheet is now stronger and more
efficient than it was a year-ago, and we expect to be capital neutral in 2020 as David said.
And fourthly, the merger has now delivered synergies well beyond our expectations, and
it isn't a coincidence that margins have therefore expanded following the integration.
So moving on to conclusions, quick recap on the achievements of 2017, and how we can
kick on into 2018 and beyond. The model really did deliver the goods. Last year, the 37%
increase in new business profit, a huge pride for us all, and it delivered on the promises
that we made with respect to the merger. We're already achieving an internal rate of
return on new business above our 2018 target, as David said.
Last year, we exceeded the mid-teens return and that is our ambition with respect to the
deployment of new business capital. We've also significantly improved our balance sheet
strength, as mentioned, and it's flexibility over the last year. Although our business will
remain capital consumptive for another couple of years, we are starting from a good
position, and I think we've earned credibility here and significantly lowered that cost of
Page 11 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

capital. There's more to come as we have focused on improving our returns, and we'll do
this partly by doing more of the same as you've seen given supportive marketplace and
sound capital, but we're also intending to invest in innovation and renewal.
So, we have renewed our five-year business plan to invest in strategic priorities. This
includes digitizing the group to help us deliver market leading customer experience and
to drive operational savings as well. We're actually relishing the shift from integration to
investment and innovation. As we diversify and grow our business, we will have further
product launches this year and service innovations aimed at the millions of middle Britons
who currently don't have access to help in managing their retirement finances. So, adding
it all up, we think our model is delivering and more importantly will continue to do so.
So, could I take our first question from the room? And given the short time, will you please
limit it to two questions maximum. If you could state your name and company, please.

Q&A
Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. I have two questions, please. First of all, on the –
obviously, your margins expanded significantly this year driving earnings growth, and you
focused on value over volume, but your market share did decline. Do you think going
forward, can you keep your margins at 8% level by maintaining the current market share
or would you expect the market share to lag the growing market, and the future as well?
And then, the second question on investing the £230 million of debt proceeds into bulk
annuities. On the 5.5% new business stream with a lighter rate, an incremental of £4
billion, if my math is correct, business, even if we did it over a full-year period, that would
still be a significant increase in (00:43:04) doubling your bulk annuity sales. Is that kind of
the opportunity you foresee given (00:43:10) the market, their pipeline increase from £12
billion to £17 billion, so that the market is growing, is that what we can kind of expect or
what – or how are you going to invest that £230 million?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Right. So I'm going to tackle question on margin. Just to be clear as I think the pipeline in
our area of the DB market is stronger than we've ever seen it before. But we certainly
wouldn't be deploying the whole of the £230 million in one year, and then having sales
collapse back. So the investment is to have continuous growth, Alan.
Simon, on margins...

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. On the margins, obviously, I went through the factors that drove the margin this
year and there was a pickup from 6.8% up to 8% and there were three or four items that
we talked about earlier. I think most of those are sustainable. The one area that flagged
though going forward is mortgage competition. And this year, we've benefited by the fact
Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

that the mortgage market has grown by about 40-odd percent, which I think surprised
everybody frankly. But we are hearing and seeing people coming into the market place.
We're seeing for people like Nationwide. Canada with retirement advantage will be
starting there as well, and one or two reinsurance companies, I won't mention their
names, but there are rumors in the market that they're coming in.
And that's why I'm looking forward. I think I'm being a little bit more cautious about the
market conditions potentially into 2018, and guiding it, I think it will start (00:44:34) going
forward. In terms of looking further ahead, well, it's difficult. I think the structural aspects of
what we have now as a business, I think there are good reasons to suggest that we've
got some solidity around that. But again, it does – we are in a competitive market, and
that's one thing I would flag clearly on all our products.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Just to be clear, the mortgage market has started off very well this year. So we're very
comfortable with our position, and also the spreads, but you're always looking for a
forward-looking statement, and we need to be conservative.
Do you have just a quick word on your approach to DB this year, David?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. As Rodney says we're not planning to blow it all in one year. And so it is about...

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

(00:45:17)

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

...it is about sustainable growth. And what we are seeing in the DB market is very exciting,
really strong pipeline of opportunities, and what I'd call high quality credible opportunities.
So, what we're finding is that the EBCs are working very closely with the trustees of the
pension schemes now. And when they bring opportunities to the market there, what you
might call deal-ready, more deal-ready than they were in the past. So I think the extra
capital, stronger base gives us the opportunity to go after that really strong pipeline.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Next Christian, Gordon.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Couple of questions, one on mortality, one illiquid
assets, so the mortgage mortality assumptions, you said you reduced life expectancy
assumptions by a year. And you said that was prudent. It really is incredibly prudent given
all the updates we've had each year on – see it from the CMI reduce more life expectancy
by a couple of months at most. And just maybe you can give us some sensitivity for the
group as a whole. So, if you were to say one month reduction life expectancy across all
Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

your product lines, you gain on the annuity reserves. I mean, would you lose on
mortgages because you gained on the (00:46:29) but you'd lose on the interest
received? So just what's the net effect of a one-month reduction across the whole
operating profit for the group?
And the second question is, illiquid assets as a proportion of assets-backed annuities, I
mean, you have the 25% target, you said 2017 was high-20s. Maybe talk about total illiquid
assets because I know you're doing a little bit more than just Lifetime Mortgages. But
Aviva said they're happy to be at 50%. So why aren't you, given the regulators (00:46:57)
also talking about a move to 40%?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Aviva, happy to take 50% of what...

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Of their assets backing...

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Iliquids.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. So just very quickly, David is incredibly smart, but he doesn't have the entire
Solvency II model, and he said that he is going to press a button and answer the moving
parts of (00:47:19) and so on. Just to be clear, the alteration in the mortgage profile is
early redemptions in combination with mortality. So, what we're seeing is that the
assessment in the total portfolio is that we expect the propositions to last for one year
shorter than we have previously assumed. And we think that's conservative but proper.
As you know, in this particular year, getting the proceeds earlier, we have reinvested them
at almost higher spreads but you can't guarantee that, Gordon, going forward.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

David, that interaction between all of those (00:48:02) annuities?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah. So, the sensitivities we show, Gordon, on slide 17, the 5% drop in mortality rates.
That is across all the annuitant portfolios, and the LTM business. So, that is a combined
impact you're seeing there. And very, very, very rough, just this 5% mortality might be
about half a year of life expectancy. So this'll be actually the opposite direction. This would
be adding to life expectancy about a half year. Of course, in reality, the two don't move
precisely. That's the thing. But this is a uniform change so to give you a kind of a flavor for
that.

Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

FINAL

And remember our book of annuitants is still much younger than some of our larger and
longer serving competitors who've got annuities for the last 40 years, where the majority
of our business has been written in the last five years. So, it's not saying that we won't see
the trends. But also, it is a mark of the medical underwriting assessment that we don't see
our customer bases reflecting the general population. The 50% in illiquid assets;
remember we have to hold very substantial liquidity.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

We do yes. So, and you're obviously right, Gordon, we reinvest more than just Lifetime
Mortgages, so we've also gradually started to invest in infrastructure, in private
placements, and in commercial real estate mortgages. And we give a split at the back
there you'll see for example the other asset classes are still very low percentage of the
back book, it's still very heavily weighted towards Lifetime Mortgages.
And our approach to this is purely risk based, we look at the profile of the liabilities that
we're writing and DB GIfL, and we look at the profile of the assets that we can use to back
those liability cash flows. And we make sure we leave plenty of margin for variability in the
cash flow, so you need a certain amount of liquidities as Rodney said.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we don't actually set a fixed percentage in terms of limit on this, it's going to depend
on the mix of the assets, and the mix of liabilities that are available. But overall, as a
general theme we're looking to diversify our investment portfolio and to make it less
dependent on LTMs.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

There was a question there that I missed before.

Q - Charlie Beeching

{BIO 21296314 <GO>}

Yeah. Charlie Beeching, KBW. Actually a follow-on from the Lifetime Mortgage question. I
guess it'd be beneficial for you to increase the percentage of the LTM book that is
medically underwritten or in terms of new business. Is that an experienced thing? Is it
possible to do so in terms of increasing the medical underwriting and?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So, just quickly, we do medical underwriting, we think we're the only Lifetime Mortgage
provider that said – that's only a small percentage and that's where people are uniquely
seeking a higher LTV than would normally be available and we will medically underwrite
those in that case. But it's not a – there's so much standard business just to be clear.
There hasn't been a need to pursue that, but it is one of our small competitive
advantages. Andrew...

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Page 15 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean from Autonomous. Can we stay on this slide? Firstly,
could you give us – I've asked this a number of times, the sensitivity to credit migration.
And also, you said, I think, that the interest rate sensitivity was relatively symmetric, but
the property sensitivity is not symmetric. At what point does the cracking point really
begin to hurt on that in terms of the (00:52:03) because I think it's around 25%, 30%. It
can be really deleterious.
And finally, can you give us – what are the costs and what are the expenses in the
operation, and how do they split between new business and the in-force?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. So, David, if you can take the first one. Just to be clear, in addition to this under our
current Solvency II reserving, we hold a 9% downturn in the market already built into our
figure. So, in the base Solvency II, we assume that property prices in the UK are damaged
by 9%, and then, the – this would be an additional one.
David?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, the question. Yes there was a couple – so, we'll take away the request on credit
migration and see what would be useful there. And on more extreme property price falls,
and it is not quite symmetric or linear for the first – for a bit more than what we've shown
here, but it's not far off.
And what happens when you start getting into more severe falls like say more than 20%,
you then need to start asking yourself, well, how I would recalibrate my internal model. So
how would I recalibrate the stress events that you apply to the balance sheet. And that
would have a probably dampening effect on the stress as you get more and more
extreme. Because if you see, say, you have a 25% full, would it be appropriate in your risk
models to assume a further 30% fall over a 12-month horizon.
So they're the type of interactions which make actually more extreme scenarios more
difficult to model. But the key thing I'd emphasize here is, it's not what happens to
property prices over the next 12 to 24 or even 36 months. So what happens to house
price trends over the next 15, 20 years, because that's where the kind of the main and
neg exposure is. With an average loan-to-value ratio of 29%, a significant fall in house
prices are going to translate into significant net costs in the next couple of years.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Just to be clear, Andrew, our computer systems are updating index values on a monthly
basis. So we are automatically upping or reducing the no-negative-equity reserving that
we have on a monthly basis in indexation. Simon, there was a cost question.

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Yeah. I mean, if you're looking specifically, the actual costs (00:54:27) here is £238 million
of costs in the noted accounts. In there you have got amortization of £25 million and
acquisition integration costs of £25 million. And also investment expenses of about £11
million. So that probably takes you down to about sort of...

FINAL

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Can you give the...

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

...£170 million.
(00:54:45)

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

...it's in the RMS (00:54:46).

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

No file at RMS (00:54:47).

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's basically the cost within the (00:54:49).

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah. And then within that, of course, the costs associated with the HUB companies,
the group companies. So we don't give a breakdown down to that level. What accounts,
Andrew, is that clearly with the integration costs and the integration process. We have
clearly gone through a substantial process to save these costs coming through the £52
million, that's included losing 300 roles, 300 roles in the business. It's included losing two
floors of the property (00:55:19), it's included losing the property at Redhill. Integration of
systems has come through as well. Renegotiation of contracts with our suppliers and
renegotiation of contracts with our relationships where partnership and Just Retirement
will have the same ones. So that's the £52 million.
Now, if you take out the trading cost savings in that, let me you just give you a bit of
breakdown which might help. That's about £7 million, so it gets you down to £45 million.
So that's £45 million of management expenses that we save from the original companies,
when the two were separate as such. And that's what you're seeing coming through the
new business margin. And the capitalized amount, that's coming through the
management reserves.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

(00:55:55-00:56:00)

Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

I don't know (00:56:01) in there. But breaking it down further, it's...

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, perhaps if we can do that offline. I promise (00:56:08) tried five times to get a
question.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon. Couple of questions, one for David.
David, just wondered if there's much potential for change in the regulatory capital
requirements? I think, there's a paragraph in the press release, just wondering if you could
expand on that, please.
And second one, perhaps for Simon, there is much of a breakdown in EEV operating
profit, Simon, just wondered if I've missed it or is it a metric you're perhaps looking to
phase out? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah. So there's obviously been a lot of commentary around potential reductions in the
risk margin, which would be beneficial for us, both in terms of our back book and also new
business capital strain. But we put our comment in there, Barrie, just to bring a bit of
balance to the perception, because everyone is talking about the risk margin, there's a
number of other areas, the regulator is consulting on at the moment. So, they have issued
a number of consultation papers and supervisory statements relating to things like the
(00:57:14) the treatment of the liquid assets, how the matching adjustments should be
calculated and internal model processes.
All of which could and I say could impact us either positively or negatively. So, we just
wanted to paint a picture, does a number of changes potentially coming down the line as
the PRA continues to refine its thinking on the application Solvency II. But that's too early,
frankly, to call any of them.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Was there a second?

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

EEV, I think it was, Barrie, no, you haven't missed it. We've done greater the level of
disclosure on EEV this year, frankly, Barrie. I think, we felt that with the level of disclosures
related to Solvency II that's been a big pick up, frankly, in terms of the efforts and
resourcing on that. And also the number of questions that we got on EEV has dropped
and indeed a number of other companies have also downgraded their disclosures or in
Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

fact many of them aren't disclosing it at all. I think, we're going to keep it though at this
high summarized level because we think it is a relevant metric, but it's not as quite as
detailed as before Barrie.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

FINAL

(00:58:14).

Q - Angel Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}

Thanks. Angel Kansagra from HSBC. Just a quick one actually. In your five-year forecast,
David, so as your equity base grows you want to write more new business. Would you
assume more debt to feel that growth because in the absence of it your ratio might trend
down to 140 or less, like mathematically.
So, in couple of years' time can we expect some debt coming through. And the second
one is for Simon, why wouldn't the new business margins stay at 9% because the £52
million of cost sales which you have achieved by the end, you would get the benefit,
some of it next year. And then you have higher new business sales where your cost will be
spread across a bigger base. Wouldn't those two actually enough to offset compressing
in LTM spreads?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

The answer is no to the second question. So, the first question on a capital, yeah. So, if we
think about a shape, sorry, this is a translation on the line but what we're trailing and what
we've trailed in prior periods as well is that whatever your starting point, you can expect
our capital coverage ratio to come down for a few years as the balance sheet expands
and we're saying until it reaches the low point in 2020. And then start to increase even
allowing for what I call a healthy level of new business growth. So that's our baseline
expectation.
And based on our current business plans, our expectation is that as you go through that
journey you will remain above our capital risk appetite without further accessing the capital
markets. So, does not make any sense, but what we will and won't do but that's just what
the baseline projection shows.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So, we're not going to show our capital policy that the board might have over the next
five years at this point. The fundamental about the spread is as interest rates rise that
also impacts on the spread of lifetime mortgages. So, Simon has to take a complete view
of what might be achieved from the assets and the yields. Do you want just – because
we'll have to conclude?

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

You're quite right, there's multiple things going on here. We will get some benefits
coming through from the synergistic benefits, the role forward of the £52 million and
some if we're putting more business through there'll be a gearing effect coming through
Page 19 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

on that. But as Rodney said, we talked about the competition coming into the
marketplace which we've seen and we are hearing about.
And certainly if interest rates rise and they did rise in the first couple of months, actually
interestingly, people did behave economically, so actually the prices went up which is
great, but that's – interest rate rises (01:00:56) for a long-time, so that's another risk
potentially that could happen, I guess. But so from a cautious perspective, I think,
(01:01:03) is where I'm guessing at the moment.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Steve (01:01:06), do we need to conclude or – Marcus, this will have to be the last.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Okay. Marcus Barnard from Numis. Can you give us some indication of how quickly and
how much you expect to see the new investment impact your new business? So I think
you've talked about the DB and you've talked about quote activities, I think, in GIfL. I just
wonder what we should be thinking about in terms of growth going forward. Can you help
us on that one?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

So, with respect to DB, we're not going to give specific guidance. But, I think, what we're
pointing to here is a strong market backdrop. We are seeing good opportunities for DB
growth, whilst maintaining our pricing discipline and getting that mid-teen return on
capital. So, that element of kind of the growth is something which should emerge in the
very short term. I don't know if you want to comment on the kind of the broader
investment in...

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Well, Simon, you were very clear that we will have one-off investments still, but the
investment that will impact above the line, we expect £10 million. So, could you just explain
that?

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah, I mean, clearly, we're moving out of the integration phase more to an
investment phase now. And, I think, there are certain areas that we are going to be
looking which obviously includes – we're still doing all the regularity stuff, so the IFRS 17,
GDPR, more on Solvency II, I'm sure that's still coming through. But also, operational
efficiencies, we'll be looking at, but also investing in the core business.
And, I think, you might have attended the GIfL seminar, where we talked about the GIfL
plug-in, for example. That's one thing where we're developing the core business and
that's something that will be within that £10 million, for example, there. So, it's those sorts
of investments that we're starting to look forward a little bit more rather than just sorting
out and putting two companies back together.

Page 20 of 21



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much for your interest and I hope a safe trip to your next meeting.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thank you.

Page 21 of 21

