Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

Q2 2018 Earnings Call - Pre-Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Luigi Lubelli, Group Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Donnet, Group Chief Executive Officer, MD & Director

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Good morning and welcome to our 2018 First Half Results. I'm proud to say that the first
six months of 2018 have confirmed that the Generali Group is executing its strategic plan
with discipline and success. There are now five months left to the completion of our
turnaround. We are on track to reach our targets, and in some cases, we even overdelivered.

Bloomberg Transcript

The 2015-2018 plan is an industrial strategy with the aim to strengthen Generali's business
leadership. My first key message to you is that, in the first half of this year, we have made
further progress. For instance, we continued to steer our portfolio towards capital-light
solutions. This, and many of the other actions we have undertaken, contributed to our
operating profit and net profit, both of which continued to grow.
The second key message is that we nearly completed the optimization of our
geographical footprint. We want to be strong in the selected markets where we are
convinced that we can have a role as a leader. The third key message is that we are
confident we will reach our 2015-2018 targets by the end of this year.
I would like to focus on a few high-level KPI that highlight the group's profitability in the
first six months. Shortly, Luigi will give you a more detailed overview of our financials. The
disciplined implementation of our strategy was reflected in the operating result which
rose by 2.7% compared to the same period last year to more than €2.5 billion. The net
result rose by nearly 9% to €1.3 billion. This is the best first half net result in 10 years.
Our technical performance remains excellent. Our Property Casualty combined ratio
improved by 0.8 percentage points to 92%. This positive trend was achieved even with
significant natural catastrophes in France and in Germany. Excluding the nat cat impact, the
underlying improvement was even higher at 1.3 percentage points. In the Life segment,
our new business margin has been steadily improving and it's now at 4.5% from 4.1% in
the first half of 2017.
Let me update you on where we stand relative to our key strategic targets. I am pleased
to report that we are either on track to meet them or we have already met them and are
looking to exceed them. Let's go through them one by one. To optimize our international

Page 1 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

footprint, we have signed deals for about €1.5 billion in total, well above our €1 billion
target. I will give you more insight on this shortly.
As part of our plan to rationalize the operating machine at the end of 2017, we already
achieved our target of €200 million of net cost reduction in mature markets one year
ahead our revised plan. We were able to take advantage of many synergies and
consequently, we are more efficient and agile. As regards the enhancements of our
technical capabilities in the first half, our combined ratio improved significantly as we saw
before.
Also, we shifted our Life business mix away from guaranteed policies. Our average
guarantee on new traditional business is now only 14 basis points, with a decreasing trend
and very close to our 0% target.
In the Euro area, it's only 1 basis point. As part of our portfolio rebalancing, we said we
wanted a 30 basis points reduction in the average guarantee of our entire portfolio to
1.5% by the end of 2018. I am happy to show you that at the end of June, we exceeded
this target. The average guarantee was down by 42 basis points compared to the end of
2015 and stood at 1.39%.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are also making our reserves more capital-light. In fact, from 2015 to June this year,
the portion of capital-light reserves has increased by 8.4 percentage points exceeding
our initial target. Both of these targets were significantly accelerated by the agreements
we recently announced regarding Generali Leben, to which I will return in a moment.
Our asset management business plays a key role and we expect it to contribute €150
million of additional profit to the group by 2020. We are on track to meet this goal. In the
first half of this year, our asset management activities in Europe generated €88 million of
net result, an impressive 56% increase compared to the same period last year. This
resulted in an additional contribution of €36 million to the group compared to the first half
of our base year of comparison 2016.
Moving on to the next strategic pillar, I would like to give you an update on our innovative
programs to increase customer retention. We continue to implement our Net Promoter
Score initiative to reach out to clients, collect their feedback and act upon it. As of today,
90% of our customers are covered by the program.
On average, the number of promoters of our brand has improved by 15% in the business
units where the program has been live for more than five quarters. We also started a
dedicated NPS program for our distributors. With the Mobile Hub, we allow clients to
perform insurance transactions on their mobiles. And with the Digital Agent, we equip
distributors with a platform that leverages social media, data and artificial intelligence to
boost their business opportunities and improve their communication with clients.
Coming to our last strategic pillar, we are strengthening our brand to increased
preference by 3 percentage points in mature markets. The plans we are executing to
accelerate these targets such as the shift from traditional to more cost-efficient and
Page 2 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

engaging digital marketing have proven effective with a positive momentum on brand
preference. Recently, we have signed an important deal with Germany's largest
distribution network, DVAG, which will sell only Generali-branded insurance products going
forward.
Now let me talk you through the optimization of our geographical footprint. Since the start
of our plan, we have signed or concluded a number of important deals. We have put into
run-off our operations in Japan and signed deals to dispose our operations in Tunisia and
Belgium, as well as to sell Generali Worldwide and Generali Link.
We have completed the disposals of Generali PanEurope and of our operations in
Guatemala, the Netherlands, Panama, and Colombia. As a result, the cash proceeds that
we have received or we are going to receive amount to approximately €1.5 billion, well
above our announced target of €1 billion. My colleagues and I will provide you with more
details on the use of these proceeds as part of our presentation at the Investor Day next
November in Milan.

Bloomberg Transcript

As previously announced, we have signed an agreement to sell a majority stake in
Generali Leben. The disposal of Generali Leben was not part of our geographic
optimization program. We are clearly committed to the German market where we remain
the leaders in capital-light products, and we want to strengthen our position as the
second-largest insurer.
Generali Leben accounts for approximately €37 billion of traditional, capital-absorbing
policies with high guaranteed rates. This transaction, if approved by the German regulator,
will have no precedent in the insurance industry and has a positive impact on the risk
profile of the Generali Group, reducing exposure to interest rate fluctuations and shifting
the business mix to capital-light solutions, as per our strategic framework.
This transaction benefits us and the policyholders. The buyer, Viridium, is an industry
player with a proven track record to manage this type of portfolio. We will seek the best
opportunities to reinvest part of these proceeds to innovate and grow our German
business.
Generali is nearing the completion of its industrial turnaround. The group is working with
passion and dedication to deliver on its targets. At the same time, we are designing the
next phase of our journey. From 2012 to 2015, we completed our financial turnaround and
strengthened our capital position. From 2016 to 2018, we have been focusing on our
industrial levers to improve the operating performance and to create long-term value.
The goal we are pursuing is not to become the biggest, but the best. The goal we are
pursuing is excellence.
Next November at our Investor Day in Milan, we will present a new plan for value-creating
growth. We are defining a three-year strategic plan around three key pillars: one, capital
management and financial optimization; two, profitable expansion; three, innovation and
transformation. We will show you how we will improve the management of our balance
sheet and allocate an available cash and capital in the most value-creative way possible.
Page 3 of 10



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

We will also show you how we intend to grow our business by developing our offering in
innovative business lines, as well as by launching disruptive solutions that employ
digitalization and ecosystems. We will show you how we will further enhance our operating
model and cost control and strengthen our human capital, brand equity and corporate
culture of sustainability. We will build our new strategic plan based on our strength,
including best-in-class technical profitability, solid risk capital position, unrivalled
distribution network and strong drive in innovation. I very much look forward to unveiling
our next chapter and welcoming you all to our 2018 Investor Day in Milan on November 21.
In conclusion, today's financial show that we are delivering the result that we promised
and that our performance trajectory is healthy and robust. We are confident that we will
meet our stakeholders' expectation.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the managerial talent that we have
around the world. Thanks to the contribution of more than 70,000 colleagues, we aim for
excellence in everything we do every day, everywhere. I'm very proud of the results we
have achieved thus far.
Next, our Group CFO, Luigi, will give you more details on our financials. Thank you.

Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone. Today, I have the pleasure of guiding you through the main
figures of our 2018 first half results. As Philippe has already commented, Generali is
entering the final phase of its current strategic plan with a solid set of numbers.
Before I begin, let me remind you that, as usual, comparative results have been restated
to reflect current changes to the group's consolidation scope and the application of IFRS
5, which in this year's first half have a larger impact due to the strong momentum of the
disposals process over the last 12 months.
The figures for those entities, which we have agreed to sell but are yet to be transferred
to their new owners, are presented as discontinued operations. Specifically in the first half
of 2018, saw the largest numbers of this kind of disposals due to transactions that were
either announced in 2017 and closed this year or that have been agreed so far in 2018.
On one hand, this requires devoting a bit more time to understanding the figures. On the
other, this quarter can be seen as an especially significant intermediate step towards the
improvement of risk-adjusted profitability going forward. Let me also remind you that
since January, the ACEER region includes Austria, CEE and Russia.
I will begin with a summary overview of our performance in the first six months of the year.
Firstly, let's have a look at growth. In Life, our net inflows closed the semester at €5.7
billion, in line with last year's strong result. This figure, to me, is especially significant as
such a large volume of new inflows was achieved while continuing to drive the
composition of our portfolio towards our target products and despite the more volatile
markets observed during the second quarter.
Page 4 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

Premiums are growing faster than in the first half of 2017. In the Life business, they are
compounded by €1.2 billion from a specific in-force management initiative in Italy. In P&C,
growth accelerated to 2.1 percentage points, with positive momentum in both Motor and
Non-Motor. This was achieved while continuing to improve the combined ratio.
Life technical reserves grew by 1.8%, reflecting the strong net inflows and despite the
market volatility I mentioned earlier. The operating result increased by 2.7% to over €2.5
billion, translating into a 12.5% operating ROE. This KPI continues to remain on average at
13.4% from the end of 2015, which is above its 13% target. The redeployment of the
proceeds from the disposals into higher yielding investments will contribute to the growth
in the group's results going forward.
This is a topic that will be covered at the Investor Day in November.

Bloomberg Transcript

The net result of €1.3 billion was up 8.8% from the previous year, including some special
items which I will come back to in a moment. Our distribution effectiveness and careful
underwriting approach bore fruit again this year. On one hand, we further expanded our
new business margin on the present value of new business premiums even higher to 4.5
percentage points. Likewise, our combined ratio improved by 0.8 percentage points
reaching an excellent 92%.
The underlying improvement, without considering the impact from natural catastrophes,
would have been even better at 1.3 percentage points. The development of solvency is
especially pleasing given that despite market volatility, we only lost 10 percentage points
since the first quarter of this year. This is a testimony to the many initiatives taken to
control the group's capital requirements and enhance the resilience of its solvency levels.
The operating results reached €2.53 billion with a 2.7% increase that has been achieved
thanks to good performance across all business lines, which I will explain in greater detail
later on. The comparatively larger consolidation adjustments are mostly driven by the
recognition in the first half of intragroup proceeds from investment funds which in 2017
were booked in the second part of the year. Therefore, the magnitude of this adjustment
should level downwards by year-end.
To move from operating result to net result, we start with the non-operating investment
income which had a €20 million positive contribution compared with the €7 million
negative balance last year. This result includes €113 million positive gain from the disposal
of our participation in Italo, that has been more than offset by our decision to reduce
harvesting on other financial instruments while market volatility persists.
Non-operating holding expenses decreased by €3 million to €388 million, driven by
marginally lower interest expenses on our financial debt. Net other non-operating
expenses slightly decreased by €4 million to €171 million. This variation is the balance of a
number of positive and negative impacts. The main positive item was a realization gain
from the disposal of our Panama operations of €77 million.

Page 5 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

Among negative items, we saw slightly higher restructuring expenses at €68 million and
additional local project and IT costs in Switzerland and Germany. In addition, the first half
of 2017 saw €26 million of positive adjustments in defined benefit pension schemes which
were not repeated this year.
The overall effective tax rate of the group was 32.4%, 1.6 percentage points higher
compared to last year. This increase is mainly explained by an additional amount of
around €10 million from the U.S. repatriation tax, as well as the absence of positive tax
refunds we experienced during the same period of 2017.
In the discontinued operations line, we have €103 million profit which includes a €49
million gain from the sale of our Irish operations, in addition to the profit arising from other
operations whose disposal is still to be finalized. These are Belgium, Guernsey, and
Generali Leben in Germany. Minority interests were in line at €104 million, and this takes us
to a net income for the year of €1.329 billion, up 8.8% year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let us now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity decreased by 5.8% to
€23.6 billion. The positive contribution from the net result has been more than offset by
the 2017 dividend paid in May and by €1.3 billion negative development of our available for
sale reserve, reflecting primarily market volatility during the second quarter of the year.
Our solvency position remained above 200% on both the regulatory and internal model
views, confirming its resilience.
Let's focus on the regulatory ratio and the movement since the beginning of the year. On
the positive side, we have about 2 percentage points coming from the disposal of nonstrategic subsidiaries and 8 percentage points from internal capital generation. They were
offset primarily by a negative variation of 13 percentage points (sic) [14 percentage points]
(00:20:33), mainly coming from the higher spreads plus a further 3 percentage points
coming from the accrual of dividends.
Now, we'll turn to look at the performance of the individual business segments during the
first half of the year, starting with Life. We will look at these figures in detail in the next
pages. On this one, I would like to explain the growth in premiums. The total increase was
just shy of €1.8 billion. Of these, €1.2 billion came from in-force management activities of
group business in Italy. The remainder came primarily from France, which is experiencing
good growth across all lines especially unit-linked, and from Asia, especially savings and
protection business in China and Hong Kong.
We recorded a €47 million increase in the technical result, which reflected the positive
contribution of hybrid product sales and associated fees, especially in Italy and business
growth in Asia, mainly related to China.
These positive developments were partially offset by a larger amount of profit sharing at
Generali Employee Benefits and the voluntary acceleration of a required adjustment to
new mortality tables in France. The investment result decreased slightly due to a still
declining current income and lower realized gains. The expense result contributed
positively with savings from mature markets outweighing ongoing investments in Asia.
Page 6 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

Our net inflows were at €5.7 billion for the first half, in line with last year's strong result but
with an even better business mix. The stability in this figure was especially significant. As
such, new inflows were achieved while continuing to drive the composition of our portfolio
towards our target segments with a further increase in the weight of unit-linked and
protection and despite more volatile markets during the second quarter.
In Italy, net inflows decreased from €3.1 billion to €2.3 billion mainly driven by lower
traditional savings and pension products sales but with a significantly improved business
mix. France experienced a very strong progression of net inflows, up to almost €1 billion
from less than €200 million one year ago with strong unit linked and protection sales
which offset traditional savings and pension flows that remain negative. In Germany, we
also saw a 5.3% while the lower inflows in ACEER were mainly driven by maturities in
Austria.
In our international business, the second quarter saw strong growth in bancassurance in
China and the further positive contribution from the development of the new company in
Hong Kong. At cumulative level, however this could not yet fully offset the impact of the
net outflows of traditional savings business in China in the first quarter of this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Due to the strongly positive net inflows, our Life technical reserves increased by 1.8
percentage points over the first six months to €342 billion.
We are steering the mix of liabilities as planned. Capital-light business has increased its
weight on total reserves by 8.4 percentage points since the baseline of year-end 2015, so
already outperforming the 6 percentage point shift we promised to deliver over the three
years from then until 2018. The organic change has been so far equal to 5.2 percentage
points, with the rest coming from the disposals we announced in the recent past and in
particular from the reclassification as a discontinued operation of Generali Leben.
Moving to new business, let me first clarify that IFRS 5 does not apply to embedded value
indicators, and our new business figures have, therefore, not been adjusted to reflect
those disposals that have been announced but not executed yet. This is consistent also
with the Solvency II position of which the new business forms part (00:24:34). The overall
present value of new business premiums declined by 3.9% to €21.4 billion with a mix that
marginally improved from the good one already achieved during the same period of last
year.
The overall margin increased even further up 33 basis points on a like-for-like basis to
450 basis points, which represents a new high. This improvement has been driven in
equal terms by management actions on business mix steering, product enhancements
and minimum guarantees, as well as by improved financial market inputs. Margins in unitlinked were broadly stable. Protection margins increased by 75 basis points year-on-year,
mainly due to a strong improvement in France reflecting new products, better operating
assumptions following positive experience and some model refinements.
The margin in the savings business also increased by 39 basis points, mainly due to Italy
as a result of ongoing product development initiatives and further reduced guarantees.
Page 7 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

This margin expansion overcompensated the reduction in volumes, leading to a new
business value that reached €965 million, up by 3.6% over the previous year.

FINAL

Even if the figures were adjusted for the discontinued businesses, the new business value
would still slightly exceed €0.9 billion, and the new business margin would be slightly
higher since the businesses earmarked for disposal have lower margins.
By region, we see further margin expansion in Italy, France, and international, mitigated by
reductions in Germany and ACEER, although the latter remains at very good levels and
indeed is the most profitable region of the group.
The decrease of new business you can see in Germany is explained by the runoff process
that has been started at Generali Leben, a company that is still included in these numbers,
as I explained before. With the full integration of the sales force into DVAG, a reverting
trend is expected going forward. The margin erosion, on the other hand, was related to
worsened operating assumptions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look now to the Life investment portfolio. General account investments remained
substantially flat at €301 billion. In terms of asset mix, in the context of very tight spreads,
we continued with our de-risking activity by marginally reducing the weight of corporate
bonds while the weight of government bonds and equities slightly increased.
Cash balances within the investment portfolio were moderately lower at the end of the
first half as compared to year-end 2017. Current investment returns stabilized at around
1.6%, even if current income in absolute terms continued to decline by €138 million gross
of policyholder share.
The new money reinvestment rate in Life amounted to 2%, compared to 1.9% during the
same period of last year.
Let us now turn to P&C, and on this slide, I would like to focus on gross written premiums
which increased by 2.1% to €11 billion. Trends were positive in both Motor insurance driven
primarily by Latin America and Eastern Europe and by Non-Motor which benefited from
growth in Europe Assistance, Eastern Europe, and France. The operating results show a
3.8% increase.
Looking in more detail at its components, we see that this positive performance is driven
entirely by an improved technical result, up by €67 million which in turn reflects the
favorable development in the combined ratio. The investment results remained stable
with higher proceeds from investment funds making up for the fall in current income.
Lastly, the result from other worsened by €24 million mainly due to decreased margins on
service activities and higher indirect taxes. Italy's top line was down 3.3% at €2.6 billion.
Motor decreased by 4.1%, still affected by a soft market and by a reduction in the number
of policies due to our persistently strict underwriting criteria.

Page 8 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

Primary Non-Motor is down 2.7%, particularly driven by the evolution of the Global
Corporate & Commercial business, partly due also to some pruning activities to protect
profitability. Notwithstanding these top line numbers, we are starting to see underlying
improving trends. In terms of profitability, Italy again confirmed its outstanding levels with
a 90.1% combined ratio.
France is having a good top line performance with premiums up 2.7% to over €1.4 billion.
Motor grew 2.1%, thanks to tariff optimization and new commercial initiatives. Primary NonMotor performed even better with premiums up by 2.7%. The combined ratio worsened
by 0.6 percentage points to 98.9% mainly due to increased nat cat losses and other
weather-related large claims not reaching the nat cat definition threshold.
In Germany, premiums increased by 0.6%. This was driven by the combination of a stable
Motor business and Primary Non-Motor increasing by 1.1%. The combined ratio
experienced a 0.4 percentage point deterioration entirely due to higher nat cat losses
which were not fully compensated by the improving underlying trends.
ACEER delivered a very strong performance once again, showing a 4% premium increase
driven by CEE countries. The combined ratio was outstanding at 88.2%, 1.7 points lower
than the previous year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our international business delivered a strong growth of 7% on a like-for-like basis,
reaching almost €2.7 billion of premiums, mainly thanks to the strong performance of the
Americas and of Europe Assistance. The overall combined ratio here stood at 94.5%,
down 3.1 percentage points year-on-year.
The loss ratio improved by 0.6 percentage points notwithstanding a 0.5 percentage
points higher impact from nat cat losses at 1.4 percentage points. The counter-balancing
improvement came from the current year result, down 0.9 percentage points, which is a
particularly pleasing result although, as we mentioned, the first quarter was particularly
benign in terms of large losses outside of nat cat. The contribution from prior-year
development was substantially (00:31:20) in line with the previous year at 4.8%.
The expense ratio also improved by 0.2 percentage points driven by a lower
administration expense ratio.
P&C investments increased slightly compared to the end of last year to €39 billion. There
has been a slight increase in both corporate and government bonds, counterbalanced by
increasing cash instruments. Total P&C current returns on a six-month basis were relatively
stable at 1.6%. This stability has been driven by improved current returns on equity
investments with higher proceeds from investment funds, while fixed income returns have
continued to decline slightly reflecting the persisting low interest rate environment. The
average reinvestment rate in P&C during the first six months of this year was 1.5%, in line
with what was achieved last year.
Let me finally turn to our Holding and other businesses segment, whose overall
contribution to the group operating result improved from €39 million last year to €74
Page 9 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-08-01

FINAL

million in this closing. This result has been driven by the strong performance of Asset
Management Europe, only partially mitigated by a 7% decrease at Banca Generali's
operating result.
Asset Management Europe saw an increase of 53% in operating result and 56% growth in
the net result as compared to the first half of last year. This notable increase in profitability
reflects a larger volume of investments into real assets, a review of insurance mandate
pricing, the development of the third-party business, and the increase of internally
managed unit-linked Assets Under Management. Larger revenues drove our cost income
ratio down by 9 percentage points to 54%. These positive developments position
Generali well to reaching the target we've announced for 2020.
In summary, we have produced another strong set of results with growing profitability,
industry-leading technical KPIs and a strong balance sheet which has comfortably been
able to absorb the market volatility observed in the second quarter.
Moreover, we have made very significant and transforming steps towards the
achievement of all our strategic initiatives which place Generali well to close successfully
its current plan by the end of 2018 and lay the grounds for profitable growth under the
new plan that will be announced in November.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

