Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , Chief Executive Officer & Chairman
Matthew J. Rider, Chief Financial Officer & Member-Executive & Management Board
Willem van den Berg, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Mark Cathcart, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Managing Director
Robin van den Broek, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Aegon Q3 2017 Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to
Willem van den Berg, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining this conference call on
Aegon's fourth quarter 2017 results. We would appreciate it if you take a moment to
review our disclaimer on forward-looking statements which you can find at the back of the
presentation.
Our CEO, Alex Wynaendts will first provide an overview of our key strategic achievements
for 2017 and he will then hand it over to our CFO, Matt Rider who will walk you through our
fourth quarter 2017 results. As always, we will leave plenty of time to address all of your
questions.
I'll now hand it over to Alex.

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for your continued interest in Aegon and for
joining us for today's earning call. I'm pleased that this was a good quarter both financially
and strategically and one that concludes a very strong year for Aegon. Let me begin by
providing you with an overview of the most important strategic achievements we have
realized since our last earnings call.
We've made significant progress with improving our Solvency II ratio to 201% while at the
same time, greatly enhancing the quality of our capital. We announced a partnership with
Tata Consultancy Services in the U.S. to outsource the administration of our life and
annuity businesses. This will lead to considerable cost savings.
Also in the U.S., we exceeded our target to reduce capital allocated to our run-off
businesses by $1 billion and this is one year ahead of our 2018 target. Throughout the
year, we continued to make significant progress on our strategic priority to transform our
business through our continued digitization efforts. And finally, I would like to highlight our
strong sales for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will take you through these achievements in more detail before concluding with the
progress we are making towards our 2018 financial targets. Let's begin by taking a closer
look at the improvements we made in our Solvency II ratio on the next slide.
I'm in slide 3 now. I'm very pleased with the progress we made during 2017 to improve
our Solvency II ratio to 201%, which is at the top end of our capital management target
zone. This was achieved through working closely across the group and with our regulators
on a number of important items. And this included successfully recapitalization our Dutch
unit back to dividend paying status by injecting €1 billion from the holding. We were able to
fund this capital contribution internally, including through divestments. In the Netherlands,
we divested William Penn (00:03:07), an insurance brokerage firm; and in the U.S., we
divested our BOLI/COLI and payout annuity run-off businesses. This enabled us to make a
one-time special remittance to the holding in the fourth quarter.
We also reached an agreement with our regulator to update conversion methodology for
U.S. business. This resulted in a 15 percentage point uplift to our group Solvency II ratio.
And in addition, we reached an agreement on the treatment of the loss absorbing
capacity of deferred taxes confirming a (00:03:42) factor of 75% for the Netherlands.
I'm also pleased that at the same time, we greatly improved the quality of our capital over
the course of 2017 through management actions, improving Tier 1 capital as a percentage
of SCR by 34 percentage points year-over-year to 166%.
I would now like to turn to the next slide and walk you through the benefits partnering with
TCS in the U.S. As I mentioned earlier, the outsourcing agreement we recently concluded
with TCS represents a major component of the $300 million cost savings target by the
end of 2018 for Transamerica.

Page 2 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

Before I get into the key financials of the agreement, I'd first like to take a minute to
highlight the strategic rationale behind this partnership. Under the agreement, TCS will
take over the administration and servicing of more than 10 million life, annuity,
supplemental health, and voluntary benefit policies. And what makes this partnership
different from most outsourcing agreements is that we will also transfer to TCS
approximately 2,100 Transamerica employees currently responsible for the administration
and service of these policies. This will enable a smooth transition and will allow us to
maintain high service levels for our customers.
The partnership will also lead to a further improvement of service levels to both existing
and new customers as TCS will provide our customers improved digitization and
automation while we continue to focus on product innovation, further digitization of our
retirement platform, and enhancing our distribution reach.

Bloomberg Transcript

Returning to the financials, the agreement is expected to result in cost savings of
approximately $70 million annually, growing to $100 million annually when fully transitioned.
As part of the transition and related conversion, we expect to incur approximately $280
million in charges over the next three years with $150 million in 2018. Overall, we're very
excited about this partnership with TCS and believe it will enhance the customer
experience while resulting in significant cost synergies.
I would now like to turn to slide 5 which shows a reduction in capital allocated to our runoff businesses. As you can see, we had not only exceeded our $1 billion target to reduce
capital allocated to our run-off businesses by the end of 2018 but executed on this one
year ahead of target. In total, we have reduced IFRS capital allocated to our run-off
businesses by approximately $5 billion since 2009, including an additional $1.1 billion in
2017 alone.
The majority of the run-off capital reduction in 2017 was related to the divestment of
BOLI/COLI and payout annuities. The transaction was completed at a price to book of 1.2
times. This released $700 million of capital that was upstream to the holding in the fourth
quarter and significantly enhanced capital flexibility of the group. The remainder of the
reduction of run-off capital was achieved through a series of management actions,
including the recently announced divestment of half of the remaining life insurance
business this quarter. And this reduction in capital effectively eliminates a drag on the
group return on equity from run-off businesses and positions us well to reach a 10% group
ROE target towards the end of 2018.
Let's now turn to slide 6 where you can see some of the many digitization efforts
underway across Aegon.
The key strategic initiatives for us continue to be the transformation of digitization of our
businesses. Throughout the year, we continue to make significant progress. Let me
provide you here with a few examples. In the Netherlands, we implemented robotics to
handle customer requests to change address or bank account details for products that
have recurring premiums collected.

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

And by using robotics, 95% of all requests can now be automatically completed with no
manual intervention from employees, freeing them up to provide better service or more
challenging customer inquiries. In the U.S., we completed the initial conversion of our
universal life block of business to a new modeling system that enables us to set reserves
for universal life insurance policies on a policy-by-policy basis.
Sticking with our U.S. life businesses, we are transforming how we issue policies. Currently,
issuing a policy is a labor-intensive process, taking over 35 days and can also be intrusive
and time consuming for customers. We are currently investing in our digital underwriting
capabilities to reduce the process to only take 48 to 72 hours and become 100%
electronic from submission to contract and servicing.

Bloomberg Transcript

And sometimes the best way to transform is by working with peers. As you may recall, in
2016, we were one of the five founding members of the B3i Blockchain Initiative. In
September, B3i took a significant step forward by launching the market beta testing of its
reinsurance blockchain prototype. This technology is expected to lead to significant
productivity gains in the future. And these are just a few examples of the digitization
efforts we are implementing across the group and we will continue to invest in these
transformative project as part of our efforts to create more efficiencies and improve
customer experience moving forward.
Let's now turn to slide 7 where I will show you developments in deposits. In the fourth
quarter, gross deposits continued to be strong, amounting to €35 billion. Our UK
platform, in particular, recorded another very good quarter in terms of deposits with
institutional sales totaling close to €7.4 billion. These institutional sales are often large in
size and can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
Asset Management reported higher gross deposits across all regions, in particular in our
strategic partnerships in the Americas. I would like to mention here that our Asset
Management business is in negotiations with the SEC on a settlement relating to errors in
quantitative models for one of our investment funds, its implementation and whether
appropriate disclosures were made to our clients. We believe that we are close to
reaching an agreement with the SEC and expect that the investigation will come to a
conclusion in 2018. This has been a process that has been going on for several years after
we self-reported the issue to the SEC. After concluding this process, our Asset
Management organization is ready to put this behind them and concentrate on executing
its growth strategy.
Now returning to deposits, across our businesses, we experienced outflows of
approximately €13 billion as we continue to see contract discontinuances in the retirement
business acquired from Mercer. These outflows were in line with the guidance provided
last quarter and are driven by the conversion of customers to the Transamerica platform.
Now that these conversions have been completed, net deposits are expected to improve
substantially as a result of the momentum that Transamerica is continuing to build in the
retirement plan market. The outflows from the U.S. partly offset by continued Asset
Management inflows which reported positive flows for the sixth consecutive year and

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

increased inflows on the platform in the UK. Revenue-generating investments increased
10% year-on-year to €817 billion.
Let me now turn to the next slide where I will take you through our life and health sales for
the quarter. New life sales amounted to €225 million and the decrease of 6% was driven
by adverse currency movements and lower term life and indexed universal life sales in the
U.S. with the latter having resulted from focusing on profitability in markets with increased
competition. This focus on profitability is reflected in our stable MCVNB margin for life
products which has remained well over 3% throughout 2017 and is indicative of our strict
adherence to our pricing policy.
In Asia, we had some growth in our High-Net-Worth businesses due to highly successful
sales campaign, and in China, due to continued success of our critical illness product. New
premiums for accident & health sales decreased by 22% as product exits and lower
supplemental health sales in the U.S. more than offset increased general insurance
production in Hungary.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as announced at our 2016 Analyst and Investor Day in New York, we have exited the
Affinity, Direct TV, and Direct Mail distribution channels as these channels and associated
products do not fit strategically with our Wealth + Health platform (00:13:54) which we
launched last week. For this reason, we expect travel sales to decrease by approximately
€300 million (00:14:01) in 2018 compared to previous years.
I would like to conclude the strategic part of the presentation by addressing our 2018
financial targets. So, as you can see on slide 9, we made very significant progress in 2017
and this means that we are well on track to deliver on our targets in 2018.
The TCS partnership in the U.S., along with other expense-saving initiatives across the
group, have enabled us to achieve significant run rate expense savings; and I'm confident
that we will deliver on our program by year-end 2018. As a reminder, our program consists
of a $300 million program in the U.S., €50 million in the Netherlands, and €15 million for
the holding.
At the same time, we continue to see strong sales momentum across our businesses as
2017 was a record year for gross deposits. The growth of our business and a successfullyimplemented expense savings program, together with expected benefits from the U.S.
tax reform supports our confidence in achieving our return on equity target of 10% at the
end of 2018.
And finally, I am pleased that we are, today, announcing an increase in our final dividend to
€0.14 per share. By paying a sustainable and growing dividend, we will meet our target to
return €2.1 billion of capital to shareholders over the period 2016 through 2018.
So, overall, 2017 was a year for us to be proud of as we continue to execute on our
strategy, deliver on our financial targets and, importantly, help our customers achieve a
lifetime of financial security.

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

I will now turn it over to Matt so that he can walk you through our strong fourth quarter
2017 results before we take your questions together. Matt?

FINAL

Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks, Alex, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin by taking you through our
financial highlights for the quarter starting with our earnings. I'm on slide 11 now. As you can
see during the fourth quarter, underlying earnings were impacted by the weakening of
the U.S. dollar year-on-year, while at a constant currency basis, underlying earnings
remained stable at €525 million.
The continued successful execution of our expense savings program resulted in a €20
million uplift to underlying earnings in the quarter, which was offset by one-time expenses
and the write-off of IT systems totaling €23 million. Also, benefits from improved claims
experience in the U.S. and higher fee income from favorable equity markets were offset
by unfavorable adjustments to deferred acquisition costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the course of 2017, we have achieved run rate expense savings of €188 million
across the group, of which close to €150 million are from the U.S., approximately €30
million from the Netherlands, and the remainder from the holding.
Including the partnership agreement with TCS that we announced in January, our current
total annualized run rate expense savings increased to approximately €280 million since
inception of the program in January of 2016. For the full year, these expense savings and
the strategic repositioning of our business towards fee-based businesses have driven our
improved underlying earnings as higher account balances benefited from new business
and higher equity markets.
Let's now turn to slide 12 so that I can take you through the development of our net
income. As you can see, net income for the quarter was very strong amounting to €986
million. A significant increase compared with the fourth quarter of last year was the result
of strong non-underlying earnings improvement and in particular, a sizeable tax benefit
which I will address separately later on.
The gain from fair value items was mainly driven by positive revaluations on investments
and hedging gains in Netherlands and in the U.S. These more than offset the negative
result on the guarantee provision in the Netherlands. Realized gains totaled €91 million in
the quarter and were mainly related to normal trading activity in the U.S., and sale of
bonds in the U.K. to fund remittances to the group.
Other charges amounted to €132 million as €208 million gain related to the divestment of
UMG in the Netherlands was more than offset by integration expenses in the UK and
charges in the U.S. in Asset Management. Other charges in the U.S. were mainly caused by
a loss of €105 million from the divestment of an additional block of life reinsurance
business to SCOR, which was previously announced in December.

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

In addition, there was a charge of €100 million related to model updates which were
driven by a true-up related to the conversion of the largest block of universal life business
to a new model and a model update in Fixed Annuities. Additionally, other charges
contains a provision of $100 million related to the aforementioned potential settlement
with the SEC.
Finally, income tax amounted to a benefit of €460 million as this quarter included the taxexempt gain on the sale of UMG and a onetime impact of €554 million from U.S. tax
reform. Even excluding the onetime impact from the U.S. tax reform, we reported positive
below-the-line items which is shown on the next slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

For six consecutive quarters, our net income has exceeded our net underlying earnings
with net income averaging 111% of net underlying earnings over this period. This excludes
the benefit related to U.S. tax reform in the fourth quarter. The favorable below-the-line
items include fair value items on balance being positive which has been in part driven by
hedging gains reflecting changes to our U.S. macro equity hedge program. Net
impairments amounted to only 3 basis points in 2017, which have been well below the
long-term average of 25 basis points and realized gains on investments which more than
offset the impact of restructuring in model and assumption-related charges.
On the next slide, I'd like to run you through the impacts of tax reform in the U.S. and our
expectations for IFRS and capital. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into
law at the end of December, lowers the nominal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. This
tax change led to a €554 million benefit on net income and a total increase in
shareholders' equity of €1 billion. This was the result of a reduction in net deferred tax
liabilities on an IFRS basis.
The onetime impact from tax reform on shareholders' equity, plus the strong quarterly
results further reduced the group financial leverage by approximately 60 basis points to
28.6% at the end of 2017. From 2018 on, we expect net underlying earnings to benefit
from the lower corporate tax rate. The uplift in earnings more than offsets the higher
shareholders' equity as approximately half of the onetime benefit in equity went through
the revaluation reserve. This will lead to an increase in the U.S. return on IFRS capital by
roughly 75 basis points and an improvement of approximately 55 basis points on the
group's return on equity. Additionally, capital generation will improve by approximately
$100 million which increases our annual capital generation in the U.S. from $1 billion to $1.1
billion.
From a solvency capital perspective, there was a onetime negative impact for the quarter
on the RBC ratio of the U.S. life companies of approximately 16 percentage points which
relates to 5 percentage points on group Solvency II ratio. The impact was due to a
reduction of deferred tax assets. This is reflected in the fourth quarter U.S. RBC ratio of
472%, which is still well-above our target range of 350% to 450%.
An additional onetime negative impact is expected as the NAIC is anticipated to
incorporate the new tax rate into its RBC calculation methodology in the future. We
expect that the RBC ratio of our U.S. business will remain well above the midpoint of its

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

350% to 450% target range in 2018. As a result, we foresee no changes to the
remittances that we expect to receive from our U.S. operations. Furthermore, the group
Solvency II ratio is expected to remain well within the upper half of the 150% to 200%
target range. On that note, I'd like to focus on our current group capital position on the
next slide.
As Alex shared with you earlier, our Solvency II ratio has increased 6 percentage points to
201% during the fourth quarter. The increase was the result of our own funds remaining
stable despite the impact of U.S. tax reform while the SCR declined slightly. Our own
funds were unchanged during the quarter as strong capital generation net of new
business of about €400 million was offset by €300 million due to unfavorable equity
markets in the UK and the adverse interest rate movements in the UK and the U.S. and
Asia.
Onetime items and other netted to zero as the benefits relating to the divestments of
UMG and a life reinsurance block to SCOR were offset by the reduction in U.S. deferred
tax assets as a result of tax reform.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meanwhile, the SCR declined by approximately €300 million. This was driven by separate
account de-risking in the Netherlands and management actions following the divestments
of the majority of the run-off businesses in the U.S. which more than offset the impact of
tax legislation change in the UK. In addition to our strong group ratio, each of our main
reporting units are well within the top end of their capital management target zones and
are expected to remit capital to the holding during 2018.
Now, I'd like to briefly highlight our strong excess capital position at the holding on the
next slide.
During the fourth quarter, excess capital at the holding increased significantly to €1.4
billion. This was driven by substantial remittances from one, our U.S. operations, which
upstreamed €625 million mainly resulting from the sale of the majority of the run-off
businesses; from our UK business which delivered on their commitment of a special
remittance of €167 million; and our businesses in Spain and Portugal and Hungary and
Asset Management which all upstreamed cash to the holding during the fourth quarter.
These remittances were only partly offset by capital injections to support further growth
of the business and cash outflows related to share buyback to neutralize the final 2016
and 2017 stock dividends in addition to holding, funding and operating expenses. As a
result, our excess capital position sits firmly in the upper end of our target range as we
indicated during our second quarter call.
Let me remind you that excess capital and our gross financial leverage ratio go hand in
hand as repaying debt out of excess capital would reduce our leverage ratio at the same
time. We expect this to materialize in the third quarter of 2018 when we expect to
redeem the €500 million one-year senior debt that was issued in the third quarter of this
year.

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

Moving to capital return. Our strong excess capital position enables us to pay a
sustainable growing dividend. As Alex said earlier, we're increasing our 2017 final dividend
payment to €0.14. This means that we've grown our dividend for six consecutive years.
The growing dividends are well funded by the remittances from our business units, while
also allowing for investments in strategic priorities and new business.
During the year, our operating units generated approximately €1.3 billion of capital
excluding market impacts and onetime items. This is nearly 10% increase in normalized
capital generation year-on-year, and we expect to grow it further in 2018 to €1.4 billion.
After holding and funding costs of approximately €300 million, we had €1 billion of free
cash flows in 2017, which more than covers our capital return to shareholders for the year
of approximately €600 million. This underscores our commitment and ability to return €2.1
billion to shareholders over the period 2016 to 2018.
In summary, this was not only a strong year from an earnings and capital perspective. It
was also one in which we made a series of significant steps forward in the execution of
our strategy and to further deliver on our commitments for 2018. I'm confident that we
can further improve our performance by successfully executing on our expense savings
program and growing our business. At the same time, we will continue with our
transformation to become a more fee and protection-based company which serves its
customers throughout their lives.

Bloomberg Transcript

Alex and I are now ready to take your questions.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our first question from Nadine van der Meulen from Morgan
Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Congratulations on the results this morning, and thank you for taking
my questions. I suppose the first question is on the U.S. tax reform and the impact on
RBC. So, the NAIC's decision on how to incorporate the tax change, when do you expect
to get more clarity there? And based on your current expectations, what would be the
look-through basis on the group Solvency II ratio?
Yeah. And second question is in the U.S, you have from the tax changes and – or you
indicate $140 million IFRS benefit, but it's $100 million on capital generation. If you could
just touch upon the bridge between the two?
And lastly, what can we further expect on model update given that you, again, have
shown charges there? Thank you so much.

Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thanks, Nadine. Let's say, on the U.S. tax reform, as we've mentioned in our press
release, the NAIC will ultimately make changes to the RBC factors, the risk-based capital
factors, as a consequence of the lower tax rate. It's unclear to us whether that might
happen in 2018 or 2019 at this point. But we are confident that even under a worst-case
scenario, we'll remain in the top half of our target range on U.S. capitalization and the
impact to group solvency is quite manageable. So, I think that one is pretty okay.
On the – you recognized that there is a difference between the impact on our, let's say,
IFRS earnings and our capital generation going forward. I think there are quite some
differences between an IFRS balance sheet and a statutory balance sheet for a capital
basis, and the only thing that has changed is not the tax rate alone. There are also some
things which expand the tax base especially on an RBC through – on a capital basis. For
instance, changes in the way that the dividend received deduction gets incorporated in,
but there are many other smaller changes that are quite technical in nature.
With respect to model updates, you've noted that we've taken €100 million charge for
the quarter related to – it's really two model updates. The first relates to the so-called
access conversion of universal life contracts that we reported on in the third quarter. And I
would say that when we took our charge, and it was a $280 million charge in the third
quarter, that was based on our best estimate of the model impacts. During the course of
the fourth quarter, we actually put it into a production environment and into our full control
environment and recognized that we needed to take an additional $63 million charge on
that one. Again, I would just reemphasize that this is the biggest model that we have
converted. It is now safely in a control environment, so I think on this one, we wouldn't
expect anything going forward.
There was an additional $50 million impact on a model relating to Fixed Annuities that we
recognized during the course of the quarter as well. And not that I would discount the
possibility for further charges or gains, our best estimate is zero, in fact. But we do review
these models quite significantly from time to time. So, we would like to think that over
time, this will normalize. But our best estimate is zero going forward.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Very clear.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you very much. I've got a question first on U.S. yields, they moved up yearto-date quite significantly, and then, obviously, there's a chance that they continue to
improve. What is your thought on the product mix in the U.S. in light of this? So, are you
feeling any greater love for traditional universal life or Fixed Annuities? And do you see
Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

also on the reverse side, high yields helping to get rid of more books in the U.S.? That's
question one.

FINAL

Question two is, given your capital position in the Netherlands, you've indicated the first
half dividend. What – I mean, do we double that for the full year? Do you think you can pay
more than €100 million out of the Netherlands now given that capital position?
And lastly, you've got to the end of the leakage of customers in Mercer in the U.S. What
kind of growth rate in participants or assets should we bake in? Thank you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Hi, Farooq. Good morning. I'll talk you a little bit through what we think we'll see in the
product mix. I think we've always been clear that higher interest rate is good for us, is
good for our customers. There will be more margin in traditional life. We will see better
pricing for the guarantees on Variable Annuities. And I think that you will therefore see an
improvement in these market segments as a consequence of higher interest rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you know, we had to withdraw a number of products in the past because of the low
interest rate environment where we felt the products did not make sense nor for our
customers, nor for ourselves. So, that is clearly going to support it. In addition, obviously,
to the fact that as you know, we provided our sensitivities, higher interest rates are a
positive for our capital and a positive for our earnings going forward.
Just a few things on Mercer and Matt will take the question on the capital in the
Netherlands. On Mercer, when we acquired Mercer, we anticipated that through the
conversion over a period of time, we would indeed see customers actually leave us or
effectively not leave us, but never come to us. So, I think that what we're seeing right now
is the end of this whole process where we have now converted all the customers that are
convertible on to our platform.
At the same time, what is important to keep in mind is that the acquisition of Mercer has
given us this capability in the jumbo markets to the very large cases where we were not
present before. And that means that, today, we are present in all the segments of the
market – in the pension market which is very important for us going forward as part of our
strategy. And additionally, as part of this deal, we have been selected as a sole record
keeper for Mercer's primary U.S. retirement plan platform which they call Mercer Wise. It
was launched in 2017 and that's creating additional business for us.
So, we should not only look at the Mercer transaction in conversion of the old plans on its
own, but we need to look at the overall broadening of the capability and extension of our
distribution with Mercer. So, we are pleased with this transaction because it's firmly placed
us now in one of the top players in the pension market in the U.S.

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. On the Netherlands capital position and the dividend, it was interesting, I did an
interview this morning with one of the wire services and the reporter noted that while I'm
Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

looking at the front page of your press release, and I don't see a problem with the Dutch
dividends or rather the Dutch capital, and I said, yes, that's exactly the point. So, I think
that we took care of this one in the second quarter and so far we've seen this actually
being quite successful.
So, right now, the Dutch insurance organization stands at a capital level of 199% which is
well above their target range. At this moment in time, they have to go through their
normal governance to pay an interim dividend. But we would expect given a benign
market environment that we're in that they would be able to pay it. And then going
forward, I think we've telegraphed in the past that we expect an interim and a final
dividend pattern two times a year just like we do in the U.S., so I would just guide you to
that that's a reasonable way to think about it.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Just following up on that, I mean, in the U.S., do you pay an equal amount in the first half
and the second half ?

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

It's imbalanced, but it's generally two payments.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Nick Holmes from Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 16747973 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you very much. I wanted to ask about the Variable Annuity book and, in
particular, how has the hedging been holding up during the last few weeks of market
turmoil?
And secondly, still on Variable Annuities, how well positioned do you think you are if we
see a bigger correction? Thank you very much.

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks for your questions, Nick. I think, generally, in terms of hedging, we have seen
some market volatility, but the move especially on the macro hedge to a more put optionbased strategy, we basically – this was sort of by design, buying put options at a time
when volatilities are low. And now that volatilities have spiked, we're getting actually
benefits from that strategy. So, that one, I think, goes well.

Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

With respect to other Variable Annuity books guide, I think that we're very well positioned,
in fact. I think you recognize that a large portion of our book is exactly matched off. And
then for the macro hedge, we try to manage around the regulatory capital band. So, I
think the idea of protecting our capital base, not only for the VA business, but for the
entire business as a whole, that's one that we're fairly happy with right now.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 16747973 <GO>}

So, in brief, you don't – you're not worried about a bigger correction if that was to occur?
That's not on your radar screen as being a threat?

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

It's on everybody's radar screen. We have highly-trained people and experienced people
looking at these hedging programs every day, intraday. So, is it something that I worry
about? No. I think we've got good people on the ground that are able to manage this.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 16747973 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now take our next question from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please
go ahead.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody. My first question is quite simple. On the U.S. remittances,
why isn't the $100 million upgrade to capital generation not translated to remittances also
given the fact you're quite comfortable on the RBC ratio?
Secondly, maybe to come back to the moving parts still to come through from the NAIC, I
think we have the asset charge discussion that is still out there, you mentioned the
required capital. Since you're trying to guide towards above the mid end of the 350% to
450% range, is it fair to assume that you currently foresee an estimate of 60 (00:40:17)
percentage point RBC ratio impact which would translate to 15% group for the – Solvency
II ratio for the group? Is that a fair assessment?
And the third question is on the separate account de-risking you mentioned as being a
positive driver for the Solvency II ratio development. Could you maybe provide the size of
the benefit and the reasoning behind it, and whether this is an ongoing thing, and if
there's any impact on capital generation on the back of it? Thank you.

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for your questions. On the remittances for the – yeah, we expect to see
about a $100 million benefit in capital generation. But as you said in your second question,
we are going to have knock-on impacts from the NAIC both as a consequence of
increasing asset-based – risk-based capital charges and also reflecting the lower tax rate
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

in RBC charges. So, let's be a little bit cautious right now. We're going to keep the
remittances the way that they are, the way that we've committed to the market.

FINAL

We are more focused on returning the €2.1 billion of capital to shareholders through the
course of 2016 to 2018. So, we're actually not going to require the U.S. to pay up another
$100 million at this moment in time. There could be the potential in the future, but at this
moment, that's not what we're thinking.
With respect to what is out there in the market, with respect to impacts on RBC ratios and
the group ratio, I'd say, it's a fair assessment. We don't know exactly how it's going to
come through, when we don't know exactly when it's going to come through, but we do
know that when it does come through, even according to our worst-case scenarios, we
still stay above the midpoint of the U.S. target range, and the group is comfortably in the
top part of its target range.
With respect to the separate accounts de-risking, this is really credit risk management
within the separate accounts in the guarantee portfolios for the Dutch pension business.
And I would say that the impact to the SCR for the quarter was about €100 million.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. And the 60 (00:42:30) percentage points we mentioned before, that is the worst
case in your view or is that more a base case (00:42:36)?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

All we did is, we took a look at it on the base of – we sort of know what's going to happen
on the asset base charges, and if you just do a mechanical approach to reflecting the new
tax rate in the RBC factors, that's what you come up with. The NAIC maybe a little bit
more liberal than that, but we don't know.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Mark Cathcart from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Q - Mark Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Yeah. Hello. I'm just wondering if part of the reason why you're not willing to increase the
remittance from the U.S. by that $100 million is because of concerns that the tax change in
the U.S., all it's going to do is encourage competition. So, if you look out one to two years,
your retirement margins are going to go down and, therefore, you're back to square one.
I just wondered what was your read on how pricing for life products in the likes of
retirement? How do you think they are going to develop? And do you think that in three
years' time that $100 million, which was down to, say, $25 million? Thanks.

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, Mark. Let me answer this question of you. First of all, we should be reminded that the
vast majority of our earnings in 2017 and for the coming years actually comes from
business that have a long duration, for example, universal life, Variable Annuities, and on
these books, we'll, by definition, retain the benefits because it's been locked in already.
So, I would say, the impact of lower taxes, in our view, will only be passed on gradually and
over time in the form of new business pricing. That's not something we expect to happen
overnight. It will, in our view, take time before that takes. And therefore, it's also important
we continue to grow our new business, so that we offset this impact by further scale
improvements.
So, this is how we look at it. And the reason that Matt answered this question previously
was also to be clear that the impact is going to be over time. We have quite a lot of things
that we're doing in the company. As you know, we are outsourcing our business which will
provide a benefit, but it also takes a charge initially, and that's why it makes no sense
further to increase the remittances. It's really too early to answer that question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Mark Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Alex. And the other one, I just wondered if you're in a real dilemma at the
moment in relation to Fixed Annuities because back in December 2016, you highlighted it
as a business that you'd potentially exit and we've seen what Voya has done and how the
share price re-raised (00:45:26) there. But at the same time, with rising interest rates,
that benefits the profitability of your business. So, I'm just wondering given the current
backdrop, are you more or less inclined to keep your Fixed Annuity business? Is it more
core or less core?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

You see we are executing on a strategy where we have de-emphasized Fixed Annuities.
You're right to say that rates have moved up, so in itself, it becomes a little bit more
attractive for our customers. But we have a business that we are running off. We have a
very low cost base, and this is from a economical point of view by far the most attractive
way for our shareholders.

Q - Mark Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

In other words, to get rid of it.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

To run it off as we're doing right now with very low expenses, and that's what we're doing.
We've come to the view that this is the most effective way of enhancing shareholders'
value.

Q - Mark Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Alex. That's excellent. Thank you.

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

We will now take our next question from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, Alex. Good morning, Matt. Just one question from my end. When I look
at your Solvency II roll forward, it's an 8% improvement because of the separate account
de-risking divestment and impact from U.S. So, if I remove the impact from U.S., it's
actually 13 point positive impact. Would you mind giving a bit of color on that? How much is
because of NLV risking (00:46:55) and how much is because of divestment? And
apologies in case I missed that earlier.
And the second thing is, can you just remind us about the annual cash flows again? So, are
we still sticking with €1 billion (00:47:06) from U.S., €100 million from Netherlands, and
around €100 million from other units? So, any changes to that? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. On your first one, I think you've noticed in our little roll forward there for the
solvency ratio for the group, you effectively have a zero impact on own funds for the year.
We stayed stable for the quarter, we stayed stable at €15.6 billion. But underlying that
there's actually quite a number of moving pieces. So, you see the expected returns of
€400 million. You see the market variances of minus €300 million. And then there are
quite a number of one-off things that include U.S. tax reform that actually net to zero.
So, if you're – just maybe on high level numbers, we have the UMG sale that's adding
€200 million. We have some impacts from reflecting, let's say, some full year U.S. tax
issues not related to the tax reform of about €200 million (00:48:11). You've got a plus
€100 million from the SCOR reinsurance transaction. And then the SEC issue subtracts
minus €100 million (00:48:21) and then U.S. DTA write-off of about €400 million
(00:48:26). So net-net, you're on zero.
Where the big action is actually happening is more in the SCR side of it for the quarter.
Now, I will tell you that our long running ambition is clearly to drive forward own funds as
because that is going to be a very serious valuation metric for us going forward and we're
seeing great capital generation in the quarter. But there are some one-off things that – of
course, tax reform is one of them that detracted from that.
But on the SCR side, we had – so, it's basically three things. We had, let's say, de-risking
related to the separate account portfolio in the Netherlands that accounted for about
€100 million. You had management actions that took place following the divestment of
the COLI/BOLI run-off portfolio of about €100 million. And then there was about €100
million of other very small things, but some of which was improved diversification benefits
within the group. So, that was the – I guess, that's really the Solvency II roll forward.
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

Now, when we talk about -

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Can you break that thing (00:49:37)?

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. When we talk about remittances, we're thinking on the order of $100 million from
the U.S. We've already signaled €100 million from the Netherlands as the interim dividend.
And again, we would normally expect an interim and a final like all the other businesses.
We would expect something on the order of €100 million from the UK, €100 million from
Asset Management, and from sort of all the rest, about €50 million. And you get to a total
that's a little bit more than €1.1 billion.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear. Thanks a lot, Matt.

Operator
We will now take our next question from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks very much. I'm slightly following on from what you were just saying. I'm still a bit
confused about the recon for the U.S. RBC ratio. I wondered if you could just be a bit
clearer about how we get to 470%. So, first of all, just could you tell us what the
numerator and the denominator is for that ratio? And then, by my math, we were in the
mid-440s last time you disclosed. I was expecting kind of a 20-point hit from the tax
reform and then a similar hit for the dividend. So, I mean, it sounds to me like we've got
sort of somewhere like 50 to 70 points of positive. So, could you just be a bit clearer
about how we get that upswing in the RBC ratio? Thank you.

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

I'm not going to go through a detailed walk for it, but I can give you some of the
information that we have. So, just impact of tax reform was 16 percentage points. The way
that we think about the RBC ratio in the U.S., we think of it as the available capital versus
the required capital. To get to the 472% number, the available capital is about – it's almost
spot on $10 billion, $9.958 billion (00:51:35) I think it is, and then $2.1 billion of required
capital. That's in dollars. And for – we don't normally provide a walk for it. It would actually
be quite complicated to do that. So, yeah.

Operator
Are you ready for the next question?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

Yes, we are.

Operator

FINAL

Okay. I wasn't sure. We will now take our next question from Johnny Vo from Goldman
Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, guys. Just a couple of quick questions. Just, you know, with the change in
capital generation in the U.S., does this change anything in relation to your holding
company buffer, particularly given that most of your holding company cash is in the U.S.
holding company and – which hasn't moved in a while? So, that's the first question.
Number two is, also I've noticed that you're not accruing for the dividend in solvency roll
forward, which you did last year. So, on a pro forma basis, taking into consideration the
likely decline in RBC ratio and dividend accrual, I get to a sort of pro forma solvency ratio
of about 180%. Does this seem fair? Thanks.

A - Matthew J. Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to your first question on capital generation in the U.S., at this point we're not
going to consider changing the buffer in the holding. So, we target something between €1
billion and €1.5 billion. We're sitting comfortably at €1.4 billion. We would expect to
maintain that going forward.
With respect to the not accruing for the dividend, we accrue for that when it's formalized
and it had not been as of year-end, that's only going through our own governance
process now. And our – and overall group solvency ratio in a 180% range sounds a little
light to me, but we'll see how this progresses.
I guess that before, it will quite depend on how the NAIC changes to the risk-based
capital factors and how they do the tax rates, the timing of when that – whether it's going
to be 2018 or 2019. But again, we're confident that we can remain in the top half of our
range.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Brilliant. Thank you.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Andy Hughes from Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. A couple of questions. First one is about the Irish disposal, presumably the €180 million
isn't in the kind of repatriation numbers you're showing here?

Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

And the second one is on the kind of U.S. solvency here. So, if the extra $100 million
(00:54:20) of cash generation is used to kind of build back solvency, presumably that
would kind of restore the group's solvency levels as well, is that part of the plan?
And the third question is just on the €2.1 billion. I just want to check, so to get from here to
the €2.1 billion, given what you've shown already, are you including the full year final
dividend at the end of 2018 is paid in 2019? So, basically you're saying you don't need to
increase the dividend from here to get to the €2.1 billion, is that right? Thank you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

On the Irish transaction that we are actually well on track and closing, and then obviously
the proceeds have not yet been received and therefore are not yet included in our
numbers. In terms of the – to your question related to $100 million (00:55:10) additional
we get from the tax, yes it will improve our solvency. By the way, our solvency has also
been improved by a number of management actions we're taking to try to optimize our
risk, improve ALM. A lot of different actions that we are taking. And as you can see, we
have positive results here because we have been able to get our Solvency II up.
And your final question around the €2.1 billion, it doesn't include the full dividend 2018, the
answer is yes.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you. You mentioned on the UK dividend being around €100 million.
Is that per year on a normalized basis going forward after the one-off especially you've
done so far? Because that appears to be a significant over 100% sort of earnings – yearly
earnings of the UK business there.
And then my second question is, you mentioned in your call earlier about the SEC
investigation into the Asset Management business in the U.S. Can you give a bit more
specifics here, and is there any sort of estimate or cost you can provide if there's any
settlement costs here, and have you set up any provisions for this as well? Thank you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Steven, the €100 million (00:56:34) from the UK is £100 million. It used to be very close to
€100 million. It's slightly more than €100 million. That is what we expect going forward. You
also need to keep in mind that we are in the phase of integrating the Cofunds transaction
which will lead to significant expense reductions – expense synergies which were not
reflected yet in the 2017 numbers. So, once these get reflected, you will understand that
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-02-15

FINAL

the £100 million effectively is very much a normalized kind of dividend we can pay out
from the new Aegon after the cost initiatives have been taken out.
In terms of the SEC investigation, I mentioned it briefly in my introductory notes. This is a
process that's been going on for quite a number of years. We had a number of models
that we used in our Asset Management, quantitative models, asset allocation models that
we discovered at a certain point that there were some errors and that was not properly
implemented.
We also discovered that the communication with our customers also required some sort
of clarity and we reported that to the SEC. Following our self-report to the SEC, as you can
imagine, a full investigation has taken place and we expect now to be able to conclude
this this year. We made really good progress and that's why we've taken a provision that
was mentioned and it's included in 2017 numbers of $100 million. So that's all I can say at
this point in time.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, I take this opportunity to thank you, and thank you for your continued interest in
Aegon, and I wish you a good and I think a busy day today with other companies. Take
care.

Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. Ladies and
gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

