Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Y 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

John Reizenstein, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Michael Holliday-Williams, MD of Personal Lines and Executive Director
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Penny James, Chief Financial Oﬃcer-designate
Steven Maddock, Chief Operating Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andreas Van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
David Bracewell, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Grieg Paterson, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant
Wajahat Rizvi, Analyst

Presentation
Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

(Technical Diﬃculty) for joining us here at Goldman Sachs for our full-year results
presentation, going into the detail behind the headline results we announced a few weeks
ago.
And a bit of a break from our usual format, as I am joined not only by our outgoing but
also our incoming CFOs. Today marks John's 22nd and ﬁnal sets of results, and what a set
of results to retire on [ph]. I'm also delighted to welcome Penny James, our new CFO as of
Thursday. And Penny will be sharing some of her thoughts with you later. And as ever
other members of my team are here in the audience. So without further ado let's kick oﬀ,
as ever with the highlights.
2017 is the ﬁfth successive year that we delivered a strong ﬁnancial performance. Our
clear strategy and determination to make insurance much easier and better value for our
Page 1 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

customers has been the driving force behind these results. 2017 was a great year for the
Group. We grew premiums by 3.6% and within that our own brands were up 9.3% versus
2016; a great result and largely driven by another excellent year for our Direct Line brand.
Our continued focus on improving eﬃciency, combined with growth in Direct Own
brands meant, we improved both the underlying expense ratio and the commission ratio.
Operating proﬁt from ongoing operations was GBP611 million, combined ratio was a very
strong 91.8% and ROTE came in at 21.7%. This excellent set of results and strong capital
generation means we are today proposing a ﬁnal dividend of GBP0.136 and a special
dividend of GBP0.15. Finally, our high-quality balance sheet is reﬂected in our solvency
capital ratio of 162% even after those dividends.
I'm going to come back later in the presentation to tell you more about the initiatives,
we're going to be taking to deliver our medium-term targets, and in particular, our
technology plans to support them. So now for the ﬁnal time, let me hand over to John.

John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Paul, and good morning everyone. Let me give you an overview of the main
features of the results, as ever with more detail in the prelim [ph]. As Paul said this is an
excellent set of results, and the highest annual proﬁt we reported in our ﬁve-year history
as a listed company. We grew premiums again in 2017, up 3.6% with a particularly strong
result in Motor. Ongoing operating proﬁt of 610.9 million was 207 million higher than
prior year which, of course, was impacted by Ogden.
At the proﬁt before tax level, we delivered 539 million versus 353 million in 2016,
including a net positive GBP33 million contribution from run-oﬀ and restructuring.
Finance costs were 66 million higher due to a one-oﬀ charge relating to the successful
debt reﬁnancing action we took at the end of 2017. The combined ratio was 91.8%, nearly
6 points better than 2016 reported, and in line with 2016 pre-Ogden. And weatheradjusted combined operating ratio was towards the lower end of the target range.
Moving down to operating proﬁt by segment, Motor and Commercial, which were
impacted by Ogden in 2016 delivered signiﬁcantly better results. This helped oﬀset lower
prior year end claims inﬂation in Home. Rescue and other personal lines proﬁt was pretty
ﬂat.
Turning to premiums on slide six, strong momentum across our own brands during 2017
enabled us to deliver overall premium growth of 3.6%. This growth was predominantly
driven by Motor, shown here in the dark blue, where our volume growth, combined with
strong pricing, and Motor premiums were 8.5% ahead of prior year. Home premiums
were down around 4% due to partner business although the picture here is looking up.
We'll talk about that later. We continued to grow Rescue premiums shown in green. This
was mainly due to our Direct Rescue brand, Green Flag. Finally, Commercial, where
premiums were pretty ﬂat. This reﬂects a strong year for Direct Line for Business, which
grew premiums by 12% in 2017 helping to oﬀset pressure on NIG, which was down 3%.

Page 2 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

On the right, you can see the overall premium growth was driven by our Direct own
brands with Motor, Green Flag and Direct Line for Business all reporting double-digit
growth and Home was also ahead of prior year.
Looking at policy count, and in this chart we've highlighted our Direct own brand, which
continued the growth momentum. Another year of strong growth overall, especially in our
disruptive brands, Green Flag and Direct Line for Business, which were up 10% and 8%
respectively, Motor grew policy count by 5.6%, which shows our unique propositions have
been cutting through. Home grew little as well, up 2% which is a good result in a very
competitive market. Elsewhere in the Group, in the broker channel, NIG policy count was
ﬂat due to disciplined pricing. Reduction in Motor and Home partner volumes continued
in 2017 with our recent work with RBS NatWest is showing positive growth signs. Other
personal lines policies were broadly ﬂat as growth in Rescue linked was oﬀset by Rescue
partners and travel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at expense and commission ratios, I'm on slide 10, starting with the expense ratio,
which is in dark blue. Growing premiums has provided us with the leverage to improve
the underlying expense ratio in 2017. The reported expense ratio of 25.3% was ﬂat versus
prior year, but if you exclude the impairment charge in both year the underlying ratio was
half a point better, and in line with our ambition to reduce the ratio over time. We
incurred an impairment charge on IT of 56.9 million, and our total cost base excluding
that increased by around GBP28 million in 2017. This was mainly due to higher levies
linked to a higher premium. Flat staﬀ and marketing costs alongside growing premiums,
show we've been getting eﬃciency improvement.
The commission ratio shown in light blue was 9.1% in 2017 and 2.4 business points better
than the prior year. About half of this improvement reﬂects changes to business mix and
new partnership arrangements. And the other half relates primarily to diﬀerences in
weather, escape of water and prior year as these automatically ﬂow through to partners
via the commission line. Overall, we're pleased with the ratio improvement we delivered
in 2017 and are conﬁdent that we can deliver on our ambition to lower these ratios over
time.
Moving on to the loss ratio, the headline loss ratio improved by 3.5 points to 57.4% mainly
due to movements in prior year reserve releases. As for the current year loss ratio, which
excludes weather, this was stable. At a segmental level Motor delivered a strong
improvement in current year ratio, which was oﬀset by higher ratios in Home and
Commercial. Prior year releases remained signiﬁcant at 392 million or 12.4% of earned
premiums. This was lower than recent years, although higher than 2016, which was
impacted by the Ogden rate change. Home weather was benign again in the second half
taking the total for the year to GBP13 million against the budget of 65 million. I note that
the weather load for Home for 2018 is GBP55 million reﬂecting lower volumes as
Nationwide runs-oﬀ and the Commercial weather load for 2018 is GBP20 million.
Overall, we improved our cost and commission ratios, while holding our attritional loss
ratios steady. So have successfully delivered what we set out to do namely to improve
current year proﬁtability. We expect this trend of improving the contribution from current
year to continue over time. Over time the balance between current year and prior year
Page 3 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

will shift within our 93% to 95% medium-term combined operating ratio target. The point
where this re-balancing reaches maturity is several years away.
Looking quickly at operating proﬁt, here you can see total ongoing operating proﬁt
increased by 207 million to 611 million due to signiﬁcant increase in Motor and
Commercial, which were impacted by Ogden in 2016. Motor recouped 49 million of this
Ogden cost in the ﬁrst half of 2017. The contribution from the non-Motor businesses was
247 million, that's 40% proﬁt in 2017, showing the beneﬁts of our diversiﬁed strategy.
Commercial performed well and again contributed strongly to the Group. Rescue's been
a solid performer with strong potential we can realize.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look in a bit more detail at each of the segments, starting with Motor. Motor pricing
was very strong in 2017, albeit stronger in the ﬁrst half than the second half. Our prices,
which exclude IPT, were up 9.5% over the year, ahead of the ABI ﬁgures. As we said at the
half year, the reduction in risk mix reﬂects the way we deploy the Ogden price change, as
we put through higher increases for younger drivers where the exposure is greater.
Strong new business sales and higher retention supported an overall increase in
premiums of 8.5% and we grew policy count by 3.8%. Motor proﬁt was up 215 million to
364 million and much of this movement is explained by the change in the Ogden rate,
which reduced Motor proﬁt by around 150 million in 2016. The underwriting result also
reﬂects a material improvement in the current year loss ratio, as a result of the strong
trading.
We beneﬁted from two tailwinds in terms of current year performance. First, there was a
one-oﬀ beneﬁt from having ﬁxed our reinsurance costs ahead of the Ogden rate change.
Secondly, we had better claims experience than we expected. These two tailwinds,
combined with the strong pricing enabled us to improve our margins and this is reﬂected
in a 4.4 points improvement in the current year loss ratio. We think these tailwinds, which
will have beneﬁted a number of insurers may also explain why pricing wasn't so strong in
the second half of the year. At this point, we are viewing the better than expected claims
data in 2017 as one-oﬀ. We have not changed our view of long-term claims inﬂation being
3% to 5% per annum.
Finally, at the end of December, we renewed our excess loss reinsurance at a somewhat
increased cost, reﬂecting a change in the Ogden discount rate. We renewed all layers but
retained 10% of the ﬁrst risk layer. We were pleased with the overall outcome, which looks
better than some of the industry commentary we've read.
Next to Home, now at the half year we highlighted a number of actions we've taken to
mitigate escape of water inﬂation and we pleased that our actions have helped return this
to more normal levels. We believe we are one of the ﬁrst to respond to escape of water,
we increased our own brand prices in 2017, particularly on new business in the ﬁrst half.
This contributed to an overall price increase of 2.6% across own brands. The shift towards
price comparison websites continued in 2017 and as we've written more volume to this
typically lower premium channel this led to an overall reduction in own brand average
premium to 1.4%. When you take into account our pricing actions, IPT increases and last
year's premium disclosure, we're very pleased that in a market with more customers
shopping around, we are able to grow own brand policy count and premiums.
Page 4 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Moving to operating proﬁt, Home proﬁt was down 38 million to 129 million, due to lower
prior year from the December 2015 storms. So we're up against a tough comparator. The
escape of water inﬂation, also had an impact in the year. However, the operating proﬁt
overall was still above our normalized level as a result of another benign weather year
with only 13 million weather losses versus our budgeted level of 65 million.
Now to the other two businesses, Commercial delivered a very strong result, GBP74
million of operating proﬁt, which is the highest since the Group was listed. Excluding the
impact of Ogden in 2016 proﬁt was up 11% and Commercial combined operating ratio
was 93.4%, which is similar to 2016 before the Ogden change. Commercial current year
loss-ratio was up a bit in 2017. We interpreted the claims data cautiously at the year-end
and the reserving therefore looks conservative. And weather was also benign in 2017.
Finally, Rescue and other personal lines proﬁt was broadly ﬂat with a combined proﬁt of
GBP44 million. Within that Rescue achieved a slightly better result, oﬀset by a reduction in
other personal lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to investment, overall investment return rose a little to 175.4 million in 2017 and
that's due to very strong gains both on property and on credit. You can see that the low
UK interest rate environment continued to impact the Group's net investment income,
down 10 million to 140.1 million after hedging. As a reminder, our investment's objective is
to match the duration of our UK liabilities and protect Group capital. We diversiﬁed credit
exposure away from the UK and then hedged to bring the currency and interest rate
elements back to Sterling ﬂoating rate.
So while high US interest rates on our US portfolio helped topline investment income,
currently low UK rates are reﬂected in the higher hedging number, therefore lower net
investment income. The result of all this is a net income yield on a Sterling ﬂoating rate
basis of 2.1% in 2017. And for 2018, we expect the trend to continue with a net investment
yield after hedging back the Sterling ﬂoating rate to be again around 2.1%. The gains in
the performance of our property portfolio has been very strong since the commencement
of that portfolio in 2012. Given the current levels of the UK property market, we don't
expect signiﬁcant gains on property in 2018. Overall therefore we anticipate a total
investment return in the region of GBP150 million in 2018.
Now looking at how we get from headline ongoing operating proﬁt to proﬁt after tax on
slide 17, the Run-oﬀ segment continued to beneﬁt from positive prior year releases. This is
partially oﬀset by 12 million of restructuring and other one-oﬀ costs. So combined these
two items contributed 32 million to the overall results. Moving down to ﬁnance costs,
these included a one-oﬀ charge of 66.1 million, which relates to the buy-back of Tier 2
debt following the restricted Tier 1 issue. And that brings us down to a proﬁt after tax of
GBP434 million, 155 million higher than the prior year.
Now looking ahead we are changing our guidance on the reporting of run-oﬀ and
restructuring. We previously guided to run oﬀ-and restructuring, broadly oﬀsetting one
another over the four year period 2015-2018. As at the end of 2017, the net result of these
two lines was actually a proﬁt of 43 million. We decided to stop reporting these separately
and to report a single -- simple single operating proﬁt line. We will of course highlight any
material future one-oﬀs and the simpliﬁcation has no impact on our targets. With regards
Page 5 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

to ﬁnance costs, these were reduced to approximately half the previous annual charge of
around 40 million, with the restricted Tier 1 coupon of approximately GBP15 million being
reported to movement in equity.
Now in a moment I'll hand over to Penny who is going to take you through our capital
position and also talk about the outlook for DLG. I believe our prospects are excellent and
that DLG is well placed to continue to produce great returns for shareholders. Here's a
summary of how things have turned out in the 5 years since we went public. The ﬁrst
couple of years our priority was to put the fundamentals right, pricing, claims and cost
eﬃciency. Over that period, we held our Direct own brands policy count ﬂat. But we came
out of that period in 2015, that's the year we sold International, and have been growing
Direct own brand customer numbers steadily since then. These have grown around 5% in
each of the last two years.
Throughout our time as a listed company, we stayed focused on a combined operating
ratio target, sharpening that target frequently, and more recently extending it to the
medium-term. And we've managed capital eﬀectively in order to translate that combined
operating ratio and proﬁt to strong return on tangible equity. All this has delivered great
shareholder returns as illustrated by the chart at the bottom right-hand corner. I'm
conﬁdent DLG is well positioned to bring you great returns in the future as it has done in
the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your support for and both [ph] for me over the last 5 years, and in the next
hour [ph]. And now I am delighted to pass the baton on to Penny.

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, John. Firstly, I'd like to thank John for his extraordinary patience, putting up with
all my questions and curiosity over the past few months. Many of you already know me, so
I won't go through my background here, but if we haven't already met please catch me
afterwards and make the acquaintance. Now I had the luxury of a lengthy handover
period. Since November I've spent most of my time visiting diﬀerent parts of the business.
I've been everywhere from the customer-facing areas to digital, from NIG to marketing,
from partnership to accident repair centers. And in this time I've observed many things
about DLG that I think give it a distinct advantage. But there are two that I want to
highlight here.
First and most important is customer centricity. Whether in a call center, talking to
customers or talking with a car mechanic, or discussing strategy with the Ex-Co [ph] one
thing is clear and consistent in this organization. And that's the focus on the customer. You
can feel it in the Direct Line propositions which are quite distinct, you can feel it in the
unscripted customer call and you can feel it in the sensitivity with which our call handlers
deal with our customers. Customer centricity is consciously part of the culture here at
DLG. And I believe it's what delivered the Direct own brand's growth that John's been
talking about.

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Second is the depth of the talent. Several of my new colleagues have been here for some
years and have been the driving force behind the success you've seen on the slide before
this. But others are much newer to the organization and like myself hopefully bring freshthinking and are leading areas such as data, procurement, technology, Green Flag and so
on.
But there's also plenty of opportunity for us to improve. I believe we can further leverage
these strengths and build our capabilities across all of our channels. So I am enthusiastic
about the direction we're going, and as always further to go on cost and eﬃciency. Paul
will talk in detail later about our view of where we stand on what we're doing. But in
summary, I believe there are some great diﬀerentiating strengths, an energized team and
lots to do, so I'm really excited about what lies ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now turning back to the numbers, let's take a look at the balance sheet that I've inherited.
Here we have our ﬁrst full year of operating under the solvency II partial internal model
and I'm very pleased to be presenting strong capital generation. It's important to note the
ﬁgures are still draft and won't be ﬁnalized until the regulatory returns go in May.
But looking at the slide moving from left to right, we start the year with a surplus above
requirement of 910 million. Despite the growth in the business during the year our capital
requirement actually reduced very slightly by about 14 million. There are lots of moving
parts, but it's worth noting that whilst we are still growing we're also seeing a reduction in
our net reserve. This reﬂects claims settling on all the years, the new years here being
reinsured down to around the GBP1 million level. And recognition of the cautious
approach to reserving, the Group has taken evident by history of prior year positive
development.
Capital generation from our operating activities was 487 million. Whilst there are some
diﬀerences in between the bases in Solvency II and IFRS that create variations year-onyear, generation post CapEx should broadly reﬂect the IFRS proﬁt over time. But currently,
we're in a period of higher capital investment. Capital expenditure was 94 million and in
line with our previous guidance of 80 million to 100 million per year on average between
2017 and 2019. And that reﬂects the investment across the business, which Paul will be
discussing later.
Our successful debt reﬁnancing at the end of 2017 slightly strengthened the overall
position. And ﬁnally, we've announced dividend totaling 486 million for the year, which I'll
now turn to [ph]. The strong ﬁnancial performance and capital position has enabled the
Group to rebase the regular dividend and recommend a special. The Board's
recommended a ﬁnal regular dividend of GBP0.136, an increase of GBP0.40 [ph] on last
year and consistent with the guidance given at half year. In addition, the Board declared a
special dividend of GPB0.15.
Turning to solvency, at the half year, the Group announced in normal circumstances, the
Board expects to operate at a ratio of around -- from around the middle of the risk
appetite range of a 140% to 180%. After the ﬁnal and special dividends are taken into
account the Group's estimated solvency ratio was actually 162%. This guidance as to the

Page 7 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

level of solvency in normal conditions remain unchanged. I would remind people that the
nature of capital modeling includes some inherent volatility and therefore people should
anticipate a small variation year-on-year, even in normal circumstances.
Before I had over to Paul, I'd like to close on outlook and targets. I inherit a strong and
well-managed balance sheet, a history of prudent reserving and the current underwriting
heavily de-risked through reinsurance. As you've heard, this is a business which has
shown real momentum, disciplined underwriting and an ongoing focus on eﬃciency. This
together with the investment across a range of initiatives gives me conﬁdence to reiterate
the medium-term target.
From a cost perspective, it's important the Group maintains its focus on progressive
improvements in eﬃciency. So we plan to continue to reduce our expense ratio and our
commission ratio. Assuming current claims trends continue, we aim to deliver 93% to 95%
combined ratio through the medium-term. And as our investments in business yield
beneﬁts we expect to see a further re-balancing of our proﬁtability between prior year
towards current year. This is a key focus area for me. Having re-based the regular dividend
by 40% in 2017, we now seek to grow the dividend in line with the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally, on capital, we expect to be around the middle of a 140% to 180% risk appetite
range in normal circumstances. Of course, we maintain an ambition in the long-term to
achieve at least a 15% return on tangible equity. It's good to see that in striving to achieve
these objectives, the team remains absolutely committed to invest in the future of this
business. So we are well placed strategically and operationally for the changing
environment ahead.
And with that I'll hand over to Paul to give you a real ﬂavor of what we're actually doing.

Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you. Penny and John. Penny, it's great to have you here. John, I'll come back to you
later. So as we've been through, in 2017, we've delivered some great numbers. And these
numbers haven't been achieved by accident. They are result of concerted management
action on our priorities, which as we set out six months ago are, to maintain revenue
growth; to reduce our expense and commission ratios; and to deliver underwriting and
pricing excellence to fuel growth and good loss ratios. As you can see we've delivered
across all three.
Our own brands have driven our revenues higher, we've delivered good improvements at
both our commission and underlying expense ratios, and we've delivered that growth at
good attritional loss ratios, all of which combined to grow our current year proﬁt by
GBP87 million albeit, as John said, including some one-oﬀs. To keep this momentum, we
continue to deliver initiatives to improve the business. And to explain the next wave of
initiatives we are investing in, let's look at our channel strategies.
So here's a chart which we showed last year, when I talked about returning our Direct
business to growth, having spent the previous phase optimizing our business to PCWs.
Page 8 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

This time we've also included partnerships. We believe that our strength at all three
channels is a major advantage for us at DLG. We start from a strong position with leading
brands in speciﬁc channels supported by Group-wide excellence, at customer service,
great digital front-ends and claims excellence.
Today, I'm going to set out our plan to push forward on all three channels at once. On
Direct, our most advantage channel, we want to keep up the momentum, particularly
pushing hard into SME and Rescue. We also think we can do that in a way that's
increasingly eﬃcient for our customers and ourselves. On PCWs, which is where about
three-quarters of Motor policies and about two-thirds of Home policies are bought, our
ambition is to have the best capabilities, and when we have them to grow in this channel.

Bloomberg Transcript

In partnerships which took a bit of a back seat to our own brand business during the early
part of the plan, where behind the scenes, we've been investing in our digital capability
such that today not only is our major Home partnership returned to growth, but we're
now in a position where selectively we will start to target and to win new partnerships.
Sitting behind these initiatives with all three channels is a uniﬁed Group-wide data and
technology plan, which I'll update you on in a moment.
Let's start by going deeper into all of these channels, starting with Direct. And as you
know, we're really excited about our Direct business. We've re-established growth and still
see lots of opportunity, and not just in our core Motor and Home business. We're going to
be instrumental in driving the micro SME market to go Direct and we want to shake up the
Direct risky market and get a much bigger share of the value. Our objectives here are
pretty simple. First is for us to continue to fuel our brand and customer advantages to
maintain that growth. The second is, there are many ways we can improve our eﬃciency
of how we deal with customers.
So let's talk through some of the initiatives we got here. First, we're just launching two
brand new unique Direct Line propositions on Home and Motor, and our pre-testing show
they maybe our best yet. And you may already have seen our new fast response launch
on Home on the TV over the weekend. Direct Line customers are going to get these new
propositions on top of the many unique propositions we've already given them. And as
you know we have a fantastic new SME system which we rolled out already to Bed &
Breakfast owners and for Hair and Beauty traders, and we got to push forward
signiﬁcantly on that roll out to get to 75% of our target market by the end of this year.
Green Flag, as you know, we put back into a single business unit under new management
and they're developing an exciting new plan which we'll share with you soon.
Turning to eﬃciency, we're going to enable customers to do more for themselves by selfservice and we see an opportunity in automated processes and increasingly straight
through processing. These things, we believe customers will actually prefer, or they won't
notice, but they're going to signiﬁcantly improve our eﬃciency in running the business.
Let's now move on to PCWs where as you know, we have the best brand in Churchill and
a great pricing [ph] brand in Privilege. We've done a lot of work to be good on PCWs,
we're competent in pricing and fraud which matter a lot in this area. And that's enabled us

Page 9 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

to be competitive and to have a steady share at adequate margins. But our ambitions are
much greater. We're investing to have class-leading capabilities, and when we have these
we want to grow this channel. So what do we need to do to achieve that. Well ﬁrst of all,
as part of our overall IT systems, we're investing in the latest generation pricing engine
and with it, a series of application forward initiatives. We are also in parallel developing an
alternative pricing model using new math and machine learning to come up with a model
which is equally predictive, but importantly, non-correlated with our existing pricing
models. We're also steadily pushing out our quote footprint and our high ambitions to
keep Churchill in great space at the top of the preference for PCW brands.
Finally, partnerships, which we're going to split into three. First, our Home partnerships,
we have some stability here, having secured the RBS and NatWest partnership. And our
objective is to grow that partnership and selectively to acquire new ones. The work we've
been doing behind the scenes to knit our systems together with that, to enhance the
journey for both customers and branch staﬀ is working very well. We signiﬁcantly
increased new business sales and thereby stabilized the book. So here we want to use this
platform to add new partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

For Rescue and travel our ambition is a bit diﬀerent. These are businesses ﬁnely priced,
which we like to get because they can add useful scale, but the economics also need to
work for us. We have a bit more of a mixed picture here, we recently extended our travel
partnership with Nationwide and won the RBS Rescue partnership. Our objective here is
to create a platform for growth and our next initiative is the development of a brand new
travel system.
Now for Motor, where the role of partnerships is strategic and our objective is to be the
partner of choice for car manufacturers. Why? Well the current transformation of the
motor industry provides both risks and opportunities to insurers. We want to partner with
motor manufacturers to be in that value chain, working with them to create exciting new
propositions for customers. That's why we have introduced a relationship with Tesla, and
our partnership with Peugeot, Citroen. And today I'm absolutely delighted to announce
that we've signed a letter of intent with Volkswagen to be their insurance partner in the
UK for their brands, Audi, SEAT, Skoda and Volkswagen and Volkswagen Commercial for
at least ﬁve years.
I hope you'll agree overall, a really exciting and ambitious set of initiatives across our
three main channels, but clearly to deliver these requires us to have the technology to
support them. So let's take a look at where we are in technology, where we've been
making real progress, our systems are resilient and stable, and we have excellent digital
and mobile front-ends helping us to win in the marketplace today. Our mobile sales for
Direct Line have doubled in the past year, supported by class leading load times. And we
continue to improve our web purchase journey with NPS scores up 3.3 percentage points
in last year alone. We've also done a lot on claims where we are very mature in our
running of GuideWire's Claim Center and we also have technology to allow customers to
use mobile in the claims process, and to be able to ﬁght claims fraud. And this has helped
us to signiﬁcantly increase our claims NPS score up a further 2 points in the year and
detect signiﬁcantly more fraud than the market average.

Page 10 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

But we have more to do. We need to complete rolling out our self-service functionality,
and our legacy systems are both expensive to run, and lack agility and ﬂexibility. So here
our objectives are pretty clear. We want to support the channel strategies that I've just
outlined. First, by seeking the leading position on pricing and fraud capabilities. Second,
by giving us agility and ﬂexibility on products and propositions. Third, by progressing our
story on self-service, automation and straight-through processing. And ﬁnally, by enabling
us to add partners with agility and speed and giving them the functionalities they want.
At the same time, we have another big objective, we also see IT as a major lever in
delivering our expense ratio reduction. So our initiatives here are quite clear. We want to
complete the build of the latest generation system to give us that functionality which I'll
cover in a moment. And then, we want to run these systems in a much more eﬃcient way.
We've already signiﬁcantly increased our procurement capability, achieving better deals
with fewer partners, we have a preference to rent rather than buy infrastructure and
increasing our cloud usage, and we have a plan to reduce and ultimately decommission
our expensive mainframe.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me next go on to focus on the completion of those latest generation systems, which
unlock both the functionality and the cost savings. A reminder of our approach here, we
have a preference to buy rather than to build and to select products proven in their
respective markets, avoiding a one size ﬁts all model. This approach also enables us to
keep our systems up to-date, as we beneﬁt from ongoing releases and upgrades from our
partner suppliers.
Finally, we will test rigorously and take a phased roll-out approach to manage risks. On
our core personal lines business, the functionality, as I said is good at the front end, and
good on the claims side with Guidewire's ClaimCenter. What we're working on now is
completing the full implementation of the GuideWire Insurance Suite whilst implementing
the Towers Watson, Radar Live pricing and underwriting engine, along with supporting
systems and infrastructure, which we will connect to a comprehensive sets of external
data. This will help us deliver against all four of the objectives I set-out in the previous
charts.
Here as you know, we had to rework the data architecture, but the new data architecture is
agreed, we've taken the impairments and we are partnering with the systems integrator to
complete this deployment. We're building and testing our initial major release this year to
start rolling out next year. Elsewhere, we talked about our SME system, which is going to
be rolling out to 75% target rate this year and in other personal lines, we're building a new
travel system, which we will also roll-out this year. So lot of progress in our underlying
systems. We've done what we need to do to get us back on track and we're very excited
by the opportunities they will bring. The systems we are implementing will enable us to
move forward on all the initiatives in our channels and they underpin our medium-term
target.
So in summary, 2017 was a great year. We successfully delivered against our priorities,
helping us to deliver strong and highly cash generative earnings. The strong cash
generation has helped us both invest in the long-term of the business and at the same
time deliver to shareholders today with total dividends of GBP0.354 in 2017.
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

With that, let me go to questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Right . So we go further this way, so Ravi?

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. I have three questions please. And the ﬁrst
one was just on your investment income guidance. I know you've got a medium-term
proﬁt growth target, but obviously with today's guidance on the kind of stable
underwriting and then fading investment income at least in 2018, I was just wondering, if
you could talk to us how you're likely to handle that and whether there's scope for rerisking on the investment portfolio at all.
And the second one is on the SCR, and could you give us a sense as to whether this is
likely to be an ongoing tailwind that will help solvency development. And if so, by how
much each year? And then the third one was just on your comments around quote
footprint. Just curious to know exactly what the parameters are there and to what extent
you are looking to increase your volumes and in what pockets of the markets? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks, Ravi. Yes, so we've said -- proﬁt guidance, we of course haven't given, we
don't give proﬁt growth guidance, we give dividend growth guidance for our regular
dividends, which we said is 2% to 3% [ph] which we sort of aligned that to the growth of
the business rather than any individual line. Obviously we want our proﬁt to grow, every
company does and today we got the prevalence [ph] of that, are fairly transparent.
So we said medium-term core target within the range of 93-95, we so far we've been
delivering that and obviously we expect that to continue and we've talked about growth
in the business, and all the things we're doing to get that growth. So you got some of the
parts, the P&L going in the right direction there. Along with installments and other which
tends to get to track what's happening with the volume generally. Then on the investment
side, yes, the investment income, we think is going to be down year-on-year '17 to '18.
Once it got to that point, I think, there's the scope for it to grow a little bit with volume,
obviously depends then on how much we distribute as dividend -- whether AUM actually
grow or not, they haven't always grown. And then I think we'll be looking more to interest
rates. I mean in a ways more penny question that you got to manage dividend in the
future than a me [ph] question, but I think based on where I've been talking with my
colleagues on the investment side the upside on investment is probably more on UK
interest rates than any other individual driver.
We're taking roughly the amount of risk we want to take. There probably is some scope to
take a bit more investment risk. We've not yet found a new investment class that excites us
in that sense. And so there could be some tactical moves, I don't expect anything major,
but I think, you want your powder dry. And then but interest -- UK interest rates, we could
Page 12 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

actually take a bit more risk on UK interest rates, because we are quite short, we got lot of
cash. And I don't think we would see now as the moment to do it. That's a potential for
improvement in interest rates, and for us to take a bit more of that risk as the yield curve
to be -- if it does improve in the UK, that's an upside. Do you want to add anything?

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

No, I think, that's quite (inaudible), I have been looking to UK interest rate is the main risk
here. Shall I take SCR, SCR and early days to give a deﬁnitive number, but directionally, if
you look at the way the reinsurance program changed in 2014, then I think you should
expect that those results will continue to tick-down over time and there are lots and lots of
moving parts in an SCR calculation, as it's volatile to a number of things. But those other
things being equal you'd expect to see I think some tick-down over time again in that SCR
which gives us some options around how we deploy that for growth and so on and so
forth.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Our quote footprint is kind of two to three buckets here. So ﬁrst of all, our quotes for
things which we just don't do today, like (inaudible) we don't do homes with pre-existing
subsidence [ph]. So here you need some generally new expertise to learn because we
haven't written those before. We don't have much kind of experience. So that's kind of -there is some initiatives to stop tracking some of those. Then there is -- kind of within
existing parameters, things which we don't quote for, because we don't have the historic
performance and again we need to kind of continue to grow our expertise there.
And so those are both pushing out the quote footprint. It's not going to be a sudden
single bang, which takes us to 100% quotability. I think the most important one though,
that we've said, here under alternative pricing, is not the quotes we return today at all. It's
increasing our competitive quote footprint. So today, as you know, we have a single
pricing model, which means that -- either all our brands are pretty compatible, or none of
our brands are competitive.
So we've got a bunch of very, very clever people, using the e-math, machine learning to
go oﬀ and use our fantastic claims data to model in new ways. And so far the experience
is pretty encouraging that they can model at least as good loss ratio but importantly noncorrelating with our business. So we increased number of customers we can choose and
we are working on how to deploy it. Now obviously we need to actually write some
business to gets some claims, check that, that claims experience comes through in reality,
but that's probably the most signiﬁcant in terms of the volume from quote footprint,
versus the pushing up on the overall envelope, the competitive quote footprint is
important.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

All right. Good, right, thank you. Yeah?

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Thank you. Arjan van Veen, UBS. Thanks for the additional disclosure on the systems
changes. Just curious to see -- you said you are going to roll them out. Could you talk
maybe a bit about legacy systems and how quickly they kind of get turned oﬀ after the
rollout? And a question for Penny, you're on the Board of another peer that has much
lower cost ratio. So could you maybe indicate some areas where you think Direct Line is
little bit on the fat on the expense side?

A - Paul Geddes

Very good. So yeah, I mean systems, it is going to be multiple years to fully be able the
switch oﬀ all legacy systems and mainframes. But that's not to say that as we reduce our
usage of mainframes we won't be able to save some money. So it's not -- clearly there is a
drop when you get rid of the mainframe, but we'll be reducing our costs in the meantime
and that's just one of the parts of us running our systems more eﬀectively. As I said, we've
got fantastic new procurement capability. We're really leveraging our scale, we probably
inherited a little bit of a bank like approach to cost management on IT, and we now have a
very diﬀerent approach which is really leveraging our scale, consolidating in fewer
partners, let's say renting versus buying infrastructure. So we've got -- it's not at the end of
the cost savings comes from IT, it's actually quite progressive, Steve's got a great plan on
that. Penny, fat?

A - Penny James

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Fat, look, as I think I don't want to comment on Admiral in particular. But what I said -acknowledge there's a diﬀerent model here. So there's some cost that occurred in this
business that are done for a good reason, such as Direct Line of marketing costs are
diﬀerent et cetera, et cetera. So I don't think we should necessarily compare the two
head-on. We need to be mindful of what that cost is generating. There are some areas
where the costs are higher than you would choose. I think property cost we have some
legacy issues there, that they are probably not going away in a hurry. IT is clearly an
overhead. I think we've got the right actions in place to address those and bring those
down, but it will take time to actually get the decommissioning adjusted. And then there
are some broader areas where I think you can generally just continue to tighten. So I think
Paul mentioned procurement which is a great example where I feel as though we've
moved from not being top of the list to having quite a sophisticated approach to it in the
last year. So I think that one is now working. So I don't think you should look at every cost
line. There's some business model diﬀerences, still a little way to go, I think.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I think, listen, I acknowledge, I think it's fantastic to have Penny around the Ex-Co [ph]
table. She does bring up -- bring a challenge on that area and it's not one way we need
to, but it's -- as we said having fresh blood and fresh energy on that I think it's really
important and as you know we've got target to continue to use our expense ratio, which
we were behind. Good, the next, James and Alan?

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you, James Shuck from Citi. I had three questions please. Firstly on the LTIP. So the
LTIPs like they kind of fully vest around 17.5 to 20.5 return on tangible. You're currently

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

making 21.7. There was a little bit of headwind or a tailwind I should say with low weather
that might take oﬀ a little bit going forward. But I just love to see where the incentive is to
actually drive the ROE higher and why that's the appropriate level for the LTIPs, that's the
ﬁrst question.
Secondly, just a numbers question really on the reserving. So if I look at the mix between
the IBNR and case reserves, there's a sharp drop in the IBNR in 2017. I'd like to know
what's explaining that, I assume it's partly Ogden but I would expect case reserves have
fallen as well? And then thirdly, around the GDPR. Just interested around this right to be
forgotten. And what that might mean for things like no claims bonuses and the like,
particularly in Motor? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. So LTIPs you would have noticed our own case, have stretched our ROTE [ph]
targets by 250 basis points. So a new application it [ph] went further.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Well, part of the reason why that happened is because the gearing level's gone up a little
bit.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, so about half of the increase is the debt, which is worth about 130 basis points and
the rest is just further stretching. (inaudible) has a job to do. As you rightly point out the
stretched targets to keep the carrot suﬃciently the right distance from the horse to make
it motivating. And I think so -- that I think your observation explains why they've put 250
basis points on the target.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Maybe kind of help me understand just a bit, sort of why there is a stretch, because if I
look at the ROTE in recent years, you are consistently making that kind of number. So it's
sort of -- you don't have to do anything and then you get paid out fully on the LTIPs.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I think, listen I think delivering 20.5% ROTE I think it is a very good performance,
and I think to increase targets in one go about 250 basis points, I think is quite a change.
And I think they've their done job to make the target more stretching. Whilst I think if I
were to come in here and say okay, we're putting some numbers in the mid '20s. I think
that would have been -- send all sorts of inappropriate signals about the business and
prospects and all sorts of other things. But I think they were mindful of the need to make
sure the targets were more consistent with the consensus at the top end. I think the 250
basis point increase is quite a move. You can always argue, I'm sure you can give
feedback that you want more, but management thinks it's quite a big increase. IBNR?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Page 15 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Yeah, well, we haven't changed anything how we reserve or in the sense we have. You're
right Ogden is the main reason why that's a change, what was in IBNR has moved into
outstanding claims reserves, once we did the case review, which was earlier in 2017. The
other thing you might expect the ratio to -- of IBNR to outstanding claims to reduce as the
old years, which has a very high deductible on insurance. So we're not surprised that they
have some reduction in that ratio, but there's nothing, there is no underlying change in
policy or reserving that you are arguing.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Mike on the GDPR. Just wait for the mic.

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
Okay, thanks. It is complicated and we will abide by the legislation. There's always been a
right to be forgotten. So I think we think it's -- when you look at NCD there is a legitimate
use for NCD as well. So we will be using that as part of that. And at the end of day reduce
(inaudible) by collecting consent for the right things and that's what we'll be focused on,
really. We don't think it's -- this is a major issue really, if that's what you were hinting at.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

That make sense. No, stuﬀ like convictions, I think we've got a more sensible outcome
than some people initially were concerned about. Do you want to mention convictions?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
Yeah, I think the right to convictions when your ratings is one of our biggest concerns in
the insurance market. And again that seems to have been accepted that we can use that
and that would have been a concern because it's directly related to risk and but also as
insurance industry we got to take oﬀ that conviction at the right moment. So that's what
we will be making sure that we do as well.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

My concern would be that people are more inclined to claim things like scratches and
things like that, because then they can just have a right to be forgotten and then they can
go across to the new provider.

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
No, that is not -- we share NCDs on Q [ph] database and trying to make it easier to share it
around the industry and so we will be collecting consents to do that.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Alan?
Page 16 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. Couple of questions, ﬁrst of all, why don't you give us
some more color on your comments on claims inﬂation and as you had a favorable year
this year, but you're not -- you're giving the guidance for 3% to 5% going forward. Would
you give us more color what's going on? And just second on the reinsurance, taking 10%
of the ﬁrst and then you're implying there not as a much more of a working layer, would
you consider taking more of that -- retaining more of that risk or would you consider that
in the future? Thanks.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, I mean, we've always said that having a balance sheet gives us the optionality to be
selective on the lower layers and to get -- use that to get a good price and we think we
did use that. So 90% is pretty perfect for us in terms of the level of placement of that. We
negotiated well and we think we got a good deal. Time will tell, you'll see our actual cost
at the half year, but we think it's very commercially sensitive to share that -- to share that
now. I think on Motor claims, we are treating it as a business as usual. We will resume in
terms of 3% to 5% inﬂation. There is some recent things that will -- recent things that
might not. So more benign reasons are the Jackson and the MedCo initiatives may have
had some impact, a positive impact on small bodily injury, those were few years ago. So
we may be seeing some positives from that. Driver miles, inﬂation's kind of pretty modest
as a result of -- we think the fuel price increase is a result of Sterling's weakness.
Car tech maybe helping. We are incentivizing people to have cars that automatically
brake and then also weather is another reason there might be a one oﬀ because we had
some good weather this year. So there is a mixture of stuﬀ you could say are they cyclical
or are they structural. Obviously, going the other direction cars are just getting much
more expensive to repair and that trend continues. So I think for those of us that went to
our next repair centers, you see a total loss of a car that's damaged because of all the
sensors and airbags and stuﬀs that goes into it. So we think it's a safe working assumption
for it to be 3 to 5 and we will continue to track it. Obviously, we had better experience of
that in 2017, which is why we booked 4.5% better attritional loss ratio in the year. And of
course, we had the beneﬁt of the reinsurance protection as well. Tom?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Good morning. Tom Ivani [ph] from Exane BNP Paribas. Just one follow-up on the LTIP
question. The return on tangible equity target mostly went up, but not in your targets for
the market. We attempted to increase them in line. One is just in terms of the competitive
environment, you are growing ahead of market, a number of your competitors are talking
about very ambitious growth plans. Are you seeing any signs in particularly Motor, of
competition coming in, in terms of pricing and margins?
And then thirdly on Rescue, one of your big competitor's been ﬂagging challenges, I
guess in that market, what are your reﬂections on that? Is it actually a positive view or is it
actually something that makes you think again about your plans there? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}
Page 17 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

So ﬁrst of all, let me say what our 15 is, what it isn't is a cap on our ROTE. We are
incentivized, maybe not to James' full taste, but we're incentivized now to the keep
pushing that up another 250 basis points. And it doesn't stop us delivering the returns.
What it is, it's a thing which we use in making business decisions everyday about
initiatives and growth. And I think we should be saying of the initiatives to deliver 15 ROTE
that would help us grow, putting in the 20 target would make us a smaller business, albeit
a business proﬁtable. So I think in that role, I think you can understand the 15 target, and
of course they will get a bit easier with the post-debt restructuring.
In terms of competitive markets, I mean, I think we're still calling most of the market
rational to the extent of -- follow-up with Mike on the detail. But basically we're saying that
the market gave us some of the gains and you can kind of see it pretty much when the
government announced the intention to revise Ogden in September. That changed
people's views of what that cost would be.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then it won't probably have very good claims experience. So I don't think the market
is irrational, albeit prices are coming down and I think as we've always said prices should
come down in a competitive market when claims cost come down and I think that's good
for all stakeholders. I think the Home market is actually quite competitive. We're again,
not calling irrational, there is more supply than demand in homes, it's an attractive looking
market. So whilst we are positively seeing some pricing inﬂation, we don't think that's
quite suﬃcient to cover claims inﬂation. So that market we're saying is rational, but very
competitive and that you should season, I think, the view of how we see that particular
market developing going forward, we're not necessarily going to see return to sort of
previous years. You'll probably start to see the '17 performance as kind of a new level to
work from.
Rescue, well, I was going to say, I think we quite like the Rescue market and we're
probably on the insurgent side, as we said, we're doing pretty competitive advertising
which I am sure if you haven't seen you should, which is naming competitors, and I think
we quite like where that market is developing for us. Yes, the ﬁnal two. Grieg, how are
you?

Q - Grieg Paterson
(Technical diﬃculty) So it's Grieg, KBW. Just three quick questions. One is escape of
water. You've been a bit cryptic on the timing of when these remedial actions will start to
kick in on their own right, wonder if you can talk about that. Second point is, you
mentioned the Commercial attritional loss ratio ticked up and you spoke about claims
data and then you want to be conservative. Are we seeing some negative trends there? I
mean that surprised me. You want to talk about those trends you are seeing there? And
then also, I see that the Commercial liability lines prior year development was quite high. I
was wondering to what extent that is sustainable or not or if it's a one-oﬀ?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. Mike, on the escape of water?

Page 18 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
I mean clearly we talked about escape of water in the half year and we kind of indicated
that we think that the inﬂation is -- we've got a grip of the claims inﬂation there. Just to
remind that it wasn't just about putting prices up to cover escape of water, it's very much
underwriting and across the claims supply chain where we've implemented actions, other
than to say they have stabilized now. Whilst we won't recover all that inﬂation of the past,
we think there is stability and then -- and we called out, it feeds into our view that longterm claims inﬂation is still at 3% to 5% and we've got a good grip of that situation. In
Home as well, yeah, absolutely.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Just to make it easy for you, Grieg. On Commercial, on the reserving at the year-end, now
we just we don't think -- I don't think there are trends and my Commercial colleagues
agree, we haven't seen any adverse trends in the claims data. But there were -- there are
some blips. And we've decided to treat those conservatively. We will tell you if they
develop any trends, but we don't see that yet, But we are not calling that. Commercial,
general liability has been very strong performer for many years and it's a break -- I think
it's quite long tail and we've always had John -- John is nodding, very good run-oﬀ from
that portfolio, and I think we all expect that to continue.
Good. Yes, so then we'll go to the other side of the room.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Great, David Bracewell here from Redburn. Two questions. One on the kind of change in
the mix in terms of moving to your own brand policies. My expectation is that it has a
higher margin than maybe the partnership business, and therefore I would have expected
or hoped to see some kind of improvement to the guidance on the combined ratio there
as you kind of continue that shift to own brand, so perhaps tell me why you haven't
changed the guidance there? And then a second question a quick one, I think on Motor
pricing, given the reinsurance yields you've had and the change in price, should we
expect you to be able to increase prices in 2018 to oﬀset that? Or did you kind of get that
in 2017 in terms of price rises?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. So we are pricing with a view of what the reinsurance would be, and so we're
slightly to the right side of that in terms of what we've seen. So we've already reported on
that. And about the mix, John.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean you're absolutely right, we're saying that we're going to see that move. And
we're seeing it already, and because -- partly because the brands are outgrowing
partners. Even when we get partners back into (inaudible) growth, own brands is likely to
outgrow them. Own brands have -- obviously they are on the same commission cost. They
do have distribution cost, that's diﬀerent. They can have a slightly worse loss ratio,
particularly on Home partners have a very good loss ratio. There is a few moving parts.
Bottom line is it's all kind of built into our plan. So our plan, which of course shows 93 to
Page 19 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

95 with the expense ratio and commission ratio coming down, it was built on this very
trend you are looking to see. So I can't say it's going to make it better than we've said, but
it will underpin what we have said. Does that makes sense?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. We move to this side of the room.

Q - Andreas Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas Van Embden, Peel Hunt. Two questions please. First of all on moving to Radar
Live, and your pricing model in Motor. What were you missing up to now in your pricing
agility? And where will this take you statistically to Intraday pricing, for example, across all
your channels? And what you think -- in which channel, do you think it's going to be most
useful? And secondly on Rescue, as you grow that business, could you comment on
whether you see any synergies between your insurance business, particularly the Motor
book and Rescue as you scale up? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, I mean listen, we talked to you about Green Flag own brand, but we also have very
important business in Linked [ph] and Linked is a big part of our plans as well. And all our
initiatives will support that channel and package accounts which is the third channel. So
yes, in terms of cross-selling that's kind of a feature of our plans. If you're asking about
whether we should have a Green Flag insurance, I think we've got plenty of insurance
brands in terms of Motor insurance. Was that -- sorry.

Q - Andreas Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

How much of Motor policies -- Direct Line Motor policies or others do you serve through
your partnerships in Rescue or Green Flag -- in percentage of policies. Are you selling --?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Well, we don't -- the partnerships are separate. So the Rescue partnership is separate
from the insurance partnerships.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Generally, if you split the book up, there is a loss of volume of policies that we do, as
we've said for very low margin. But if give us Rescue scale, which is really important to get
more vans there, and more Motor ways and more cities than that. So -- and then we've got
kind of the two businesses, which are better margin, which are the standalone and then
the linked. And I think we've talked mainly about the standalone business here, saying it
has a very good linked business as well, which we have good levels of selling Rescue into
our car insurance customers. We are probably quite mature at that and I think most -more of the opportunity we see is the standalone business. Again, start of standalone
plans. And that's the one with the highest margin. That's the piece of Rescue that has the
highest margin.

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Pricing, we get lots stuﬀ from Radar Live. So we gets lots of more external data, we get
more accuracy of modeling, we get faster deployment. Intraday is a functionality, which
we -- some stage could choose to deploy. We need to work out the merits and demerits
of it. Intraday, you are not learning much of our claims, you're learning something about
how other people are pricing the market. So it gives us the full kit what we switch on -leave it to us. We see a lot of value in those. The ﬁrst thing as I mentioned which we're
going to beneﬁt from. And application fraud is another big reference, I believe.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yes, so -- and the other thing it's not much more eﬃcient to run. So at the moment we
model separately from deploying, which not only creates some inaccuracy and takes
some lag, but also is loss of work. So we're going to remove work from it. So it's really
good, pretty excited about that.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right, yes. This side of the room suddenly quite excited, right.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Wajahat Rizvi

{BIO 19928187 <GO>}

Waj Rizvi from Deutsche Bank. I have three questions. First one on Home loss ratio. Can
you talk a little bit about the dynamics of attritional loss ratio and like -- and from the
change in business mix. I seem to understand that there is some oﬀsets in reducing
commission ratios and higher attritional loss ratio, so just the dynamics of the two? And
then the second one would be on systems. So I think you talked that it will take some time
for you to switch oﬀ the mainframe. So is it fair to assume that expense ratio or expense
beneﬁt would be a bit back-end loaded from this technology? And ﬁnally, just a numbers
question. So you are changing run-oﬀ, you are putting it in operating. The guidance of
run-oﬀ oﬀsetting restructuring cost. Is that still valid for the next few years? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So, you do one and three and I'll take the second.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yeah, on the last one, we are including it. We -- if there is nothing to report and by
implication there shouldn't be too much to report. It's not going to make any diﬀerence
really, not much diﬀerence. We are not expecting very much diﬀerent. Obviously, there
could be changes. So if Ogden, the Ogden rate changes, we're going to beneﬁt in run-oﬀ
as well as beneﬁt in Motor and Commercial and maybe probably report that separately.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

If there is anything signiﬁcant, we'll report it.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

The expectation is it's not going to be dramatic and that's why we --. On the Home loss
ratio, and the way maybe to think about it is, if you take the 2017 core, which was just
Page 21 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

under 90 and you probably need to add for weather to the main normalizing point, you
probably need to add 4 to 5 points to that. So it comes to about a normalized core of 94,
95. You got to think about the components that they will take a bit of the diﬀerence in the
commission ratio, when that happens, but you end up at about 94, 95.
And then looking forward, you got a few moving parts on Home, so you've got
nationwide premium reduction, NEP reduction over one year. So there won't be any '19
and there will be half a year basically in '18, and that's a reasonably large part of our NEP.
On the other hand, they do take quite a lot of commission. So the commission ratio is
going to come down like that quite signiﬁcantly in Home in 2018. And on the accident loss
year, on the attritional loss ratio side, they have low attritional loss ratios relative to the rest
of our business. And so there's a little bit of strain because of that and -- but I think overall
you're probably going to see -- we think there will be an improvement in core, in Home
normalized because of that commission ratio reduction, which is quite signiﬁcant and that
will broadly balance in our view -- broadly balance the reduction in premium. There's a
few moving parts, but that should give you some more guidance, if that helps.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, basically we've given a few clues to quite a lot of moving opportunities that
we have in IT costs. So across the basket of all those, where we see opportunities kind of
yes, the mainframe kind of usage comes down and then you get a big saving in the end.
But there are other moving parts that Steve's got in plan to reduce. I think we've given
some ﬂavor of them in terms of procurement and -- Steve or John could reply.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Steven Maddock
There is a number of initiatives that -- and levers that we are pulling here. I mean Paul's
referenced ﬁrst thing we do is, we're going to strike better deals. That gets an immediate
beneﬁt for us as we in eﬀect implement these new systems and we are in eﬀect replatforming most of the front end systems in the business, you get a gradual reduction in
your mainframe usage over time as you migrate to these new systems. That's I think an
ongoing feature. You then get sort of ﬁnal decommissioning. That gives us another kick in
terms of beneﬁt, and of course in parallel to that any system that you are not addressing
by re-platforming we are re-engineering to make the underlying net usage reduce,
eliminate it or get a better a deal on it. So there's about four levers that we're pulling, and
each of those has an impact over the life of our plan.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes, right.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Thanks. Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions, if I can. Firstly on Motor PCW, I
think your market share has been broadly ﬂat. And I think with this new pricing machine
you are anticipating building market share there. Can you share with us some of your
ambition say for this year in terms of policy kind of growth from the pricing? Secondly
CapEx, are you still guiding to 80 to 100 for this year? And I think you said it's a bit of a
bubble. Will that drop down from '19 onwards? And then ﬁnally on whiplash and Ogden,
Page 22 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

can you say a little bit about what you anticipate the legislative position is on that? And if
you don't get anything through parliament on Ogden, what happens?

FINAL

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I'll start with last one. So the government's announced a timetable, introduced legislation
to get the kind of two parts of whiplash in by next April. There is quite a lot of work to be
done by all parties to get that to happen, there's quite lot of systems work to be done. So
-- and of course, they need to get it passed. So -- but our planning assumption is that will
happen for next April, but there are some risks to that, I think in terms of legislation and
then all the systems work needs to be done to enact it because there is quite lot of
technical changes to make that work and Stephen, I was going to say, bore [ph] at the
break, but he can tell you at the break with his MIB hat on -- about all of what needs to be
done to make that happen.

Bloomberg Transcript

And whether Ogden hitches along for the ride oﬀ the Civil Liabilities Bill or not is a
debate. And there are pros and cons to whether it does hitch along for the ride. There is
obviously dangers of it attaching, but it's up to the government to get that done. They've
set out quite a clear intention to get it done and that is up to them. We are unclear on the
legislative vehicle, they are going to use to do it. Obviously what happens, it depends on
what if it doesn't happen, it depends on why it doesn't happen, whether it's just a timing
thing because of course really what matters is that it does eventually happen because
we're talking about claims we will be settling in a few years' time. So it's not month critical
to that extent and clearly if it fails for speciﬁc reasons, the government goes back on its
commitment, that'd be very diﬀerent to the schedule we timed. And of course really what
matters is the reinsurance material, it's reinsurance costs.
So we've got -- the next real thing is next year's renegotiation of the reinsurance contracts.
So we've got pretty good protection this year and of course, that reinsurance contract was
struck with some expectation of the rate changing, not full. Did I give you enough?
I mean PCW is -- lot of initiatives we talked about are not this year. We'll be -- so the
alternative pricing will be -- we are aiming to get some experience this year, but I think
this is a medium life of the plan ambition we're setting up here on PCWs. There are lot to
it. And I think you should take it as quite a big stake in the ground today that we're saying,
there's no reason we see we shouldn't be leading edge at PCWs, and we know what the
deltas are and we think that we have the systems work and the initiatives to close that
application fraud, pricing we've talked about, and as I said alternative pricing approach.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

CapEx, I think we haven't give guidance between -- beyond 2019. Clearly we are still
going to be investing in the business beyond that -- I think we are in a bubble at the
moment. So we're in the upper end of that range and we will stay at the upper end of that
range in the short-term, but I don't think it means that we stop investing in the business in
2019, might peel back a bit then.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}
Page 23 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Hi, it's Kamran Hossain from RBC. Just one big picture question. So you talked a lot about
kind of the changed distribution model, how you're able to access all the three main
channels. And when you think about partnerships, one of the big four price comparison
websites last week set out its ambitions to partner with banking apps, so straight in by
going to that app, they can oﬀer all sorts of services. Do you see any -- I mean, when you
think about that change in the market or the potential change of market, is it a threat, is
that an opportunity, does it change the way that aﬃnity might work going forward
because obviously a lot of big aﬃnity there was -- especially on the Home side are with
banks. So any thoughts on big picture question.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean generally, we've seen this leg of our strategic pyramid, as giving us some
strategic optionality, and I think one of the things we want to do is, if we are not a great
retailer, we'd certainly like to be the small and eﬃcient manufacturer behind other great
retailers. We are -- I think that gives us some strategic optionality, if our retail brands don't
win in the market place which we hope they will, working with other peoples. We think all
those people will need people like us to have our excellence at all those things which we
are really great at. So and I think that's revealed on our approach on Motor, which other
people could view as a hostile trend. We're running straight towards that and saying okay,
you motor manufacturers have lot of assets, increasing a bunch of assets in terms of how
people will purchase or not cars and the data we get out of them and we want to partner
with you. And if -- so I think there is risks and opportunities, I think, the way of mitigating
the risk is being part of -- being open minded to partner with people that have diﬀerent
distribution models. Then I think banks clearly have a variety of partnership models in
mind. I think there's some real beneﬁts of how you partner with them. We've really turned
around our business with NatWest/RBS, by really closely linking our systems and theirs to
make it really, really easy for their customers to get a great price from us and that's really
working well.
So I think that model has some advantages versus putting in to PCW, but I wouldn't say
that. And of course even PCW, you are absolutely right, we write about 40% our business
on PCWs and Home. So we are in that channel too. So I think it's great to be across all the
channels. I think net of all that, because I don't think any of us can necessary say where
the future is exactly going.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Hi, Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Two questions, ﬁrstly on the run-oﬀ book, could you quantify
what is the reserve which is still tied there in the capital in that book? Secondly, just going
back to the RBS renewal on your partnership, would we expect to see any change there as
in terms of numbers, et cetera?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean it's slightly historic reference, the renewal is couple of years back, until we
are actually moving on the next one at some stage but that's a major budget. That's quite
mature in Home, Rescue is a more recent deal and that's reﬂected in -- kind of in our
numbers, but there is no big change, Mike. Yes, sorry. We are in pitch [ph] on travel with
them and as we say these are travel and Rescue, it's really a volume, we would like to have
Page 24 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

the volume, because it means you can have more people with more languages, but it's
pretty ﬁne margin stuﬀ, so we kind of do take or leave a little bit, but travel is the one with
RBS we currently pitch, having got Home and Rescue.

FINAL

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

I think the reserves were actually it's in the prelim, it's about 265 million in the run-oﬀ
book. We didn't publish the capital number and you'd expect us to use our capital in
other parts because of the PPO nature of it. We haven't yet mentioned the number,
maybe I'll get it.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good, last one, bring us on.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Let's see. So price comparison, you talked about the capability part of the game, isn't that
mainly a cost game and so my question is how often do you come out top on the
business you quote and price comparison Home and Motor? Second question on
partnerships, same thing, I mean its capabilities but aren't the partners basically, just
giving the business to the lowest price -- for the best price, and hence it's a winner's curse
if you win that partnership? And thirdly, on the price increases you and the market have
done, has that led to increased switching rates in Home and Motor?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. So to deal with the last one ﬁrst, so retention's up a bit in Motor, down a little
bit in Home, but I mean all like plus or minus 1% on both but still Direct Line tracking
levels, mid '80s in retention and people are shopping around, people shopping around, I
think a bit more on Home driven by their prior year disclosure premium and again that's
encouraging, we think that's the right thing to do, and we've kept an excellent retention
rate, but down just a little bit on Home, just up a little bit on Motor. Partnerships, these
were a bit selective, because you're right, partnerships fall into two buckets, commodity
partnerships which generally goes the wire and there probably is winner's curse on that
and then there's probably strategic partnerships, where people come to us. So people do
come to us and go we love what you are doing in Direct Line, we love your digital frontends, we love your API links, we love your accident repair centers, we love your
propositions, we love your award winning customer experience stuﬀ, so they come to us
and then they're looking -- people with brand tend to want to work with someone that
understand about brands and giving brand diﬀerentiation, great brand experience.
So there is all sorts of partnerships we want to win. We are happy to win some more
commodity ones speciﬁcally where it gives us scale, are Travel and Rescue and then we're
happy to walk away from quite a lot of them as well. So the word selective is quite
important there. I think on PCWs, we to keep it stable, quite big share of it. We are pretty
competitive, we win a lot every week. So we are pretty competitive. We quite accurately
can benchmark. There's couple of payers that this is what they do all the time, PCWs and
we can quite speciﬁcally say, okay, here's what they do, here's what we do, it's how they
get a bit more competitive and still do at a good loss ratios and we know what those
Page 25 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

deltas are and we think we have the plans and the capabilities over the next couple of
years to close some of that, lots about application fraud. Some of it is having price models
speciﬁcally geared for PCW customer rather than Direct customer, because we tend to
have, as I said, one pricing model.
So we have it in our sites. There's nothing I see in our way. I think on pricing as well, you
got to look at the marginal costs is what really matters here. The cost of an extra policy,
which increasingly will be Direct in self-service. So actually, we should be, we shouldn't be
held back on a marginal cost basis and we should again beneﬁt from the Group's brands,
because we have fantastic brands and brands still match on PCWs, particularly in terms of
better retention rates and we beneﬁt from the Group's fantastic claims, fantastic accident
repair centers.
So we have a lot of assets, and actually going from where we are now to where we want to
be, these are all quite -- this is a small wins, so to say, actually pretty good to be winning
so much business today to keep that business stable.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Application fraud, this is a major improvement you are going through?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean we catch more fraud than anyone else claims. That's a great place to capture
but they are not capturing it. We are doing more, rather not get any of it on the books and
so we know the few things we want to do. So we're pushing forward progressively on that.
We don't -- we are not (inaudible) -- we wouldn't that we wouldn't able to write any
business, but we have some good initiatives there. Right. Thank you very much. Is there
anyone on the phones?

Operator
Thank you very much to the panelists. (Operator Instructions) So at the moment, no
questions coming through. So I'll hand back over to you for any concluding remarks.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you very much. And before anyone gets here, we'll switch oﬀ the lines, but nothing
hugely dramatic is going to happen. We just have one ﬁnal slide, which is just to say
goodbye to John. Some pictures of John. The great beneﬁt, John and I, he's been
actually getting older through the whole journey, evolving with the (multiple speakers) So
John, always looks to not be there.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

I am prepping my interviews.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Page 26 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

(inaudible) So John is fantastic selection of non-work things to do. On John's behalf
(technical diﬃculty) to be a fantastic board member because I think he has been an
absolutely terriﬁc CFO, fantastic colleague, fantastic friend and if you think about where
we've come from, your questions will be, not everything is so often to do with business
and Penny has still got lot of opportunities, but I think John has done a cracking job here.
He has been a fantastic colleague, he has been a fantastic friend, he has been a fantastic
CFO and I'd just like to wish him all success in the future, if you can join me.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining today's call. You may now replace your
handset. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

