Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

S1 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Westwood, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Geoﬀ Carter, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
James Ockenden, Chief Actuary
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Dom O'Mahony, Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Trevor Moss, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Good morning, everybody. Very warm welcome to those people in the room and to
those people on the phones. Here today presenting you've got myself, Geoﬀ Carter; and
Adam Westwood, and in the front row, we have got James Ockenden, our Chief Actuary,
as we get any diﬃcult questions we don't ﬁnd the answer.
Let's move brieﬂy onto the presentation. We'll skip lightly across the small print unless
they want me to read it out to them, I suspect not. So, let's go straight to the agenda. The
brief outline on what we are doing today, a brief look at the highlights for 2018, a recap of
the strategy for those who are still fairly new to the story. Adam will then go through the
ﬁnancial results and I'll then go through a summary and some brief outlook thoughts as
well. So, I think we'll push straight on, if that's okay.
So, onto the ﬁnancial highlights. I'd say, overall, we are pretty pleased with the results of
the half year and I'm certainly feeling perkier standing here today with numbers of the full
year when we did the results and we are pleased where the Company is at the half-year
stage as well. Our key focus remains on our combined operating ratio. You can see we
have delivered 68.6% at the half year, an improvement on the same time last year and an
adjusted proﬁt of just over 26 million.
Despite that combined operating ratio focus, premium is in a pretty healthy position.
We're eﬀectively ﬂat year-on-year having caught up some of the premium deﬁcit we had
Page 1 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

FINAL

earlier this year. We haven't undermined our pricing philosophy, we haven't undermined
any of our pricing principles at all to get to that position.
We also are very pleased to conﬁrm that we're paying our ﬁrst dividend as a public
company at 7.2 pence per share. This is exactly in line with the guidance at the IPO of 70%
of the half-year proﬁt at this stage. I think very importantly, we're continuing to generate
considerable organic excess capital. Our solvency capital ratio improved to 209% prior to
payment of the interim dividend, 179% after payment of that dividend. We'll discuss later.
That leaves us well positioned to consider a special dividend at the full year.
As well as the good ﬁnancial performance, there have been some operational highlights I
would call out. The key one is that we haven't changed our pricing philosophy at all, we
continue to price at the mid 70s target combined ratio. We continue to research new
pricing factors. We continue to ﬁnd in the price and saving opportunities and were tested
in deploying those as we go through this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Importantly, our excess of loss reinsurance program was fully placed in line with our price
expectation, that's in mid to high single-digit increase on last year. Equally as important,
there was no loss of quality from our reinsurance panel. We've maintained a very high
quality reinsurance panel to support us.
On the operational side, we completed the transition to our new hybrid cloud IT
infrastructure. That's been virtually seamless for the business. There's been no
interruption at all. The beneﬁts of that, it gives us market-leading security and also
ﬂexibility that we can ﬂex on volume without any meaningful additional cost. We continue
to invest in software robotics. We've already got about the most eﬃcient cost base in the
market, software robotics, which eﬀectively automate manual processes from keying
between spreadsheets. We enrolled out during this quarter. So as we look to grow in
future years and future periods, we're looking to maintain our current headcount.
And importantly, because you sit in the front row looking at me, we've appointed a new
Company Secretary who started in the last -- the last couple of months. On the employee
side, we've done our ﬁrst survey on employee satisfaction, very positive results.
Something like 88% of people -- 88% of people would recommend Sabre as a place to
work. And similarly, around 90% but still consider themselves to be here in one year.
That's a really key engagement, a really key engagement score for us.
We've launched the Save As You Earn plan, which has been very well received by many of
our colleagues. And we've maintained very low levels of employee turnover. I think I can
count on one hand the number of people who've left in the half year and we've lost no
senior managers whatsoever. So as a business we're in good shape, both operationally
and in terms of the numbers.
For those who are fairly new to the business still, a very brief recap on the strategy. I
would stress, there's been no changes whatsoever to our strategy. So this really is a recap
for people who may not be as close to it. What are our key principles? Firstly to maintain a
broad underwriting footprint. We are currently quoting at 96% risks that are available to
Page 2 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

FINAL

us, that's improved by about one percentage point over the last few months. So we are
continuing to ﬁnd opportunities to quote for more risks. A disciplined and actuarially
driven approach to pricing. The prices that come out of our actuarial team are the ones
that are presented to brokers or distribution partners without any interruption or change.
We don't apply volume discounts or favors. It's a very pure approach to pricing.
We continue to expand our dataset and we continue to look at and invest in data
enrichment opportunities. Claims is a key part of the jigsaw for us. We have what we
would describe as an assertive and fair approach. Honest customers get paid claims very
quickly, very fully, very fairly. Someone who is light to us, who is being dishonest can
expect quite a hard journey through the claims process, so we're understanding about
that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to work very heavily through brokers. Still nearly three quarters of our
business comes from our distribution partners. We have a fantastic relationship with
brokers, both large and small. Very eﬃcient model, I think a recent EY survey said they
thought we had the lowest expense by any traditionally conﬁgured business. And that's
important for us to maintain that expense eﬃciency as well. And ﬁnally, we'll continue to
run the business in a very prudent way. So prudent claims reserving, prudent reserving
and conservative approach to risk management through reinsurance and capital
management.
What does all that lead to? A target of mid 70s combined ratio with a ceiling of 80%. At
this stage, we see no need for that. Our combined ratio is just away from the mid 70s.
Attractive dividend, 70% proﬁt after tax with the target solvency range of 140% to 160%. I
think we've been very clear that we see no need to holding to excess capital over that
capital range and therefore there is opportunity for an attractive special dividend at the
end of this year. And we still believe high single-digit premium growth across the cycle.
That doesn't mean every year, but over the course of the cycle of four years, we would
expect to be growing by that sort of average of high single-digit.
And on that note, I will hand to Adam to talk about results.

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Thanks, Geoﬀ. Morning, everyone. I'll now introduce a little more detail to the numbers.
We continue to run a straightforward business model, which I hope comes across in the
simplicity of our ﬁnancial results. Our premium income is GBP108.8 million for the period,
compared to a 109.1 million in the comparative period last year. Premium dropped relative
to 2017 in Q1 this year, but has returned to 2017 levels following pricing action we took in
the beginning of the year to reﬂect a more benign frequency of small bodily injury claims.
Our net earned premium is slightly ahead of the same period in 2017, which is simply
reﬂective of the timing of premium earned over the life of our policies.
We've once again achieved a combined ratio ahead of our long-run average. This was
68.6% for the period against 71.7% in the same period last year and 68.5% for the full-year
2017. I'll through -- through this and let some more detail later.

Page 3 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

FINAL

Moving on to the rest of our P&L, our underwriting proﬁt for the period was 32.2 million,
3.8 million ahead of the comparative prior year-- prior half year driven primarily by the
higher mid-term premium and lower combined ratio. This in turn led to an adjusted proﬁt
after tax of 26.1 million, up 2.6 million on the same period in 2017, noting that an eﬀective
tax rate for 2017 was lower. In both periods, the only adjustment made to proﬁt after tax is
in respect of amortization of goodwill.
Investment returns continue to be low with the Group incurring a GBP0.1 million loss in
the period due to decreases in the value of the gilt portfolio. We continue to hold our
investments to maturity which means that it's an acceleration of the pull to par value over
the life of bonds. The Group's earnings per share is a 10.3 pence per share, some way
ahead of the comparative period. While this is in part driven by higher proﬁts in the
period, the comparative ﬁgure is somewhat skewed by preference dividends noting the
preference shares no longer exist within the current structure.

Bloomberg Transcript

The level of excess solvency capital held by the Group has grown from 132% at June 2017
and 160% at the year-end to 209% before the payment of an interim dividend. This is a
function of the capital generated through proﬁts in the period set against little movement
in the Group's solvency capital requirements. Given the level of excess capital held, the
Group has declared an interim dividend of 7.2 pence per share in line with our guidance
set out at IPO that we would pay an interim dividend equal to approximately 70% of the
Group's proﬁt after tax. Excluding the capital required to fund this dividends, the Group's
capital sits at a 179%, well above our preferred normal operating range of 140% to 160%.
We will review our capital position at the year-end and expect to manage this through the
level of dividends announced for the full year.
The next few slides will expand on some of the points I've made. These next slides add
some detail to our combined ratio performance over the period. Our expense base
remains stable. The small uplift in expenses against the comparative period is within our
expectation given the additional administrative costs of running a listed company. Well,
much of our cost base is variable, we continue to invest in automation to improve the
eﬃciency over the medium term.
Our loss ratio continues to fall inside our target and is again beneﬁted from both strong
current year performance and prior year reserve movements. We've continued to see the
positive impact of high pricing towards the end of 2017 and beginning of 2018. The
current loss -- year loss ratio of 59% is similar to that in the comparative period in 2017,
which was 60.7%. While the level of prior year reserve movements for the period is high
relative to the net earned premium than for the period as full year, we would emphasize
this does not lead us to expect that we will have a higher overall reserve movements for
the full year compared to the full-year 2017. We carry out an annual review of outstanding
cash reserves in November, and as such, it is not appropriate to compare relative negative
IBNR of the half year with full year position. However, the level of prior year's half [ph]
movements in the period under review supports our guidance. We expect our combined
ratio for the year to be favorable as compared to our long-run average. We will, of course,
continue to prioritize writing proﬁtable business over volume and do not factor
exceptional reserve releases into our pricing model relying on generating proﬁts from
every new policy we write.
Page 4 of 12



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

Our portfolio of cash and investments now exceeds GBP300 million, and we continue to
hold this in a low risk, low maintenance pool which consists primarily of UK government
securities reﬂecting our core strategy, but we aim to minimize downside risk and focus on
our eﬀorts on generating returns from highly proﬁtable core business of underwriting
rather than investment yield. We continue to see our investment portfolios fuel, which
allows us to drive our underwriting engine. The bonds are held --held are selected to
maintain a maturity pattern equivalent to the run-oﬀ of the claims book. This means that
on a regulatory basis the valuation of the discounted claims reserves moves in tandem
with the valuation of investments limiting volatility in the Group's regulatory balance sheet
.This does, however, mean that the mark-to-market accounting introduces some shortterm volatility into the IFRS results where claims reserves are not discounted .

Bloomberg Transcript

The Group continues to generate its proﬁts from a lean capital base, which is core to the
Group's strategy. As in previous periods, our capital requirement is driven almost
exclusively by the level of underwriting activity and reserves held reﬂective of the low risk
appetite in other areas such as investments .
The generation of proﬁts while maintaining a low capital requirement has led to a
regulatory capital surplus of 209% before the payment of the interim dividend, and 179%
after the payment, which is in excess of our preferred operating range. We will review our
capital position at year-end and continue to stress that we have no need or desire to
retain signiﬁcant excess capital. As a reminder, during the IPO, we deﬁned our dividend
policy as paying out 70% of proﬁt after tax in this ﬁrst year following IPO with current plans
to be -- to revert to a more traditional interim dividend in the future being one-third of the
previous year's full year ordinary dividend with the potential special dividends as a means
of distributing excess capital to bring down our solvency coverage range to within our
target range.
And with that, I'll hand back to Geoﬀ who will give summary to outlook for 2018.

Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. I think the key thing we'd like to talk about is a few of the bigger things we've done
to support this year's result. Unconsciously we've been repeating ourselves a bit for those
ﬁrst few slides. This is more new information. What we have done on our pricing
particularly to support the result? We've reﬂected the observed change in smaller
whiplash claims. I think when I sat here in also during December, we said we've seen
claims go oﬀ the cliﬀ in November and December, as a graph on here produced by Ernst
& Young, on the right hand side of this graph, you can see a very steep dip in the level of
claims coming through the MOJ portal. That is what we saw in November and December
last year.
You will notice that then bounced back of bit in January and February and we believe it's
now sort of ﬂattened out there around that level. So our pricing reﬂects that move,
ﬂattened level, having seen a reduction over a fairly elongated period. We said we don't
price on blips, we price on long-term trends and that's exactly what we've done and I
think this market graph shows evidence we changed our rates and we're conﬁdent we
know what a new baseline looks like.
Page 5 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

FINAL

Similarly, we fully covered our reinsurance cost increase, we said it was in line with our
expectations. We've increased our prices and have increased our prices to cover the
reinsurance cost we expect it to come through. We continue to price to a mid 70s target. I
think there's no question that the markets entered the slightly weaker pricing cycle for the
ﬁrst half of this year. We've stuck to our guns. We continue to price at mid 70s and we
continue to treat volume and growth as another target, combined operating ratio is our
key target.
I think equally is important is what we haven't done. We have not reﬂected any change -any potential change in the Ogden discount rate. We continue to price and reserve at the
column 0.75% discount level. We've also not reﬂected any potential savings from whiplash
reforms, small claims limits or evidence around that medicals. I guess important over the
last couple of weeks, this means the reforms that have been announced as going back
from 2019 to 2020 have no impact on us, so we haven't priced for it. We (inaudible). So
we're sure we understand what implications of those changes are. What that means is, we
don't see any squeeze on our margins or proﬁtability per policy. So anything we've done
in the ﬁrst half of the year or any of the muted market changes. So we consider ourselves
in a strong position still from pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So last slide on the summary, the key messages, we'd like to leave with you. Continued
focus on our core principles, we shall keep buying in this (inaudible) bought of it.
Underwriting result very much in line with our expectations. Critically have been reset our
baseline claims assumptions in line with the MOJ graph. We would still expect claims
inﬂation and claims inﬂation from that new baseline level and we will be covering claims
inﬂation through pricing through the second half of the year.
So we call out our full-year guidance as ﬂat GWP, that is after covering claims inﬂation in
the second half of the year. We continue to target mid-70s combined ratio. We think we
will trade well in prevailing market conditions. I think what we're seeing is exactly what we
expected to see when we IPO'ed in a softer market, but we didn't expect to prove it quite
so quickly, which is we really moved back towards our non-standard high premium
sectors and slightly less priced risks in the mass market. Our average premium has
increased on new business by about 5% from this time last year.
Combinations are there, but also the mix changes. We would like slightly more business in
that non-standard area. So we continue to project premium ﬂat year-on-year with '17 and
we would expect to continue to generate signiﬁcant capital through the second half of the
year, which as Adam says, will give us some options for special dividend at the year-end.
And I guess ﬁnally, my thanks to all our colleagues back in Dorking for everything they do
to drive this performance, it has been a good half-year in fairly challenging market
conditions, and we're very happy where we ﬁnd ourselves at the half-year stage. And on
that I think we've got time for any questions in the room. There's one there.

Questions And Answers
Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}
Page 6 of 12



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

Hi, it's Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Thank you for the presentation. I have two questions.
The ﬁrst one, maybe you could talk a little bit about the markets' perception, the
competition in the mass-market segment in particular, and what are your thoughts in the
cycle. How long do you expect the prices to decline and clearly your target about high -mid single-digit growth across the cycle, it ties quite closely to that. And then the second
question on your reserving strength, perhaps you could elaborate on whether anything
has changed after six months and how the seasonality work with your reserve releases?
Thank you.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Sure. Okay. I'll take the ﬁrst one. I mean, so I'd say what happened at the start of the year,
there were some quite signiﬁcant decreases in premium rates. I think there are plenty of
external surveys that would have highlighted that as well, consensus and that'd be about
6% or 7% decrease perhaps the ﬁrst quarter. I think there's continued to be further price
discount in the second quarter, would be my take on it. And so that's the feedback we get
from some of our broker partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the interesting thing now will be whether the claims reforms going back to 2020
sort of puts a break on that softer market and whether we are now sort of bumping on the
bottom. The EY survey that came out fairly recently or the EY presentation suggested a
soft market in '18, fairly soft in '19, and maybe starting to recover in 2020, and that
probably wouldn't be too far from our base case as well.
Mid high single digit. I mean, so we would expect ﬂat this year, maybe modest growth
next year, and then depending on that market, now it does come true, maybe slightly
stronger growth in '20. But I guess I'd emphasize that we're most concerned about the
combined ratio, not the premium number.
You asked about reserving strength. I think, James is -- (inaudible). So James Ockenden,
the Chief Actuary, just comments on this.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

So I think the question was ﬁxed around the reserving, the reserving philosophy hasn't
changed, if anything, the trend was relatively consistent. So there's really it's BIE from a
reserving perspective, it's relatively uninteresting.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

And then the writing strength James, nothing has changed now (Multiple Speakers)

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Sorry -- (Multiple Speakers).

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Page 7 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

(Multiple Speakers) changed now for writing strength while we conﬁdently price in the
mid 70s .

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

FINAL

I mean we continue to focus on exactly what we've done in the same way for the past over
many years. So the approach remains the same.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I think one of the things on these overlays is when we may not grow and you will see a
higher degree of reserve releases running oﬀ. If we start to grow, you'll see slightly less
coming up proportionately to the outstanding premium I guess. So, I think roughly what
we're saying is roughly what we'd expect to the softer part of the market.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Enjoy yourself. Thanks for your question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Just going back to the increase in the average premium
per policy, the 5%, you mentioned -- you said it was mix change and I sensed a bit of rate,
could you maybe comment on how you moved your own rates in Q1 down and how much
they rebounded in Q2? It seems you've been strengthening rates in Q2. Thanks.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, I think if you look at where the market went, there's minus 6, minus 7. I think
it's sort of Christmas, that seemed fairly rational, that was our view. So you can probably
assume our price decrease was somewhere around that level. In the last month or two
James, we started to -- we introduced claims inﬂation from that level.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

I mean I think it comes back to just our pricing discipline. I mean, as Geoﬀ mentioned, we
had our reinsurance renewal. We allowed within the rating for the impacts of the
reinsurance, and as Geoﬀ alluded to as well, we've seen this reduction in the MOJ portal
numbers and all else being equal doesn't detract from the fact that there is pressure on
claims where it is, but no costs are going up and the cost of selling even the whiplash
claims, there's still pressure there. So, we need to allow for that pricing going forward.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

So, Andreas, I think we're kind of down by 6 or 7 and now we're going to gradually move
up from that point. Yeah, we are still down because you can see the -- yeah, and what you

Page 8 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

have is the mix eﬀect because we write slightly more in the higher premium non-standard
type of area with the higher premium.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

FINAL

(Technical Diﬃculty)

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yes, it's a combination of mix eﬀect and a little bit of premium movement. So, net-net
we're 5% up year-on-year on premium. Next question here?

Q - Dom O'Mahony
Thank you. Dom O'Mahony from Exane BNP Paribas. Can I just follow-up the question on
the expectation of the claims inﬂation which you're pointing to? Could you give us any
sense of why you think there'll be claims inﬂation? Are you driven by frequency by bodily
injury, by physical damage or is it simply you expect a reversion to mean? Thank you.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

James, you have the ﬁrst crack.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean I think as MOJ shows there is currently, the data suggests there is less
pressure from the injury frequency point of view but I think -- and similarly, I would expect
on the damage side, obviously, the increased technology in cars is improving the
frequency potentially, but it doesn't detract away from the fact that there is natural claims
inﬂation on average claims costs and I think there is costs on -- there is pressures on costs
of care on the injury side and similarly on (inaudible).

Q - Dom O'Mahony
Yeah, so clearly more technology will improve frequency, but it's probably going to
increase the cost of repairs.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

We probably are moving that -- at this moment in time, we're probably moving that
longer run and this -- we're not seeing that -- there is no evidence that we're seeing
increases in frequency inﬂation.

Q - Dom O'Mahony
Yeah. Thanks.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Just two questions, please. In terms of the
guidance for the full year, same income expects to be ﬂat on last year. I think that implies

Page 9 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

FINAL

a 6% reduction in income in the second half versus the ﬁrst half. Can you just -- is that
normal seasonality or is there some other factor coming to play that we should be aware
of?
And second question is, I wonder if you could -- and that's not to make you speciﬁcally
call out, but if you could just comment on policy numbers, so if you got average rates up
and income ﬂat, should I imply that policy numbers are down? Could you just comment
on that equation? Thanks.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I'll take the -- why do we think the second half will be less buoyant? Second half more less
than the ﬁrst half? I think it depends on the market reaction to claims inﬂation. So, we are - and I call out quite clearly, we will cover claims inﬂation in the second half of the year,
that probably means we'd expect to see a slight decrease in the amount of mass market
business than we might, right. So, we are -- we had quite a buoyant third quarter period
last year. So, I wouldn't be surprised to see how our GWP fall away from the Q3 numbers.
We had a very weak Q4 trading period last year and I'd expect to see the Q4 numbers
this year. So, if you balance out maybe little bit down in Q3 and a bit up in Q4, our central
scenario will be a broadly ﬂat GWP for the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second one on policy numbers. I mean we've grown policy numbers by a few
hundred for the last 12 or 13 weeks. So, that's not (inaudible) growth by anyone's
standards, but it says the sort of portfolio is broadly stable gently climbing. Policy
numbers are not a metric we're particularly obsessed with, to be honest. So, broadly ﬂat,
gently up would be my articulation of that.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Hi, Geoﬀ. It is Trevor Moss from Berenberg here. I'm a bit confused by Ogden actually. I
think you said your pricing and reserving minus 0.75 and I think most of the market is
probably still reserving at minus 0.75, whereas that pricing at minus 0.75. So, there's
something diﬀerent you're doing relative to the market there which may have had some
impact. And I'm not sure what the reinsurers are doing either. I seem to remember when
you did your reinsurance renewal last summer, that the reinsurers were putting in place
minus 0.75 I guess. So, I'm slightly surprised that you've seen a high single-digit increase
in your reinsurance this year given your policy count is ﬂat. I would have expected your
reinsurance renewal to be ﬂat, frankly. So, I'm a bit surprised you paid more. Is that
something in Ogden there or what's going on?

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

There's probably two combinations. I mean Ogden, we will be asked pricing at 0.75, that
might be prudent compared to other people I don't know. And our view is, we'll change it
when we're conﬁdent. We don't like speculating on changes. I think the reinsurers made a
conversation, I don't want to talk to them too much. Though they have changed their
reserving, whether they are holding the reserves, I'm not sure they have yet. I think our
reinsurance price increases partly, it's too soon for some of the reinsurers to buy an
improvement into the Ogden pricing at a meaningful level.

Page 10 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

And frankly, we had quite a large lines in '17 and when you have an Ogden right at 0.75,
that sort of multiplies the impact of that. So, I have ﬁrm expectation of being a mid to high
single-digit, the insurance price increase, that came in exactly as we were to calculate it.

FINAL

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

But, presumably, you would accept that the market is not pricing based on minus 0.75,
which is certainly prudent and probably unrealistic, frankly. So, it's a little bit surprising
that you're taking such a conservative stance.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, we are quite conservative bunch. Combined ratio is the key thing for us. We will
certainly move when we're sure and when we're sure nothing else is going to go the other
way as well. So, I think that possibly often how it goes to market, but we are not
embarrassed by that.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Do you have any view on when -- on any rumblings within government about what might
happen on Ogden? I haven't really heard much recently.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I think it's moving forward. I think there's good positive signs are expected to happen. I
think we don't know where it will end up yet, you can take any number you like between 0
and 1 on a bit. Our approach we have to wait until we know what the numbers and then
reﬂect that in pricing.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Hi, (inaudible) from Berenberg. Given the claims trends that you've seen in the ﬁrst half of
the year, you talked about pricing movements in the market being fairly rational year-todate so far. Have given the sort of expectation perhaps a slight slowdown in the second
half on the run rate in policy count, is that based on an expectation of some irrational
moves on pricing from potentially some of your peers?
And then also given the claims trends that you've seen, it seems that you be reserved with
quite a bit of prudent should we say, given those claims trends of slightly at quite a bit
more bearish than what's actually turned out to be the case. I'm just wondering if those -that the reserves have been changed to reﬂect that change in trend or that buﬀer still
remains in the 2017 reserves?

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay, I'll take the ﬁrst one and James you take the second, if that's okay. I'm sorry, I'm not
going to describe our competitors a bit anywhere near irrational, that's what might be
very popular. And I don't see -- I mean, I think any price is a series of assumptions. I guess
you can convince yourself there, you could be more optimistic at the moment and that
wouldn't be an unrealistic thing to do. Our view is to stay cautious and paranoid actually

Page 11 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-07-31

until we're sure we know what the response is and so we are and we don't think there's
certainty around somebody's changes and we'd rather not move our prices until we are
certain on this certainty. So, that will be our take on it, but we probably are the more
prudent and others might be at the much more adventurous, I don't know.

FINAL

And James, you're going to talk about reserving buﬀer, if that's okay?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean there really hasn't been any change in the philosophy for reserving. I mean,
it's worth noting that this time last year, we would have been growing because the market
-- at this point, last year, the market was hardening. So, the relative proportion of new
business to -- or new claims to old claims was relatively high and that dynamic has
changed a little bit. But, from a reserving perspective, there really hasn't been any
change.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

In fact -- one thing I guess this point being relatively prudent in our assumptions, but
(inaudible) so where we are volumes. So, we see no reason to have to be adventurous in
our assumptions on this.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Anyone else in the room?
I think that will be it. I think that's it. So, on that note, thank you very much to people in the
room and on the phone. Thank you so much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

