Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-20

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Taizou Ishiguro, 'Group Leader of Corporate Communications & IR Group Inc'

Presentation
Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in the Conference Call Today. And my
Name is Ishiguro from the IR group of Tokio Marine Holdings. I like to talk about the Fiscal
2018 Results and 2019 Projections of Tokio Marine Holdings, which we have just
announced today. In this conference call.
I like to explain just[ph] of the financial results and projections using the PDF material,
which we have just posted on our website. And I will take about first ten minutes for my
part. After my part is finished. I like to take questions from the audience.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please go to Page 3 of the material. First I'd like to explain about the Net Premiums
Written or Top-line. our Fiscal 2018. On consolidated basis we have achieved year-on-year
plus 0.6% increase with Top-line.
The breakdown is as follows for domestic non-life insurance business that we have
achieved a 1.1% increase due to increase in Top-line for all lines of business except CALI
For International business, it was year-on-year Negative 0.3% mainly due to the impact of
the yen appreciation. On local currency basis it was year-on-year plus 4.1% with North
America, Latin America and Asia especially doing well. Next is projections for fiscal 2019.
We are projecting year-on-year 0.8% decline in top-line due to lack of premium income
from re-insurance business TMR which we have sold.
Excluding the impact of sales of the TMR, it will be year-on-year plus 3%. So the underlying
business is doing well. Next I would like to explain about the Life Insurance business, for
fiscal 2018 decline internal variable annuities a former financial life, full contribution to
Medical stop-loss business or TMHCC, a distance[ph] they acquired in 2017, and other
factors resulted in year-on-year 10.5% increase in Life Insurance Premium. For fiscal 2019
full-year projections, we are factoring in the sales suspension of products for corporations
at the TM&N[ph] and projecting 2.2% decline in Life Insurance Premiums.
Next, I would like to explain about financial accounting basis consolidated net income
which is our bottom line. for fiscal 2018 on consolidated basis it was Yen JPY374.5 billion
decline in bottom line by 9.6 billion, while we saw growth in profits at the international
business and domestic life insurance businesses, domestic non-life business saw decline
in profit. Another factor was the extraordinary loss we booked on consolidated basis

Page 1 of 3



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-20

FINAL

associated with the sales of TMR which is rather a technical factor. I will explain the main
points for each area.
In domestic non-life Insurance business though we were hit by one of the largest natural
catastrophes in the past. The loss results affected by the reversal of a catastrophic loss
reserve, however in investment hedging lost was affected due to appreciation of
Japanese yen, which resulted in the profit declined by JPY9 billion year-on-year. This
hedging loss will get balanced out after the profit and loss of the intended assets are
added. In Domestic Life Insurance business, we saw a reaction from the additional
provisioning of underwriting reserve last year that was necessary after the last-minute
demand prior to the reduction of standard interest rate in April 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

There was also an impact from sales decline in products for corporations these together
resulted in 11.7% increase in profit. In International Insurance business, there was a reaction
from the reversal gained of the TCL[ph] in fiscal 2017 due to transferred revisions in the
United States. In fiscal 2018, natural catastrophe was benign and it was helped by risks
performance of Delphi and Brazil. International business saw increase in profit by JPY9.7
billion.
Lastly on the impact of the divestment of TMR, we have booked JPY22.5 billion
divestment lost. And for the selling value of TMR, the deal was closed with 1.02 multiples
of total tangible net asset after the news release in October of 2018 against depreciation
of the yen, since the establishment of TMR effects translation adjustment was booked on
the balance sheet of TM Holdings, according to the accounting rules this amount was
realized on the P&L after timing of the divestment and this was the main reason behind
the divestment loss we have booked that time. Next if you look at Page 4, where I will
explain the Bottom-line projection for fiscal year 2019 Net income on a accounting
reported basis is projected to grow by JPY50.4 billion year-on-year to JPY325 billion. In
the projection we are assuming an average level of natural catastrophes continued profit
growth driven mainly by North America and the reversal effect of the divestment of TMR
Adjusted net income on the other hand takes out the fluctuation of catastrophes loss
reserves and gains and losses associated with business investment and so is projected to
grow by JPY119 billion year-on-year to JPY400 billion.
Natural catastrophe funds are also shown on the slide, as explained from before as the
size of natural catastrophes in fiscal year 2018 only happens about once every 30 years in
our company's risk model, which was within our expected range and because we will get
the funds on a global basis combining, domestic and overseas, we project net incurred
losses relating to natural catastrophe to be JPY98.5 billion taking into account disposal of
TMR That I first we will continue to closely watch that natural catastrophe trends in any
case. Finally I'd like to talk about ESR and Shareholder return. Please skip to Page 29. ESR
at the end of March 2019 was 174% compared to the end of September last year ESR
went down by 23 points, mainly owing to interest rate decline, not only did yen interest
rates decreased but the flattening of the year curve also had an impact.
174% is within our company's target range. So, this enables us to flexibly consider business
investments, additional risk taking and shareholder return. Next regarding shareholder
return, as stated in the press release today ordinary dividends for fiscal year 2018 will be
Page 2 of 3



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-20

FINAL

JPY180 of share of planned and for fiscal year 2019 dividends are projected to be JPY190
of share, which will marked eight consecutive periods of dividends increasing. We also
announced today share buyback worth JPY25 billion as I means this is capital adjustments.
As explained earlier ESR levels are currently within our target range, and thus we made a
decision by taking into account comprehensive matters, such as the market environment
as well as business investment opportunities. Incidentally, the total amount of shareholder
return for fiscal year 2018 is JPY253 billion, which is combined stuff JPY128 billion ordinary
dividends as well as the capital adjustment of JPY125 billion which includes JPY100 billion
announced at the interim period. The total amount is close to fiscal year 2018 adjusted
net income up JPY280.9 billion and reported income of JPY274.5 billion. Lastly, in fiscal
year 2018 we were hit by record level of natural catastrophe losses however, thanks to
the various[ph] International Insurance business that supported earnings, natural
catastrophe losses that exceeded the expectations were contained to about 30% of
adjusted net income on a group like basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moreover despite the challenging environment, we have continued to share to a
disciplined capital policy and we believe that this stands has been well received by our
investors. Going forward we'd like to continue to firmly execute the growth measures
raised in the midterm plan and steadily raise the revenue producing power of the Group.
This concludes my presentation.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 3 of 3

