Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Q2 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Founder, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Mike Brown, Board Member

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Mike Brown

{BIO 6995397 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Mike Brown from The Investment
Analysts Society of South Africa. We're being hosted this morning by Discovery Limited for
their interim results, six months ended 31st of December. Discovery, as we know, has
been around since, I think, 1992, but listed since 1999, so we had 20 years listing on the
JSE. And I think over that 20-year period, Discovery has always reported about, say, these
six (00:29) months on their results, and that's always very well appreciated by the
industry, which you can see by the cloud of people here. I'm sure there's other people
listening on TV and so on.
In fact, Discovery is the first of the big integrated financial services companies to report to
The Society. See, other insurance companies, as they used to be, will report – we used to
call them (00:54) financial services, report to us over the next month or so, and the banks
only start next week. Now, that's an incredible – when you think about the spread, global
and otherwise, that this group has in terms of its organic growth in all areas of financial
services, including our banking.
So, having said that, I don't want to take any more of your time. I'd like to thank Discovery
Limited. I see all the executives and some directors are here in the front row. And Adrian
Gore is here to, as the Chief Executive, give us a presentation. So, over to you, Adrian,
and thank you very much, indeed.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

I thank you for that introduction. And, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the time. It is
always a great pleasure to talk about our results and our progress from time to time. So,
the presentation today is about our first six months to 31 December, 2019 (sic) [2018]
(01:57). It has been a very, very important and profound period for us, I need to tell you
upfront. It really was the apex of our 2018 ambition, a five-year plan that we set out in
2013. And really, three things I think that came through in this, and I assume you read our
announcements last week. But the fundamental issue is a considerable investment in new
initiatives and most notably, the Discovery Bank. And you see that coming through in this
period.

Page 1 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Secondly, I think a very strong performance of our businesses, particularly our emerging
businesses, across the board. And then one thing against the plan, a spike in Discovery
Life claims that really fit the earnings by about 8%. And if you play that out, I think you can
see that in the core numbers, these are numbers we put out last week, you (02:46) 16%.
We invested more than 20% of our operating profit, including associated financing costs,
into five key new businesses that affected the operating profit, and then getting down to
normalized. I'll take you through some of the accounting aspects as we've gone from that
down to the minus 16%.
But let me take you through the various issues you would have seen in this table that we
sent out last week. We tried our best to give detail last week to frame expectations of
particularly the 21% spend in new earnings I said, most notably the Discovery Bank. You
can see the Discovery Life effect of the spike in claims. And then I think the strong profits –
or the strong operating performance and the strong new business growth across the rest
of the group, most notably the emerging businesses, Discovery Insure, Vitality Group and
Ping An growing particularly strongly over the period. And I think they're emerging very
strongly. And hopefully, through the presentation, you will see the effect of those and
their potential, I think, going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let me go through the numbers first. I think what I'd like to do today, if you're
comfortable, is firstly take you through the numbers I think fairly quickly. I think they're selfexplanatory. And then want to talk about the strategy, and to an extent, where we came
through from the 2018 vision and contextualize our businesses in the context of that
strategy. I think that will kind of make it clear as to what we're doing, and most notably,
why we invest in 21% of our earnings in new initiatives. And hopefully, that will be clear.
So, let me start with core new business. At 16%, you can see it's, in fact, accelerated from
previous periods. I think we've seen strong growth in a number of different areas. If you
cursor over the table, you can see where the growth is coming from. Discovery Health,
which is a very large portion of our new business, had, I think, a pretty solid time at 3%,
but a very difficult environment. It is so big in the sense that Discovery Health (04:43) that
it is affected by the environment and by new hires of existing clients, et cetera, but we're
very comfortable with that.
You can see the growth of Discovery Life. Actually, very strong in, I think, a complex
environment. The emerging business is growing strongly. Obviously, the most notable,
Ping An. Their growth is kind of accelerating at levels that I think are quite exceptional. And
you'll see that through the rest of the presentation. So, the new business production, I
think, we are very happy with, and I think the quality of that new business is very good.
Normalized operating profit, I think this tells a story of the three things that I just
mentioned. Right at the bottom, you can see we've invested over 76% increase in spend
on new businesses. That amounts to about 17% or 18% of operating profit. When you take
into account financing costs, that takes you to the 21%. You can see, I think, a very strong
growth by emerging businesses that turn to profitability. And obviously, in their turn, you
had considerable growth, but the growth, I think, is very strong and we expect that to
continue. And then, the growth of the established businesses, I think, strong, but affected

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

by the Discovery Life reduction of 13%, as you can see from the table. So, normalized
operating profit, down 4%.
The group generated about ZAR 9.6 billion of cash, of which we spent on three main
issues, tax and dividends, and I'll touch on that a bit later, but most importantly, our new
business, our funding new business growth and funding new businesses. So, some of this
obviously doesn't come through the P&L. It's of a capital nature as you build the
businesses out, but effectively, leaving us with ZAR 2.3 billion of net cash.
We raised capital during this period to fund the outstanding 25% of the Discovery Card JV
that was kind of more of an in and out, and you can see that in the middle of the chart. So,
I think a solid performance from a cash flow perspective.
If you look at our gearing, financial leverage decreasing, we've had this kind of selfimposed limit of 28%. We've been coming down over time. We'd like to continue coming
down. We're now down to about 25.2%. And the other controlling variable we use is
making sure that the cash buffer at the center is about ZAR 1 billion to ZAR 2 billion at any
point in time. It's sitting at about ZAR 3.4 billion or thereabout at this stage.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the cash flow, I think the cash – the capital and the buffer make you strong. Return on
capital, we're trying to get (07:02) plus 10%, but obviously investing in new initiatives has a
tremendous fit on return on capital. You got financing costs and you got operating losses.
So you get this kind of double whammy, and I'll touch on that a little bit later.
So there is – the return on capital is lower than previous periods, which we'll see through
the presentation, and we expect it to get better. The EV really reflects, I think, that
performance and some of the realities of the environment. It's up 4% over the six-month
period. What you will see is the Discovery Life claims. You'll see quite a big hit from the
movement in asset values in the market that's kind of unavoidable.
And in the right-hand side of the chart, you see the effect of new initiatives on the EV,
over ZAR 600 million, as you can see on the right-hand side of the chart. New initiatives
are hard on the EV. Again, you're spending money, you're incurring operating losses, your
asset values go down, and in fact, the businesses we're building are not in the EV yet. So,
Discovery Insure, Ping An Health, the Vitality Group, all of these businesses, I would argue,
strongly have considerable value. They're not in that EV yet. So, you're kind of getting EV
dilution without the concomitant increase in the EV. But that's fine. You need to check it
from (08:12) and see how it plays out.
You can see value of new business coming through the unwind of the discount rate, et
cetera. There's a lot of detail in the financials that you have and, in fact, tomorrow, there
are, I think, two substantial technical sessions. So, there's a lot of information to help you
that you will have and you can certainly probe.
Let me just go to some of the accounting issues, and we have all of our people here,
Deon Viljoen, our CFO, with us, as Robert, just to kind of reconcile the operating profit
down to the bottom line. Profit and operations down about 4%, I made that point. If you
Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

take the associated finance costs, so a kind of profitable operations, including finance
costs, it really shows the effect of capital spend on the new initiatives, most notably the
Bank, brings us down to 8%.
And then fair value adjustments, I think IFRS 9 requires us to take gains and losses through
the income statement, the reality given the market movement, that had an effect of ZAR
116 million. And then we're required to account for a finance lease approach, which really
takes our rental costs then flat lines it. It's probably the – it is – not probably, it is the
(09:16) because these six months is the first full period in this building versus the prior six
months in our old campus. So, you can see the effect of the finances, this accounting on
the numbers, taking all the way down to minus 14% with tax down to minus 16%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, getting to the dividend, quite a bit of discussion thought about where we should pitch
the dividend. We set the dividend at flat for this period, reflecting not really the Discovery
Life claims, in fact, that's reading an unusual event and we're very confident it will revert.
Really, the fact we've invested an additional 21% in our new starts and thought, let's keep
the dividend where it is, it's just simply kind of (09:56) symbolic holding pattern. We're
very comfortable with the performance. We've set the dividend at ZAR 1.01 per share,
keeping it flat from the previous period. So, that really reflects where we're at. There is a
table in the handout on basic earnings, we sent it out for completeness to you, all. I'm not
going to go through it cause I think it's fairly clear.
I'd like to actually turn, if I can, to telling you about the businesses, to telling you about the
investment in new starts and why we are doing that, and the scale of them, give you a bit
of sense of the Bank itself. But I think, most importantly, I wanted to actually give you
context for what we're doing and why. A lot of this stuff, you've heard before, but I think
there's a lot development, a lot of thought that I think makes it worthwhile for me just
taking you through it.
So, the first thing I want to say to you is this period really reflected the apex of our 2018
ambition. We set out this ambition of being best globally, being relevant globally, and
defining that ambition in terms of foundation, businesses and impact. And we've done a
lot of work, and I'm very pleased and I think our team is really pleased with the
performance of work we've done. It has dragged the group, I think, from kind of a group
starting up things in different ways to one where there's a very centralized approach to
what we do, a very firm business model, all of the basic principle of making people
healthier, our core purpose which we set up right from the start of Discovery in 1992,
1993. But you can see the evolution of the group. In 2013, when we set the ambition, we
were in in five countries, dramatically smaller than we are today. The JV – the UK business
was a JV with Prudential. A lot of the stuff we're doing was in a very kind of embryonic way.
You can see how this kind of ambition has driven discipline, has driven growth across the
board in South Africa and the U.K., and, of course, in how we take Vitality out and
globalized it into the various markets.
So, kind of the framing, to an extent, of these last six months is about how we use that
position we got to, to take the organization forward for the next five years to 2023. I'm in
the process of communicating that with our teams around the 2023 ambition, but I
wanted to make a point that we got to a point in this period in 2018 where I think the
Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

business model itself is remarkably solid, it's repeatable, it's scalable, and it's applicable
globally. And to use the Simon Sinek framing of why, how, what, I think the idea of purpose
and of execution is very, very clear in how we operate. It' s the idea of making people
healthier has given largely to a shared-value model of using incentives to create behavior
change and connecting it to institutional businesses.
And then the what, to an extent, is that it's applicable to so much. So, carefully into life
insurance, health insurance, long-term savings, banking, motor insurance, et cetera. So,
how did this frame illustrate, I think, how disciplined the model has been. And what I would
say is that of the five years of driving the ambition, it's quite remarkable that each of
these chapter headings has got more intense, and I think more applicable and more
relevant. So, kind of the three trends that we have always argued that have taken a local
South African model, made it globally relevant, have all intensified.

Bloomberg Transcript

The issue of purpose, when we spoke about make people healthier, that is a battle cry 20
years ago that seemed out of place today. It's becoming pretty clear that businesses
need purpose. I think the Larry Fink letter of last year that made it critical that businesses
should have purpose, I think our kind of focus on purpose is fundamental. The second is
your technology has got more powerful, more enabling, and we've never – do not (13:23)
on technology.
We try to be at the leading edge. But, in fact, our reason for being is the purpose, make
people healthy, and the nature of risk. Our strong belief that if you change behavior, you
can get better results for our customers and better results for society. And I think what
we've seen over the period is that in all of the categories we're in, there's just a few
simple behaviors that create change. So, the four (13:43) and mortality and morbidity are
four conditions leading to 60% of mortality. It's true in how people drive, just five
behaviors lead to three estimates (13:53) that drive 60% of fatalities. Same with banking,
and that underpins our Vitality Money model. There are five behaviors of customers, how
they manage their money, lead to three concerns that drive 80% of defaults. It's all the
same kind of strand of DNA of behavior. (14:09) used it kind of similar, but it's quite heavily
correlated.
And so, the model has amplified in its importance of our ability to do it in adjacencies and
to do it in other markets. We'll see these behaviors and these effects are very consistent
across all of the markets we're in. So, the why over that time is amplified. And that has
given us impetus to do things like Discovery Bank.
The second point, the how, I want to make this point very clearly because this really does
underscore the 21% investment in five key new initiatives. The how of the model is really
this shared value circle. What started out as this Vitality model has become, I think, a
perfect shared value business, the idea that we incentivize people to behave differently.
Their different behavior creates profitability. For us, that profitability helps us fund
incentives. And you have – and so you get this virtuous circle, I think, we spoke of many
times; good for our customers, good for us and good for society.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

But the fundamental point is how we build our businesses. Now, I need to tell you, we
haven't figured out, yet we will keep trying, how you take this model and apply it to kind
of an existing business or a back book. If you could do that, you could – we could make
acquisitions and build a business through an acquisitive approach.
I think it's risky, but it could offer a whole range of opportunities. The reality for us is we
haven't figured that out. So, this, at this stage, is a new business model. We start at brick
by brick, life by life, and kind of the approach we take is taking this behavioral Vitality
chassis and building and attaching this institutional capability on top, be it a life insurer, a
health insurer, a bank, a partner like an AIA or others. It's essentially what we are trying to
do. And, in effect, I think the outcome is in the three things, the underlying behavior
chassis, the institutional capability and, of course, how it's joined and how value is shared,
which this kind of value equation explains that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the important point is that we've grown entirely organically. And this is an important
point to make when we talk about this 21% spend on new initiatives because we often
hear the narrative that Discovery is good at startups, do this part well, et cetera. I think,
and I hope I don't sound as – no hubris intended here at all – we're the only guys doing
this.
Not to say that other companies aren't starting new initiatives, but our modus operandi is
we start businesses from the ground up and we evolve them. And so, in the process, we
build this what we call a washing machine, this operating model where we've told you, I
think, many times, if we start our businesses as new in the red, but (16:31) has become
emerging businesses where they're kind of breakeven, and then ultimately become
established businesses. And our framing – our phasing for that is typically five years for
each phase, five and probably three to five for the second phase.
We expect those business collectively to grow at CPI plus 10%, and it's a pure
mathematical average where the emerging businesses are growing at CPI plus 30%, the
established at CPI plus 5%, and we spend 10% on new slots, and that's the important part
of spending 21%. But we spend 10% to the model, the mathematical average is likely just
CPI plus 10%.
The approach we take is cash generated is invested as much as possible in new business
and new business initiatives, if that makes sense, and then meet internal greater return
criteria critically, underpinned by capital model, that should have a buffer of ZAR 1 billion
and a leverage ratio less than 29%.
So, simply put, we run around this model as fast as we can provided that the controlling
variables of gearing and cash and capital remain intact. So, that's what we're doing. It's
kind of an unusual approach. This is simply a callus execution approach. It doesn't talk to I
think the liability of the purpose of making people healthier. But that's, in fact, what we're
trying to do.
And the central question, of course, is can you phase the businesses from a startup to
emerging to established? Very, very difficult to do because as the ramp gets bigger, your
Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

new starts have to be more relevant all the time to keep the mathematics intact. And so,
these are not easy things to do. I'll just make the point that what I think we're doing is
unusual and, to a large extent, unprecedented. But we remain confident of our ability to
do so, not necessarily because of we think we've got unique talent, but because I think
the model and its purpose is so noble and applicable that if we do it well, it takes to grow.
And so, that's what we are doing on a continuous basis.
How have we done in the past, well, it's interesting. Our team kind of – the analysis of all
of our startups, from Discovery Health to Gecko, all the way through to the latest things
that we're doing, and this is kind of the notorious debt value of a startup, can you turn this
thing around? It's an amazing thing, the debt value; keeps you humble, keeps you gray,
unfortunately, for us, but it's very, very exciting. And as I said, if you're doing a startup
that's small, it might take two or three years to get it to scale. In an institutional setting,
our experience is it's three to five years minimum. If we're going to (18:54) the debt value
in all of our businesses, we've actually done quite well, I think.
The only failure has been Destiny Health in the U.S. We kind of – at three years, we kind of
turned it around, we couldn't get to scale and the relevance in that market. We kind of
(19:07) and shut it down. But the balance, I would argue, and credit to the team, a lot of
the learnings coming out of debt has framed our thinking about other stuff that we do
whether as partners or standalone which we do, which you can see that we've done quite
well. 9 out of 10 of them have been successful. Five, the average to turn around from the
debt value, but these are hard, hard things to do. They go straight to the P&L, so they're
hard on earnings. They increase your financing costs, they deplete your embedded value,
and the success (19:34). The better you do, the harder it is for a new start to make an
impression. So, that's kind of the dynamic we're at, and this is certainly not a mourning
session. It's actually a session, hope you can see, of pride. I think we can do this well and
that's framing our ability to – our very strong confidence in our ability to keep doing it,
because if you do this well, the value creation is substantial.
And if you follow the stuff through into the emerging phase and the established phase,
you can see that our old businesses, Discovery Life and Discovery Health, obviously, really
of substantial scale. But the other starts are now breaking through, the emerging
businesses are breaking through strongly, and the ability to push these into their (20:09)
quadrant I think is quite exceptional and strong. So the how, I would argue, of how we take
this purpose is quite unique. And we have to keep doing that in the process of growing.
So, I hope you're following me. I said about a thousand things. I haven't a clue what's
going on myself. Let me just put this water down. Right.
So, let me move to the what because I do want to make this point. Therefore, what is
quite important? A very strong belief that we can apply this to different things, to life,
health, driving, I mean, that's what we apply it to. There may be other things we can do in
adjacencies you see that are coming up. But it's very, very interesting that going through
to the next five years, what we're learning is that if you do this thing well, it is your
considerable competitive advantage in a particular market.

Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So you can offer price competitiveness, you get better selection, you get better behavior,
you get better selective (21:03). And all of this drives a superior performance, and that's
what we see on the left-hand side. But one of the learnings from the South African model
is this idea of a composite, the idea of an integrated composite, integrating invest to life,
to health, to banking has considerable opportunities.
So this model offers I think competitive advantage in a particular silo, but it offers
considerable competitive advantage in creating a composite. Now, the old style of
composite was kind of the old days where you had a property and casualty company join
together with a life company. That's not what we're proposing here. We're proposing a
customer-centric composite, an organization that people want to buy products from
because when you bring them together, you get integrated value. And from our
perspective, the adding of value is incredible. If somebody's behaving well, we can add it
to the economic value. The stacking of that value can help us incentivize strongly through
incentives. And you'll see that coming through the Discovery Bank, that's where I think the
real power we can harness on the model in the South African context.
So, if you take all of this together, the kind of the why, how, what, where we get to is
where we're heading. 2023 is kind of the stack that you see there. That's what it looks
like. A South African composite model, a UK composite model which we haven't got here,
frankly, I'll show you a bit later, and then a partner model made up of Ping An in China, Pin
An Health in China, of course, our partners across the world through the Vitality Group
which we see as offering considerable opportunity. And I'd say to you, where we're trying
to go to or what we'd like to say in 2023 is we've got an organization that's a perfect
composite in South Africa where people get unique value for being part of our world, and
the bank is of scale. In the UK, the best insurance, a composite that's working together in
the same way – and in Vitality Invest and others will follow. Building out of the Vitality
Group, the largest platform globally that creates behavior change and mix it with financial
services, and then in China, the best and biggest health insurer in the rapidly emerging
Chinese market with over 50 million members.
That is the plan. That's where we'd like to get to in 2023. And that really is the context for
the investment of 21% of our earnings in new starts. And I'm kind of showing you there
across the board the five initiatives. I'm not going to cover the other four, they kind of
filter through, through the other businesses. But I want to talk about the Discovery Bank.
You could see on the left hand side of the chart, the investment in new starts has been
around the 10%, but it's been drifting up as we started to invest and it seems a significant
spike up to 21%. And I guess the central question you've got to ask is, will we make it
work? Obviously. And secondly, how quickly will that 21% spend come down back to the
kind of 10% level that we expect. So, those accretive operations, and hopefully I can
answer them (23:42) sense of what we're trying to do and leave you out to the
confidence our team has that we can make this work.
So, firstly, I want to – firstly and probably most important and most notable is the
Discovery Bank and its evolution. This is in a multiyear process that came out of the
Discovery Card JV with FNB and many debates, over a decade literally, of how we could
blow this out into a full-scale bank.

Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

I'm showing on the left-hand side, the timeline of what we've done. The bank license was
achieved by the team late 2017, and we began to build properly, I think, from that stage
very (24:20) with us over through 2018. As a board, we set out a core bank board budget
of, I think, ZAR 1.5 billion to ZAR 1.7 billion. And we kind of allowed in our capital plan about
ZAR 2 billion out there if we overshot that amount.
Of course, also, we had budgets for tests and the run phase. We're also running the
Discovery Card and running the Bank at the same time while we build. So, a number of
different issues. So, I want to give you a sense of where we're at. We are slightly overshot
that budget, the total cost we saw is ZAR 2.6 billion with its – sorry, ZAR 2.4 billion was the
expectation. We've spent about ZAR 2.6 billion, ZAR 2.5 billion on the build, the test, and
the run, and the infrastructure. This is of a capital nature. Some flows through the P&L, but
this is just kind of saying, if you wrote out a check to get to where we are, that's what
you'll see. This excludes the cost of acquiring the Discovery Card from FNB and FRB. But,
obviously, that comes with an associated revenue stream, so that's sort of different
nature to this. So, this is a very, very substantial initiative, a very substantial investment. I
think (25:25) both credit to the team, it's dramatically bigger than I think we expected
sitting back a few years ago with FRB and saying, hey, let's start a bank.
But I wanted to give you a sense, we announced late November kind of attributes of the
bank. I wanted to tell you a bit about the bank. So I think we're very excited about where it
has reached, and I think what's really interesting is when we started talking about this
bank, a lot of the narrative was about how will Discovery differentiate? Will it be a fintech
bank? Will it be different, et cetera? I'm very pleased that it is fundamentally different. It's
a behavioral bank and it's been both completely and totally along the chassis of how or
what, or what I've just shown you exactly the same. It plays completely into this issue of
purpose, of using technology. I think it uses the best technology possible. But importantly,
ultimately, it's about behavior, getting people to manage their money better. (26:13)
manage money well to bank with us and it's a core shared value model. If you manage
money better, we incentivize you to do more of it and we share essentially the economic
value that's being created in the process.
And fundamentally, it's about kind of building the best, building the best banking capability
onto the Vitality behavioral chassis and getting that work, we think, in a very, very smart
way. With that detail, the (26:35) of the bank and this is one of the – this is actually just a
slide from our launch in November 2018. But effectively, it brings together those two
worlds. You got the bank on the top. We've built a state-of-the-art, I think, the most
modern capability in the bank sitting on this very new chassis of Vitality Money. And the
idea is just like Vitality, you earn points for behavior change and you earn points for doing
things that are good by way not of your health necessarily but by managing your money,
so things around unsecured debt, retirement provision, insurance for times of difficulties,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Our research showed five key categories of what you do.
The key issue is the Vitality architecture. You get Vitality points for managing your money
well and those points give you status through to goal, simple as that. But the fundamental
learning I think is the Discovery Life dynamic pricing model where your premiums in life
insurance flex as some of you have done globally (27:31) your behavior. The analog in
banking are interest rates. So, it's exactly the same. If you manage the money well, you
Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

pay less for debt and you're in more for savings. It's a simple analog. And I think it's kind
of intellectually and morally correct. If you're managing your money well, we can treat you
like a corporate. We could kind of lend you at a very low rate, which you know you're not
going to default.
So, in very careful mathematics to make sure that the correlation that who knows Vitality
status and default rates is very, very strong. Using all of the data we have on our
customers on Discovery going to achieve that. And then finally on the end, something I
think is very powerful, called dynamic discounts, is the idea that the stacking of value
being created and that's where I think the comps have comes in.
We know that people manage their health well, typically manage other aspects of their
life well and then you get an additive issue. If you manage your money well and your
health well, you can be a double gold, you get considerable economic value in terms of
incentives that you earn. So, the chassis really plays out from the behavioral side to
dynamic pricing to dynamic incentives that would make it very strong. And that connects
you to the bank I think in a very, very elegant manner. I'll show you that in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the back of that, I'm pleased of what the team has done at credit, to Barry and the
team and to all of our partners. We've had a massive build of the capability. We tried our
best to illustrate what is being built and there is a huge working – if you have a SIP bank
base and many other companies to build what is being built in the Discovery Bank.
There's a considerable capability across the board. We've reconfigured a lot of SIPs, credit
card system capabilities, a lot of stuff that we built ground up. You can see on the
extreme left-hand – sorry, bottom right-hand side, there's integration built into the
Discovery world and particularly at the healthcare system, which is very important and I'll
show you a bit of that later.
Deals with all channels from checks to e-mails. So, this is a fintech banker that does
appear on the face of your mobile in a very beautiful – and I'll show you them in a
moment. And then critically reach out to all the payment systems, into FNB (29:24) in
terms of migration of our Discovery Cards. So, it's a very substantial stack.
I wanted to show you this morning how you open an account. You can onboard it, I think,
very quickly, less than 5 minutes. It's simple. It's easier to insure. As you do it (29:38) all of
these different parts of the system but in fact what you thought you would do is actually
demo what it's like to be a customer and show you the (29:46) I think the beauty of the
Discovery Bank, it manifests in a very beautiful way on the face of the mobile. And it's kind
of we're trying to make it a cryptic kind of play out of the bank sitting in the base of
Vitality. And almost kind of (30:06) in terms of card, your status in terms of Vitality (30:11)
all of it being simple and easy to use and seeing all the integrations.
So, I'm going to try to demo on my account. This has prototype features on it. There may
be some glitches, but just follow me if you can see. I'm just going to go on. You'll see
there quite quickly the facial recognition works quickly. That is, in fact, Ping An technology
that we brought into the country, worked with Ping An on it, super quick, super stick. It
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

does straight to home affairs when you do the account origination, and it does all the stuff
(30:40) I think is very, very strong.

FINAL

What you can see in my case is I'm on black and gold. I'm the black cardholder, on gold
Vitality Money status. And it's an interesting issue because I think that banks typically
segment people based on color of card, based on income which is right and then people
aspire to that but we segment it by behavior and I think it's a social issue.
You can be in a low-income segment but you can be a gold Vitality member, managing
the money you do have in a very good way. So, it offers kind of two levels of
segmentation. We've designed (31:12) in that regard in that way. What you can see is, one,
as I'm just drifting down to my Vitality Money and what you can see there are active
rewards that brings you to all of the active reward, three rings, how you manage your
health, how you manage you're driving, how you manage your money and they were also
stuck up in that regard.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then you can see the discounts, in fact, that I have very remarkable. You can see the
additive effect of managing money well and managing your health well. So you can see
discount on Kulula flights is like 67%, I get 65% of my health (31:45) This is pretty good
stuff. I wish it was not just a prototype. This is the (31:50) So these discounts are exactly
what a black and gold will get. And I think the beautiful thing about this as you can see is
the 65% discount on healthy foods at (31:59) that's what I'm getting in this month.
The one below that is what I'll get next month based on how I'm behaving this month. So
it's a dynamic process. As I manage my health and I manage my money, that fuel gauge
will move to the right illustrating what the discount would be for the next month. So whole
idea is if people almost obsessed with trying to maximize their position by their behavior
in health and managing their money, so keeping a constant process. That's not, how can I
say, static or discrete. It's continuous in its nature.
So if you go through all of the – if I outline all of the various accounts, you can see
international flights, gym discounts, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. By touching on this, I
can actually go into their website and book my tickets. So the whole thing is kind of in the
go. But then you go back to the bank accounts and then at the top sitting in a bank and
just flipped through my accounts and other credit card, I can't read that well, another
personal card that I've got here. Critically, this is one of the big things that has been built
out pretty strongly (32:58) family banking.
The ability to allocate banking rights to my family right on the face of the mobile, that's
been empowered by the Discovery community. We have all of those relationships linked
into the group and I think that's important. And then health banking, I think in UK we're
linking the bank to the healthcare system and you'll see that. And then finally, the Vitality
savings account. It's kind of – that's a repository of all of my dynamic discounts. There's a
lot of stuff we'll be doing with that over time. And then I can add more accounts just at the
touch of a button.

Page 11 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

So, let me just go back but I'm having a lot of difficulty reading. I'll just go to family banking
and show you, these are bogus accounts that we've actually (33:41) the pictures of my
wife and children but they should be there. Having said that, so I've allocated my wife
some of my credit limit. I've allocated my daughter. I have a daughter and son past my
credit. So, it's just a sample that I can allocate pieces accordingly, what I do almost kind of
drop and drag. If I go down to my, I think, this is my wife. You can see my daughters. I can
see there what's being spent, how much (34:07) I will add, I can just adjust that on the fly
so I can kind of allocate this stuff over time. You could offer your – you can offer the
domestic work upon the credit card very tight controlled, if you need to do that.
So, this is entirely controlled through the family banking. I'm not going back and what I
want to do, this is very, very unfair to my son. He's a very diligent boy. He's doing very well
as it happens. But I'm worried about him drinking alcohol a lot. So, what I'm going to do
here is I'm going to just take his card. You can see that I have allowed to see transactions
via SMS. It's a general (34:41) card. I've disallowed that so I can't see which is doing by my
son. I do want to see that, so I can just toggle that stuff on and off.
And what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to set where you can spend the card on. I'm
worried about the liquor store that he's been going to. This is entirely untrue. But Liquor
City in Jan Smuts Avenue, which is in fact far away so he's drinking and driving if he's
getting there, right? And I'm simply saying he can't use it. So (35:08) you cannot use the
credit card at that store. In fact, you could lock out in five categories. No liquor stores for
his card. And in fact, I can lock out at a time if I wanted that. I can put time limits. I can put
what I like on this thing through the card. And once it's done, it is set and I simply just lock
it in. So, I can essentially allocate cards to my family, allocate cards to my limit, allocate
colors of my cards. And from a black cardholder that would follow, I could then change
and mix and match whatever I want through family banking. I mean, very powerful
capability where I think it's empowered by the strength of the Discovery community.
Something to be very excited about I think offers the Discovery Bank great potential is the
concept of health banking, so linking at the bank to the healthcare system. In this case,
what you'll see is I'm going into the bank. I've linked one of my credit cards to the
healthcare system. And in fact, I've allocated a specific card to that. I'm also typing in here
the amount of money per transaction I'm allowed to do, right?
And so in effect, what this does is when I go into (36:16) or whatever for – we show this in
the launch. For medication, instead of having to come back at co-pay and stand at the
queue, I'm just taking a walk out the door, through the technology and to just build
Discovery Health medicals be a part of it and any balance will come off their credit card of
their transaction of it.
(36:32) just take it and walk out the shop, so kind of an Uber – it's kind of an Uber idea. I
set it there, I give it authorization to work with Discovery Health and get all the stuff I
agree with the terms and conditions and I'm set. So, I can link the bank in effect to the
healthcare system, essentially my executive plan, that's a bogus number of my actual
membership numbers allocating the card, transaction limit. All done and confirm, I'm
linked. So, my banking is linked into the healthcare system. Of course, many more
capabilities will follow as we roll out the bank.
Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

Something I wanted to do as well, which also is empowered by the healthcare system is
make a payment. I'm going to pay through the context, very short (37:14) We know all the
various details. So, there's no need to go at his bank account (37:20) I'm just going
through my contact.
Call out Barry. And I would have paid for lunch. There is no such thing as a free lunch as
you can see, ZAR 500 of lunch with Barry and I've made a reference for him. Done.
There's no need to at all to go to bank account details as he pay through the contents in
my phone, and it is done. So, I just go back, get out and log off.
So, that's kind of a cross-section of the bank. And I hope through the process I'm showing
you that there really is a manifestation of the Discovery model. And I think it also talks to
the power of the composite of (38:01) just taking the chassis that we have and using it
behaviorally conceptually, but using it in the confines of the Discovery community to do
things that I think are very powerful. Managing families, managing the healthcare system,
managing payments, and that stuff will, of course, be very important.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're quite excited about – these are still being worked on. We're quite excited about the
concept of making the bank very visual. So, creating this almost these archetypes (38:24)
and the most sought after would be a purple and diamond as you can see on the righthand side. Somebody has a purple card or diamond status. The value in that is
tremendous. At the average unit, you could be a gold card or blue. That's fine. And we're
trying to figure out how best to get those archetypes out there. But the face of the
mobile is it should be a very beautiful simple experience. So, everything is controlled by it.
And that's what we're setting out to do.
And if we just think about the next 90 days, we launched the bank and its concept in
November 2018. I think it's very well-received. We had a tremendous amount of interest in
that. We've been pretty clear. We're in a B2 phase where we're rolling it out carefully to
the public from March. Now, I need to (39:03) all kinds of questioning, how will this roll
out? We're going to do a very, very careful rollout. Just understand the complexity of what
we're trying to do here. We have 3,000 cards in the valley of FNB and we have a start-up
bank. We have to migrate these cards from currently with rolling out the bank.
So, we're going to be very, very careful about this by breaking slowly at first our existing
card base carefully into the bank, activating what they can do and then at the time
opening that up to entirely new account holders and critically to accelerate the migration
from FNB (39:37) of course we're working very closely with FNB and I think that is very
constructive in helping us get that across the line.
So that's where we're heading in the next 90 days. There's a lot to do. There may be
slippage, they may not be. Barry will be hoping he can do all of this but I was hoping to
give you sense of what's being built. So the first point just to make in this is that if you look
at the strategy of the organization, the how requires organic build, the how requires a
very, I think, disciplined approach of what we're going. I think the banking, the most
notable illustrates what we're trying to build and why.

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

So let me just ten get back to what we said out to do for 2022 and I think talk about the
performance of the various business line fairly quickly in the context of us coming back to
the stack and coming back to the four things we're trying to build, the SA composite, the
UK composite, build that business in China and importantly build the partner composite.
I'm going to South Africa and go through the businesses quick. I hope I'll be fairly quick.
There's a lot to talk about, but I think it's best just to try and provide some highlights and
give you a sense of the performance.
To frame Discovery Health and Discovery Health Medical Scheme, performance is
exceptionally good. I think robust, strong, it's working incredibly (40:51) creating access to
healthcare and be a good corporate citizen helping the environment get better in terms
of the private sector and in terms of helping government with the NIH. That's what we set
out to do.

Bloomberg Transcript

The business has grown by 3% as I said before, so fairly hard base as you can see,
membership over 3.5 million , normalized operating profit at 10% for the six months, so
just under ZAR 125 million. The Discovery Health Medical Scheme strength continues
nearly a 57% market share, contribution rates for units of benefit about 17%, so less than
our competitor. It's illustrating I think the effect of the scale, effect of risk management in
particular (41:26) all the work done and then the stability of the scheme, solvency levels
triple A-rated, stability in terms of (41:32) nothing new in the that I haven't shown you
before but illustrating just a very careful slow progression from one period to another.
It's interesting that if you look at the growth of the Discovery Health Medical Scheme I
think is very strong. The regulated statistics show that only three schemes, in fact, grew
over the last five years. You can see the Discovery Health Medical Scheme grew 4
percentage points at the bottom. The balance typically shrunk over the period, so pretty
static market and we have to grow within that market and we've grown our market share
from around I think it's somewhere in the slide. I can't see but it's around 56%.
You can see on the right-hand side how new businesses have progressed. We've got
(42:10) in the blue additions to existing employees. So existing companies that we have,
we get new entrants coming and new employees joining. New business colored entirely in
the white and closed schemes are quite lumpy. So you can see how the business flow
progresses. The only point I'd make in this graph is the blue has tipped down slightly
which actually illustrates that our existing clients are not hiring. So as we have commentary
on how the economy's playing out, it is tight out there, and therefore new business from
existing clients is, in fact, quite slow and reducing. So it is there but slower than the
previous periods. We remain optimistic. Hopefully, things will turn around that you can see
the effect of the economy on the business of the scale.
There's a lot to be said about medical inflation and all the work that we're doing. Our
thought in this presentation we talked about the administration cost of Discovery Health
to the Discovery Health Medical Scheme a level of sophistication. We have built a very,
very sophisticated integrated healthcare system that Discovery Health Medical Scheme
sits on. You can see on the right-hand side we're bringing administration fees down quite
ratably down but now that (43:11) you see considerable opportunity to make things better
and more efficient.
Page 14 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

We're spending over ZAR 0.5 billion a year on technology within Discovery Health. A lot of
that is spent on digital technologies, so artificial intelligence, robotics. There's some really
good stuff and there's the ability actually to accelerate that to offer better service to our
customers at a lower cost. There are a lot of examples we can show. This is very
interesting. There's work on using AI and machine learning about routing people to the
right call center consultant. It's a very interesting problem in healthcare. People have
specific needs, specific proclivities, specific health issues. So this is not just about speak to
a person with a certain name.
We're trying our best through machine learning to actually learn all the factors behind
who's calling in, route them to the right person. And we're getting fantastic results as you
can see. Take all of these factors and having the machine figure out where that call should
go to is giving us kind of close to 9 out of 10 satisfaction and close to 80% first call
resolution. So the stuff works. If we could do more of that, use more robotics and I think
over time we increase service levels. We can increase quality and, of course, decrease
cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

The last one I'll make is that we've, in fact, done a lot of work on just the core capabilities
of Discovery Health Claims System (44:28) world-class. We spent ZAR 300 million just the
last few years rebuilding the Discovery Health Claims System. It is state-of-the-art and
we've kind of been in a venture with SAP globally to make this claims system available to
potentially other health insurers. It offers an additional opportunity for us but I think
illustrates the quality of the technology that's being built.
And then finally, to wrap up in the case of Discovery Health, I'm not going to say much
more but to make the point that this kind of micro regulation, this competition regulation,
and ultimately of course this national regulation, NHI, we are navigating, I think, of all it, not
overly concerned. I restate our commitment to helping on the NHI. That's a crucial issue.
We think it's a very complex issue that will take time to roll out. We've just seen the (45:10)
speech of the Minister of Finance yesterday about the difficult position (45:15) But this is
something that we are very determined to help if we can. We continue to interface with
the Department of Health and with the authorities to try and see how we can do this.
It's important to say that if this is implemented incorrectly, it doesn't pose a risk to
Discovery Health. It poses a risk to the environment, I think quite substantially I think.
(45:34) will be applied to how best this can be rolled out. So we remain fully supportive
and ready to help.
Let me turn to Discovery Life and I'm just going to talk about (45:45) SA composite. So if
you lost track where I am, I'm now just working through the South African businesses. Can
I just ask for (45:53) I need some effervescence here to (45:59) Okay. There are no
bubbles here. Let me keep going.
Turning to Discovery Life, the growth is strong, but of course the most notable issue of
the period was the claims spike. As you can see, it really hit the earnings by 13%. Despite
that, the core growth has been very strong in, I think, a very difficult market and
increasingly was 8% (46:24) consideration I think over the previous period. Discovery Life

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

threw out a lot of cash over the period. With the move to SAM, a lot of the resource
brought up over the many years out of I think very good performance (46:38) ZAR 6
billion of cash just on the basis of that change, so considerable amount of cash released
out at Discovery Life.
But I think the most notable things to just talk about is the claims spike and all of our
people here are available tomorrow, we're be available to go to the detail on this, but
simply put, first thing to say is that we have kind of a 20% increase in the claim level which
is substantially amounting to, I think, about ZAR 300 million or thereabout.
Importantly, on the left-hand side, even with those level of claims, it's within our profit
buckets. So it's very important when you talk about the claims spike, we don't give the
impression that that set us into loss, that this has made considerable profits despite the
case by – you can see that the risk premium together with the profit loading were worth
more than sufficient to pay for even that increased claims spike. The spike is relative to
what we expected to happen. So, that's an important point to make.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second point to make is one on the segment on the left, the spike was about the
29% versus our expectation. We've analyzed the data across every single issue to find
where the spike is. There's no technical in terms of duration, gender, broker, disease
type, where it happened on the third point is simply either than trend are more volatile.
Just simply as that.
So, if you look at our 4% of our biggest claims, that amounted to nearly 40% of the
spend, just 20 claims amounted to ZAR 0.5 billion. So, we had a kind of increase in high
value claims and we're pretty confident will revert as statistics show that that event was 1
in 20 event, so these things do happen. It doesn't mean that they happened now. It's
likely to happen in 20 years' time, right? It could happen tomorrow again but that's how
volatility works and that's what we have do. This doesn't pose any treat. It simply makes it
earnings volatile. It's important to say that of course Discovery Life has a number of
reinsurance structures that we use to manage our risk within our risk appetite.
This is an explicit decision we've taken in the past pause to allow this volatility. If you
model backwards, it probably was profitable for what we've done. We took a view given
the earnings volatility to change the reinsurance structures and in the right-hand side, we
brought in place the reinsurance structure to get through quite a lot of that volatility going
forward.
So, we haven't (48:44) it completely. We haven't lost the profitability completely. But in
effect, we got rid of quite a bit of volatility going forward. And I think importantly the price
on the reinsurance is at no cost at all. So (48:56) the reinsurers would ask expected claims
revert to the expected level and that's baked into the reinsurance cost. So, the spike
could happen all over the place. It doesn't pose dramatic threat to profitability. It doesn't
pose any threat to Discovery Life, quite the opposite. But importantly, I think we've
remedied or remediated some of that volatility going forward.

Page 16 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

The second point I thought we should make and often at least in the narrative, how
strongly Vitality is working in the context of Discovery Life. I thought I'd show you this slide.
I don't think we've ever shown the detail of the distribution of Discovery statuses by – or
Discovery Life policyholders by Vitality Status. But we're showing you there I think it's 2013
versus 2018. So over the five-year cycle, blue through to bronze through to diamond, you
can see it's quite amazing that maybe 20% of our customers are diamond. If you have
gold and diamond together, maybe 25% of our customers are on the high status. So the
levels of engagement are quite dramatic and in fact only 44% are in blue. So you've got a
considerable spread of our customers across Vitality Status with a lot getting to the gold
and diamond and of course it's a pretty good thing.
You can see on the right-hand side of the chart this is all of the data, all of that covered
lives is I think that they're all on the right-hand side of the chart. You can see the mortality
levels by about by Vitality Status on the left-hand side, the long term. And on the righthand side, we're actually showing even with the claim spike where you had a lot of big
claims of high statuses still give you the downward sloping compared to Vitality.

Bloomberg Transcript

So Vitality is proving a very powerful attractor of good risks. Behavioral changes led to
lapsation. You can on the left side, Vitality is having a tremendous effect on the lapse rate.
The industry data looks at lapses over time. At year three, you can see that it ranks the
lowest level of lapses, and then the right-hand side – in the middle, sorry, you can see the
lapse rate. by Vitality Status very down sloping. So (50:48) as people get engaged in
Vitality, they lapse less and of course the healthier lives lapse even less.
So the right-hand side, not only do you get low lapses by status but as you go time, that
lapse rate tends to decline. So all of the indicators tend to be I think facing the right level
of Vitality or whether it's the effect of vitality on the left straight the effect of Vitality on the
lapse rate, I think the kind of the shared value model is working remarkably well to get the
kind of results that we are looking for.
It's also important to say that I think the business continues to be very innovative. It uses a
share value model on the right-hand side of a slew of innovations. It illustrates all of them
linked to these Vitality aspects, linked to the rest of the group (51:28) to the bank. But you
can see the effect on market share. Total market share has climbed up to 30%. So we are
by a long shot the biggest in the market because we nearly double the size of the next
competitor at 18%. And when you look at IFA we're tied. Agents, you can see a
tremendous leadership, I think, that's been achieved in (51:49) So, really reflecting I think
the quality of the innovation that we're getting that kind of traction.
The one thing that I think we really wanted to mention here very clearly is the issue of
long-term lapses. This is a critical, critical issue because at the end of the day, the quality
of our earnings, the quality of the negative reserves is a function of do people stay with
us over time (52:11) and there's a lot of narrative about what the long-term lapse rates
might manifest to be. It's a difficult thing to estimate what it might be in 30 years' time.
But to make the point on the left-hand side, this is an issue because the industry over the
last number of decades has changed. People generally don't flag premiums over time.
Typically, they work out to cover their need and then that's not a premium that escalates
according to different factors. It could be age-based. It could be inflation-based. It could
Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

be predetermined. And you have these planes of standard that are flat to accelerated to
FlexRater, and our competitors are doing very much the same thing. It's a competitive
market out there. So, all of us are doing this kind of low start with the premiums there to
escalate.
You can see in the middle chart, about 85% of our block – of our new block tends to go on
that basis. But the central question is what will happen over time as those premiums
escalate? And you get all kinds of worries about just having the premium (53:01) on the
right-hand side of the chart, kind of the work done by our various teams is to illustrate the
affordability over time. So, looking at, if you're growing at flat rate, what that does versus
salary. If you're going to escalate your effort, what that does versus salary. And then in
green, the aggregate of our portfolio, what that will do versus salary over 10, 20 and 30
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we've chosen to compare it to expected salary. Our premiums, I think, are about
(53:25) incentive salary currently. It's an effect of that showing you for portfolio, over 20
years – in 20 years' time, the premium would've probably doubled in real terms versus
salary. So from 2% – from a 8% of salary to about 5.5% of salary, about 30 years' time in
the green, probably 2.5 times where it was before, 7% of salary.
The central question, of course, is what if people left over the time? Well they left off to
10 years, 20 years or 30 years. And of course, this is not a binary question. You assume a
lapse rate every year and the question is how are you performing. Well, the first thing to
say is we have 20 years of data. So if you map back as to what's happened and you look
at the entire lapse rate from the top-left hand side, you can see that in the white, our
expected lapses, and the blue out of the portfolio has lapsed. You can see that the
accumulative lapse rate is in fact lower than we expect it. So, despite the increases, the
lapse assumptions that we put in place in fact to holding. When you look at the standard
things that are flatter on the non-standard plans, it escalate, that relation that tends to be
holding.
On the bottom – on the right-hand side, we show the table of duration. By age, you can
see then the effect for most – for virtually all the durations, the left shows a quite a bit
lower than we'd expect. So for the 20-year history, we can say with some conviction that
the lapse assumptions are holding are in very, very, very firm.
But of course the question is going forward, who will know what the future holds. We have
to make assumption. If you assume no lapses, you get a completely different result and
particularly every lapse, you get no value. But you got long-term expense assumptions if
you amortize over time. So, you have to make a lapse assumption.
And very important, just to show you, most notably in the blue curve, that if you ignore
Vitality, our lapses assume that by you're 30, 95% of the block is gone. So, the
assumptions inside our earnings assume that lapses happen every year. And the
cumulative effect to that is by you're 30, 95% of that is gone. So, if 5% is left at that point
in time, and the Vitality model assumes that people involved in the high status is will lapse
lower, taking up to 14%. So, bring it all together, the basis of our lapse assumption shoots

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

at 85% the book is gone in 30 years or much as probably as 20 years, but only if you
need to make that back to that affordability. So, the assumption is, over 20, 30 years, if
your cost goes from 2.8% of salary to 5% or 5.5% of sales, same as in the salary, 80% to
95% of the block will be gone. That's the assumption.
Is that reasonable? We don't know. We have to value our debt, continuously re-strengthen
the basis. So, we assume that is the higher gain into this year. You're going to see that if
you go through the VLM, we have a life business and the embedded value assumption
changes, that come through quite strongly. But one interesting thing that we wanted to
just show from health data is if people come on at age 45, over 30 years, they get sicker.
So, the yellow line, we're showing it by that age, 40% of people thereabout have quite
considerable illness. And if to an extent, if you're lapsing when you're sick, it's irrational.
So, we know from life insurance, it (56:27) down to that. So, there is an absolute check of
saying what essential people should be there what versus what is actually in there
assumed in the basis. So, let me end by just saying we are working hard to trying to
understand those lapse assumptions and whether they are (56:42) in line with the
expectation. We feel comfortable that at that time, we'll manage them from time to time.
Then, we move fast to go through Discovery Invest. I think performance is very, very
strong. Very tough market. The market value is in fact lower. At the end of December, that
were a calendar year before, Discovery Invest is about attracting funds, hard in A difficult
market, and our revenues based on fund value and market value. Despite the 40%
growth in new business, assets grew by 7% to just over ZAR 83 billion. Strong growth in
normalized profit at 9% despite a very difficult market. The model is working really work.
Net flows up by 11%. If we got a slew of things you can look to see on the slides, about the
incentives we offer people to start earlier, save more, drawdown less. So the (57:26)
retirement provision about starting earlier, saving more, drawing down less, managing
your health so you'll live a healthy life and you don't need healthcare cost at retirement.
And all the figures are looking very, very good.
But one analysis (57:36) the really shows the power of the model is, effectively, people
are investing and hoping that the investment is on the top quartile of returns. So, if you
take all of the incentives that we provide, there are (57:49) fees, the boost, and you look
at (57:50) – this is three years' out, we're going to (57:51) 5 and 10 years, what you find is
on the top, as people become more engage in Vitality or the incentives, what happens to
the investment performance, the effective investment performance is it gets better and
better. So, simply put, across all of our funds, if you're highly engaged, the net result of
our investments we're either going to (58:10) top quartile, the top (58:12) number one.
So, what we're trying to do is shift shared value through behavior change is effectively the
returns that you get and I think that's one of the reasons why I think we're changing
excellent funds proving very, very sticky. And we're learning more about how to do this
going forward.
And in terms of Discovery Insure, to frame it and say again, I think the performance is very,
very strong. It's not – I think the business (58:33) from one period to another. Gross
premium rolling by 21%. So, the new business was up 4%. You can see it (58:41) the
previous year. But these are very big slices of new business that we're adding (58:46)
getting total revenue (58:47). Very strongly, the business has turned to profitability
Page 19 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

strongly now, about 4% margin. We think we can get to a 5% to 10% margin given the
quality of the business. I've made a point in previous periods just about the additive effect
of the time of the model, we're getting better selection. So the number of people
engaging in Vitality drive is over 90%. We're getting fantastic correlations to accident rate
by age and status, selective (59:16), so all of the stuff you saw on the model. And then
critically, this is a point that I think for us is a very competitive point, over time most of the
reduction to the loss ratio duration is through behavior change because I think this is a
market (59:27) the D2C players, (59:32) just pricing at the people staying. So we're not
aligning inertia, we're aligning behavior change and I think that offers us considerable
opportunity going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then to make the point the distribution channels are I think very, very strong. I think we
are the only short-term insurer that is present, intermediated and direct at the same time.
So, on the left hand side of the chart you can see we're getting 45% of our business from
independent advisers. We're getting the balance of our split between our agents and
B2C. So we're not a D2C player only, we're not an intermediate player, both channels, we
can push them out.
But you can see in the middle side it's a pretty balanced portfolio. The combined ratio
where it's intermediated D2C is in fact very, very somber. So obviously, I see opportunity
to grow on both. We're doing a lot of thinking about our advertising spend on D2C. We're
not a great spender so you can see in the middle of the chart they versus our
competitors. I think pretty clearly and we have our supporting advisers are primary. So
these are channels that I think offer considerable potential for Discovery. I think we can
grow the base quite substantially on a quality basis for both of these channels. It should
be there at D2C. So we think the margin can climb to 5% to 10%. We think we can grow
the book. The book is already at ZAR 4 billion quite significantly.
And then the final point to make on Discovery Insure is just you will have seen in
December we announced transaction around CMT, Cambridge Mobile Telematics, just to
tell you – give you a bit of insight into this. During the evolution of Discovery Insure, we
were using deep black box installs into cars where we could then track people how they
drive based on G forces, et cetera. We searched for the ability to this via mobile and
came up with a company – we didn't – we found a company, a small startup out of MIT
called Cambridge Mobile Telematics, a bunch of super smart professor of computer
science out of MIT.
We acquired 20% of the company for $5 billion and began working with them. It's been a
fantastic partnership. The quality of the technology really speak tremendously. The app
that you use if you use Discovery through the cloud is the CMT app. Together with us, we
develop this idea of that tag that attaches to the car, state-of-the-art stuff.
Over time CMT itself started doing this with other insurers and we help them
commercialize their model. Amazing over the period, Softbank acquired stake in CMT for
$500 million over this period, illustrating just the potential I think of the model. For us, of
course, I think it's financially very important. Our stake has been diluted out to 10%. Our
profitability from the transaction is about $55 million, and we'll get cash of about $28.5
million in the six-month period.
Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

So this transaction we announced I think during the period with a financial (01:02:20) will
come through during this kind of six months. But I think more important than the money
illustrates I think the power of the model and its potential to change I think most insurance
going forward.
Let me talk to the UK composite model. I won't take too much of your time. Talk to the
UK. And I call it composite model. It is indeed a composite model. We've got two
businesses in a new start in Vitality. I think we are making the most progress in the UK if
you bring it together. Business has been strong. It's a complicated environment with
Brexit. It's a (01:02:55) environment but I think the progress has been really good. New
business up 13%.
lapse growing at 13%, it's just under 1 million – from a 1 million – 5 million lives in the UK.
Operating profit growing really strong, about 21%. And it's got considerable value. The EV
of the UK business is now nearly a quarter of the group – of the group EV.

Bloomberg Transcript

To make a point as well, I keep remaking, but it is important to understand the power of
Vitality. If you look at through Vitality Health, correlation is two different disease types,
incredibly strong as you get engaged, our sickness levels go down. Correlations to lapse
rate, 45% reduction on the highly engaged versus Blue are expected is remarkable.
So, we're continuously seeing and engaged in Vitality is incredible. I've shown in previous
periods, the engagement levels are just going up as we progress. Vitality health had a
tremendous period. I have to say it to the team, the business is remarkable. It is, I think,
the best health insurer in the UK. If you cut – the (01:03:50) performance is exceptional,
new business up 18%. Particular success on the individual B2C channels, where I think the
01:03:58 using Vitality, using all the stuff we're doing has been strong, up 34%.
Lapse covered at 9%. If you look at Vitality Health, if you can see it in the chart, affecting
end around it, in fact it went down for some time, as you – we kind of – we took off lives if
we felt it around the price. We're now growing strongly and the operating profit up 26%,
it's just under ZAR 0.5 billion six months in rand.
Every measure is good. Loss ratio is coming down and staying there, retention levels are
coming down, the back book through at – close to £47 million of cash, funded all in new
business trend, pushed all the cash to the center. So, the performance has been really
good.
Vitality Life also had a good period, it's a very difficult environment for long-term life
insurance as rate of interest is very low. We've made this point at many presentations this
far, that I think the company is making strong and steady progress, new business up 8%.
Lives covered coming up 16%, operating profit up 13%.
Claims levels are a lot of expectation, lapse levels are below expectation, which is good.
The valueof low expectations which is growth (01:04:56) growing by close to 40%. The
number of moving parts in VitalityLife. The margins in new business are 01:05:04 should
be, relatively it's just too low. We have to keep just working carefully through that hoping
Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

the environment will somehow revert once uncertainty is exceeded. VitalityInvest is still
very, very young and very, very complex that market the next few months as we go
through the tax season so the kind of tax people are actually buying actively the product
and selling. We reported back in a few months' time as to how we've done in it. There's a
number of tools we've launched, new products into the market (01:05:30) technology we
will show in a few months' time if we can get (01:05:35). We spent £33 million to date
investing in this business.
Getting back to the point of composite 01:05:42 it's amazing. In the Discovery Health, in
the Discovery context, our businesses like Discovery Insure, 70% of their clients (01:05:50)
products. In the UK, 106% of that client base is lapping out. It's remarkable. So these are
two completely disparate client bases. It's a function really of very different distribution
systems, the ability if we can create that composite what we're trying to do. It offers
considerable opportunity. So the simple idea is using Vitality within each silo to make our
life insurance offering better to help insurers, I think we're really doing. But now bring
them together (01:06:15) behavior change to offer considerable value. That is bringing a
lot of really good work around that 01:06:23. So there's a concerted effort of having one
digital phase of the entire group, the ability to really 01:06:30 and building the same
towards 2022, the best composite in the UK.
And I've said when we go to the last two businesses and talk about (01:06:40) and the
Vitality Group, I hope – I think I'm using too much time (01:06:46) this is very, very
important. People on health had an absolutely tremendous period. I have to say to you
that pretty clear, growththat the thing on health strategy is pretty clear. Growth and quality
of business, not profitability. The health insurance market in Chinese, possibly one of the
biggest, it's one of the latest emerging and I think our timing has been really, really good.
You can see the rates of new business growth up 17%, revenue growing about 84%. The
profitability pre-tax is a very substantial, you'll see that in the numbers. But looking pre-tax,
it's up 26%, but it's kind of pretty marginal. I mean the margins are around 1%. So, this is
not a business that's throwing out any real profitability. The focus on Ping An Health is on
quality, the lapse ratio and the loss ratios are winning the expectation, the business is
very, very strong. And so, it's A rated.
Our (01:07:32) is a rating as well. So, we're building a very good quality business. But I
think the main theme is building the capability to grow. So, there has been a considerable
investment in operational and particularly digital capability. You can see the stand on the
operations has grown by 400% over the last four years to a ZAR 1 billion. And you can see
the growth in headcounts, up to 1,800 in the business and fully a quarter of them or more
– sorry, 40% of them are purely technology people.
So, the Ping An vision is about building the best health tech insurer in China with 50 million
lives, that is their goal. And you can see on the right-hand side, kind of the jaws (01:08:09)
of life as we call them, revenue versus operating expenses are not yet opening.
So, as fast as the revenue is growing, so is the OpEx. And we think at this stage that is
entirely appropriate. They're building a considerable digital platforms, kind of a go-to

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

capability for health. When you're going for health advice, you're going to Vitality Life,
running issues, life streaming, consultations. And from an administer perspective, the stuff
is all digital.
So, you can get your claims done online, underwriting done online, applications done
online. Just to go back, the act itself, the Ping An Health has 80 million registered users.
So, the scalability is quite considerable. So, this really is about growth, the margins are
really, I think, fairly insignificant. We believe over a reasonable short medium to longer
term, the margins get to 5% to 10% premium. We believe the quality is there, but you can
see the growth on the left-hand side, that's month-by-month in the period. So, in the gray,
2017; in the red, 2018 and then in the gold, the January month. So, just in January, Ping An
health put on 1 million policyholders, January. It's remarkable. It's the kind of growth we've
never seen.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the left-hand side, Discovery Health. I think Discovery Health is great story on
itself, but it kind of shows you Discovery Health growth versus Ping An Health. That's a
number, not a revenue. You had to do the actual revenue to get the data in time, it will be
more muted and these are smaller policies, but the (01:09:35). So, we feel very confident
about what Ping An Health can do in scale and profitability and I think being strong about
what we can do, working very well I think together with Ping An (01:09:45) to something
quite special.
So, the six months under review, I think, were very, very good period for Ping An Health.
Vitality Group itself is getting considerable scale, but really a lot of the work done to that
part is starting to show growth. You can see the amount of premium we integrate to that
part of the market. The new business was ZAR 7 billion of new business done by partners
on the back of the model. Our revenue grew by over 90% of the profitability is coming
out very, very strongly.
The cost of technology in V1, a piece of technology was taken out of this business as I said
funded by the group using in a much bigger way and we restated those numbers to
illustrate there. But you can see the growth of the Vitality group in terms of the growth of
proper integrated policies 01:10:27, the scale of the partner, of our (01:10:32) underpinning
it and then the actual strategy, our national exclusive partners like AIA, Manulife, John
Hancock, Generali, very nicely. The franchise malls is proven to be very, very strong so we
roll out two companies in Latin America, one in Asia and Pakistan, the Netherlandsas well
in the Netherlands (01:10:52) flags at the bottom or the number in the top under we're
doing. So we're starting to rapidly roll this out. And then we are in very exciting
adjacencies, the work we've done with Apple. If you follow the Apple at CVS work using
Apple Watch with physical activity, the Vitality Group did the planning of the back of that.
So all the work we're doing kind of redoing that inside out of company. So there's
considerable opportunity I think to do great start in that.
Our partners are doing well. Every time we present, we show some other aspect of news
coverage. I think notably, (01:11:22) has done remarkably well with integrated model that
made the decision during the period that all will be linked to Vitality for considerable
coverage across the U.S. around the kind of the movement in principal around us, our
latest partner Sumitomo Life in Japan has done a fantastic rollout. So we announced I think
Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

FINAL

in the last announcement that in June-July, we'll launch Sumitomo Life in Japan on the
integrated basis.
I can't show you the numbers that I'll publish and see the rate of growth. It's double what
we expected, 70% of the sales now are attached to Vitality that was absolutely superb.
And we're learning that how the technology works. So, if you go across every market from
Germany to Japan, although they're different images, it's a similar repeatability of the
Vitality model and how Vitality works. And again to make the point, the experience at the
top mortality lapses by apps, it's exactly the same. So we're getting more and more
confidence about what we can with the business generating to close to ZAR 100 million of
profit in the six months, we're feeling confident about what we can do.

Bloomberg Transcript

Two things to mention before I wrap up on this business. We're trying to build a network
out of our performance I hope I haven't spoken. One of the key issues of there is with
Vitality 1. That's one of the key initiatives we're investing more and more and we spent
over ZAR 0.5 billion as of December 31 on this. It really underpins all of the stuff we're
doing. There is one piece of technology. It really underpins all of the stuff we're doing.
Now, there is one piece of technology across the world. So product changes are done,
can't be done in market. We have 500 people working on this working on Vitality1. And
150 end market balance essentially building out this technology and capability. It underpins
Korea, underpins Sumitomo. We're rolling it out now to the entire group, so that really is
the idea.
The other point I wanted to make if you followed during the period we're trying to get our
partners to work with us a collective rather than us with each partner. Difficult to do
because these partners in many – are competitors but they're becoming more and more
collaborative with us, making sure we can get this idea of making people healthy out
there. Towards the end of last period we rolled out a study Apple around what physical
activities together with a pledge in London 01:13:35 the first one I think we're working as a
collective and I want to show you a video for just a few seconds on the power of this
partnership, 100 million people healthier by 2025, more physically active. So watch this
(01:13:49) of our partners, their commitment and I think the power of the intellectual base
we have formed.
[Video Presentation] (01:13:54-01:15:35)
Sorry, not a commercial. I need to stretch, but trying to illustrate that. I think more and
more we're creating a network out of – I think it's a tremendously powerful group of
companies that cover I think 30% world's covered population. So the ability to really grow
that into this page I think is remarkable. So let me end up by – that is the stock that how
we look currently investing carefully across the board. And I guess the question and this is
probably the most important piece of the presentation is all those work financially. So I just
told you, we've spent 21% of our earnings on new starts. That has actually decreased our
earnings for the period quite substantially how does that play out in the future, 21% go
down where we achieved CPR plus 10% of growth going forward to do this.

Page 24 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

So we can't show you medium-term or short-term numbers. We can't do that
mathematically (01:16:30) in terms of that becoming a full cost. What we thought we'd do
we want to use washing machine and see what these numbers are. So, just to show
graphically, the first point to make is what we're looking at is how much is invested in new
businesses, the (01:16:46) of the group growth for the five-year planning horizon where
leverage will go to what the return on equity will be. Such make the point we started out
now, I've just told you, we spent 29% of our earnings business. Our group earnings went
backwards. Our leverage has come down slightly and our return on equity (01:17:04).
What you will see is that if you go to – according to our plan, the spend in new businesses
comes up quite dramatically. So we reached the 10% points around 2021 very quickly. On
the leverage side, we continue to go down to about 21%. So there's sufficient capital and
cash in the system. And our return on equity by 2020, (01:17:24) to get back to the
(01:17:27).

Bloomberg Transcript

So if we can make these companies start out to work, we should get back to where we
were very, very. But the critical issue, from the left, you can see if you look at the
established versus in the blue, we expect part of the CAGR of 10% to 12% over the
period. If you add all the businesses together in the green – the red, you can see that
while the earnings level is lower, the CAGR is a 22% and crosses the line after the fiveyear period.
So, simply put, if we achieve what we set out to achieve, we should get back to where the
earnings were five years, but the CAGR is dramatically, dramatically higher, and that's
what we set out to do. So we've been very careful in the capital planning. You can see I
think the business is very well capitalized to achieve that. Really, the judgment of whether
we're doing the right thing is can we make the bank work? (01:18:15) work? There's all
kinds of risk to the plan and pretty robust, but I'm giving you directionally why are we
doing this from a purpose bid perspective and a corporate filings perspective.
To make one other point, we said we've spent 10% in our new starts. If it does below 10%
in two or three years, very possibly the other things that we're doing. So if you kind of
01:18:37 10%, you get the (01:18:39) of those various variables. But I think it does show our
ability to build going forward.
So, let me end by saying to you that, I think we got a very strong capability. We see four
things happening by 2022 if we get it right, superb (01:18:53) card by the bank in many
ways, a composite in the UK that currently does exists we think we're very competitive,
the launch is to invest in health insurance channel with Ping An Health, and a global
network, biggest global platform behavior change led to carriers (01:19:08) across the
world, including ourselves.
We are comfortable and excited. A lot of work to be done. I hope that was very clear.
Thank you very much and thanks for the questions. Thanks for the time. Thank you,
everybody.

Page 25 of 26



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-02-21

Page 26 of 26

