Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc IR Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Jon Soberg, Managing Partner
Takashi Sato, MD
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President, CEO & Director

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Director and Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Senior Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(technical difficulty)
Now I would like to let them start the presentation.

Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. I am joint Managing Director, Sato, stationed in Silicon Valley.
Thank you for the opportunity today. I would like to kick off our presentation.
Two of us are the key players of our CVC in Silicon Valley. Taking to this opportunity, after
the establishment of CVC in October, it's been less than one year. But still as you can see,
this flux of nations, 6 countries and the 20 companies in total have been invested by us.
So this has been a very fast movement within -- even within Silicon Valley. So I'd like to talk
about this as well.
Introducing Silicon Valley, there are many ways to introduce it, for example, how fast do
people work in Silicon Valley, they work very slowly. So this is a very casual topic. But I want
to focus on technology today.
Talking about IoT here. In Japan, we tend to think, as shown in left-hand side of this slide,
you get data from various devices, you analyze them and do something. This is
considered as essence of IoT when I came to the Silicon Valley. But this seems that things
are moving in reverse.
Page 1 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

When you go to Silicon Valley, toward each device, data is transmitted. Then things are
changed, according to my experience. For example, Tesla Motors, Elon Musk says from
tomorrow, there would be an acceleration by power by 20 horsepower. And the valuation
goes up with that message. So essence of IoT, actually 2 wholes -- twofolds.
So the value of things can increase overnight. This is very shocking to me in the beginning.
And sharing economy is another aspect in another context. And I have some
understanding about this. It's very important that in Uber, you are able to score drivers. As
shown here, like 4.83. I knew about this already but to my surprise, I am also scored like
this and driver takes a look at my scores. So if I behave wrongly, drivers are not going to
come to pick me up. So China has advanced in scoring for credits. And I can't -- people
say that China is special. But it is not special. Even in America, this kind of sharing economy
business essence is there. And the scoring is gradually penetrating.
And in Silicon Valley, this is a typical sight you might find. Every day, free-of-charge pitch
events are held. And we call them pain points. Issues surrounding the world and troubles
are to be resolved in -- by many people. So when I used to be in Japan, I thought that
people want to start a business to make money certainly. But I found a few of those
people.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the (cafe) is always very spirited and busy because entrepreneurs talk with investors,
introducing their plans, asking for financing. And this happens very frequently in many
places. So Uber and startup tended to draw attention in Silicon Valley but for me, after I
was stationed, this is quite different. Investors have most of the information and also
know-how and support start-ups. This is a strength of Silicon Valley.
As Silicon Valley is not the only place for innovation but this is where most -- the largest
number of experiments are in place. And what we do in Silicon Valley are listed here,
mainly those three. In the interest of time, I focus on MS&AD ventures. We increased the
amount up to $120 million recently. And this is going to be my focus today.
As you know, this is the stages by which startups grow. Fund of funds can be found on the
left, seed and early phases where many companies are born and also die. And looking at
these phases, you are able to easily hype -- set up a hypothesis about what is going to
happen. This is where fund of funds are introduced and MS&AD Garage program, this is
where employees of 47 countries are sent to Silicon Valley as a short-term exchange
program to address pain points.
And this is where later stages focused. And MS&AD ventures are targeting the stages in
the middle. So why is it necessary to make investments in Silicon Valley? There are many
things commented. But when I was sent to Silicon Valley alone, I found that it is very
difficult to make appointments with a strong startup. Even after I mentioned MS&AD
name, or even when I tell them that we invest in 47 countries, it doesn't make much
difference to them. It's very difficult to get into the inner circle unless I have to consult
investors. And this is really important to have a skin in the game. Mutually, you need to
take risks. We invest and take risk. And they also take risks. So you have to get involved

Page 2 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

that much, otherwise, it's very difficult to form a business alliance in a competitive
environment.
And big companies are not really favored because it takes a lot of time for them in
decision-making. And what is the inner circle? This is the term often utilized as a source of
power. And this is based on my experience. Big companies have pain points. And they try
to make important -- make appointments to startups that might be able to address those
pain points. But it doesn't happen so often. On the back of these startups, there are
investors and the investors said that don't worry about MS&AD but worry more about
their business in America. So you need to make access to venture investors to move
things forward. So you manage to meet with venture investors. And they say that the pain
points that I'm talking about is good to be with startup big companies versus a new
company versus a startup A company. But we don't have capacity to meet your startup
fee.
Then on the back, there are startup fee and venture investors. And they are connected
based on the give-and-take relationship. So with this route, you may be able to encounter
a bit of the anticipated solutions. So this is a source of power that's called inner circle in
Silicon Valley. Unless you have the technique of CVC or investment technology, you have
to just fight over this red part, which is going to be very challenging.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon Soberg

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

(foreign language) And that's the limit of my Japanese. Thank you very much for having
us. I'll start giving you this preview. We are focusing at MS&AD ventures on the longer
term, kind of 3 to five years or even further time horizon. We believe that this is where we
can add the most value for MS&AD ventures.
The short term where we are -- where you see existing business extensions or later-stage
companies, the investment has less impact at that point because we already have a
pretty mature company and it can already, in some cases, address current day pain points.
But when you think about where is insurance going in the next 3 to five years or 10 years
or 20 years, you have to start a little bit further from the current business models and
think about those relationships that might be able to help you build. So MS&AD ventures is
looking into companies that we think will be relevant for us in the next few years. But not
necessarily today. So that's -- it's always a little bit of a challenge because everyone wants
a solution today. But in some cases, the reality is that the best way to get that solution is
to be patient and build that relationship.
So by being a little bit separate and being in Silicon Valley, we have the ability to focus a
little bit differently than the core business. So that's one of the ways we think we can add
a lot of value.
It's IR day so, of course, we have to talk a bit about financial. We are tasked with both
strategic and financial return at MS&AD Ventures. So most of you might be familiar with
the charts that have strategy on one side. And they have financial return on the others.
And they try to categorize different VCs into different categories. I actually believe that

Page 3 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

those 2 axes are incorrect because I have never seen a failed company that's been
strategically relevant. And I have usually not seen a great financial outcome that doesn't
have some capacity to help as long as it's in the same business line.
So at the end of the day, we're looking to find companies that are strategically relevant.
And that end up being very successful. And we think that's how we're going to be the
best. So we're very young and venture capital as a long-term industry and a long-term
type of return profile, as I think everyone knows. So I'm showing this chart, which is actually
-- it's the performance of private equity over the life of their funds typically. So you have a
J curve function, which usually in the first couple of years, it's losses. Then over time, the
company values grow. And so then the companies start to make money.

Bloomberg Transcript

I show us right there. We are fortunate that we've had a couple of companies in our
portfolio that have already gone up a little bit in value from future financing rounds since
we invested. So the fund is actually up slightly in the first year, which is unusual. I don't take
credit for this. I think we're fortunate when we find great companies that we work with. But
I do think it's a good sign. And we will know over the lifetime of the fund, how well these
companies do. But the early performance sometimes is indicative of future opportunities.
So this is the slide I'll spend the most time on because I think it's the most interesting to
get a little insight into the way we're thinking about it. We're building a portfolio that we
think, in some ways, represents the way insurance is going to look in the future. So we
don't know exactly. But we see some trends. And because we're also looking globally, we
can see how things are developing in different countries, which is, I think, very helpful for
us when we think about how that might impact our markets. So we're investing in multiple
different areas. And some of them are not directly in insurance or InsurTech. But we think
that they're very relevant. So I'll kind of explain that.
We start with InsurTech, our new infrastructure. And there's a core reason for that. When
we think about where insurance is going today, a lot of the initiatives and the new
innovations are in real time or on-demand type of products. There's IoT. We -- at some
point, autonomous vehicles will be part of our world. Smart cities are coming into play. But
IoT we talked about a little bit. There's so much data today and there are so many
different relationships that we care about and that can inform the way we think about risk
or the way we think about insurance. But we need the platforms to be able to handle
those.
So if you built software 20 years ago. And you're trying to handle the volumes of data that
are coming in today, it doesn't work. I happen to build software 20 years ago. And I know
my software doesn't work today. So we have to think about that. So we're investing in
some new infrastructure that we think is flexible and capable to be able to do new types
of products. Then on top of that, we then believe that we can invest in companies that
can be relevant and be useful.
The second tier here, automation and operational efficiency, I think this is where most
people normally assume the innovation is. So this is where I would put things like RPA,
robotic process automation, some of the AI types of initiatives. People will talk about

Page 4 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

automating claims or they'll talk about different underwriting capabilities that you might
build with AI. And I think these tend to go into this bucket here. But they're not necessarily
changing business models. They're often optimizing or making something more efficient
than it is today. So we think that's very important. And we are investing in that as well. But
we don't think that's transformational, necessarily. So we think a little more broadly about
different types of investments from there.
So let me go up. This is one where you will see a broader range of companies. And I think
as we go forward, this is probably where more of our investments will land, simply
because I think this is where the opportunity set is to really think about changing the way
things work. We have, for example, a company called Skycatch that is a drone company.
And they can do all kinds of different inspection tests that change the way you might think
about some of the claims process or even some of the underwriting and some of the risk.
I'll talk a little bit more about a couple of these in detail a little bit later. But in general,
we're looking at companies that are focusing on mobility, on climate, on IoT, on areas,
really, what you might be able to say as to think about places where we can collect huge
amounts of data and understand behaviors, understand relationships that will help us be
much more effective in creating interesting new products or services for our customers.
So this is where -- these are not InsurTech companies per se. So if you go do research on
InsurTech, most of these you would not find. But they're, obviously, in our mind, very
relevant for us in terms of how we think about the way insurance is going to evolve. And
from there, I actually separated out cybersecurity as a stand-alone because it's -- we -- it's
a core area of focus. And we think it's very, very important as we are -- as we're going in.
If you think about insurance with everything being connected these days, cybersecurity is
part of IoT, it's part of mobility, it's part of just about everything. So we really need to start
thinking about cybersecurity as a core component of many areas that we normally would
not have thought of cybersecurity.
So we're investing specifically in some areas there that we think are going to be relevant,
either for data. But also in some cases, for risk prevention, in some cases for risk
mitigation, in some cases for cyber defense. So we don't just think about this as how do
we measure or underwrite cyber insurance, there might be ways that we can help protect
customers, there might be ways that we can help mitigate damage if there is an attack.
So we have to think holistically about how cybersecurity and different types of cyber
capabilities can be used or can be beneficial. So we're developing relationships in these
areas as well. And I think, as I mentioned earlier, in most of these cases, the way we see
our role and the way we're investing is to build relationships over time so that as these
companies grow and mature, we have the ability to work with them, sometimes to do
joint projects or just hard to find ways that we can work with their software to hopefully
develop into something that's even bigger for both sides.
And this on the last section here that I'll mention is the new business models. And this is
where we go a little bit outside of the box, I would say. When I look around the world,
what we're seeing is some different unique types of products and services that are
coming up. And I think it's important for us to be paying attention to those. So I'll give you
one example in the life insurance space. In the U.S., there's a new company in New York
that's building kind of unique products to manage wealth transfer from high-net-worth
older generation to the newer younger generation. And they're building custom life

Page 5 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

insurance products that look more like asset management. So it's combining things that
typically were not together. So you would usually trust your money to a financial planner.
And life insurance might be part of that portfolio.
Now they're thinking about trying to actually create a life insurance product that is that
portfolio. So it's a unique way of thinking about it. And they're trying to meet the specific
needs of a customer. So it's something that I think we need to be paying attention to as
well. So that's just one example of kind of a slightly different change on a business model
that already exists in pieces.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we have a few in this area. Again, these, I think, take quite a bit of time to develop.
And in some cases, they take quite a bit of research. But we're working to build
relationships with companies that we think can be really relevant there. I'll give you a
couple of examples here or so. So this company, Lucideus, is one of our recent
investments. Technically, I think it's a California company now. The CEO just recently
moved to Palo Alto. But they are primarily based in India. It's a cybersecurity company. And
it's somewhat unique in that it's seven years old and is more mature than some -- for the
stage of the company. They, though, focus on enterprise and small business, both scoring
and understanding risk. So one thing that's unique about them is they actually have the
ability to roll up the risk of an entire enterprise and show it to -- at a board level to be able
to kind of break down people, process, servers and network to be able to say, here is
where you're strong, here's where you're weak, here is the areas that we see that need
to be worked on.
Then beyond that, it can go all the way down to the very detailed level so that as a
security analyst can work on fixing problems and can prioritize them so that it actually
impacts the overall score at the board level. We're fortunate to be a co-investor with John
Chambers in this investment, who is the CEO of Cisco. So he knows quite a bit about
enterprise security. He's on the board with us on this company. And he's been fantastic to
work with and is really a great person and somebody who -- when we talk about our
network and building relationships, this is the kind of relationship that we think is really
important and valuable for us.
So just a couple of stats on this one. 10% of the GDP of India is already going through
Lucideus. They're working through some -- with some of the biggest companies in India.
And we're trying to help them go to other geographies. And the CEO is -- was actually -was given the award of Entrepreneur of the Year by Entrepreneur Magazine this year and
was also Forbe's 30 under 30. And Fortune's 40 under 40. He's a fairly special person.
And one more of those, Jupiter Intelligence is an AI-based climate company. And the CEO
is actually here this week. Satoru San and I have been introducing him to different groups
here. And he, hopefully, will -- we're trying to see if we can build those relationships.
Jupiter also is a very special company in terms of the team. You'll see this as a theme with
us. I care very much about who is building these companies. I use the line sometimes that
a mediocre team can screw up a great idea and a great team can figure out how to fix a
bad one. So there are great teams that end up making really good companies and great
partners. And so we look for those. Jupiter has a Nobel Prize winner in climate modeling
on their team. They just recently hired the Head of Insurance from RMS in the U.S. to help
Page 6 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

with their insurance. And they work fairly collaboratively with their partners to build
interesting risk models based on the specific needs of the company. So we think it's very
relevant for us, especially as we see climate change having a very real impact on us. So
these are just a couple of examples of the companies that we have in our portfolio and
the types of things that we're looking for.

Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

Okay. Going back to the Japanese mode. One more company, I'd like to talk about, a
company called BitSight, we have not yet invested into this company. So they are one of
the companies discovered in MS&AD Garage program. So if you look at the amount of
financing, JPY 16 billion, one magnitude above total funding. So I think here is a company
with a slightly different target for us. The point here, point about this company is. So
without any provision of information from the client, they can have an outside-in look to
get a grasp on the status of cybersecurity of a company and do a very precise scoring. So
that's the uniqueness of their service.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is light blue range, this is the average score for an industry. And the line before is the
actual scoring of the security. And there are some dips in the line several times. Now this
represents a day where a security incident happened. And on the right side, there's a
report about what happened. And this is just one outside-in, the company did not tell
BitSight about this incident. But they knew that it had happened. So the 2 companies in our
group is looking at this company as cybersecurity underwriting.
And now we are not a 100% dependent. But I think this -- I mean, their system can be very
-- can have big, good contribution to our operation. In the Silicon Valley, people often ask, I
mean. So what is disruption? Would that, I mean, eradicate insurance industry at a certain
point -- or at a certain point of time in the future. Well initially, when I was in Silicon Valley.
And I was a -- well, I made a research on InsurTech company, which could be deemed as
disruptive. But I think so a little bit different than I expected. So a very new trend, like
mentioned here on this page, the one who brings disruption. So they didn't -- so the older
disruptor would be people who do not know of the benefit and value of insurance when
it's based on year. And this disruption may not happen in all the sectors.
So I think I see more happening in the small, medium businesses and individuals. We see a
more evolution of trend of fintech in these areas. So when we launch a company, the first
thing you do is registration of domain. So do you have that domain? So -- and you have to,
I mean, make a contract for cloud. And there's different types of clouds so you have to be
able to provide the right risk solution to match the cloud that you're signing up for.
Now -- so that's the second last slide, future of insurance. I mean nobody knows that for
sure. But insurance company, I mean, to begin with, is tech-driven company. So if you want
to do an auto insurance, you have to know the auto technology or if you want to do a fire
insurance, you have to know the construction technology. So that's the nature of insurance
and especially underwriting for insurers. Auto insurance. So the mileage could matter or
how many times you stepped on a brake abruptly that may change the premium or tariff.
And I think if you start looking things that way, we can collect more and more human data.
That means -- so -- I mean, let's count a number of times that the driver has stepped on
Page 7 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

the brake too abruptly, maybe he was frustrated. And that's why he did that or maybe he
was so tired and that he had ended up stopping a vehicle in a very abrupt braking.
So if we start knowing those reasons, I mean things change, how we proceed. People
change or -- and we had a different category of insurance, life insurance and property and
casualty insurance. Maybe the lines would blur between these 2 insurance, they might
become a one single insurance. The last slide, how can we deal with the true disruptors?
Are we going to fight them? Are we going to cooperate with them? What we are doing
now? Japanese companies -- what the Japanese companies are doing is to look for an
interesting startup, which may contribute to the group operation, which may provide
interesting, good service. But we've been doing that for a year. And I'm kind of wondering
whether I'm doing the right thing or not. Well that's one thing that you need to do. But you
have to see these companies, investments in combinations, for instance. So by doing so,
you could have a data-oriented service, which is very difficult for anyone else to copy.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this is not my opinion, this is what's mentioned in Silicon Valley, in general. Incorporating
one single company. And there's always a new -- newer company coming in. But if you can
combine these 3 companies in an effective manner, for instance, in terms of labor
insurance. So for instance, our worker may be working on different things every hour. But
we can get a grasp on that through data. We can get a grasp of this -- his physical
condition, whether he's tired or not? Is it raining? Is it very hot? Is it snowing? And we can
take all these data, combine that. And for instance, calculate a premium or a claim or we
can maybe use this data to prevent labor accidents from happening.
Now by combining these services and data, we could bring about very interesting service.
And we have to have as many thoughts as possible so that we can combine them in many
different patterns. And retrospectively, if you look back, I mean we can capture this
connection. And that's where we are after a year of operating our corporate venture
capital.
So I'm going to wrap up. So we should not just look at one single start-up. We should look
at these startups, multiple start-ups in combination. And that's what we are beginning to
do right now.
So I'd like to close for now and...

Questions And Answers
Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

I'm Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. I have 3 questions. But I am supposed to ask just 1
question. So question one. MS&AD ventures, what is especially within the MS&AD group?
The key objective is to earn investment return or to acquire know-how. If the objective is
to acquire know-how, maybe the Garage program is the answer. You want to develop
specialty products or major risk? Do you have actual example to reflect into product
development such as specialty products?

Page 8 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

A - Jon Soberg

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

We're striking a balance between financial return and strategic return. But I would say our
first focus is strategic. Then we -- then if it's in the strategic focus area, then we try to find
companies that will be very successful. And to your question about how to work with
these companies, I think, in some ways, it varies on your time horizon. So the Garage
program is a great way to get some know-how or to find solutions for problems that exist
in the shorter term. If you're thinking about longer term, bigger objectives, then it's not
something where you go or just try to find a solution. So that might be a collaborative
work effort that you're going to do over a couple of years. So it's why I talk a lot about
building relationships because I think know-how is a transaction in some cases. Our
relationship has the potential to generate much more long-term value.

A - Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

(Interpreted) From my end, I want to add some more comments. Our senior management
wants a lot, demand a lot. They want investment return. But they want us to earn knowhow as well. But there is one consistent point amongst our leadership and myself, to
positioning, which is here. From the current existing business, immediately, you want to
extend quickly. But we do this about it, we are aiming more toward that in 3 to four years.
When there is a potential great impact on the insurance industry, we want to see what it
is. So we want to invest in such possibility and earn insight. That is one of the key
objectives. So in a vital sense, know-how acquisition is part of it and that this is our focus.
So this is my answer to your first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

And my second question, what is MS&AD ventures' competitive edge against your peers
like Tokio Marine and Sompo access -- in accessing to start up, do you have any edge
against your peers?

A - Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

(Interpreted) So each of the three mega players has its different strategy towards Silicon
Valley, in my understanding. In the case of Tokio Marine strategy, maybe I haven't talked
with them so I would only guess. But they don't own a CVC. But toward various venture
capitals in the standpoint of LP they invest. And based on that investment, they collect
information and that they identify a good venture capital who could bridge to meet with
good start-ups. So their strategy is to participate as LP. And in fact, they do more LP
investments than we do, according to the articles I read. And in the case of Sompo Japan,
by the same talk toward a specific venture capital, not as LP -- but it's not one of the LPs.
But as the LP, they make large investment into a company and let investment do -- let
them do the investment. MS&AD is the only company that sets up its own CVC and the
work in Silicon Valley. Which is the best or worse, which has edge? There is no answer. It's
just a difference in strategy. But as far as I know, as a way to make access to the inner
circle of Silicon Valley, having a CVC being visible to get skin in the game is actually an
easy way to get entered. But I'm not from these other 2 companies. So I cannot be so
definite.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}
Page 9 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

My third question and my last question. Regarding emerging risks, on Page 18 of the
presentation onwards, you talk about future of insurance. Thinking about the future of
insurance in Silicon Valley, do you see some new emerging risks that you haven't seen
before, which might become a monetizing opportunity for you?

FINAL

A - Jon Soberg

I think absolutely, we see that there are some areas where there are new innovations that
we can take advantage of or where we can find monetization opportunities. I think
(inaudible) -- I won't give the name of the company. But where (inaudible) -- there's a
company in Silicon Valley that is working very closely with small and medium businesses
and helping them to manage their payroll and their time tracking, which might sound
simple here because I think it's more advanced in Japan than it is in the U.S. But the side
piece of that is that the workers' comp is very easy then because you have all this data.
And so they're changing the way some of these small companies think about workers'
comp insurance than they used to. So this company is not an insurance company, they're
coming at it from a fintech angle. But they're solving a pain point for that small business
that makes the insurance actually a very easy thing for that small business. So I talked a
little bit also about the life insurance approach. We're starting to see innovation come
from places that are not straight in the insurance industry. And that's maybe general. But
one of the things we're really thinking about.

A - Takashi Sato

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

(Interpreted) If I may comment on this. Thinking about insurance, it's -- by -- in Silicon
Valley, there's acceleration program called Plug and Play. It's like a matching forum to let
meetings happen with big companies. And each sector has its own program. But the
largest membership and largest addition is drawn to the sector of insurance, to my
surprise. And because this industry sounds like having a long-standing history. But aside
from that, insurance business is priced based on data to reflect into new insurance
product or risk solution. And this data acquired is getting bigger compared to the past. So
this smells of an opportunity. So many startups are now trying to gather into insurance and
as presenting potential businesses. FinTech is set to be 2 to three years ahead compared
to insurance. So I'm not sure. But insurance is now in Silicon Valley, drawing attention more
than Fintech. I think this is the most attention given toward insurance. This is my feeling,
thank you.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

My name is Tsujino from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley. Sato-san earlier mentioned that -well, maybe I -- there is -- there would be no insurance companies anymore in the future.
But on the other hand, you talked about the huge amount of data leading to
opportunities. I personally believe that changes in the way we do business or the pricing
of the insurance may change or maybe how we categorize, the insurance products could
change, or I mean, start-up, those guys really love something new. So maybe they would
go for microinsurance where they can chop insurance into very small granular units but I
mean, if you start looking all of these -- looking into all of these so I don't think it's the
case that the old -- the Silicon Valley players will steal the whole insurance industry
because people in Silicon Valley, they love technology, new technologies. But -- so once
their business becomes larger, they have to start, I mean, managing their balance sheet.
Page 10 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

And since the insurance company and the insurance industry who has insight and knowhow in that. And some of the companies are actually using start-up for their operation. So
maybe insurance company can grow together with Silicon Valley start-ups. So I don't think
it's, as a survival of the fittest, which is going to eliminate insurance companies. So what is
your view on that? What's the future of your insurance industry?

A - Jon Soberg

We agree with you, or at least, I do. I won't speak for my partner. I -- we think that
insurance is actually going to get bigger as time goes on and we think that the markets
are going to increase. We think that the big players are not going anywhere soon. But I
would also say that technology is moving very quickly. And so the players that use data
and that use AI to make themselves much more efficient or to understand risk better,
have a pretty strong competitive advantage. So I do think that we could see market
shares change in different markets based on innovation and using data. And in some
cases, maybe finding unique products that are a good fit for a certain type of customer.
So that is both, I would say, the risk and the opportunity. But I don't believe that you're
going to see start-ups from Silicon Valley take over the insurance industry. I think it's going
to be a big leap forward in innovation that will change. And the other thing I think we need
to think about is, innovation like autonomous driving will change the way auto insurance
works. The sharing economy is going to change the way some of these types of products
and insurance work. So we need to stay on top of that because that is a change to the
industry overall.

A - Takashi Sato

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

MS&AD Venture is less than a year old. So I mean I can't say anything definitive based on
my experience so far. But like you have mentioned, I mean, for Silicon Valley start-up,
insurance industry is capital-intensive and they don't mind capital intensive to begin with
because they don't have too huge capital and if you need to turn that over at a very fast
pace, that's not exactly a model for start-ups. So but -- without going into that, if you can
just cut out some chunk of the business and work with the insurance company, is that
really sexy business? Well a lot of the companies will be kicked out of the competition. So
it's a little bit uncertain. So going back to the earlier story. So if I'm going to start insurance.
So a company with potential to be a dominant player wants to start the insurance that
they have in their vision, maybe in a very niche insurance market, yes. I mean, those
companies could be a very big impact.
And -- so probably, European and United States insurance company, who has more
exposure to Silicon Valley is more sensitive to those trend. So I kind of wonder the reason
why were they partnering or investing into certain start-ups. But when we talked with
them, I know the reason why. And it's very enlightening experience. I can learn a lot. For
your reference. So Silicon -- in Silicon Valley, it's the reinsurers who has been the strongest
sense of crisis on top of insurance, because it was the advent of technology, reinsurers,
they feel that -- their reason to be -- reason to be -- will be gone. Maybe in the world of
technology -- after the technology has evolved, there is no room for reinsurers. And that
they are, in a sense, pessimistic. And they are, therefore, aggressive to invest. So one of
our investment, AkinovA, InsurTech, a new infrastructure, they are aggressive enough to
say, they're going to eradicate reinsurance market, because, in the end, capital market
provides a fund. And if we strictly follow that principle, we don't need reinsurers. That's
Page 11 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

this company, AkinovA is envisaging. Now that's an uncertainty. But when that, I guess,
world becomes a reality. So what would happen to reinsurers? So I think that's another -so there are many things that we are thinking about.

FINAL

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

I'm Sato from Mizuho Securities. I have two points to make. One is, quite similar to Tsujinosan's question, talking about insurance, it's a heavily regulated business and it's heavily
protected as well. Looking at its structure, the principle of large numbers is the basic
assumption of the business. So IoT, which is advanced and the other -- Fintech in the area
of other finance like our lending. So the -- its investment on the insurance may be a bit
different from other Fintech. So in the area of InsurTech, what is the difficulty in investing
the InsurTech? Or anything special about investment in InsurTech as opposed to Fintech?

A - Jon Soberg

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I've -- before I was investing InsurTech, I was investing in Fintech. And if you go back, I'll
date myself. But I was around before the word Fintech was actually, really a word and then
Fintech started to get big and they split it up into InsurTech and LendingTech and
RegTech and lots of different techs. Silicon Valley likes to add tech to everything. So I think
your point is very good one. When we think about InsurTech, very few companies actually
have the ability to build a huge insurance company as a start-up. They need a lot of
capital. They need a lot of patience because it takes forever to get through the -- all of
the regulations to be able to build something. Then they actually have to compete. So it's
very challenging to build something in the InsurTech space from the ground up. And it's
actually very similar in Fintech.
If you think about banking, for example, building new bank is a difficult thing also. And it's
partly why we haven't seen so many, the -- probably the most advanced are in the U.K..
And it's really because the regulator in the U.K. has pushed for these Challenger banks. So
we -- when we look at investments, we look carefully at whether they understand what it
looks like to build an InsurTech company. And part of why you don't see us investing in all
kinds of InsurTech is because we generally don't believe that very many of them will be
successful. And so we think the right model is the company that's thinking differently
about insurance and thinking about how they might be a partner or how they might
change the way you think about risk. It's a much faster approach for them. And it's a less
risk approach for them to build their company. And it's more value-add. And potentially a
bigger outcome. So we think that's the model that tends to be the more successful. But
there are some -- and lending is probably the best way to give you the example.
In the U.S., I think 10 years ago, almost no loans were underwritten by technology. Today, I
think it's more than 50%, are underwritten by technology platforms. But the capital tends
to come from institutions. So rather than becoming banking and institutions, what these
Fintechs have done is they've built underwriting and lending platforms. And then they find
ways to bring the capital from big institutions. So if you think about that as a parallel, there
are ways to think about insurance in similar fashion. It's going to be different. But that's a
good parallel.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}
Page 12 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

And I -- if I may have a second question. My second question is from an -- it's an
operational question, no -- not knowing much about insurance. But the blockchain
technology's potential, what do you think is the potential of blockchain technology for
insurance business?

FINAL

A - Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

In fact, including U.S. and European insurance, we have been making trial and errors. In
terms of compatibility, it seems high. But blockchain, in terms of hype -- it's -- there's less
hype today compared to before. And everybody thinks that the blockchain is not as good
as we might have been thinking. But now it's picking up as well. In the case of America,
there are lots of labor-related accidents. So on our workers' comp, in the construction
sites and such, since attached uniforms are worn by workers so that -- because people
tended to get hurt by back or by waist. So alarm is loaded. And some trials are made to
make use of blockchain and actually, this ratio was reduced as a result.
And most typically, the cargo marine insurance for both import and export. But as far as I
hear in Silicon Valley, blockchain is now beyond being a (inaudible). In the -- quite a lot of
topics about taking this more seriously. But is there any big success? We haven't seen yet,
it's -- but I think it's going to come.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is Niwa from Citi Securities. I have 2 questions. On the -- on Page 4, you talked
about pain points. So MS&AD -- so do you think you're -- so if we can come up with 2, 3
good example of the pain point, as you see?

A - Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

That's a difficult question, to be frank. MS&AD Garage program is something that we
operate. And in the operation, what I -- what we feel is something that you cannot solve in
your country. So you ramped-up effort. But something that you cannot resolve in your own
country. Or -- I mean, something that you may be able to resolve. But you're a little bit
skeptical. So we said it's a rule that we have just look into someone who has went through
that process. Someone who is just newly interested in Silicon Valley, we don't accept. And
so they set pain points and come to us. But 80%, 90% of the conclusion from the project
is no, we were looking at the wrong pain point. We were not -- that was not the real pain
point. Maybe -- so yes, I understand the pain point was not here. But instead here. So I'll
go back to my own country. And so, I don't know, yes, I mean, now we are close to the
start-up, which we are connected in the United States and I welcome the new pain point
that they have found. And that's -- yes, I think the people are grateful to us for doing that
because for instance. So I mean, they are -- we -- so when they come, they mean 6, 7
different start-ups. Silicon Valley start-ups are not the kindest kind of people. So our
presentation discussion, okay that's it, that's not the case. So they get more, I guess,
realistic discussion of what's the next pair -- next point. And I think that's the virtue of
Silicon Valley. So if an OpCo, if operating company comes up with certain pain point. So
any other pain point, as they see, it has changed over the time quite substantially through
the process. So I can't think of any good example. Yes. So all the pain point that they bring
to us, yes, that seems to be pain. But when we start looking into in depths, okay. So now

Page 13 of 16



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

FINAL

we have a technology to resolve -- ease that pain. And maybe we should be able looking
at this pain instead. And that's what's happening in our Garage program quite often.
So BitSight, I think that's been mentioned here, the company that we have mentioned. So
which private sector companies are doing well in terms of security? But I mean, you can't
just give without understanding, send out 10 questionnaire to 10 companies. That's not
the way you should be doing that. So the external-only score is -- has limitation. You have
to really start combining the data from inside the company. And so -- and by doing so, we
go more depth into the pain point. So sometimes, we accept more, I guess, ambiguous
pain point. But usually, that doesn't work. So people need to work on their pain point
before coming to -- yes.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Another point, Page 19. So what I felt, looking at Page 19. So am I understanding this
correctly, stage 1. So it's like shopping for InsurTech for a technology company? But now
you have to transition yourself to risk-taking company, not a mere shopper of these startups. So is -- am I understanding this correctly? So if I -- how long would it take for you to
go through that transformation from just a company shopper to risk-taker? And Karasawasan. So I guess, I maybe -- I'm not quite sure whether I should be asking you a question.
So how do you see this business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jon Soberg

{BIO 17131163 <GO>}

I would say it's not either -- it's not one or the other. So we are -- when we used this
example, this example was an idea, not necessarily a concrete or changing anything. But
to demonstrate how you can create something quite unique when you combine the
strengths of more than one type of technology or more than one company. So an easier
way to think about this might be to say, if you combine health data with IoT data with
climate data and mobility data, you have a really good, complete understanding of what
people are doing or where they're doing it and things like that. And so when you think
about how you might build products or think about risk with that kind of data and that kind
of knowledge, it gives you some opportunities that might not exist if you weren't thinking
about combining all those types of things. So it's partly why you see the breadth of the
types of companies that we're investing in, because we think that by understanding data
from multiple different parts of life, that we actually get a better understanding of risk.
And that then sometimes it may take a long time to get that understanding. There may
be some things, Jupiter, on the climate side, might be more relevant soon. But adding
that to health data and IoT data may take a long time. And I don't know for sure. But I think
the -- we do all generally agree that this kind of data will be very valuable over time.

A - Takashi Sato

{BIO 22057835 <GO>}

So well, I don't feel like I'm shopping a company. Insurance company, I believe, has much
more potential that it offers. So we want to deliver safety and peace of mind to the world.
Delivering the peace of mind is a very big deal because now you have to go into the
mindset or feeling of the people and bring stability there. And if that's the case, there's
much more we can do. There's much more data we can collect. So I'm walking like this. So

Page 14 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

I hit my feet pinky somewhere. It's extremely painful. But 5 minutes later, I would forget
the pain. This is not covered by insurance, by the way. The insurance company after -- so
they close this claim after the accident. Now, that's a very important role of insurance as
safety net. And so you would be using data to do the loss prevention. That's what we are
looking into. But maybe we can use data in a completely new way in a new field to offer
different value. So this is -- everyone says, in Silicon Valley, who is engaged in insurance
industry. But nobody know what this is -- what it would be. They feel the potential. So
maybe I'm going to make our top management upset. I shouldn't be stepping too close
to the head-office people because that makes it a little more difficult for us to launch new
business. Now people in the head office is the real professional of insurance. And that
may end up causing substantial loss. That's a risk. Of course, we are not mistaken, that's a
common sense. But Silicon Valley is not a place to find the right solution. It's a place to
create a right solution. So of course -- so the distance is very important, we should not be
too close to the head-office people. But we should not be too apart from head-office
people. So I think the successful teams, they have exactly the right distance from the top
management of a company and they are mindful that they have to control that -- this
distance. So I don't have any this -- so I think we are MS&AD, I think we are striking out a
very right distance in that sense.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. So I'm not quite sure whether this is going to be a direct answer to your
question. So yes, we are keeping the right distance from Sato-san's team, myself. And us,
the top management, like we have guided by 2030. So we are going to establish resilient
and sustainable society.
So in Japan, we are talking about Society 5.0, super-smart society. And to do that, we
have to have a lot of innovation going on. We have to drastically pull-up our labor
productivity. And in our current midterm plan -- so one of our strategy is to swiftly adapt to
several key changes in the society. So we need to enhance the resilience of our company
and that's the strategy, it's about the digitalization that they are embodying and the
assertion of comprehensive power of MS&AD Group.
So what we -- where we are heading? What we are targeting? So if we continue with the
current economy model, there's going to be some very big disruption coming in which
would disable us to continue with the current model. I think that's the perception shared
more or less globally. So we have to come up with something sustainable and that's the
milestone that we are placing. So we need to incorporate changes in the society and, of
course, the changes in the needs of our customers. So we need to adapt to that. And so,
Jon and Sato-san embodying one model or we have other -- two more models. But still
there are some uncertainty, which cannot be covered by these models. So Jon, I think we
are at a much closer distance. But we have to have -- keep the right distance from these
two gentlemen so that we could do this speedily, flexibly. And we have to be innovative
ourselves. Of course, several of our initiatives end up in failure. But you have to know the
failure as -- we have to identify the failure as failure as early as possible. And we cannot
look away from the needs of our customers. And we have to be able to offer something
more convenient to our customer, offer something that would enhance the customer
value. So that's what we are working on.

Page 15 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-09-10

So we cannot just say, I mean, this is going to happen when using this slide. But again, we
want to do this fast because we really have sense of crisis, we have to do this with a lot of
speed, faster than now. And we have to be looking into -- continuously looking into the
customers' needs and the changes in the society. So sorry for being very generic in my
answer. But yes, that's how we are managing the company. We have much closer distance
with Jon-san because we do share the same value? Yes, because the first time talked to
san, I was able to confirm our vision are quite the same. We want to eradicate accident.
And we're going to use the power of venture in our AI, IoT, to deliver insurance which
were not otherwise deliverable to certain people. So I would like you to carefully monitor
the progress, our apologies.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live
call.)

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

