Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

Sompo Holdings Inc Mid-term Management Plan and
FY2019 to FY2020 of the Plan Presentation

FINAL

Company Participants
Kengo Sakurada, President, Group CEO, Chairman & Executive Officer
Masahiro Hamada, Group CFO, Group CIO, Executive VP & Director
Michael James McGuire , CFO
Mikio Okumura, Group CSO, Executive VP & GM of Office of Group CEO & Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Director and Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Masao Muraki, Director and Senior Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Senior Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Hello. I am Kengo Sakurada of Sompo Holdings. Thank you for coming today despite your
busy schedules. Numbers for fiscal year 2019 -- I'm sorry, the mic was not on.
Numbers for fiscal year 2019 have been disclosed already last week on the 20th. So
today, I will explain mainly about our strategies in the second half of our midterm
management plan that covers fiscal years 2019 through 2020 as well as numerical
management targets.
Please turn to Page 4. The 5-year midterm management plan started in 2016. And the first
three years have passed, leaving us with 2 more years in the latter half. Looking back at
the strategies of the midterm plans set three years ago, the key points were: first, to
strengthen the superiority in each of our businesses and promote digital strategies,
enhance collaboration between businesses and to utilize our solid financials so as to
invest into growth areas that will enhance capital efficiency.
Through these measures, in the near future, we aim to evolve the quality of the group so
as to realize the theme park for security, health and well-being. And quantitatively, achieve
Page 1 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

adjusted consolidated profit in the JPY 300 billion level within adjusted consolidated ROE
of 10% or more.

FINAL

Based off our plan, we steadily implemented the strategies in the last three years. As you
can see, there are countless achievements that were made.
We were able to generate a good degree of results. Just to give some examples, on a
group-wide basis, we introduced a business owner system. And in the following year,
introduced a CxO system.
And furthermore, this fiscal year, we set up a global executive committee. We established
a global and solid governance structure comprised of a diverse range of talent.
To that end, our CFO from Sompo International is here with us today. Furthermore in the
digital field, we didn't even have a office that covers it before but we made progress by
hiring a Chief Digital Officer from outside and established a trilateral structure connecting
Tokyo that hears out the needs from each business with Silicon Valley and Tel Aviv that
searches for the latest seeds of technology.
We are already having dialogue with a number of leading players that can accelerate the
transformation of the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the respective businesses, we acquired Endurance, now SI and the overseas insurance
business and turned it into a global platform leading to international profit expansion.
As for the nursing care business, initially, the business was loss-making. But with efficiency
measures in place, we were able to make the business term positive at an early stage.
And now the business has developed so far that it is symbolical uniqueness of our Group.
Please turn to Page 6. Here is a review of the first 3-year performance. Although we
strengthened natural disaster risk control measures under the current midterm
management plan, as you know, in fiscal year 2018, there were multiple numbers of major
natural disasters, such as Typhoon # 21, Jebi, that is equivalent to a loss that only occurs
every 30 years, once every 30 years. Our performance was greatly affected by this.
On the other hand, when excluding the impact of natural disasters, record high profit and
ROE were achieved with this proof that our Group's profitability and capital efficiency are
stronger than before.
Please turn to Page 7. This slide shows a review of our respective businesses. A strategic
direction of each of the businesses differ. But as mentioned earlier, key KPIs are all
improving, as you can see.
Please turn to Page 8. Although the fundamentals of the Group is strong, we do
acknowledge that the speed of change and the external environment in last three years

Page 2 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

exceed our expectations such as the recent frequent occurrences of natural catastrophes
in both Japan and abroad. The slowdown in global economic growth and acceleration of
digitalization. And a heated M&A market. So we are exactly in the age of (inaudible) .

FINAL

From the next page onwards, I'll talk about the measures we have planned for the second
half of the midterm plan in order to overcome the sudden environmental changes and to
accelerate our companies transformation.
Please turn to Page 9. Here are the main strategies. There will be some headwinds in the
business environment during the next two years. Such as a consumption tax hike.
On the other hand, we look at the next two years to be a period during which we will
further accelerate measures that we've been working on so far and generate results and
create a solid base. So as to realize substantial growth in the next midterm onwards. So
it's a preparation period. So to say.
The challenges we face in order to make each of them our businesses and its foundations
resilient vary ranging from efficiency, growth and creating new profit sources.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is basically based on theory. However in any case, we will accelerate the
transformation of the Group heading towards what we envision.
Especially, for SJNK, the largest group company, in order to ensure that we increased
profitability compared to fiscal 2017, we will cut head count by approximately 4,000
people and integrate and consolidate our organizations.
We will optimize personnel allocation and evolve it into a group of companies that is even
more resilient.
I will elaborate on specific initiatives by business in the latter half of the presentation. On a
group-wide basis, we will aim to realize open innovation in the Group by employing digital
strategies, create synergies through collaboration amongst businesses. And through
other measures, we will strive to evolve into a resilient group.
To that end, we will also strive to transform our corporate culture so as to realize the
Group's mission, which is to create a Theme Park.
And we will do it with all of our might. Please turn to Page 10.
This page is about our digital strategy. A digital strategy, we believe, is indispensable in
order to realize our Group's transformation.
Improving productivity of existing businesses and realizing open innovation cannot be
done alone without digital. Moreover, digital is necessary to evolve existing businesses by
creating new customer touch points.
Page 3 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

We also need to be proactive in taking measures for the future, which may be just several
years ahead, such as partnering with platformers in order to prepare ourselves for a
digital disruption from other industries in the future.

FINAL

Through the trilateral structure we created, which (cheers) (out the needs from
businesses in Tokyo and searches for the latest seeds of technology through Silicon Valley
and Tel Aviv, we are confident that we can accelerate the transformation.
And in Japan, we believe this is something that is very unique to our company and
structure.
So we believe this is our competitive edge. On the next page, we talk about our ERM
strategy.
We controlled the balance of risk appropriately in the past by reducing strategic holding
stock and diversifying the Group.
In addition, due to the free current occurrence of natural disasters, we have optimized
reinsurance schemes and substantially reduced domestic natural disaster risk. So as to
stabilize performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will continue on with these measures and control the balance between both earnings
and risk, whilst we control earnings volatility.
Please turn to Page 12. This page is about governance, which is about our important
governance structure. We established a Global ExCo, a global executive committee, as
the highest conference body of execution.
We expect the Global ExCo to be a place where a diverse range of expertise can be
gathered with John Charman and Nigel Frudd participating. Having a global management
structure that is comprised of global diverse talent and not binded by past example is
critical, as the Group strives to accelerate corporate transformation.
We also simplified the reporting line and appointed John Charman as the business owner
of overseas insurance. And Nigel Frudd, as the CEO of SI.
Furthermore, the SI board members were increased so as to strengthen the effectiveness
of governance.
We believe that faster decision-making together with good governance can be both
achieved going forward. With the pending resolution of the transition to accompany with
committee structure at next month's shareholder meeting. And in Japan, we believe our
committee is going to be full-fledged, which is unique and so is our executive committee.

Page 4 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

Today, we have simultaneous interpreters available and conducting this meeting. And for
the Global ExCo for a full day even without a break at times, we run these meetings
through simultaneous interpretation. Therefore, including myself, I spoke too fast in the
past. But recently, I'm speaking slower than before and this is thanks to the simultaneous
interpretation.
So this page shows the numerical management targets for the fiscal 2020. Through our
initiatives of the second half of the midterm management plan, we aim to achieve the
adjusted consolidated profit of JPY 205 billion to JPY 215 billion and adjusted
consolidated ROE of around 8%.
In coming two years, we expect the consumption tax hike as well as the amendment of
Civil Code and the other negative external factors, including the cost increase due to the
huge natural catastrophe.

Bloomberg Transcript

But through the improvement of the productivity and optimization of the product portfolio
by optimizing and enhancing our business platform, we believe that we can offset some
of those negative external factors and make ourselves more resilient. And based on that
by building the strong business foundation, in the next midterm management plan, we
would shift gears towards the drastic growth period. What is important here is, of course,
to achieve our targets. But we would like to make it possible to achieve those targets.
And we would like to make sure that we have a good momentum and in coming two
years, I think, it is very important mission for us to do so. And our vision is to achieve JPY
300 billion in adjusted consolidated profit and adjusted consolidated ROE of 10% or
more.
So we would try to achieve those targets in early 2020s.
Next is a very important shareholder return. We've continued to realize the attractive
shareholder return and looking at the capital adequacy as far as external empowerment
and the growth investment opportunities, we made some changes. Until now, our basic
policy was to pay stable dividend, that is not to decrease the dividend. But based on the
expanding profit level, which is quite fundamental. And also based on the stable financial
platform, we decided that the basic policy of continuing to increase dividend is the new
policy.
And as for the total payout ratio, in the medium-term, our target, we said, was up 50%.
But in the coming years, 50% is going to be the minimum line and our target is now
changed to the range of 50% to 100%.
In consideration for the financial soundness as well as the growth investment
opportunities, we would like to flexibly determine the total shareholder returns. So every
term, once again, we would flexibly decide about these overall shareholder return.

Page 5 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

And of course, we will always continue to have the perspective of the investors. And we
will continue to try to expand the shareholder return.

FINAL

Next page shows the transformation of the holdings, shows the business portfolio
transformation.
And for the holding, the important thing is the business portfolio transformation. As you
can see, in this slide, in fiscal 2020, the overseas weight versus domestic weight will be
30% versus 70%. And if you look at the Sompo Holdings alone, it will be -- our target is
40%, 60%.
And when we can revision -- realize our vision, the -- each business profit would improve.
And the balance between the overseas and domestic will be 40% to 60%. And we would
like to strike the good balance.
But in the further future, it would change to 50-50, eventually and is possible that the
percentage will be reversed in the very long run.
Now towards the globalization, we will continue to pursue growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now quantitatively, as you can see, the JPY 300 billion level of the adjusted consolidated
profit and adjusted consolidated ROE of 10% or more, those are the targets.
But those are not our final goals. Qualitatively, as you -- which is more important, our
Group will go beyond the framework of the insurance business. We will make a major
transformation.
Please turn to the next page. This shows our vision. And once again, I'd like to explain this.
Our vision is to be a Theme Park of security, health and well-being of customers.
This is not just the sum of each business and services, that is the domestic P&C, overseas
insurance, domestic life insurance and nursing care & health care.
In addition to those, as a whole Group, as an integrated Group, we believe that there will
be a added value, which is unique to our holding company or Theme park.
More specifically, unified added value source would be the data strategy, I believe. So first
of all, we would like to improve the attractiveness of each business. So that more
customers will trust us. And as a result, we would like to get more data from the
customers, the private data.
And with that, we would like to bring higher added value to our customers. We'd like to
build such a scheme or system to provide such a value. And that is indeed a theme park
concept.

Page 6 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

And including the digital, we believe that we have 5 pillars. So do we obtain, or do we
have that sufficient data? Can we provide a sufficient level of the higher added value?
Probably, we need more.

FINAL

So naturally, what we have to be careful is a conglomerate discount. And we have to make
sure that we watch that very carefully.
Also if there are any businesses which are not necessary, we will call them out. And would
show from any of those businesses.
The source of our differentiation is the fact that we can to go beyond the existing
insurance business framework and to provide added value to our Group customers, as
you can see in the nursing care and the dementia area, which are unique to us to provide
added value in the area of the security, health and well-being, they are also related to the
ESG and SDGs, which will lead to the resolution of the social challenges that we are faced
with.
By gaining the trust from the society, we would like to improve our brand image as a
Theme park and increase our corporate value. In the second half of the midterm
management plan, we would like to make sure that we would realize all of this. The
following pages are -- shows each business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to Page 18. And direction of each business is different, for example, in domestic
P&C, it is profitability in one word. And in overseas business, it's the growth capability.
So they are different. But in order to outpace the environmental changes and to realize
the transformation, we would like to accelerate each initiative.
And more importantly, we would improve the profitability and try to realize sustainable
expansion of our profit.
Now this page shows the domestic P&C business, which struggled -- which were faced
with headwind of the natural disasters in fiscal 2017 and '18. In the coming two years, we
expect a consumption tax hike, which is another negative factor. But we'd like to make
sure that we realize the transformation to become more resilient and to improve the
profitability. Through the use of the digital technology, we would improve the productivity.
And we would work on the head count reduction of about 4,000 people in comparison to
fiscal 2017. We will also accelerate the streamlining of the personnel allocation and in the
area of the auto insurance and fire insurance, we work on the pricing optimization and
collaboration with the SI to make sure that we have a very appropriate level of the
underwriting business.
And as a result of this, we believe that we can improve the combined ratio. And through
the system innovation, we believe that we can improve combined ratio further.

Page 7 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

Also in terms of top line growth, we would expand the insurance products in other line
and generate the customer connectivity as well as customer experience through line
insurance and car sharing service.

FINAL

And by doing so we would like to build the foundation for business models and develop
products and launch them.
Next is Page 21. In overseas insurance business, just as domestic P&C, a business in fiscal
2017 and '18, there were many natural disasters. But the overseas insurance business
continues to be a booster for the group-wide profit growth.
We would continue to -- we would try to realize the profit growth of about 10% per year.
Now the building of platform using the Sompo International as a Sompo Global platform
has been done. And we have also reorganized our company. So SI has a very high
underwriting scale. And Sompo has a overseas license network. So (inaudible) in this, we
have been working on the global brand, that including Agri Sompo in agriculture insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

And also SomPro, which is a professional indemnity product, including D&O, or directors
and officer's liability insurance, we would accelerate those efforts.
In retail, we would also promote the platform building. Turkey, Brazil. And Asia, those
overseas retail companies can be integrated in the area of the management, HR, digital
and product. We would integrate strategies and also aggregate the knowledge and
expertise in those areas.
For example, the car insurance in Brazil, the car insurance in Indonesia and Thailand. How
they are different, what kind of strength they have, we will be able to see that very quickly.
And we would also add digital technology. So that we can find out what will be the best
way. And how we should introduce the products to different markets.
I think that no other companies has done it in the world. In addition to these organic
growth centering along the Sompo International, we will also promote (vote) on M&A. And
we will also pursue the opportunities for large-sized M&A. But most recently, valuation has
been very high. So we will be watching the status very carefully.
Page 23. So we are trying to become health and support enterprise with the domestic life
insurance. We have been increasing the policies in force and also the profit.
Last fiscal year, we introduced the Insurhealth, a product that is a combination of insurance
and health.
The income compensation insurance sales has been about JPY 8 billion. We have become
the #1 in this industry. Also in the new industry, the dementia insurance, which is the -- to
protect the mild dementia disorder, which is closely related to the nursing care business,

Page 8 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

the sales has achieved JPY 1 billion in six months. So we continue to improve the
profitability and introduce the health support function products and to realize the
sustainable growth and to try to become health support enterprise.

FINAL

There are other products launched by other companies in the area of the Insurhealth. So
we try to differentiate products since we were the first to introduce this. We have a very
strong determination in this area.
Page 25. And final page. The nursing care business is the symbol of our uniqueness as a
group. We have become the largest company in Japan. And soon after launching this
business we turned profitable. And we have been trying to grow profit by securing the
high-quality personnel in the nursing care. And also by increasing the occupancy rate. We
will be also working on the investment to improve productivity. More specifically, this
February, we opened the future care lab that is to validate and demonstrate the digital
technology. And we would try to improve the productivity in the nursing care facilities.
So for example, one nursing care helper, or care provider, taking care of 3 territories. This
1:3 ratio, if this can be increased to 1:5 without reducing the productivity, then the
profitability would dramatically increase.

Bloomberg Transcript

So for that, this could be the growth engine and the productivity improvement engine that
is indeed the digital technology.
In addition, another strength is the -- more than 100,000 users of the nursing care
services, we can utilize the data from them. And we can listen to their voice. And by
utilizing them in the nonnursing care business and the related field, for example food
business, we would like to create other sources of the profit.
So for example, the mixed type treatment or mixed type care per patient is something
that government is trying to promote to improve the productivity. And also the nursing
care industry has the labor shortage. So how to take advantage of the non-Japanese
workers, another possibility.
So in Japan, of course, that if we have any problem and this industry collapses in Japan,
that would lead to the major social issue. And a stronger belief that the current prime
minister believes that this industry is extremely important.
So once again, we would like to increase the presence of this business inside the group.
And also continue to differentiate ourselves, which can be the core of the security, health
and well-being.
The following pages are the stock price and investment in ERM. And we worked these out
for your reference. And we will continue to work on all of those areas. And please refer to
them later. And with that, I would like to end my presentation. Thank you for your
attention.

Page 9 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Thank you very much, Mr. Sakurada. Now as usual, we'd like to move on to Q&A. When
you'll ask a question, we will bring the mic to you. So please let us know your affiliation as
well as your name. Now does anyone have a question?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

Natsumu Tsujino from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. (Audio Gap). My first
question is about Page 14, total payout ratio, 50% to 100% is what you stated. So it's a
wider range. I have questions from various points of views. I'm hoping that I could get a
more specific range. If natural disasters are in line. And apart from that, there are no
surprise elements or factors, what are you assuming? That's one question. And the other
question is, originally as of last year, you were saying that you might review your -- the way
of thinking. So I'm sure there is a lot of thought processes underpinning this. But in the
other 2 companies with regards to sales gains of SOX, they were put into adjusted profit
and that will be funding the shareholder return. So in your definition that's probably not
included. So you will account for something else. I think that was your message before. So
now you are communicating at this point on in your slides in abstract way and on a net
basis, JPY 60 billion is the level of sales gains you are anticipating. And you had some
additional provisioning last year. So that would be JPY 100 billion, which might fluctuate.
But how are these factors being accounted for in this target number?

A - Kengo Sakurada

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Miss Tsujino, thank you very much for your question. With regards to shareholder return,
the CFO will answer your question.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

My name is Hamada. First of all, 50% to 100% was the revised target we raised. It was
medium-term 50% that we communicated before. However, if there were large
acquisitions, for example, it was 50% in 2016. So the total payout ratio of 58% was a
strong mindset that management had in the past.
To that end, now we have set 50% as the minimum line. So we have progressed.
The backdrop to this, there are 2 factors. One of them is it goes back to environmental
changes that Mr. Sakurada was referring to it.
Globally, the M&A market is pretty heated. And the prices are surging. So globally, the
trend is to focus more on shareholder return these days.
For our company, of course, for large M&As, we continue to have a strong appetite. Of
course, we would like to be disciplined. For the next two years, under the current midterm
management plan, I pretty much believe that there aren't tremendous opportunities for
this kind of large acquisition to happen. And we are not accounting for that either.
Page 10 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

If that is the case, ESR, the ceiling is now visible. And if there are no M&As, what kind of
stance are we going to adopt? Compared to the conventional 50%, we wanted to show
something that was more act-proactive and forward-looking. The second backdrop -- the
second factor to this change was because looking at our competition, the definition of the
funds for shareholder return was different.
Of course, we had discussions internally. Our point of view is that as always the -- not
returning the sales gains from strategic stock holdings but to expand profits from making
business investments and by growing our profit we would like to fund our shareholder
return program.
With IFRS now visible, we are not going to change our standpoint on that under the
current midterm plan.
However, whether it be investors or competition, when it comes to total payout ratio and
total yields, we are looking at where people are. And we would like to be flexible and
strive for attractive shareholder return on our part.

Bloomberg Transcript

So although I went on for a little bit long time, that was the backdrop. And to answer your
question, Tsujino-san, for a fiscal year where nothing happens, no large M&As and normal
natural disasters and profits at normal levels. And no market turmoil. With regards to how
much we are going to return back to shareholders, it's probably not going to be 50%. If
it's 50%, what I just mentioned and communicated would be wrong. So it won't be 50%.
But specifying the exact amount would be hard to do right now.
However, 6.5% of total return yields is one of the benchmarks we have in place at a JPY
4,000 plus in shareholder price. Total return would be a 53% payout ratio. But if stock
prices go up to JPY 4,500, it would be 59%. So those are the things we will benchmark
against. And those are the things we consider against.
Whatever the case may be for the next two years, where the M&A market is heated, I
talked about the backdrop based on the current market conditions. But then after and
then -- in next midterm management plan, we would like to communicate a different
perspective if necessary with regards to how we fund shareholder returns and so forth.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

You were saying 6.5% for total return yields? You're targeting that?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

6.5% is what we believe is expected from the market.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

And you think that, that is okay and fine? Is that the right way to interpret that?

Page 11 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

FINAL

Of course. Profits, stock prices will make that number change. There's a lot of variables.
So of course, if we can pay more, that would be an option as well.
What I just said about 53% and 59% payout ratio, I am just talking hypothetically. I'm not
saying that, at this point in time, this is what we're going to do. That's not what I'm saying.
Thank you, Tsujino-san.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Now moving onto the next question.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. (technical difficulty) I have 2 questions. First is about the
domestic P&C. The 4,000 head count reduction was mentioned.

Bloomberg Transcript

So ultimately, the reduction by 4,000 -- in terms of the cost reduction impact, how much
would that be? And what is the timeframe of reducing the head count by 4,000? And
about the scheme, is it early retirement or attrition, the relocation to the subsidiaries?
How do you plan to realize this head count reduction?
The second question is on Page 15, that is the second half of the medium-term
management plan. On the right-hand side, you have a diagram, chart. And this is the -here it says that early 2020s is the timing to realize your vision. And could you explain the
background of coming up with these numbers. And what are the missing pieces in order
to realize this vision?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Thank you. First of all, some project (inaudible), the head count reduction, in comparison
to 2017, by the end of 2020, the reduction of 4,000 is our plan.
Originally, in fiscal 2014, in September, we had a major merger. And at that time, certain
level of reduction or reorganization was done.
But still, or at least in comparison to our competitors, still we have too many people. So in
our view -- so it's attrition, that is to say that by adjusting the number of the new recruits
and without having the voluntary retirement, or early retirement, we believe that we can
achieve the reduction of 4,000. So for example, we -- what we call channel innovation to
improve the productivity of the distributors, agencies and also introduction of the (RPA)
and AI. And the -- reviewing the work style or work-style reform. And through those
efforts, a reduction of 4,000 will be done.
And at the same time, the major improvement of the productivity we have been investing
in systems. And the impact or the effect of that will appear in the next midterm
management plan.

Page 12 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

So those are the major things that we're considering right now. In terms of the Yen value,
in fiscal 2020, about JPY 10 billion or more is expected. And of course, there'd be the
coming and going. So ultimately, the number would be bigger than that.
As to your second question -- sorry, early 2020s, that is 6% that we used. And since the
beginning of the fiscal 2016 beginning of the midterm management plan, we used this
expression. And we have done various simulation. And based on all of those, we are using
this term early 2020. So no changes made, in fact.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Next person please?

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I also have a question about shareholder return. I'm Muraki from Deutsche Securities.

Bloomberg Transcript

For shareholder return, when you think about it, those two years. And I think this is
transitional. However on Page 14, in the part that's in green, with regards to ESR, how
should we -- how did you discuss about the relationship between ESR and shareholder
returns?
You are in the upper part of the range. And the more it goes up in your target level, does
that mean that your return ratio is going to increase? Or is that not relevant for the next
two years? The next midterm plan, you probably are intending to conduct a major M&A,
which means that you need to accumulate capital to a certain extent at the same time. So
that is my first question for you.
My second question is on Page 11, bottom right, with regards to reinsurance program and
policy. So short term, medium to long-term, I'd like to hear your thoughts about both
phases. As of end of 2018, you reduced your risk. And that's what you explained. But for
this fiscal year, JPY 15 billion -- close to JPY 15 billion worth of reinsurance cost increase is
what you are anticipating. So for reinsurance compared to last year, are you doing more
coverage for reinsurance or not?
And are you doing a 2-year contract and over the mid; to long term for fire insurance
underwriting and reinsurance policies, when you are not able to see decent ROE for the
next five years, it probably wouldn't be good ROR. And if your insurance cost is cheap, are
you going to assume a certain level or if cost were to increase and if you consider that
risk, are you going to do something about it from an underwriters point of view? So can
you give me your mid; to long-term perspective as well with regards to reinsurance.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your question. First of all, it's about shareholder return in ESR and
its relationship. I talked about 2 backdrops earlier. And one of them exactly is response to
your question. For the next two years, as a possibility, there isn't a large possibility to

Page 13 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

conduct a large M&A, which means that every year, several percentage points of ESR
increase is expected, meaning the ceiling of 250% will be close.
If I were to say, we are striving to be a Lean company. Of course we need to make future
business investments but we would like to first think about capital efficiency. And when
necessary, we would like to have capital available. But for the rest, we would like to do
active shareholder return, that is our thought process. So if there is no M&A, ESR will go
up. And if ESR goes up, that would mean that we will do shareholder return that is higher
than 50% when it comes to payout ratio.
For reinsurance, as you know, as for last fiscal year, for the reinsurance policies that we
were hit, there were some price increases but we became creative trying to control that
with regards to coverage.
If there are major cases, like in the case of last fiscal year, reinsurance is something that
we try to make more efficient by being creative and as a result, whether we made other
coverage greater, then smaller, which led to higher reinsurance cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

With regards to domestic natural catastrophes, the majority affected the retail policies. So
underwriting wise, rather than controlling underwriting, it's more about the reinsurance
strategies and pricing strategies, which is the core part of our measures. So in the future,
if reinsurance starts to become challenging, we will focus and try to do something around
pricing. That concludes my remarks.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I'm sorry. I have a technical follow-up. So JPY 15 billion increase in reinsurance cost.
Beginning of your plan last year, are you saying this in comparison to your beginning of the
year plan or is this in comparison to actuals?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

It's a matter of how we account for reinstatement insurance. It includes it and when you
compare it with actuals last fiscal year, we are seeing more.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. Next question.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Wataru Otsuka from JPMorgan Securities. On Page 15, I have 2 questions. First, the
confirmation of my understanding. So there is a plan for 2020 and also the vision for the
early 2020s.
In your presentation, early 2020s, or I just said consolidated profit of JPY 300 billion is
unchanged. But as Mr. Sakurada said, if the environment --well, the environment are
changing very quickly. And there are some headwind. And based on those factors, timing

Page 14 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

of achieving those targets, why are they -- is it not changed. As you said, the reduction of
the head count or introduction of the digital technology investment into the digital
technology. With those, are you saying that you'd be able to achieve those targets same
as before? So just a confirmation on that.
On the same slide about the Overseas business. In the middle and on the right-hand side,
the Overseas consolidated profit is now changing to JPY 60 billion to JPY 120 billion. So
you mentioned that the M&A, price of the valuation is high right now. So in coming five
years, say, achieving the early 2020 targets, that's we have but with JPY 60 billion, I
believe that you consider some possibility of a major M&A. So does that mean that
adjusted consolidated profit come down because of that?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Thank you for that. Now as for the inhibitor of the growth. And of course, there are always
those negative factors. But potential positive factors, for example, the frequency of the
natural disaster becoming less, or as you mentioned, the interest rate or other financial
market, the M&A market might change. That is to say that the current overheated market
might come down.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it is not always the case that it's not all of them are downside pressure. So -- but we
don't know which way it would go. So why we reducing from JPY 300 billion to JPY 280
billion? I cannot explain it. But since we've said that those are the targets, we would like to
achieve them.
As I mentioned in regardless of the environment, achieving targets is something that we
need to commit to. But we're not saying that we should not deviate by JPY 1 or so. Rather,
if we exceed the timing, say, that the losing the sustainability or losing our capability, that
should not happen. So it's not just a nominal number. But rather how we achieve those
targets, or how do we build those businesses and what would happen in the future. So it
is not just a technical discussion. But looking at, for example, the GAFA market valuations,
we wonder why their valuations are so high.
So in the nonlife insurance, we are still quite rigid. I'm not criticizing you people but in that
sense, the insurance business, of course, is our core business. But in the future, what
would happen in the future, we would like to show that to you. And we would like to make
it convincing to you. So that you might change the valuation.
So that's one of our challenges. So JPY 300 billion is the target that we would like to
achieve. And sorry, we say early 2020. But if it is achieved in 2025, that's not early 2020.
So that should be earlier than that.
And also Mr. Okumura, our CSO can touch upon that. So we are (not) going to go below
those numbers. Mr. Okumura, the CSO can make a comment.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Page 15 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

As for the overseas business in early 2020s, Hamada-san, mentioned that we were doing
a lot of simulations. So 2020, JPY 59 billion and the JPY 65 billion or more in 2020. That is
-- those are the commitment and Mike McGuire is here with us from SI.
So clearly, the rate up -- organic growth are incorporated. And in addition to that, both on
opportunity if it emerges, we will acquire or conduct a merger. And if there is an
opportunity aside from that, the major M&A, if there is an opportunity, we would like to
pursue that.
But through the steady growth, we believe that we can achieve those numbers. So we're
not saying that those numbers cannot be achieved without the major M&A. But of course,
there is -- if there is an opportunity since the environment is changing so rapidly, building
the more resilient business portfolio is important. And if there is an opportunity, we are
interested in M&A. So maybe Mike can talk about the SI and other business situation.

A - Michael James McGuire

{BIO 15329889 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okumura-san, with respect to the overseas businesses, we are achieving good organic
growth in the businesses within Sompo International. We have been achieving very strong
double-digit growth in premiums over the last several years. And as we look ahead
through the early 2020s, we expect to continue to generate roughly 10% organic growth
and premiums and profitability.
And that is based on our ability to achieve rate increases in the market, which we've been
achieving now for the past two years as well as from the significant investments that we
have been making in our underwriting capabilities globally with a particular focus in the
United States markets as well as the international markets through our London operation.
The rate increases that we are achieving so far this year are in line with our plan. Our plans
have assumed about a 6.5% rate increase across our insurance businesses. So far through
the end of April, our rate increases have been closer to 9% across our portfolio of
insurance business. So we're tracking little bit ahead of plan in terms of our ability to get
rate on our insurance business.
Reinsurance has been a little bit slower to catch up. But we have seen our reinsurance
business pick up at our January renewals for reinsurance, pricing was about flat. However,
at the April renewals, which was a lot of the domestic Japanese buyers of reinsurance, we
saw that business as an overall basis price up mid; to high single digits.
The next key renewal date that we're right in the middle of is June 1, which is when U.S.
hurricane exposures renew. We are expecting double-digit rate increases in our
reinsurance business for Florida hurricane and U.S. hurricane-exposed businesses. And so
we are taking advantage of those rate increases in our portfolio. So to add on to the
comments that my colleagues have made, we are seeing strong rate opportunities that
are additive to the strong organic growth that we are achieving in our business from
investments in people and technology to build our platform.

Page 16 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

We are also benefiting in the overseas businesses from the synergy with Sompo Holdings
Group. And the balance sheet strength of Sompo Holdings, the global licenses that
Sompo Holdings has as well as the underwriting opportunities and talent that Sompo
International has are providing great opportunities for global expansion. We are able to
offer Sompo International products to Sompo's Japanese client base. That has been a
unique area of growth for Sompo.
We've launched several global products, Sompo professional liability, AgriSompo, that
provide unique underwriting capability from Sompo International to the global client base
of Sompo Holdings. Those have all been very effective ways for us to accelerate the
growth of the overseas businesses. And the fact that we are now achieving very solid rate
increases across almost every line of business that we are in, gives us greater confidence
in our ability to achieve the percentage growth in premiums and profitability for the
overseas businesses.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Next person please.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Majima from Tokai Tokyo Research Center.
At the meeting in the second half, you were talking about auto insurance and autonomous
driving as well as sharing economy. With regards to car sharing, you established a JV with
DeNA, why did you pick DeNA as a partner is my first question? And why is it a JV? So I'd
like to hear about the reason why.
And also for autonomous driving, if you were to partner with a company, I believe, it's
probably going to be someone like Nissan with regards to sharing data and so forth. Of
course, developing the product itself is going to be far ahead. But you have to basically
prepare. So for Nissan, they have a lot of things on their side happening as well. So for
autonomous driving and product development, together with Nissan, are you already
having some talks with them? So that's a question I'm curious to hear about.
My second question goes back to Sompo International. Looking at last fiscal year casualty,
property, marine, the traditional primary insurance business was growing and as well as
specialty insurance as well, such as the professional liability and so forth. But for
agriculture insurance, although there was growth in the second half, I believe, the growth
rates were not that high according to my impression, that is. So for this fiscal year, for
specialty lines, compared to casualty and property traditional lines, are you expecting that
specialty lines are going to grow more this fiscal year? So those are my 2 questions.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

So for the first question, I would like to take your question. So why DeNA? It's because our
visions matched. So DeNA, originally, had a car-sharing business in place. And the
philosophy we both had matched. Therefore, we decided to establish a joint venture
company.
Page 17 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

Our aim and target under this new company is to expand profit in the C2C car-sharing
business, of course. But what we are ultimately aiming for is to respond to social changes
through insurance, not only insurance. But in order to sell insurance the way that customer
touch points should be and the way insurance should be sold is something we would like
to research into through this venture.
As for autonomous driving, I can't really talk about with whom we're talking to, specifically
by name. But there is a company called Tier IV which was already disclosed in our press
release, that was successful in autonomous driving systems on public roads already based
off their tests. And also there is a company that does high precision 3D mapping in
simulators, which is a company called AISAN TECHNOLOGY. We're engaged in a
partnership with these entities.
So autonomous driving, when it comes to Level 5, that level is not visible yet. However, for
Level 4, within a certain specific area, the realization of Level 4 is now somewhat in view.
So solutions in this area is something that we would like to create in this trilateral
partnership. And in autonomous driving, we would like to think about how insurance
should be and how customer touch points should be. So that's what we're trying to learn
through these partnerships.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael James McGuire

{BIO 15329889 <GO>}

Regarding Sompo International, the specialty business is comprised of a number of
different parts. Firstly starting with agriculture insurance. If you look at our segmentation,
that business is our U.S.-based agriculture insurance business. We are among the largest
U.S. federally sponsored crop insurance companies in the U.S. That is a very mature
market. We have a stable market share in that business. And that's one that the growth
rate is really a factor of does the industry grow or not in the United States. And as I said,
the U.S. is a very mature stable market and premium levels, that really have only
fluctuated based on the underlying changes in commodity prices.
So the growth that was targeted or that was mentioned in the question was relatively flat.
And that's consistent with what happened to the overall premiums available in the United
States, federally sponsored crop insurance business.
The other part of our business that where I would include AgriSompo's expansion in, is
within our reinsurance business where we provide our global agriculture products. And If
you look at the specialty reinsurance line of business within Sompo International, that is an
area that has shown substantial growth.
Part of that has been driven by the AgriSompo expansion in combination with our U.S.based agriculture insurance business. We've now been able to offer global agriculture
products as well as weather-derivative products, with both of those fall into our Specialty
Reinsurance business. So you may not see the details in the line of business splits. But we
have seen some growth opportunity within SI from that perspective.
As I look ahead, we're expecting, as I said, roughly high single-digit to 10% growth in gross
written premiums over the next year and into the future. A significant portion of that -Page 18 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

about 2/3 of that, would come from our insurance businesses, in particular, our U.S.
insurance business, which consist of some 25-plus different product lines across property,
casualty, specialty, professional liability, aviation, other lines of business.
We are expecting a reasonable growth from those areas, both from the investments that
we've made to bring that underwriting capability into our company. But also from the
ability of our teams to achieve rate increases. And as I said earlier, we are achieving at or
above plan rate increases across all the lines of business that we're targeting.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

Sato from Mizuho Securities. I have 2 questions. First is a kind of repetitive question on
Page 15, JPY 300 billion, the pie chart. The timeframe you mentioned has not been
changed but the breakdown for three years ago, did it change from three years ago? The
domestic P&C was I think 50%. And life insurance was about 20%. And overseas was 25%
also. So the -- since that those percentages have changed. But the early -- the midterm
management plan period, how your way of thinking changed?
And the second question is about the overseas, aside from SI that is in Asia, the emerging
businesses. So other mega P&C company, they say that there is a great growth potential.
So in your case, those businesses or in Asia or that region, what are your thinking? Could
you tell us what you're thinking about that kind of region?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Yes. To your first question, we do not -- that the portfolio has changed that much. But the
fact is that the major -- excluding the major M&A, we have conducted various simulation
about the future. And those are the percentage that we assume right now. But of course,
this is about the future. So of course, there are a lot of question whether they can be
realized and if a major M&A, occurs the portfolio could change.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

About the overseas, known as SI business, yes, the emerging market grows. We will try to
make a growth And in the retail, in SI, we consolidated that. So we create a retail platform,
as it was presented, underwriting know-how. And rating know-how and supporting digital
technology, the nation's regulation and also there is a regulation about the product. But if
we can integrate or unify some part of it. And if we can emulate or learn from the best
practices related to do it. And we're currently making a preparation for that.
So emerging market growth, we are likely to achieve at the similar level of the growth of
the emerging market economies.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

As for the capital or investment, I'm sure that it's difficult to say about the prioritization
that developed nations and emerging nations. What would be the breakdown, the
different weight?

Page 19 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

FINAL

Well as of now, it's still high. I'm not in a position to make comment about the other
companies but the PBR, if there is a probability which can justify the PBR, the China, India,
Indonesia, there are a lot of confusion in the world.
So PBR in 10 years, 20 years, 2.5x, 3x. Saying those, I don't know, whether we can say
them or just generally speaking, of course, if we can find a great company and bind a
company's story. But well, we have not had that kind of opportunity.
So in terms of the capital allocation, organic growth is not sufficient. And probably, we
have to have a high adequacy ratio. That kind of requirement, will be demanded from the
major shareholder and the consolidation will continue in the developed nations. So M&A
momentum still remains.
So the problem is whether we have sufficient capital. As you've said in terms of
prioritization, probably, we are still prioritizing the developed nations. But it's not up to me.
At the global executive committee, we have to have a thorough discussion and has to be
decided at BoD. But my impression is exactly that. So uncertainties are mounting.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Citigroup Securities. Niwa is my name. So I have a question around shareholder return as
well as your management strategy. For shareholder return, I'm sorry, I'm very short term in
my question. But with regards to flexibility, can you realize that through share
repurchases?
When there is a possibility that M&A opportunities are going to be low, you were saying
that you'll focus on shareholder returns. However, if you wanted to be agile, that's hard to
realize during that given fiscal years. So I was wondering if share repurchases would be an
option?
And my second question is with regards to your vision of turning into a theme park in the
near future. As you are about to realize this vision already, I think it's now time to compare
yourselves against competition. But what would be your viewpoint when you do this
comparison?
Then over the mid to long term, I think you're talking about 2045 this year. So in 2045, are
you putting together this presentation by having this vision in mind because when you
look at the insurance business, it might be highly functional and highly profitable. However,
I was wondering your viewpoint is about this?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

For shareholder return, with regards to agility, we might be using this in the wrong way.
But agility in our definition is, we used to raise a payout ratio target of 50%. And that was
the focus. And that was where our management was committing themselves to. And of
course, we don't know what's going to happen in the next 12 months. There is M&A
Page 20 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

opportunities, there may be nat cat. And there's going to be rate increases for fire
insurance and some things may happen in association to that.

FINAL

But in accordance with what happens, we would like to offer shareholder return that fits
with the situation we're in by the end of the year. So that's what I mean by being agile.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

So you asked a very grand question. But I've always thought about that question and
there is no one correct answer, I believe. And if you know the answer, I would like to know.
With regards to comparing with who, why are -- do we have a vision of turning it into a
theme park? It's because each of the rides, the dining places. And so forth. So to say, are
not just simply added together to comprise a theme park.
For example, Disneyland is a typical example I give. They have jet coasters, not a Ferris
wheel. But they have other rides, they have restaurants. And so forth. It might have been
fun. It's something may have been delicious. You may have met Mickey Mouse. So it's not
like 1 plus 1 plus 2 plus something equals 5. And there is 5 pieces of value. It's more about
the comprehensive value it's able to generate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Like I've spoke about from before. So Disney World is something that's conceptual. And
they turned Disney World into something that's tangible, visible. It's not about those
physical values. But it's the experience value of Disneyland World that generates value for
their customers.
Sompo, the P&C business, offers a certain value. The life insurance business generates a
certain value and digital does this. Overseas business offers value as well. If you just add
the pieces together, it's just going to be a consolidated balance sheet or a consolidated
P&L. That's not what we're striving for.
Theme parks, going back to my example, are places where data is important. So when
you change perspective, going forward, data is going to be a value. So information banks
are ( joho ginko), when that goes to market, I'm very curious to hear how much of a price
are they going to be able to generate. But data is oil. That's what people are saying about
data these days.
But not many players are able to monetize data yet. Of course, GAFA is, to a certain
extent. But they are being criticized as well. So being able to offer solutions based off
data, if we're able to do that, it should generate substantial value. People, kind of
understand that. And that's why people are making a big fuss over data these days. If
that's the case, if we had a theme park called Sompo Land, it will be a treasure trove of
data.
For people that are 65 years and above. And if they cause accidents, the damage that
they caused is accumulated as data. We know what -- how they spent their day and there
are similar people. And we know how they behave in nursing care homes, for example. So
there's various pieces of data available. And we have that as real data. 20 million people
Page 21 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

FINAL

for auto insurance, for nursing care. It's already 100,000 people worth of real data that
we have.
However, of course, personal information needs to be cleansed before it is utilized. Of
course, we will build trust with our customers but the solutions that we are able to
generate based of data, we may be able to address dementia as a segment and also
diabetes. We may be able to offer solutions in those segments. I think there is a good
possibility of that happening. For dementia, there is pessimism around drug discovery at
this point in time. But there are a lot of people who have not acquired -- adopted
dementia. though they have a lot a of beta-amyloid.
So because we have an insurance business, because we have a nursing care business,
because we have digital, including accidents, we have a lot of cases available at our
disposal. So that's what why believe this is an opportunity. But we can't realize everything
in two years' time. So I believe we will start to see the theme park concept manifest in the
next midterm management plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

For 2045, that's a harder question, before there's 2025. And then there is October 1,
when consumption tax hikes are going to happen. So I think we're talking of singularity for
the year 2045. Whether it happens or not, with regards to the function of insurance, I
wonder if that's going to actually exist or not, even for banking as well because there is
fierce digital disruption happening. Maybe the definition of vehicles will change as well. But
wisdom of people, emotion of people are going to remain.
And it's a matter of whether we can coexist with artificial intelligence. So AI as well as
gene analytics are going to be important as well as from a trade point of view, 3D
computers. So 3D computers may send things to other countries without the actual
physical product moving.
So I don't want to actually think about what may be happening to insurance companies by
that time. But the notion of that casting, to your point, I believe, is important. So the
question you asked is something that I would like to remember and think about going
forward.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Any other questions? No? Now it concludes this meeting. Thank you
very much for joining us today.
(Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live
call.)

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
Page 22 of 23



personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-28

Page 23 of 23

