Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer CFO
Philipp Gmur, Chief Executive Oﬃcer CEO
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer CIO

Other Participants
Frank Kopﬁnger
Jonny Urwin
Kevin Ryan
Peter Eliot
Rene Locher

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Philipp Gmur
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our Analysts Conference and the Results of the 2018
Financial Year. I'm pleased to welcome you here today at MoneyPark's oﬃces in Zurich.
I'm going to explain to you why we have chosen this venue, when we go into the agenda.
Within the next 45 minutes, we would like to give you detailed information on our
business development and the key ﬁnancials of the reporting period. Following my
introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton will go through the ﬁnancial ﬁgures. Then I would like
to give you an update on the implementation of our strategy Helvetia 2020.
After my presentation, Paul Norton and I, as well as our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Ralph
Honegger will be pleased to answer your questions as always. For those of you who are
here in Zurich, we have then prepared two concrete use cases to show how our strategy is
being implemented. Together with Martin Tschopp, our Head of Corporate Development;
Stefan Heitmann, CEO MoneyPark; and Pierre Ocampo Piano [ph], CEO Smile. We want
to present our vision and the current status of the "Home" ecosystem and the innovative
oﬀerings of Smile, our own digital insurance company. That's why we meet here, where
the business is going on and not in a ﬁve-star hotel as usual.
On Slide 4, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main performance
indicators. Paul will give you detailed information on the developments of these ﬁgures
later on. For the 2018 ﬁnancial year, Helvetia reports pleasing growth in business volume,
very good underwriting results in Non-life and a solid proﬁt. In 2018, we achieved a
business volume at group level of just over CHF9 billion. On a currency adjusted basis,
this represents an increase of 3.9%. The main growth driver was Non-Life business, which
achieved almost 6% higher premiums year-on-year.
Page 1 of 18



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

The European units, as well as the market units Active Reinsurance signiﬁcantly
contributed to this pleasing growth. In Life business, the business volume increased by
2.1% in original currency. This was mainly driven by higher volumes in investment linked
products in Switzerland and in Germany and by the Swiss group life business. Here,
periodic premium in the occupational pension business increased by 4%, particularly
noteworthy is the development of new business in this area. A signiﬁcantly large number
of customers choose the so-called semi-autonomous solution from Swisscanto. Those
products might give the customers more upside potential regarding the interest yield on
their savings. At the same time, those products are much more capital eﬃcient for
Helvetia. At CHF 431 million, the IFRS result after-tax was above the IFRS result of CHF 400
million in 2017, but below the respective underlying earnings of CHF 502 million in 2017.
The main reason for this was the weaker performance of stock markets, which was
reﬂected in both Non-life and Life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Non-life business, the quality of the portfolio is very good overall, as reﬂected by the
solid net combined ratio of 91%. All segments were able to improve the net combined
ratio year-on-year. I'm also pleased with the development of new business in life. The new
business margin remains stable compared to 2017 and stands at 1.7%. Both in terms of
combined ratio and new business margin, we continue to meet our targets for the current
strategy period.
Helvetia continues to have a solid capital base and the strong dividends capacity. Our
strong positioning in combination with our proﬁtable growth strategy creates added value
for our shareholders. Due to the robust operating cash production of CHF 290 million, the
Board of Directors will propose to this year's shareholders meeting to increase dividend
by CHF1 to CHF24, which gives an attractive dividend yield of 4.2%. Aside from
Switzerland, the European entities as well as specialty markets also contribute to the
group dividends. Above all, we are also making good progress in implementing our
strategy. I will come back to this later in the second part of my presentation.
With that, I would like to hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now provide you
with the most important information about the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome you to our
analysts conference today. Within the next 25 minutes, I will give you more detailed
information on our ﬁnancial performance in 2018. I would like to start with Slide 6. We
achieved a solid IFRS result of CHF 431 million against underlying earnings of CHF 502
million in 2017. As in the ﬁrst half of the year, the full-year results was also impacted by the
ongoing bond amortization to par, which is a pure accounting eﬀect from the 2014
acquisitions. The bond amortizations amounted to CHF 16.4 million in 2018, after
policyholder participation and tax, and the main reason for the low results was
exceptional volatility in the equity markets at the end of the year.
Our technical results remain very strong indeed. I'd like to turn to Slide 7 with more details
on the business areas. In the Non-life business, IFRS earnings amounted to CHF 332
million, against CHF 363 million underlying earnings in 2017. While the technical results
Page 2 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

improved signiﬁcantly compared to the previous year, the decrease was mainly driven by
investment result. We will have a closer look at the Non-Life proﬁts by source in a few
minutes on Slide 10.
IFRS earnings of the Life business stood at CHF 148 million. In addition to a number of
other eﬀects [ph], in particularly impact the lower investment returns. The amortization of
bonds, I mentioned before had a negative impact of CHF 12 million after tax and
policyholder participation. I'll provide you with details on the income streams on Slide 12
later. The result from other activities, which includes the corporate center, the noninsurance activities in markets systems such as MoneyPark and Deﬀerrard & Lanz, slightly
increase compared to 2017. The rise can mainly be attributed to consolidation eﬀects from
the funds allocated to this segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will have a more detailed look on the proﬁt sources on Slide 15. Let's turn to the
segment results from Slide 8. All segments delivered good results, despite the impact of
the ﬁnancial markets. In the Switzerland segment, the IFRS result for 2018 was CHF 321
million. This includes a total of CHF 14 million of bond amortization, net to the tax and
policyholder participation. In the Non-life business, we achieved a technical result
compared to the previous year, which once more underpinned the good quality of the
portfolio. Investment result however, was impacted by the weak performance of the stock
markets.
In the Life business, lower expenses interest rated, reserve strengthening, and lower
expense is a policyholder participation, only partly compensated for a reduced technical
result margin after costs and signiﬁcantly lower gains on investments. The ongoing
amortization of bonds to par has an additional negative impacts of nearly CHF 12 million
after tax and policyholder participation. This segment result for Europe, which comprises
the market units in Germany, Italy, Spain, Austria amounted to CHF 117 million, against
CHF 120 million underlying earnings in 2017. In Non-life, the improved technical result is
oﬀsetting a weaker investment result.
In Life, lower expenses for interest related additional reserve strengthening, as well as
lower expenses rate policyholders participation, only partly compensated for a lower
technical result, and considerably lower investment results. This segment result for
specialty markets increased to CHF 35 million. The improvement was due to a better
technical performance, as the last year was aﬀected by NatCat events, EGHAM storms,
which more than oﬀset the lower investment result. The corporate segment includes the
corporate functions and group reinsurance. In addition to the ﬁnancing companies and
the holding company. It's slightly improved result of CHF 42 million beneﬁted from
positive consolidation eﬀects from the funds allocated to this segment.
I'll continue with our growth in business volume on Slide 9. In 2018, Helvetia group
achieved a business volume of just over CHF 9 billion. This equates to a currency adjusted
increase of 3.9% over the previous year. In the Non-life business, we achieved increasing
premium volume of 5.8% in original currency. The growth was mainly diﬀerent by active
reinsurance, where premiums increased by 25.6% in line with our strategy. In addition, the
European entities achieved 6.8% higher premiums year-on-year in original currency
showing growth in all countries and all lines of business.
Page 3 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

In our Swiss home market, we are able to increase premiums eﬀectively by 2.4%,
compared to the 9.5% of quarter growth, which was distorted due to one-oﬀ accounting
adjustment in 2018.
In the Life business, businesses volume rose by 2.1% in original currency. The increase was
mainly driven by a very good development of investment linked products, individual Life
in Switzerland and Germany. Business volume for traditional Life products decreased in
line with our strategy. That said, also recorded growth in the Group-Life business, which
can mainly be attributed to Swiss group life business rising by 2.4%. Periodic premiums
increase of 4%, the occupational pension business was satisfactory. Single premiums rose
by 0.9%, which shows that we are still pursuing conservative underwriting in the
occupational pension business, in view of the low interest rate environment.
Tricky [ph] noteworthy however is the development of new business. In this area, capitaleﬃcient products examples Swisscanto and BVG [ph] invest showed signiﬁcant growth
over the previous year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, I'd like to look at the proﬁt by sources of an Non-life business on Slide 10. In 2018,
the technical result improves signiﬁcantly over the previous year, due to better claims
environment in the second half of the year and higher volumes. Investment result net
however decreased by 47%, compared to 2017, it was therefore the major driver for the
total decrease in net income. While 2017 was exceptionally good year for the stock
markets, and 2018 equities declined signiﬁcantly.
I would now like to move to the net combined ratio on Slide 11. Group net combined ratio
was 91% in 2018, which is exceptionally good level and once again underpins the good
quality of our portfolio. It also wants more meets our ﬁnancial strategy target of a net
combined ratio below 93%. The claims ratio improved by one percentage point to 61.1%,
the main reason was a better net claim ratio, as I said earlier if you remember last year we
had quite a signiﬁcant impact from the Hurricanes Harvey, Emma and Maria, as well as a
better additional claims development.
Looking at the cost ratio, we were able to reduce the admin cost ratio by 0.4 percent
points. The acquisition cost ratio was higher year-on-year, the increase resulted from
opening up new distribution channels and new cooperation agreements.
On a segment level, Switzerland showed an improvement combined ratio of 82.7%,
thanks to better attritional claims development and better run-oﬀ. With 95.1%, Europe also
recorded a better net combined ratio compared to 2017. The improvement was also
attributed to good attritional lost trends. All European markets achieved combined ratios
below 100%. In specialty market segment, the net combined ratio improved to 96.2%,
driven by a lower claims ratio, as the last year was badly aﬀected by the higher NatCat
events.
On Slide 12, we'll have a closer look at the Life business. In 2018, net income for the Life
business was CHF 25 million, below the prior year's ﬁgures. Looking at the proﬁt by
sources, the margin after costs decreased. First, it should be positively emphasized that
Page 4 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

the sea result increased compared to 2017, all be it as a low level. All of our proﬁts sources
however declined. Decrease in the savings result was driven predominantly by Swissgrid
life business, as to manage the interest rates for (inaudible) assets remained unchanged
or market yields declined. Below risk result was also mainly resulted from Swiss group life
business as a consequence of a poor mortality result in the ﬁrst half a year.
In addition, we had a positive one oﬀ eﬀect in Individual-Life business in the previous
year, arising from the Nationale Suisse Integration. The other result was impacted by
ﬂuctuations in the valuation of options for investment link products, over the lifetime of
the products these ﬂuctuations will even themselves out. It should also be emphasized
that in the savings result, this is where the amortization of the bonds comes through, so
you can see a minus CHF 14 million eﬀectively to the minus CHF 16 [ph] million which will
impact that aﬀect their fellow result. The gains and losses is decreased due to the poor
stock market performance, the extraordinary result was aﬀected by the following eﬀects.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a result of the persistently low interest rate environment, additional interest rate related
to reserve strengthening was necessary in Switzerland and in Europe, although on a lower
level compared to the prior year. In Switzerland, the necessary reserves strengthening to
be ﬁnanced by the ending of the industry-wide. (inaudible), which resulted in a one-oﬀ
release, the excess reserve release not utilize to ﬁnance reserve strengthening had to be
allocated to the policyholder participation fund. Expenses for policyholder participation
were lower in both Switzerland and Europe, mainly due to the reduced investment result.
The two aforementioned factors had a compensating eﬀect on the net income.
I would now like to switch to new business, which is developed very positively as you can
see from Slide 13. New business is developing well. The new business margin remained
broadly stable, compared to 2017, at 1.7%, in 2017 it was 1.8%. Despite having had to adjust
the risk discount rate due to higher capital market expectations, which resulted in the
reduction of the new business margin. However, product measures and improved
assumptions on the future development to new business largely oﬀset the impact of
discount rate adjustments.
We also made further progress in shifting from traditional savings products with interest
rate guarantees to modern capital life products. At 1.7%, the new business margin is also
above our target set within the Helvetia 2020 strategy.
I would now like to continue with the development to the interest margin on Slide 14.
Direct yield in Switzerland and the European countries declined compared to last year,
because of low interest rates. In Switzerland, the interest margin went down when
comparing 2018 with 2017, this was attributable to the following reasons. The direct yield
decreased on the one hand, because US bonds with higher coupons but also higher
hedging costs to replace the Euro bonds with lower coupons, but also lower hedging
costs.
As hedging costs are not included in current income, are therefore not considered in
CapEx the direct yield, this shift had a negative eﬀect on the number shown although not
economically. The average technical rate, either rate that we need to also declined, the

Page 5 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

main drivers here were the successful revision of our traditional product portfolio and the
focus sales of modern capital life products, maturing insurance contracts with high
guaranteed rates, which replaced by modern capital life products, conﬁned the additional
reserve strengthening. However, as the direct yield declines at the faster rate than the
average technical rate, the interest margin went down.
In Europe, the interest margin shows an increase from 0.49% in 2017 to 0.59% in the
current year. Here, we see a sharp drop in the average interest rate, how that's he has to
generate in order to meet its obligations due to additional reserve strengthening and new
contracts with low guarantees replacing the old ones with a higher guarantee. As the
average technical rate was dropping faster than direct yield interest margin improved. On
a group level, the interest margin remain more or less stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the following slide, I want to provide you with details on the proﬁt for other activities. If
you look at the proﬁt by sources, the net technical result in group insurance decreased
resulting from a few large loss events in Europe to the group insurance. Investment and
FX result was high year-on-year, due to positive consolidation eﬀect from our own
investment funds. The costs and other result declined slightly, this can be attributed to
plan investments in the new brand image and marketing campaign and business
transformation activities, which are in line with our strategy. Slightly higher ﬁnancing costs
resulted from high interest expense with our Euro bond, as the bond was issued in March
2017, interest expenses were only included for nine months in 2017, compared to full-year
in 2018.
If you look at Slide 16 on investments, we can see that current income of CHF 987 million
remained to prior year's level, despite the low interest rates.
Realized and book losses amounted to CHF 193 million, mainly reﬂecting weak equity
markets. The group investment result recognize an income statement, therefore stood at
CHF 794 million. Unrealized gains and losses recorded in equity decreased by CHF 639
million, due to weak performance by equity markets, higher interest rates in the US and
higher credit spreads. Total investment performance therefore was 0.3%. As a result of the
development for capital markets, investments in market risk for the policyholder
decreased by CHF 216 million.
On Slide 17, you can see the investment results broken down by asset class. The ﬁrst table
shows the performance of the total investment portfolio. About two-thirds of the current
income of CHF 987 million came from bonds and mortgages, which contributed CHF 537
million and CHF 86 million respectively in absolute terms. Dividends accounted for CHF
75 million, and investment property for CHF 243 million. Realized and book losses and
investments amounted to CHF 193 million, reﬂecting weak equity markets. As already
mentioned, unrealized gains and losses decreased by CHF 639 million. The lower half of
the slide shows the return new and reinvestments.
In 2018, the total new or reinvestments amounted to CHF 4.8 billion, almost 85% of the
funds were allocated in Euro and Swiss franc ﬁxed income securities, remainder
mortgages, equities and real estate. Due to increased hedging cost reinvestments in US

Page 6 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

Dollars, as a result of higher interest rates, the portfolio was partially relocated -- we
allocated to reduce the weight of the American currency. The average return on
reinvestments totaled 1.5%.
On Slide 18, I'd like to provide you with some details on the SST ratio. As you can see on
that slide we have revised our target range from formerly 140% to 180%, to a new 180% to
240%. We will publish the deﬁnitive SST ratio as of January 1, 2019 with the disclosure of
the ﬁnancial condition report, so-called BFLO [ph] British Deputy Finance Laga [ph] at the
end of April. I had already stated today that the ratio as of January 1, was above 200%.
The new SST models that have been introduced in 2019 will have no negative impact on
the SST ratio overall. They diﬀer in some important structural elements from our old
internal models. Therefore, we assume them to be more volatile in particular respect to
increases in credit spreads. The higher volatility however is reﬂected in the adjusted SST
target range.
The resilience of our capitalization will remain unchanged. We expect capital coverage to
increase and our SST ratio to remain comfortably within the revised SST target range.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 19 is the dividend per share. With regard to dividend as strategy, as I'm sure you're
aware is to increase dividend year-on-year. Thus, the Board of Directors will propose to
shareholders meeting to raise the dividend to CHF 24 per share. This corresponds to a
dividend payout ratio of 58%, based on the IFRS result, which is above our target ratio
40% to 50%. The dividend yield is what we believe an attractive 4.2%.
On the next slide, you'll see the dividend is fully covered by our strong cash production,
which means it is ﬁnanced out of the operating business.
Look at Slide 20. Our web scale [ph] passes virtually all operating cash production, it's
subsidy is to generate right through to its shareholders. We have the advantage that many
of our foreign operations our branches of how that's the insurance companies in Gallen,
which makes capital very tangible. All operating companies are subsidiaries of how that's
insurance company, it receives cash from essence by the entities, and passes the part
designated as dividends for external shareholders on to Helvetia Holding, which pays
dividends out. You can see that on IFRS basis, the individual market units remitted
substantial proportion of their IFRS earnings to the group.
I'd like to ﬁnish my presentation with our new discloser on the net economic dividend
capacity on Slide 21. On this slide, we show you for the ﬁrst time what we call the net
economic dividend capacity, the NEDC This number reﬂects free available capital at the
balance sheet date that can be used for dividends or growth purposes.
The NEDC is the free capital available to be dividend out to shareholders, it is primarily
deﬁned by local strategy accounting distribute to equity on the legal entity by legal entity
basis. I would like to emphasize here that the group IFRS equity and group SST surplus,
and to some extent individual market units (inaudible) of virtually irrelevant in the
calculation of what can or cannot be paid its dividends by the group. This is because
these metrics include non-distributor revised gains or the similar items and the deﬁning
Page 7 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

factor to the dividend capacity is usually local strategy distributor equity at each legal
entity.
The NEDC is determined by the available free local equity, method dividends and other
capital eﬀects, such as capital decreases or increases. Our available free tied assets over
insurance technical liabilities, including a small security buﬀer in legal entities were such
tight asset requirements still formal exist or are required by the prudent person principle.
Surpluses deﬁned by local solvency requirements i.e. SST in Switzerland though solvency
II in Europe at each individual legal entity level. Group considerations such as group SST
and S&P rating only play a minor role. And ﬁnally our own capital buﬀers on top of SST in
solvency II requirements, in order to balance volatility of own funds or acquire capital EG
from investments, as well as additional buﬀers EG to fund growth or to reﬂect restrictions
in transferability of funds.
Please note that on this slide, we discuss NEDC for the 2017 ﬁnancials. The starting basis
for calculating this ﬁgure is as you can see SST risk-bearing capital. 2018 numbers will
therefore only be available, when the buﬀer is published in April. We'll give you an
update on this ﬁgure with our brieﬂy presentation, that will be available on our website at
the end of April.
However, we can broadly say that we have approximately CHF 500 million of additional
dividend capacity, above the dividend begin to pay out this year and we are continuously
looking to optimize this capacity. And on that note, I will now hand back to Philipp Gmur.

Bloomberg Transcript

Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Paul. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add a word to our share. Its price in
absolute numbers is rather high. The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual
General meeting of our shareholders to split our shares by 1 to 5. Thus, we want to make
sure that Helvetia remains an attractive investment, not only for institutional shareholders,
but also for private persons. Now in the last part of the presentation, I would brieﬂy like to
share with you what we have already achieved last year with regard to our strategy
implementation.
I'll start on Slide 23. With our strategy Helvetia 2020, we aim to create value for our key
stakeholder groups, customers, employees and shareholders. We are achieving this by
strengthening our core business, expanding and tapping into new sources of revenues as
well as promoting targeted innovations. As you can see on this slide, we have made good
progress in strategy implementation both in Switzerland and Europe. We successfully
strengthened our core business by launching new simple products that are tailored to the
needs of our customers. I am thinking in particular of cyber insurance coverage which we
have introduced both in Switzerland and in Germany, or our own fund product in
Switzerland which now enable our clients to beneﬁt from our long-standing investment
expertise. In the sales area, we have further expanded the B2B2C channel, via INZMO
specialist dealers can quickly and easily oﬀer suitable insurance coverage for their
products in Switzerland.

Page 8 of 18



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

In Italy, we successfully expanded our bank distribution channel. Finally in Spain, we are
cooperating with the broker specializing in motorcycle insurance since 2018, covering
around 10% of the Spanish market. In addition both in Switzerland and in Europe, our
customers are beneﬁting from simpliﬁcations in claims handling due to a higher level of
automation. In Switzerland for example, damage to buildings maybe handled very
eﬃciently via an online tradesmen platform. Furthermore, we are tapping into new
sources of income with Smile, the leading Swiss online insurer. At the end of 2018, Smile
launched the ﬁrst completely digitalized based insurance in Switzerland, which can be
concluded online with just a few clicks and without the signature, before your own death
of course.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, we have further expanded our Home ecosystem. With the startups
PriceHubble and Immoledo, we brought in two additional partners. We will provide you
with detailed information on Smile and the Home ecosystem during the showcase
presentations later on. Finally, we also use new innovative forms of interaction with
customers in a targeted manner, for example in Switzerland, bicycle thefts can be easily
reported by chatbots. In Spain, a chatbot acts as a virtual insurance assistant for the sale of
burial insurance policies. These examples demonstrate that we are successfully
implementing our brands promise, simple, clear Helvetia.
Slide 24 demonstrates that we are well on track to reach our ﬁnancial targets. We are
pleased with the development of the individual ﬁnancial targets shown here on the right
hand side of the slide. With regards to the business volume of CHF 10 billion, I would like
to reiterate that this is not a ﬁxed goal, but an ambition. Our organic growth is proceeding
according to plan. In order to achieve the CHF 10 billion ambition, we would also have to
grow through M&A which is diﬃcult to plan in advance and depends on targets being
available in the market. Overall, we are happy with what we have achieved so far, and we
are conﬁdent that we are well prepared to remain ﬁt for that future.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. For the participants on the phone, a
presentation of the showcases and two interviews with Stefan Heitmann and with The
Angelo Campo Piano [ph] will be available on the website as of this afternoon.
My colleagues and I would now be pleased to answer your questions. I suggest that we
start with the questions of the participants on the phone and then turn over to the
participants in the room. Please go on.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
The ﬁrst question is from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Page 9 of 18



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

Thank you very much. The ﬁrst one was on solvency, and I appreciate for the qualitative
guidance you gave us Paul. I'm just wondering if you can give -- I need to replace the
guide as to how the ratio may be compared to that of last year. And speciﬁcally given your
comments and volatility, how the sensitivity to spreads compares to last year? I mean that
was 17 percentage points per 50 basis point move that you reported before. I'm just
wondering how that's changed under the new models, and whether there's anything that
you can do in that in terms of some investment strategy or other management actions to
limit that sensitivity of how it's grown a lot.
The second one was on the Life top-line, I mean that we saw some very impressive growth
in on Life. I think the top line grew 10% in H2 in isolation, I'm just wondering if you could
just tell the little bit deeper into the drivers of that and whether there was anything in
those numbers already from any business you might be getting from the actions of one of
the market leaders recently?
And then maybe ﬁnally just on cash, I guess the remittance ratio for Non-life is 52%, I'm
just wondering whether that can be increased towards it's -- I guess compared with some
of your Non-life period maybe it looks like it could be some upside and a group level, I'm
just checking basically from the 290, we need to take oﬀ ﬁnancing costs. If I do that, I get
not very far of the dividend. I'm just wondering, if I missing anything there. Thank you very
much.

A - Philipp Gmur

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Peter. I'll ask Paul to answer questions number one, with regard to solvency
and three with regard to cash remittance. And I then turn to question number two. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I'll give you some just a couple of broad comments on the solvency. I think we should wait
until the buﬀer will come out when we have a full presentation as explains that. With the
new models, we have more deterministic modeling in there and much more short-term
modeling, because they're using a runoﬀ approaches you probably were to more insisted
on. So, that has an impact. There probably will be more eﬀect from spreads, clearly more
sensitivity to spreads. But at the moment, I don't want to quantify that I think, I appreciate
if you waited until April, we'll give you some full details.
On the cash, yes, we are constantly looking to optimize the cash returns. I think we are
reasonably conservative, we don't want to certainly the ﬁrst year's disclosures be too
aggressive. As I said the really deﬁning feature is local strategy. And so, IFRS in itself is not
a good guide, but clearly can be optimized and we're working on that. In terms of the
ﬁnancing costs, I'm not sure what you mean there, I mean basically we passed through
virtually everything of the cash that we receive from the operating units up to the holding,
which then go straight out to the shareholders.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. And just -- I guess I just wanted to -- the 290, basically it's fully available, but the
distribution and right well --.
Page 10 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

A - Philipp Gmur
Yeah, 290 is fully available for distribution that question of yours.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yeah. Perfect. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Now regarding the development of our life premiums, as you see we have an increase of
our group life premiums by slightly 1%, talking about single life premiums that means
customers which changed their provider and came to Helvetia. And roughly 4% of our
periodic premiums, what does that indicate, that indicates that we are still very cautious in
underwriting new risks, looking carefully at our capital position and intergroup Life
business at our proﬁtability. However, it also indicates that with an increase of 4% in
periodic premiums, we have a portfolio in the Group-Life business which is in good
shape. We have underwritten ﬁrms which have no problems with layoﬀs for instance of
their employees. So, it's a really good portfolio.
Now, you might have talked about a main competitor in Group-Life business AXA which
decided to give up the full coverage of their pension system coverage in their group life
business. The numbers and the contracts we got from AXA are not yet visible in the 2018
numbers. And I can tell you today that is of course we beneﬁted from the move of AXA,
but at the same time we are still very cautious and we used to be very cautious in
underwriting new businesses, whether they come from AXA or other competitors. We
have beneﬁted, but we were not very aggressively underwriting new contracts, and we'll
tell you and show you those numbers in due time.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I had a couple other questions, but I'll be patient and rejoin
the queue in case of time oﬀ to the ones in the room. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Other questions on the phone.

Operator
The next question is from Johnny Urwin from UBS Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Good results to date. So ﬁrstly, I guess
just what was the message you're trying to send here on dividends by disclosing the net
economic dividend capacity that looks strong. But, I guess on that earnings, which is the
binding constraint the coverage is going to be lower. So, can you just tell us what the
coverage is on that earnings?

Page 11 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

I guess are you trying to say that continued gradual dividend growth, as well underpinned
or you are trying to say signal that there could be a step-up in the payout ratio, that's
question number one. And question number two, could you elaborate a little more on
what your priorities might be to manage the SST, if you are in the fortunate position that
the SST ratio rises above 240. Thank you. That's great.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thanks, Johnny. I'll ask Paul to answer those two questions with regard to dividend
coverage payout ratio and the luxury problem of an SST of above 240%.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We haven't given the statutory coverage ratio, because the complexities of dealing with
lots of diﬀerent statutory accounting. I mean, you ask what the messages, the message is
that we have several measures. The ﬁrst thing is we've been criticized in the past from you
I think Johnny, particular there we haven't given enough disclosure on what our dividend
capacities and how we manage the capital. And so, we clearly said look this is how we
manage the capital. We have to do it from a bottom-up, we bring it together so, now you
understand the framework hopefully.
The second message is, it is clearly deﬁned to a large extent by the statutory accounting,
but there are other elements too. The third message is, look we ﬁnance our dividend
every year through the cash production generated each year, but we have additional
capacity. We have roughly two years dividend capacity in excess of what we pay out,
which we could pay. So, message is what is our policy, our policy is the fourth one. The
message is we will continue to increase the dividend gradually. You have some amount of
satisfaction that we have capacity to do that, we're not stretching ourselves. And that the
last message is we are optimizing that capacity and there could be some time. What we
consider that we can increase the dividends at a higher rate in a way of a relatively shallow
path upwards and we could increase the steepness. We've mentioned several times
before over the years, we do not believe in share buybacks, we do not believe in huge
dividend payments out in one year only to fund with income pay dividends out in the
following year. So, we're looking for a longer -- medium to longer term dividend capacity
and repeat the message is that clearly exists and is clearly it's pretty potential to optimize
that.
In terms of managing the SST, if it gets to that luxury position of over 240%, I'd like to
repeat and repeat again, I think people seem to think that and automatically involves a
payment out of cash, dividends. The connection between SST and dividends is extremely
low, it may be the result, if there was the case that we could persistently see that our
dividend to SST ratio was persistently over 240% and it was not due to what I call
mathematical ﬂuﬀ, which the regulators and entries [ph] in risks managers dream up, but
it was real hard equity. Then clearly we would consider an increase to dividend. If it's due
to pure modeling, there's not a lot we can do, as a modeling it not just in our hands, it's
out of our hands mainly.
If it's due to a business proﬁle, then we can also consider changing the business proﬁle,
but it's also a very remote situation. I think that we would have persistently high SST ratios
Page 12 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

over 240%.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks. Fair enough. And thank you for the disclosures and the sort of enhance
capital management framework, you're right, I have been critical in the past. I much
appreciate it. I guess just on the message on the dividends, that's very clear and it's -- I
mean that is a good message. I think that's what the markets been looking for. But the
missing piece in the puzzle is what it -- in the puzzle is what is the headroom on earnings?
And so I guess any disclosure rules there.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

That's in the dark, I'm on slide where it is we show it's the 0.5 billion capacity.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks very much. Thanks, Paul.

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions? There's one more question on phone.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Kevin Ryan from Bloomberg Intelligence. Please go ahead.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I just like to explore a little more about
your business volume targets, okay. Do you have any particular focus on either general
insurance or life for boosting the volume. And could you explain a little bit about how you
think about trying to improve margins on the business you've got? These are the buying
in something that you might not be same familiar with pushing those margins along.
Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
You see, as we tell again and again, we do not have a hard tough volume target. The 10
billion ambition indicates that we want to be an active player on the insurance market and
playing an active role means that we have to take into account how are we able to grow
our business. Because it is important in our position that we grow our businesses be it in
Switzerland in the whole market and more important of course in our European units,
where we have relatively small positions. Now when we are looking at portfolios, we
would like to grow. Then of course we take into account their proﬁtability, and if we have a
look at our proﬁtability, the P&C business of course is the most proﬁtable business.
However, in Switzerland it's a saturated market, so it is already and a very important task
to keep our good margins in Switzerland.

Page 13 of 18



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

Life on the other side is might be not as proﬁtable as P&C, it's not as capitalization, but it's
an area where we can realize growth throughout our country markets, that's why we
changed our Life portfolio from pretty traditional very capital intensive products to rather
modern capital eﬃcient product lines. And as you can see in our 2018 numbers, we did all
that pretty successfully. We realized growth in Non-life throughout our European
countries, and we realized growth in Life business into modern non-traditional new
product lines. And our heart targets for Helvetia to 2020 remain combined ratio below 93,
we are standing at 91. And the new business margin of above 1%, we are standing at 1.7%.
So all that demonstrates that we are well on track steering our diﬀerent portfolio speed in
Life or Non-life.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Brilliant. Very clear. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
If there are no more questions on the phone, I now ask the ﬁnancial analysts in the room
to ask their questions.
The ﬁrst question comes from Deutsche Bank from Frank Kopﬁnger.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Frank Kopﬁnger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Hey, it's Frank Kopﬁnger from Deutsche Bank. My ﬁrst question is on the current income
on investment side. You said that you pointed out it was stable. However, as we have now
a lower yield environment, would you expect that investment income the regular income
is further coming down? Or was this really to the bottom now? And then secondly on your
risk result within the Life business, it was down 4% [ph] you pointed out that there was a
pool mortality experience. How disappointed were you given also the fact that you're
growing the book and despite you had this weak risk percentage.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Thanks. I ﬁrst ask Ralph Honegger, our Chief Investment Oﬃcer to answer the
question regarding the current income, and then Paul to answer the second question with
regards to the Life business.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. I mean there was still some room for due to interest rates that the result is coming
down a little bit more. I mean we have seen for the last year's always about 0.1 point. And
obviously there's still higher yielding period [ph] set-up coming back that the lapse and
obviously the new investment right around 1.5%, which I believe should be stable, a little
bit further down.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Going to the Life result, the risk result, there was a one-oﬀ positive eﬀect in the prior year,
which came from the integration of a Nationale Suisse portfolio, so that should be taken

Page 14 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

into consideration. In the ﬁrst half of the year, the risk result was considerably worse and
that was due to some one-oﬀ events where they just one loss, couple losses, a high-value
losses and let us stabilize that out, so in fact actually when you look at it it's probably
pretty much stable.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions in the room? Rene Locher from MainFirst.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Yes. I'm Rene Locher from MainFirst. So, just with big picture question, this morning when
I saw this CHF 431 million net -- I thought myself, when equity markets are going back to
normal, we should see quite a strong result in 2019. Yes, as I so -- perhaps you can just
comment a little bit anyone one-oﬀs technically results or is that just that with eternal in
equity more that we should see a substantially higher net proﬁt in 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then just a follow-up here on Slide 12. I see this extraordinary results, just for
conﬁrmation, so these are mainly reserve releases and reserves strengthening, right? And
then perhaps very quickly, I guess Peter Eliot will ask again, what nevertheless -- on that
cash generation I fully agree with Peter. This Non-life is 52%, some of your peers here in
Switzerland they have a cash out of the Non-life IFRS result, which is 89% , 90%. And then
on the Life, it's a little bit lower than. So, I'm just wondering, it's just something special
within the healthy, it's here said.
If I made the last question here again big picture, I guess on Slide 16, you show
sensitivities to the SST, here again very interesting to see that the credit spreads and they
have this cost is now with a few insurance managers. And, I believe that the noise looking
a bit from the wrong angle, because at the end of the day, if you don't have and default in
your bond portfolio, it's just accounting gaining's. So, that means you are losing value on
your corporate bond portfolio. But, when you get 100 back and maturity nothing else than
accounting. Okay. So, I was wondering little bit where always this big discussion about the
SST ratio on credits spreads.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Is that I mean, you were going back and forward between assumptions and
questions. I will now ask Paul -- the issue with the equity markets and are there any oneoﬀs into technical result. And then the cash production and remittance topic. And third,
the question with regard to the SST and the accounting the assumptions.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah, maybe I can take your assumption, so yeah the SST, the credit risks spreads
whatever they are, you looking for mark-to-market which is a point landing point of view,
it's not over a period of time. So, and that's the ﬁnancial of our approach instead of there
was -- models, they say ﬁne if markets go up and down, then it will go straight through
into the SST, and you're right, assuming that they companies behind or they sovereigns
behind those debt instruments to not go bankrupt, and you don't have a problem. But, on
a short-term basis at that particular point in time 1 January and July 1, Tim [ph] I want to
Page 15 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

see what the potential loss would be, and I agree with you. It's increases the volatility, but
doesn't mean that we are going to actually lose that money.
On the extraordinary result, yes it is the reserves, basically the interest rates of is all that
observing it, out. So, if we go back to the questions, which is when negative results go
back to normal is the same things the spreads, yeah with the end of the year, the 31,
December, when you cut the day with the equity markets were massively down and we
showed big losses. If you cut the year-end now, we'll be back again, and make proﬁts. So,
I thought the comps [ph] it out ever periods it's question what do you want to choose that
period. So, yes we'll should be back assuming of course liquidity market still carry on their
the same route that they've done in the ﬁrst couple of months.
And then the 80% to 90%, yes, I think there are some communication [ph]. As I said, IFRS
is not always the best indicative. One thing I'll say is in two areas and then specialty lines
switching markets and in Europe, there were far less capital repatriation within the prior
year, mainly because of growth requirements in specialty markets and also in Europe
there were some regulatory buﬀers we wanted to build in.

A - Philipp Gmur
There's another question on the phone, I think? Please go ahead

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you for taking my follow-up questions. Well, just plus one point of clariﬁcation. Any
DC pool, you set the position now was 500 million as of the end 2018 of the dividends?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

17 --

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. But I thought you also commented on the position now and said that as at the end
of 2018 it would also be about 500.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

No, I think it was we would give the ﬁnal ﬁgures for '18, with the buﬀer, but it's roughly
about that, yes.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. So just a check that we have understood that correctly, so they hasn't changed
across the year. I'm just checking that the deﬁnition is the same there so after proposed
dividend in both cases?
Page 16 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. The deﬁnition is the same. It will changes to them, when we ﬁnalized, put this way I
can't expect -- I can't imagine it will be below 500 million.

FINAL

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. Great. Thank you. And the other one it just on the other result. I mean I guess
the cost of line was basically in line with the guidance that you gave, but if I look at H2 and
isolation minus 38, it's a little bit much higher run rate. Should we always expect that sort
of seasonality or is there anything just maybe helping and trying to expect that how that
should develop in future years H1, H2, et cetera.

A - Philipp Gmur
It's actually quite diﬃcult to predict the run rate. I mean the costs will depend on large
projects or special costs. As I said we have the in the cost result was the advertising and
marketing campaign, it all depends when that to and starts and the other one was some
developments in the corporate development where we've increased expenditure to
campus strategic developments. So, it's diﬃcult to predict, when those kind of things will
actually fold you.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions in the room? Rene Locher?

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Philipp Gmur
Yes. Continue with the question.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

No, but I think given that we are going to see two showcases. But, ﬁrst of all my question
is, when I'm looking at the Swiss and expense ratio, I would have argued that should be a
little bit lower because you are selling more and more products by a Smile direct.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Smile is a relatively small percentage and it's 90 million of their overall premium.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

90, okay, yes. And then the other question is on MoneyPark, where do I see MoneyPark
within the group now?
Page 17 of 18



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

A - Philipp Gmur
You don't, it's too small at the moment.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions in the room? Okay. So, before concluding this conference, I would like to
say a word with regards to our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Ralph Honegger. Every so young,
but 60 years old. Ralph Honegger is going to step down from his position by the end of
March 2019, that's why he is here present in this room for the last time.

Bloomberg Transcript

With Ralph Honegger, we have a long-standing Helvetia manager leaving the company
and enjoying his retirement, and apart from that other positions of course. Ralph, and I
would like to mention that in this room especially with the ﬁnancial analysts, Ralph
successfully helped to steer our balance sheet through many ups and downs during the
last roughly 17 years. He took over as the Group Chief Investment Oﬃcer in 2002, and he
saw quite a few and that many diﬀerent capital market situations during that time.
Helvetia share is nowadays roughly 5x worth, what it used to be when he took over. And
talking about dividends as we were before, I think it's a true for Helvetia, as well as for
many other insurance companies. Our dividends are earned by our technical results of
course, but at the same time by our investment income, and that's why Ralph, I think
contributed a lot to the Helvetia equity story, and its success during the last roughly 30
years, and I wish him all the best. And I think we're going to see him again in the ﬁnancial
community, but today it's time to say goodbye as Helvetia Manager.
Now, I would like to conclude.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

