Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chris Figee, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jos Baeten, Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michel Huelters, Investor Relations Contact Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Benoit Petrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Farquhar Murray, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Matthias De Wit, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the ASR Conference Call on the H1 2019 Results. Today's
conference is being recorded. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the
presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Michel Huelters, Head of
Investor Relations at ASR. Please go ahead, sir.

Michel Huelters
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everybody. Welcome to the ASR conference call on
our half year results. On the call with me here today are Jos Baeten and Chris Figee. They
will give you a presentation and a discussion and update on the results and the strategy
and after that there is ample time to take any of the questions that you may have. As is
customary, please do have a look at the disclaimer, which is in the back of the
presentation with respect to any forward-looking statements.
And with that said, Jos, the ﬂoor is yours.

Page 1 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Michel, and good morning to everyone. Hope you all have or are still having a
very good summer and so thank you for joining us on this call. Ladies and gentlemen, as
you have seen from the published numbers, we realized very strong results over the ﬁrst
half of this year. We continued to deliver a very solid performance with ASR. The numbers
reﬂect our commitment and focus on operational excellence and disciplined execution
hence I believe our performance shows that we are well on track to meet the mediumterm targets. Having said that, however, we should be cognizant of the developments in
the environment and the ﬁnancial markets in which we operate. These are obviously not
within our control and can be challenging to navigate from time-to-time.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's move to Slide Number 2. As this slide shows, our performance over the ﬁrst half
of 2019 has been solid on every key metric. Operating result amounted to EUR459
million, signiﬁcantly ahead of the strong result of last year. Operating results showed an
EUR80 million of increase driven by very strong performance of the non-life segment,
which was up EUR56 million, but also by a marked step-up in our life result of EUR28
million. Our costs remained well managed. Operating expenses were up driven by
incidental costs predominantly due to the IFRS 17 project. When we look at the operating
expenses from ordinary activities, which are part of the operating results, this declined by
EUR6 million when we adjust for the acquisition of the cost base of Loyalis. So organic
growth is fully absorbed by the existing platforms while we're still being able to lower our
expenses, and I will come to that in a moment, in non-life and life due to reduction of
FTEs and systems as a result of the integration of Generali Netherlands and the ongoing
migration of individual life portfolios on our software as a service platform.
Our business yielded an operating return of 16.8% on an annualized basis, well over our
target of between 12% and 14%. Overall, I believe this is an outstanding achievement. The
combined ratio of ASR stood at 93.5%, also better than the medium-term target. The nonlife business showed solid performance across all product lines and in particular we see
an improvement in disability driven by solid underwriting and the price adjustments we
have made on the sickness leave portfolio. Our Solvency II ratio remained very robust at
191% after the interim dividend and as you know, we are still using the standard formula.
There have been many moving parts in the Solvency II and Chris will provide further
details later on in our presentation. But basically we have been able to keep our Solvency
II ratio robust while absorbing the 19 percentage points impact from the VA and the
decline of the UFR.
Organic capital generation amounted EUR189 million adding 5 solvency points to our
Solvency II ratio. Solid business performance fully absorbing the impact of the (inaudible)
from the decline in interest rates. The quality of our capital also remained high with
unrestricted Tier 1 capital alone representing close to 140% on the Solvency II and then
there is still plenty headroom to maneuver. In total we have possibility to issue almost
EUR1.3 billion of hybrid capital within the Solvency II framework. Our strong solvency
position enables us to remain entrepreneurial. As we have said, everything above 160%
allows us to be entrepreneurial and to pursue proﬁtable growth, which we have proven to
do so with the acquisition of Loyalis, which we closed on the 1st of May, which has -- and
already contributing to our results as well as the recently announced acquisitions of VvAA
and Veherex, which we communicated oﬃcially this morning.
Page 2 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Deals like the latter two are obviously on the smaller side of the range, but clearly meet
our return hurdles and the bottom line and strengthen our strategic position. I'm sure you
have noticed the increase in the net IFRS results. In addition to the EUR80 million increase
of our operating result, we also beneﬁted from incidental results from the acquisition of
Loyalis as well as from higher indirect investment income. We are happy to oﬀer an
interim dividend of EUR0.70 per share, which is an increase of almost 8% compared to
last year and represents 40% of last year's dividend.
Let's now move to Slide Number 3 and let me highlight some developments and
achievements in the execution of our strategy. First of all, we've almost completed the
integration of the Generali businesses on the -- on to the ASR platforms. The ﬁnal part is
the integration of the remainder of the pension book. As a result of the integration and
the merger of the legal entities, it's no longer possible to accurately report on separate
performance of Generali. However, more anecdotally, we believe we will achieve better
business performance and results than anticipated. This will be likely more towards the
EUR35 million, EUR40 million in net operating result instead of the EUR30 million that we
initially expected and the tangible capital invested will be lower than we earlier expected.
While we still need to integrate the last part of the pension businesses, we feel
comfortable stating that overall this acquisition exceeds the ﬁnancial expectations.
So, let's have a look at our solid back books in Box B. We continue to migrate the
remaining books towards software as a service platform, making the cost base more
variable in order to keep costs in line with the decline of the book. The acquisition of
VvAA recently announced and comprising an annual premium of roughly EUR28 million
and provisions of EUR430 million will be integrated on to the same platform. Looking at
the capital life space in Box B, we have made further progress as well. Within DC pension,
we see still very good momentum as employers decide to move to the so-called
WerknemersPensioen. This half year we have reached over 75,000 participants, up from
50,000 participants end of last year and in the meantime we are already over EUR1 billion
in assets under management. In asset management, there are also other good
developments to mention. Just a year ago, we reported on a mortgage front that we had
achieved the EUR1 billion of assets under management. Now the EUR3 billion landmark is
already in sites and we are very pleased with this success. We also see that external
investors appreciate our ESG funds and we've seen an inﬂow of EUR430 million in the ﬁrst
half there.
In the top left in Box A, you will ﬁnd our businesses that provide opportunity of growing
cash ﬂows. As we announced this morning, we are happy with the acquisition of Veherex,
which is an income insurer for the personnel of railway and aﬃliated companies. This
transaction perfectly ﬁts in our business domain of sustainable employability, which you
will ﬁnd on slide four. And as said, the acquisition of Veherex is the latest piece we added
to this ecosystem and it strengthens our proposition in the ﬁeld of sustainable
employability. While the transaction itself is relatively small, it really ﬁts well with the rest in
the ecosystem and more importantly, it will be integrated onto the platform of Loyalis.
This marks the fact that with Loyalis we have gains unique access to semi-public sector
organizations. Later this year as you may know, we will start with the rollout of our Vitality
program helping customers to live healthier and at the same time reducing place.

Page 3 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Having mentioned place, let's talk about non-life, which you will ﬁnd on Slide Number 5.
In the non-life segment, we reported a very strong performance, a EUR56 million increase
of operating results to a total of EUR122 million. The increase is as high quality and driven
by improvements in all product lines. In P&C, we experienced a EUR20 million lower
storm claims than in the comparable period in 2018. Also bulk claims showed better
performance, partially oﬀset by some higher level of large claims. In disability, we
particularly beneﬁted from the strong underwriting and pricing adjustments in the
sickness leave portfolio. As you may recall, last year we saw unfavorable claims
development in the sickness leave portfolio, but we took pricing measures and over
there, resulting in margin expansions within the sickness leave portfolio. The combined
ratio in P&C and disability together was 93.5% in the ﬁrst half, a strong improvement
compared to the 96.7% in the prior year and also ahead of our 94% to 96% targets.
Improvements across all business lines and driven by better results from expenses,
commission and claims.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we are very pleased with an expense ratio of 7.2% for our total non-life business, which
as you may know includes health which show we chose a further improvement from last
year, so clearly broad-based improvements in the non-life sector. Also our gross written
premiums increased by 4.3% overall, mainly driven by solid organic growth of EUR56
million and the inclusion of Loyalis, which added an EUR18 million in the ﬁrst half.
Excluding Loyalis organic growth in P&C and disability combined were 3.3%, in line with
the medium-term targets we have over there of between 3% and 5%. I should also add
that this growth number also includes the negative impact from rationalization of the
Generali NL portfolio. So we see continued good growth opportunities to grow
organically the non-life segment.
And moving on to Slide Number 6, we will zoom in a little bit on P&C. I've already
mentioned, the strong performance of our non-life business. Our P&C business has been
market leading in the past few years. While large claims and storms can impact the
bottom line performance from time to time over the years, we have built and
strengthened the foundation of a successful and proﬁtable P&C business. We've
optimized our processes and harmonized or migrated to the admin system of Chris,
improved the quality of our underwriting due to the use of fresh and implemented
product rationalization to the beneﬁt of eﬃciency service levels and customer satisfaction.
We've been able to absorb organic and inorganic growth onto our platform with only
marginal expense impacts. We've seen favorable developments in the non-life markets,
driven by market consolidation and commitments by various peers to adhere the
rationale and economic pricing. This has been a favorable backdrop for our performance
in recent years, which we believe may continue for the near-term. The graph top left hand
show the 3.2 percentage points improvement in expense and commission ratios over the
recent years, while the graph at the bottom demonstrates the growth we have achieved in
the same period. Our expense ratio in P&C amounted just to 8.3%, which we believe is
market-leading and with claims ratio as the remaining parts behaving as anticipated, this
provides basis for sustained growth and proﬁtability going forward.
Let's have a look on Slide 7, the life segment. In life, we saw a strong increase of operating
result of 8.3% to EUR368 million. This was mainly driven by an increase of investment
margin of EUR25 million, about half of which is driven by a decline of required interest

Page 4 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

because all the part of the life books are expiry. This has a positive impact on the
investment margin as we managed to keep our investment income relatively stable. The
other part of the increase is mainly driven by an increase of the investment margin from
the Generali Nederland's portfolio, which is the eﬀects from an extra months of revenues.
2018 was 11 months as you may recall and also the impact from some re-risking activities
last year. We see most of the increase of the life as sustainable, however please bear in
mind that H1 is typically supported by dividends.
Furthermore, we are pleased with the continued inﬂow, which we see in the so-called
WerknemersPensioen, the gross written premiums of the DC products increased by 55%
and assets under management exceeds the EUR1 billion mark. Together with the
premiums of Loyalis, this partially oﬀsets the decrease in premiums coming from
individual life and pension DB. Cost containment is critical in the life segment and I'm
happy with the life expense ratio of 52 basis points, which is within the medium-term
target range of 45 basis points to 55 basis points.
On Slide 8, we'll have to look at all the other business segments. The operating results of
asset management showed an increase of 30%, up to EUR11 million. This reﬂects the
higher fee income, particularly from mortgage fund and ESG funds as well as a higher fee
income from our real estate funds. This is driven by both new inﬂows, as well as higher
asset base from revaluations. The operating result of the distribution and service
segments declined slightly as anticipated to EUR11 million. The decrease is primarily the
result of the expected downward pressure on fee income of Dutch ID as a result of
adjusted tariﬀs for mandated brokers. This decline is partially oﬀset by organic growth.
Operating results of the holding decreased mainly due to higher interest expenses,
roughly EUR3 million on the newly issued EUR500 million Tier 2 subordinated loan. The
proceeds of the bonds were primarily used to fund the acquisition of Loyalis.
Then on Slide 9. This slide puts the ﬁnancial performance of our businesses in a historical
perspective. As you can see, we've been able to sustain the growth of our operating
results over-time. While from time-to-time business results may show some deviations, it is
clear that we have been able to grow our results and deliver an operating return on equity
well ahead of the medium-term target. Operating results for the ﬁrst six months this year
is truly a record performance and I'm pleased with the quality of the business that has
been delivered. Noteworthy here is well, the increase in the non-life compared to the
same period last year. While the Generali in 2018 provides for a favorable comparison and
the EUR56 million increase of our non-life operating results clearly outstrips debt and
reﬂects the quality of our business.
Surely, question on your minds is what we expect in the second half of this year? Now
from my presentation, so far, you have got that we are really happy with the quality of our
business and the performance. It has been delivery. So a good starting point will be to
take the operating result from H2 last year. EUR362 million included some non-recurring
items, which actually oﬀset each other. Additionally, one could assume somewhat
improved business performance as we have seen over the ﬁrst half year and as the
expected half year contribution from Loyalis. In line with our earlier guidance when we
acquired Loyalis, it may seem reasonable to issue an amount in the range of between
EUR15 million and EUR20 million for the second half of this year.
Page 5 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

So, I now would like to hand over to Chris for further details on our capital and solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Jos, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will go through the capital solvency
position of ASR. I think (inaudible) IR team and the entire communication department to
be brief. So, I will try to restrict myself to maximum two minutes per slide. Stock ﬁrst, then
ﬂow, and ﬁnally sensitivities and some headroom.
Turning to Page 11, our balance sheet. You can see the Solvency II ratio of the group of
191%, a robust and solid number. A couple of points to note. This number did absorb the
UFR decline from that 3 points. It didn't absorb the VA decline in last half year, which cost
about 15 to 16 points, that's all absorbed in the 191% which is also showed on the right
hand side. If you exclude the impact of the UFR reduction, which is in euro terms about
EUR91 million own funds, the lower VA, which could be over EUR500 million of our funds,
but also adjust for the fact that we acquired another EUR176 million of own funds to
Loyalis. ASR on a gross basis pre all of that added about EUR550 million of capital in the
ﬁrst half year. I don't want you to double that for the full year, but it is testament to you, a
clear bid to generate organically capital in our Group. Part of it is captured in the OCC,
part of it is captured in the bucket, other. So by generating stand-alone over EUR500
million, we're able to absorb the UFR decline, the VA decline when we acquired Loyalis.
So again evidence of solid capital generation ability which is also conﬁrmed by
development of our book equity, it is in Appendix E. Our IFRS book equity grew by
another EUR300 million in the ﬁrst half year and over EUR500 million in the last two years.
Again, numbers pointing into the same direction.
This chart also show to the development of our required capital, more details in the
Appendix F. I'd just like you to know that we did a conscious allocations of capital to the
acquisition of Loyalis. We made an allocation of capital to real estate. We made an
allocation of capital to the rest of our non-life business and reduced capital in interest rate
risk. We reduced capital allocated the concentration and counter-party detailed risk and
we absorbed who have to deal with increases in longevity charges, simply because of the
rate decline and we absorbed higher valuations of equity which lead to higher capital
charges on equity. Active capital allocation decisions were about real estate, were about
Loyalis acquisition and were about growing in non-life, disability and P&C.
Turning to Page 12. It shows the ﬂow of our solvency. Again OCC, EUR189 million. The
chart shows from left to right we have the Tier 2 issuance in the Loyalis acquisition. Those
of course extraneous factors. The second half of the chart shows that ASR have done itself.
OCC up to EUR189 million, 5.1% of our required solvency. What I would like to note to
point out is that the increase in our business capital generation compared to the restated
numbers last year, up EUR33 million, which is the number I am pretty proud of. This is the
capital generated by running the business, its underwriting results investment results, fee
income and lesser cost. Business capital, up EUR53 million. Actually that more than oﬀset
the increase in the UFR unwind. UFR unwind H1 to H1, so ﬁrst half this year to ﬁrst half last
year was up EUR13 million. So we were able in this half year to overcompensate or counter
the UFR unwind with bigger business results, actually better underwriting results.

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Release of capital, down a tiny bit, some part of the interest rate development, but mostly
development of our new business. We wrote new business which aﬀected the release of
risk margin as we're building up new risk margin we're building up new business
strength, which is an evidence of or the consequence of the amount of business growth in
disability and non-life business. So OCC up from last year, about EUR179 million to EUR189
million. Business capital up signiﬁcantly EUR53 million, absorbing increase in UFR and
also you can see the impact of our new business growth and a net release of capital.
I would also like to point to Appendix G which shows you our OCC and our long-term
investment assumptions that preempt the question that no doubt, someone is willing to
ask, we are developing or deﬁning our OCC business growth with speciﬁc long-term
investment margins. If you look at where the actual rates are today, you can see that our
long-term investment margins slightly overstates the contribution from government
bonds, core and non-core that understate the contribution of credit and mortgages and
they understates actually or make excessively conservative when it comes to the accrual of
liabilities we're using at VA of 20. If we were to harmonize the entire ﬁxed income
component of the OCC to the actual market rates we have observed to-date, we lose a bit
gov lease, we win the chunk of credit and mortgages and win on the VA. That will increase
our OCC by about EUR20 million. Then also our real estate and equity assumption are
also based on a spread over swap.
At this point of time for example, real estate we're issuing 300 basis points of the swap,
the direct rental income of our real estate business is already more than that. So leaving
aside any capital gains, that's a very conservative assumption. If we were to move, say for
example to 5% absolute return on equities and real estate we'd add another EUR30
million of OCC, which is somewhat something that I think the industry does. So on a more
harmonized of market consistent OCC deﬁnition, our number would be around EUR50
million higher in the ﬁrst half year. Details are presented in Appendix G for your preappraisals. So that leaves me on cap gen, solid cap generation on conservative
assumptions driven by what our business does and our business underwriting results
have overcome the compensated increase -- UFR decline. So actually quite pleased with
that development.
Page 13 shows the sensitivity of our Solvency II ratio to UFR. By now, a famous number, we
think that the most appropriate way to look through the UFR and we are aware of the UFR
criticism in the market and all those questions about what the right number is or could be
or might have been or should have been, we think that the right UFR is actually something
very limited or linked to your actual investment returns. We did between 2.2%, 2.4% every
year we'll revisit that number. This year we picked up 2.4%, which is the cash income, the
actual direct turn on our portfolio that gives a Solvency II ratio of 152%, actually quite
stable for the last year again also absorbing the VA decline in that. And you can see the
development within stock and ﬂow if you change the UFR assumption increasingly clear
that UFR is a ﬂow element, not so much a stock element as long as your starting solvency
is suﬃcient. So again economic UFR solvency of 152%, well above any norm that you
might have.
Moving on Page 14, pay that you will shift as you will know, with clarity, the spread
sensitivity is excluding any corresponding VA. It's a (inaudible) movement for the actual
Page 7 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

result there will be a compensating VA movement on the side, but that's the determinant
on how, what it looks like, but you can see our sensitivities. Key message is that with
reasonable sensitivities, the 191 chooses to be safely above and inside the independent
real range of 160%. One other note I'd like to make, on the interest rate sensitivity, you
can see if interest rates go up, actually it goes up by 7%, if they go down, they go up by 1%
which is a correlation eﬀect. We have really tightened our interest rate hedge in the last
six months. Our capital allocated to rate risk is the lowest ever we extended our hedge up
to the pointed rates decline from here, actually the dominant rate risk becomes rate up.
Today we're way down, then it becomes rate up and modeling-wise secondly that
changes the correlation that we apply which gives a Solvency uplift. We can question the
economics viability of that, but modeling-wise, I mean if rates declines signiﬁcantly from
here, rate up becomes dominant, which gives us a temporary solvency uplift. I just want to
be clear on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then our balance sheet on Page 15. It's a strong balance sheet with ample ﬂexibility. I
think that's another statement. Market risk, ﬁnancial risk are both low. Financial leverage
today is 30.4% on an IFRS basis. Hybrids is a function of our own funds around 24%.
Please note this is based on our own IFRS accounts. If you were to adjust for share of
accounting and the capital gains reserve, which is more in line with what the industry
does, this ratio would drop to around 24%, which gives us able to be low leverage versus
the rest of the industry and a very strong interest cover about 15 times. Actually, it makes
you wonder whether if we were to call the existing, the older Tier 1 instruments that are up
for call, if you were to call those and our leverage ratio would fall to 28% with our Group
would not be a bit under-levered in today's very low rate environment, something we're
chewing on whether an opportunity to optimize our balance sheet post that potential call.
Again, the potential call notiﬁcations will come at the relevant formal notiﬁcation text.
When it comes to market risk. Market risk is about 43% of our total risk, which is
something we're very comfortable with. As you can see too risky asset as a function of
unrestricted Tier 1, our risky asset ratio, it went up 106 to 111 and release of valuation thing.
We added about EUR116 million of normal exposure to real estate. That was an active
decision. The other component is valuation. The valuation of our equity portfolio went up.
The valuation of our spread portfolio went up, that caused the risk asset ratio to increase.
Just when you look at the active decision, so the EUR116 million of real estate would have
kept the risk asset ratio stable at EUR106 million. So we feel very comfortable with the
amount of risk assets we have on our balance sheet, certainly in combination with the
amount of the low leverage that we have.
And before I get back to Jos, our cash position. Holding cash at the end of the period
EUR354 million, up from last year. Last year at this point in time was EUR229 million,
EUR354 million of cash, a complete unused RCF so, our credit facility is undrawn. There is
an undrawn EUR350 million credit facility at the group. We upstream cash from our life
business and not more simply because there was no need to. There were no
impediments, because there was no need to upstream and we're very comfortable with
EUR350 million of holding cash and unused cash facilities. So holdco solvency life at
187%, no-life at 191%. The non-life solvency ratio is slightly overstated due to the
acquisition of Loyalis. At this point, the Loyalis legal entities have not been integrated that
is scheduled for second half of this year, which means in non-life Loyalis P&C is a strategic

Page 8 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

participation of ASR in non-life which artiﬁcially lifts solvency ratio of ASR non-life -- on the
group life it consolidates -- solvency number of a group life is unaﬀected, but for a
speciﬁc ASR Life entity, the 191% to be able to say that the underlying number is 174%.
Same accounts for double leverage. Post the integration and consolidation of the Loyalis
legal entities, a better leverage will move to close to a 100% and as all scheduled and
planned for actually end of October. And our debt maturity proﬁle as you can see very
robust. Weighted average life of 7.5 years in the next maturity date 2024 and again we've
ample ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and room to add leverage to our balance sheet if we wanted to
do.
Closing out, I think I did well spending no more than two minutes per slide. Comfortable
with Jos, plenty of time for you to give a summary.

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Chris. I think on average you're right and you just bested the new world
records in providing in some detailed information in such a short period of time.
So ladies and gentlemen to wrap-up this call, I would like to conclude that we are very
pleased with the operational performance and the ﬁnancial results the business has
delivered as you can imagine. The record operating result and the growth of our business
both organically as well as through acquisitions reﬂects our discipline of our value of
volume at all times. Our balance sheet is strong with ample ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, allowing us
to remain as Chris already said -- to remain entrepreneurial and pursue proﬁtable growth.
I've already provided some pointers for the second half of this year. And to conclude, I
should mention that we will have a review of our capital management policy including
capital return in the second half of this year. One of the reasons for us to review our policy
is the notion that the current policies may be somewhat rigid, speciﬁcally with respect to
capital return, which demands our Solvency II to ratio to be at least to 200%. We may
consider to move to a policy that oﬀers us more ﬂexibility with respect to decisions in
capital return. We will update you on that with the full-year results.
So having said that, I would like to hand over to you and the ﬂoor is open for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question comes from Cor Kluis from ABN AMRO. Please
go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. I got a couple of questions. First of all, on the
non-life premiums. You had in P&C 2% growth and disability 9% growth. What was that
non-life premium growth excluding acquisitions for both P&C as well as disability? This is
Page 9 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

my ﬁrst question. Second question is about Tier 1. You currently have a well below usage
of your Tier 1 capacity versus peers. If you would issue some, your solvency would easily
be 10 percentage points, 15 percentage points higher given the current low interest rates
and credit spreads. Are you considering to issue Tier 1 hybrid in the near term or could
you comment on that way of thinking?
And my third question is about operating expenses in the holding, I think it was EUR32
million including EUR21 million incidentals. Last year I think it was EUR13 million
incidentals. Could you give some kind of long-term guidance what the holding operating
expenses might be? There always be some incidentals like IFRS 17 or what will come up
later but at least I think this quarter was a little bit high on the operating expenses due to
a few one-oﬀ like integration expenses et cetera. But could you give some indication in
that respect? And last question is more generally about M&A. The M&A pace continues,
VvAA and recently the national railway distributed the insurance company. What's your
view about M&A in the future because this year you've done quite a few deals and could
you comment on that and in respect to the capital return story as well? Those are my
questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Cor. I will take your last question and your ﬁrst question and Chris will take
question two and three. On the developments -- the premium developments in non-life
excluding M&A. If you take out Loyalis, which I think I mentioned the EUR18 [ph] million of
premium of Loyalis, then the organic growth of the non-life business excluding Health will
be 3.3%. Of that growth, 1.6% comes from P&C and that number is somewhat deﬂated
because at the same time we have sanitized the portfolio of Generali assets and that also
did cost some topline and it's even more than EUR20 million because some of the risks in
that portfolio were not very much liked by us. If you take a look at the disability, excluding
Loyalis, the growth was 5.8%, up from 5.45% last year to 5.77% this year. So in total 3.3%,
1.6% from that is in P&C, 5.8% is in disability excluding M&A.
Then on your last question on M&A, we are happy with the deals we've done. As you
know, we missed on VvAA so the team had some time and we asked them to look into
Greenland, but in the meantime it has become clear that it's not for sale anymore. So, we
are now preparing the next pipeline because we ﬁrst want to take some time to integrate
all the smaller business we've acquired. They are maybe small in the thinking or some of
you, but the work to integrate them also reporting-wise will require some time and in the
meantime we will prepare for the next year potential deals that we think that could be
done and we still think in the Dutch market as well as in the individual life space and
funeral as maybe in other spaces like distribution. We expect that we looking forward can
do some interesting transactions for ASR. They may not be as big as Loyalis or Generali,
but we still see some potential.
Having said that, Chris, I would like to hand over to you for the second and third question
of Cor.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Page 10 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

When it comes to our balance sheet, indeed -- but ﬁrst of all, I think our balance sheet has
got headroom in each and every category both in Tier 1 but also in Tier 2. So the Tier 2
headroom is about EUR462 million, which was -- for a small increase in SCR move towards
EUR500 million, which is a benchmark Tier 2 bond that one could issue. First one.
Secondly, if we were to call the existing two instruments of EUR200 million of grand part
of the instruments, indeed we will be probably under using our Tier 1 space. We have in
our Tier 1 instrument out there and we have probably an unlevered balance sheet. So, we
-- we will be very opportunistic on that if we do something because we also need to have
a proper application of the funds. We are not going to raise capital just for the fun of it, we
need to see an application for that. But again it would do something in the current
environment and I would probably go for Tier 1 rather than Tier 2 simply because rates are
very low. There appears to be cash to be invested by both holders. We actually have
some reverse inquiries by some of our bondholders where there would be room, where
there would be an interest, basically something to help them invest their cash, put their
capital to work, is always good to reﬂect on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, there is no yes or there is no no. We're going to be opportunistic, even do something
more likely to be in the Tier 1 space than Tier 2, but again we don't need a whole lot and
we need application for the funds. Application could be found in smaller acquisitions. It
could be found in allocating capital to mortgages. Mortgage spreads have widened
considerably and today are very attractive to add new mortgages to the balance sheet.
So, we're going to be very economic on that.
On your holding cost question, my guidance would be stable for the next couple of years,
declining thereafter and the kind of the mostly should have caused IFRS 17. We're
spending more money on IFRS 17. If you look at this half year, project costs were up a bit
from IFRS 17. There were some integration costs from Generali, which will grow
(inaudible). We spend money on the Vitality project adjustments. So what we're going to
see going -- as M&A costs, so what do you see I guess going forward is continued spend
on IFRS 17 until that's really due date is there. Some decline in M&A integration spend as
the recent acquisitions were lighter and require less M&A costs. Some spend on Vitality
and possibly if rates stay where they are, saw them increase in pension charges. So, my
best guess is you stable from this level next two years and decline thereafter if IFRS 17 is
behind us.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Albert Ploegh from ING. Please go ahead, your
line is open.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. I'm Albert Ploegh from ING. A few questions from my end. Maybe
ﬁrst question a bit more strategic. You've clearly shown discipline when it came to the
Vivat ﬁle in terms of pricing, but in a way the landscape has changed of course
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

fundamentally given the PE interest shown. So, what have you learned from this process?
What's the price you did most and could this also have some implications for your own
strategy going forward? Yeah, are you for example, willing to explore options to unlock
capital locked in your closed books in the Netherlands or you're actually like to do more
of the opposite expanding that book? So somewhat color there would be helpful.
The second questions is on the organic capital creation. I mean the target 2021 is still
EUR465 million? It seems that, clearly operationally, you're very well on track and if rates
would not have moved, you very likely would have started to over-deliver potentially on
the target. So do you still see let's say mitigation actions that you can still probably even in
the current rate environment to get close to that target and maybe just a little bit closer to
home for 2019. So if I remember correctly, you were guiding something like 415 OCC by
the end of 2019 including something like EUR15 million or EUR20 million from Loyalis but
it still means capital bridge from the 190 and where rates are. Yeah. How comfortable are
you with that and can you still get somewhat close to let's say the EUR390 million EUR400
million left for the full year? And I'll leave it that for now. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Albert. On the ﬁrst question on what have you learned from the Vivat
trajectory. Well, one of the things we clearly learned is that looking at a life insurance
company and spending -- investing in a diﬀerent way seems to give a higher valuation in
life portfolios. However, we as you may know are a really insurance company and we
balance the liabilities we have with our investment portfolio. So from our point of view,
our learning is there might be more space to be a bit more aggressive in terms of
investing from your life books. But on the other hand, we are that insurance company and
we want to live up to the obligations we have guaranteed to our policyholders. So we will
always be careful with that. So I think that's one of the main learnings, which we'd be
willing to divest our own life book. Well, one should never say no upfront to any idea and
however you need to take into account our Individual life book as part of a larger like
book, it contains pension DB, it contains pension DC, our funeral business it's all
managed as one investment pool.
So splitting that up would be quite complicated and would you require some time. And
another question is whether the valuation of a company like Vivat, which is the ﬁrst sale of
a PE company in the Netherlands, it could be equaled in the second transaction. I think
there was also a strategic premium involved and we yet don't know how DNB is going to
react to whether the price is the whole investment or given the low interest and other
ﬁndings in the solvency of Vivat they maybe need to add additional capital and then the
question is whether the valuation of the next transaction would be at the same level as the
ﬁrst one. Our current strategy and we will continue to do so is that we are a good or
maybe the best owner of our own individual life book. We want to add volume to that as
we have done with the life portfolio of Generali and Loyalis and up until now we think we
are the best owner and at least in terms of running it at a very low cost level, we're able to
deliver very good returns also for our shareholders. So from that perspective, you
shouldn't expect a big change in our strategy concerning life.
And Chris on the EUR465 million, I think you --

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Let me add a few points on Vivat if I may. Two points I'd like to add stuﬀ that we learned or
we think we learned, I mean one is, I cannot rule out that there are diﬀerence in
assumptions when people have solvency numbers and we don't do assumptions based
capital so to speak, mean that might put up the numbers on the short-term, but someone
somewhere will pay the bill for that. So we will not go into assumptions based capital
creation, we want to have a very robust numbers. I think that's one. Secondly on the rerisking the balance sheet, yes, there may be some opportunities, but we're going to be
careful. This is not the time to load up on non-investment grade stuﬀ. So we think there is
opportunities to optimize the investment grade side of our ﬁxed income portfolio, so with
relatively little capital spend optimize the return on investment on our investment
portfolio. Maybe do a little bit more on mortgages, especially given where spreads are
today, optimize the investment grade side actually as a matter of fact we reduced the noninvestment grade exposure. We did have a US leveraged loan mandate that we canceled
if you wanted to move away from non-investment grade securities, so all the investment
grade space.
And ﬁnally, when it comes to unlocking capital, indeed we've seen a longevity swap being
executed. We know there is talk about longevity swap, there is appetite in the reinsurance
market to take on longevity risk. That's something we are actively contemplating, not
subject to be executed this side of Christmas, it takes more time to be prepared it, but it's
some of that, then I think that on the shelf and non-executed longevity option we have
one little caveat. The impact of ASR could be positive with not be double-digit solvency
release simply because their certiﬁcation. We have a fair diversiﬁed book, so longevity risk
diversiﬁes away, so also the longevity swap beneﬁt will diversify away and secondly, the
impact of such a swap is bigger if you got more in payment annuities and relative to
others we may have less in-payment annuity, so a longevity swap will have a positive
beneﬁt, but maybe not as large as some others have it and again it's something that we
are constantly evaluating and there is appetite in the market, it's a nice add-on a nice
option to have and we're also checking ourselves whether if you want to think about
raising capital whether the cost of the Tier 1 it is pointed more attractive than a cost of a
reinsurance deal and that's how we think about.
So what's the economic cost of attracting capital? My hypothesis that in the market today
if you see our rates are today that in our Tier 1 is a cheaper form of capital for us in
longevity trade although longevity swap of course, I mean you want to add on you set.
When it comes to the OCC indeed we've targeted EUR465 million in a couple of years'
time. Of all the components stuﬀ that's in our control, namely what the business generates
is actually doing better than ﬂat is doing very well. Also the early contribution from Loyalis
are in line with and promising to be slightly better than planned, so anything in our
control will be better. Of course the one thing that's out of our control is where the UFR
drag will be. I don't know. We'll see when we get there. Who knows our rates will be in
that very year. So I think on the components stuﬀ that we are managing and is under our
control are better than what we plan and the ﬁnal hurdle would depend on what our
records and we are very clear and transparent on that.
As far as the second half of this year, you mentioned the number, it's going to be hard
work, I mean Loyalis will feed into the numbers that's good, which mean we have a full six
Page 13 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

month of Loyalis results, but again the UFR drag will be higher. Again for the second half
of the year I see strong progress in business cap generation, strong progress in
underwriting results. I see delivering as planned on SCR release, potentially countered by
the fact that we are writing new business and new business trend is a bit higher. But with
combines that we have I'm actually okay with that. I'd like to have new business with your
combined ratio low 90s and then what do you have unwind ends-up, we see how we
develop in the second half of the year.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for these detailed answers.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody. Good morning. Happy Friday. Just quickly on the underwriting in Non-Life.
I noticed that as much as you see a decline in loss ratio, you're seeing quite a big decline
in commission ratios, particularly when you look at commission ratio in the disability
segment is a big drop. Can you just explain what's going on there? Secondly, going to
your consideration of lowering the barrier for capital return. What has changed? So when
you set the 200% versus your 150% target, what were you thinking and what could
change qualitatively? So what are the drivers that you're looking at to make a decision on
that? And lastly, could you remind us again where you are beating on the Generali
Nederland portfolio? So you mentioned the higher proﬁt versus target. So where does
that beat coming from and what could that imply for the other transactions that you've
done recently? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Farooq, thank you. On the commission ratios, a few comments and especially in the
Disability space. If you may recall, I mentioned that our distribution entity that we were 1
million lower there and that was due to the commission ratios that were down in the
disability area. The ﬂip side of that is that we do all of our brokers we deal with have to
pay less commission because the average commission ratio went down over this year.
That's one eﬀect. The second eﬀect is that we a number of years ago decided as an
industry not to pay any commissions anymore of individual disability. The existing
portfolio was left out from that decision. So people that already had a contract with us
there, we still pay commission, but new business, it's not anymore down with commission.
So over-time, you will see that the commission ratio in disability will be lower than it used
to be over the last few years. And then ﬁnally, the last thing, but that's more technically we
mentioned in the press release the EUR8 million of reinsurance in the Disability area,
which was an additional proﬁt and that aﬀected also as a one-oﬀ the ratio, because it was
a plus for us, but it was in our book keeping, it is because it was commissioned that we
got from the reinsurance company, so that's a negative on the commission base.

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

So just to -- yeah, sorry.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Go ahead.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

I was just going to say -- just to clarify what you just said. So although there might have
been a one-oﬀ element that sounds small, so generally speaking, commission ratio should
be lower might even get a bit lower going forward?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Yeah. In the long-term, commission ratio especially in disability will be lower because in
individual disability we're not allowed to pay anymore commissions in for the new
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Farooq, on your second question on the capital framework. What were you thinking?
What were we thinking at the time, which was around when the UFR was higher and the
VA was higher at this point in time. So we are cognizant of the fact that since then the UFR
has declined and also the VA has declined, also VA is volatile, but the UFR decline is
structural. So if you don't act, there will be a bar creep, so to speak. 200% a year ago is
actually less than 200% today and we are not capital holders, we want to be disciplined in
our allocation of capital as you can see in our M&A decisions and our capital allocation is
diﬀerent. So we think it's fair to assume that the entire framework has probably shifted
down somewhat with the lower UFR, although tactically speaking need to weigh where
the current market and circumstances are and that's why we said, we already view the
entire framework with the notion of what is an appropriate level given the assumptions
and how they've changed over-time. And then we don't intend to sit on our capital and
stare at it. We want to make it work and we think there is other applications. We deﬁnitely
are happy to give it back to our shareholders, part of it. So with that in mind, we'll review
the framework.
When it comes to where it will beat Generali. On many parts, I think most prominently on
the cost side, I mean business is integrated. It's hard not to single out the total cost
assumptions, but I think the FTE decline that we achieved was much, much bigger than
initially planned. So on the cost side is the ﬁrst thing that brings amount. Secondly, I think,
the speed of integration on some of the operating business disability and life, the speed
of integration is faster. I think we beat on the re-risking that delivered more than we
anticipated even if it wasn't in the initial case. That was even more than we did not
include. So the re-risking this was faster and on P&C, more volumes. It came in with more
volumes in terms of claims where we work, on claims level itself, it's kind of what we
Page 15 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

assumed, but the volumes were higher. And I think we're now working on sanitizing the
portfolio and improving the combined. That's why you saw some lower growth in the P&C
business because we absorbed the loss of volumes and happily non-regretted loss of
volume. So a bit of cost, a bit of speed, a bit of re-risking and a bit of P&C volumes and
means of speak on claims ratio.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, that's really good. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please
go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sir. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my question. The ﬁrst one is
more follow-up to Albert's question. I think your H1 reporting indicates that you're yearon-year increasing UFR drag annualizes around EUR25 million, but that's still based on the
average interest rate if the swap curve average in H1. So I'm just wondering if you could
give some sense to how that would look on the back of the ﬁnal H1 curve for H2. And if
you could also maybe for a more actual rate curve.
Secondly, I think there also an eﬀect towards your OCC from the ﬂattening of the curve. I
think your real estate and equity assumptions are based on the 10-year curve point which
you need to re-base too early on the curve. So the fact that there is massive ﬂattening
there, will probably also take out some of your OCC generation. Can you specify those
amounts as well. And I was wondering to what extent the EUR50 million you've given for
H1 is a more market observable approach. What kind of further oﬀset do you expect in H2
given that mortgage margins probably are better than the average in H1. So presumably
that EUR50 million in H2 is going to counterbalance a part of the headwinds that we just
discussed.
Then secondly on mortgages, the fact that you use your 110 bips long-term investment
margin and you're correct for that in your market observable OCC. I was just wondering
for your Solvency II ratio determination, I presume you use the same spread there. So I
was just wondering if you would use a more observable spread in the market, what would
the impact your Solvency II ratio be.
Question on OCC. You mentioned you're looking at the capital return framework. But
shouldn't you also look at, yeah, basically redeﬁning your OCC given the market
headwinds you're facing on the ﬂattening of the curve. For example, I think is a very
counter-intuitive move that's happening. Are you willing to look at that as well in that
capital framework update you're contemplating because in the past I think after the IPO,
you did make statements that your capital return is somewhat limited to the OCC you
generate. Yeah. Now these headwinds might give you a limitation, just your thoughts
there would be helpful.

Page 16 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

And lastly, I mean I don't cover real estate sector in Netherlands, but I did see some press
articles suggesting that prime real estate in the Netherlands has seen write-downs in H1
and that there were some fears that there might be more to come later in the year. I
appreciate you've always said you're focused on location. So I think you have some
primarily setting your books. Any worries there or still all very solid and comfortable?
Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Robin, thank you. I don't know that was question or advice, I'll take it as the later. On the
UFR track, it was about EUR25 million on an annual basis, but what UFR drag will be for
second half year, it depends on the rating. We need to look at where rates will be at the
end of the year. Clearly the UFR has managed to go up. That's probably to what the
number is. Bear with me, I'm not going to give any guidance, because it depends on the
rate, I mean rates already have been bouncing back. Who knows what the Fed will discuss
later. Yes, the tendency to go up, but bear with me what the actual numbers will be.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Chris, maybe just quickly. You said it depends on where rates are at the end of the year. I
understand from your peers most of them basically will base the Q4 capital generation on
the interest curve for Q3, but you have more an average approach of H1 and year-end to
determine the UFR drag. Is that what I should understand from your answer here?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

That's correct. We take the full 12 months of the year as we average on the entire year. So
we take Q4 into account in the averaging of the year. Indeed, correct.
When it comes to OCC, you're right, I mean OCC of course is a, it's a constant guide. It's a
way to break down the breach insolvency between diﬀerent buckets. And as always a
bucket other, anything it's not captured in the OCC is reﬂected in other. So actual returns
of your investment that are not in the OCC bucket are in bucket other. As I said, the
EUR550 million if you take the minus 92 UFR decline plus the VA plus Loyalis is
somewhere we created EUR500 million of additional capital. That is partially excess
returns above and beyond what's in the OCC. So it means the ﬂattening of the curve that
we likely described will put some pressure on the OCC but does not put pressure on the
actual generation of capital and we show in another in the bridge, that's why of course a
part -- 5% is probably hindsight a better representation of our capital generation than the
spread method that we use. So will we reﬂect on that? Yes, we will. And something in life,
the review of our capital management framework deliver the OCC properly reﬂects the
actual capital generation ability to structure giving is our point of some reﬂection and
because we are of course experiencing the same thing to do as you described. So any
oﬀsets will be of course in the bucket other with just excess returns over and beyond the
ELTIS.
So when it comes to mortgage and evaluation of our Solvency II, we use the actual
mortgage spreads. So the ELTIS has a ﬁxed yield, but the solvency number that we
produce has the actual spreads as they were at the end of June. So of course as always if

Page 17 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

we look at other, that balance is out there. The solvency based on the actual spread, not
the ELTIS. Spreads are high, so there was a relatively --mortgages on a valuation side
under-performed our liabilities in the ﬁrst half simply because mortgage spreads
widened. At this point, mortgages are very attractive. I think our colleagues and other
insurance companies also comment on that and you can see mortgages government
guaranteed is running from 30s in a 10-year segment, non-government guarantee goes to
160, 170 basis points already, so allocating new capital mortgage is very, very interesting,
but that number is reﬂected in our solvency level.
When it comes to real estate, there was an article on potential markdowns in the retail
space in the Netherlands, which was re-driven, it might be one speciﬁc real estate asset
manager we just had a management change. We have got Frank, there real estate will see
portfolio is not comparable to ours, it's much less core in terms of high street quality
shopping in the core cities in hours. In our real estate portfolio we see rents well
protected, vacancies actually falling, still lots of interest. I mean if you look at what we
signed up on new leases in our real estate portfolio in retail, some very household names.
And for example, the bankruptcy of Intertoys, all those parts were ﬁlled very shortly with
other stores one thing to take that prime retail space. Actually, cynically speaking, some
bankruptcies are actually welcomed by our real estate people because that gives an
opportunity to refresh tenants and actually reset rental rate. So when it comes our real
estate portfolio I don't share that concern. I think the one thing I would say is the level of
capital appreciation may be less in the past, but the rental income was good and I don't
see any immediate downside risk on that space.
So in summary, you have (inaudible), bear with us. We advertised in the year, we'll see
where rates are. The ones, the things we can control are all moving in the right direction
and in the ﬁrst half of the year the underwriting results more than compensated the UFR
decline. Will that continue to happen? That depends on where rates end-up. On OCC, fair
point, the oﬀset will ﬂow in the bucket other. We just does not mean that our total cash
generation goes down, but that segment in the OCC will go down and indeed a review of
the OCC over deﬁnition is a rightful question and it really based on our mind in the next
that few months.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

And then maybe one last remark. I mean I got what you're saying on OCC and the market
bucket. But I think for some, the perception will still be that one element is sustainable
and the other one is more one-oﬀ and I got that your market bucket will be positively
ﬁlled by this structurally, but I think it makes more sense I think to adjust your reporting to
what structural and what's not.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. A very few people pay a multiple for other, right. But if you look at our -- the bucket
of others has been structurally positive in the last years.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Thank you for your answers. Cheers.

Page 18 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. I have three questions if I may. Firstly on the acquisition of
Veherex, could you just work through the rationale for integrating into Loyalis and
perhaps outline the nature of the synergies you are hoping to achieve from that?
And secondly, are you seeing any consequences from the recent consolidation in the
market in terms of ability to pick-up business and more generally how competition is
behaving. On the call, you seemed a little bit more optimistic on the sustainability of
pricing in non-life. I just wondered what might have changed there? And then ﬁnally in
the interim report, there is a reference to limiting the impact of the mezz labs hedge.
Could you just outline the rationale around that and perhaps whether it had any material
impact at all? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Okay. The ﬁrst two questions will be answered by myself and Chris will take the third from
Farquhar. Thanks for asking. Well, the strategic rationale for Veherex is it is semi-public
organization, it's the National Railways and some aﬃliated companies. And with Loyalis,
we also acquired a former Pension Fund owned disability business, also existing out of
lots of semi-public organizations like municipalities, hospitals, et cetera. So the nature of
dealing with those kinds of customers is one of the core qualities of Loyalis and that's why
we've decided, well, it's better to implement this business within the Loyalis business,
which is today 100% owned by us. In terms of our synergies as you may have noticed, it is
in terms of premium, not a very large acquisition. So the number of people involved on
that is not that big. It will be a number close to 1 million or something like that, but it will
not be very signiﬁcantly.
On your second question, what is the eﬀect of the recent M&A activities in the Dutch
market in terms of portfolio shifting. What we always see, but we did see when and NN
acquired Delta Lloyd that some distribution partners decided, some brokers decided to
move the portfolio partially to other insurance companies. We expect that the recent M&A
activity -- that the same will happen. So we expected a part of our future growth will come
from brokers that decides that too many eggs in the same basket is not good for their
independent positioning and that we will be able to face further growth, especially in the
disability and in the non-life area. So consolidation from a hardening of the market of the
premiums in the market standpoint is good, but also from -- our distribution partners are
not happy with the consolidation, but actually to be honest, we are happy with what is
happening because it will give us the opportunity to increase our position in the
distribution area.
And third question Chris, it's for you.

Page 19 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Farquhar, we have a Mass Lapse reinsurance contract based on the recent speciﬁcations
by IFoA, the impact of those contracts should be limited. They will be fading out. In
agreement with the regulator we've agreed a fade out scheme. So the beneﬁt of that has
reduced signiﬁcantly that has saved actually 1% of solvency in the ﬁrst half of the year
simply because we are lower -- if we take a haircut on the potential contribution, we think
the Mass Lapse will be fading out by the end of the year, but it did cost us one point of
solvency in the ﬁrst six months.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. And then just a quick follow-up, I mean you obviously want your Dutch peers kind
of discuss the change in the liquid asset treatment with the Solvency II ratio. Have you
heard anything similar to that?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

No, because our portfolio -- the liquid assets are very small. So most of our liquid assets
are mortgages, which is -- the treatment of that in a standard formula is pretty clear. There
may be some enlightenment or lightning of charges in the next IFoA review comes
through, but nobody knows where it stands. But I mean you've all seen the IFoA
documents on this and for the more liquid ﬁxed income portfolio is relatively small. So we
haven't had any major issues on that.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, perfect. Thanks so much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. I have three questions please. So the ﬁrst one. So you plan to review
your capital policy in the second half of this year. Does that include whether you want to
continue on the standard formula or wanted to move to internal model because just in
regards to that we'll actually for example using standard formula give you some kind of
disadvantage in bidding for large-scale dues? So that's my ﬁrst question. And then the
second one is, looking at your asset mix on your slides on there is Appendix H, looks like
that your mortgage actually percentage actually declined from full year 2018 and just
wonder whether the plan is actually increase your mortgage exposure in the following
couple of months because thinking that the yield is coming down and but thinking
probably you would have some pressure from the investment return, we're actually
moving to mortgage it helps on that pressure? And then the last question is, I noticed that
you have in the ﬁrst half of the year, you haven't really have the -- despite the very good
operating results for Non-Life if you haven't actual upstream any pretty much, very few
cash from the Non-Life business. Why is that? Thank you.

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Fulin for the question. I'll go into the second and third question. On your
question whether our capital policy remark we've made is related to a decision of moving
to a partial internal model. The shortest answer is no, there is no relation between those
two. However having said that, we as stated earlier, we are thinking about what it would
mean to move towards and internal or partial internal model. We haven't taken any
decisions on that yet because we ﬁrst want to ﬁnalize the IFRS 17 trajectory and that
requires the knowledge and the time of the same type of people that need to look into a
potential move towards an internal model, so our capital policy decision will be
independent from that. However, management always needs to take into the back of their
mind everything that it is preparing for the future. So decision-wise it's independent, but
we of course will also remind our future steps when we take any decisions.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, it's Chris. When it comes to mortgages, if you look at Page 8, the actual amount of
mortgages went up EUR6.7 billion to EUR6.8 billion. So it was a small increase in
mortgage exposure for the group. I mean the bank has been more or less deconsolidated. So the bank has obviously taken out some mortgage, but the life insurance
business has actually increased mortgage exposure. We wanted to do more. Our
mortgage production is up signiﬁcantly. Gross production is up 10%, net production is up
25%, but also our clients are looking for mortgages, so the back of a mortgage is going
on between kind of life in our clients deal one mortgage. So we are looking for ways to
accelerate the production allocation of mortgages, so it went up and we are looking for
ways to allocate more to that and it speed up the access to mortgages, especially at
current valuations and current spreads.
When it comes to cash in non-life. Why didn't we used any cash? Because simply we
didn't need to, I mean our policy really is to have the cash in the operating entities, not in
the Holdco because we are one legal entity with one regulator with the same statutory
directors at Group at business. So as we know we didn't need to have lots of holding
cash. Our holding cash policy is a function of dividends that we plan to pay and holding
costs. So we consciously decided to keep the cash in the business and we obviously when
we need to. There is no limit or no impediment to upstreaming our holding cash. We
could have some cash from the non-life if want to do, but at this point, there is no
immediate need and whilst the operating entities are all using solid ROEs, I mean the ROI,
the ROE of the life and non-life business are both growing 13% plus. We were very
comfortable keeping the capital and the cash in the operating entities and when we need
the money, we upstream it.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Just to follow up on the standard formula question. I was wondering
whether if you're doing, trying to do a large scale in the future, actually you using
standard formula, well, your competitors are using in general more to actually put into a
disadvantage.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Page 21 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

We are fully aware of that potential disadvantage and one of the reason we are looking
into new considerations whether we should move towards an internal model or not and is
related to the role we had in the IFoA process then and we said, well, we at least need to
look at it but it will take some time before you could move towards an internal model and
as said, the decision is not taken yet and we are fully aware of the disadvantage we might
have in certain potential future transactions, if there would be any bigger ones.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Benoit Petrarque from Kepler. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, good morning gentlemen. Thanks for taking my questions. So the ﬁrst one is on the
market and other impacts. So you have 19 bips as percentage points or negative from VA
and UFR. Overall market now is over minus 15, probably have the negatives from rates
and mortgage spreads as well. So could you talk a little bit more about let's say the
positive eﬀects, what have been the positives I guess other performance has played
positively, but just wanted to get a bit of granularity on that. Second one is on the
regulation. So just wondering if you could disclose the impact from moving the liquid
loan [ph] on UFR to 30 years, what it will for the Solvency II ratio.
And also linked to that, why are you reviewing the capital in H2 framework, I mean with
this is pool of regulatory uncertainty still for life insurance, so I was wondering what is the
purpose of that. And the other one is on the business capital generation of EUR163
million. I was wondering if you included the EUR8 million positive non-recurring on the
commission on reinsurance in that ﬁgure? And then last point is on the 5% returns on real
estate on the assumptions. I understood that your rural portfolio is yielding 2.2% renting
yield. So I was wondering why will just if I move to the 5% yield? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Yeah. Benoit, on the what happens in our solvency, there is a signiﬁcant revaluations on
some of the real estate portfolio, especially in housing and to a lesser extent in and
housing and to lesser extent in housing and land has been revalued. We do revaluation.
We revalue our portfolio every quarter, actually every object is oﬃcially tax valued by
independent valuator, basically once a year thus face the other three quarters, so we
revaluation real estate, revaluation equities. We have some own implied haircuts on some
of our facility. We had some prudence and conservativeness in there and it was one
portfolio especially in the deﬁned contribution business that was based on the
assumption that our clients, I mean the solvency valuation based on some of our clients
will actually leave after one year because it's a one-year contract and we know for a fact
that the retention ratios will be 99.7%. So there was excess prudence when it comes to the
modeling of our deﬁned contribution portfolio. Those are the main components above
and beyond what you mentioned valuation of real estate, housing and land to a lesser
Page 22 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

extent stocks, valuation of equity markets, some prudency in some elements in our
modeling and especially around the retention rates and lifetime of our DC clients.
When it comes to the last liquid point, fascinating discussion. I think it's a very partial
discussion. I think you can only discuss it when you see it in a integral framework with
many other moving parts. If you were to move the last liquid point, I think you also can
discuss about the cost of capital in the risk market. Let's talk about the UFR as a whole.
You can talk about whether the Mass Lapse assumption is the right one. So I think it's a bit
dangerous you talk just about the last liquid point. If you do, it would be a stock process
sloping probably, your stock would go down, ﬂow would go up signiﬁcantly. I'd rather
address it when I see the whole package going, going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

The question is the reinsurance beneﬁt into the business capital. Yes, the GBP8 million is
in there although also some other elements reserving elements are also in there. If you
look at the non-life results, yes there was a reinsurance beneﬁt of about GBP8 million. But
as you can see in the document, there was also a notation to reserves, alignment of IFRS
and Solvency II reserves and there was some notation to third-party liability, that's also in
there. So I would think that net-net, the non-life results, the number that we produce is
roughly what it is and releases and notations cancel out to be very, very, very speciﬁc.
When it comes to yield on land. Indeed the land portfolio is around 2.2%, but for example
in our resident and housing portfolio to direct income of about, so retail is close to 5%.
Houses are over 3%, oﬃces are well over 6% and we've just launched the product about
that is on science park yields and the science park going to use are over 7%. So yes land is
a bit lower but especially with retail and oﬃces are much higher than that to get it right,
the total direct income from the real estate business north of the 3% than we're seeing
today are very close to the 5% of the return.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Matthias De Wit from Kempen. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. I got two questions remaining please. The ﬁrst one is on the guidance
for the operating result in the second half. If I understood you correctly, you expected so
much slower progression compared to the one seen in during the ﬁrst half of the year on
a constant scope basis. So did I understand that correctly and is there anything explaining
or is there any driver or any reason to expect a slowdown in the earnings momentum?
And then secondly on capital, what was the reason defer the update to the full year
results. So are you waiting more clarity on the Solvency II review and do you want higher
rates before you're willing to launch a buyback and just linked to that, can you conﬁrm
that the ex-UFR Solvency II ratio is still above 100% or is it below at this point in time.
Thank you.
Page 23 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Matthias, on the operating result, as Jos said, if you take the second half of last year, it had
some additional results from the two dots, because our ASR standalone is actually
outperforming ASR standalone last year and as Loyalis we're a bit reticent on the number.
I don't think will add another EUR16 million, EUR17 million on the second half last year
simply because Q4 last year was very good. But we think overall it's safe to add on
average a markup for the result last year, may not the same, simply because Q4 was a
good result last year. When it comes to the capital policy review, we want to do with
borrowing. Look, lot of our smart people had spend lots of time working at VvAA in the
ﬁrst half of the year and want to make a forward and well informed decision, don't be too
hastily about it. And then there is a more information is always helpful but I doubt whether
by the end of this year we'll have all the clarity on IFoA that we want. I don't think you ever
have full clarity IFoA, this is a progressing framework. So that is not the issue is more like
we want to spend our time all through and make sure that people are working on those
are fully available for and we did spent quite some time on M&A in the ﬁrst half.

Bloomberg Transcript

And your third question was also the ex-UFR again. I think it's a partial analysis. Our
solvency view is very solid. There is no point in giving you a number because it's a partial
analysis if you want to give me a solvency numbers ex-UFR that will assume that will also
make no investment result whatsoever is probably eﬀected this also stripe out the market
risk component which can boost solvency again and you get it fully de-risk solvency
number. Actually I think the relevant benchmark for Solvency ex-UFR can be quite frank is
rather zero than 100, I mean do you have any owned funds left if you had no UFR because
100% is a arbitrary mark if you then still keep full allocated to market risk and it's way, way
above zero. The exact number I don't care. I don't look at it. I look at the UFR 2.4 because
that would be actually zero.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Chris.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead,
your line is open.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

I was going to say good morning, but good afternoon I think it is now. Just a few
questions from me as well please. Thank you for the falling interest rate sensitivity
explanation, but I see that your equities sensitivity has reduced signiﬁcantly and now
falling equities you have 0% change to Solvency II ratio. Can you explain what has
happened here as well? I think you highlighted that you would potentially look at
optimizing the balance sheet as well later in this year. Would you consider a potential
debt issuance to pay for a share buyback in the future or is debt issuance is more geared
towards doing business acquisitions and sort of business growth organically as well. And
then ﬁnally just out of curiosity, the Loyalis, VvAA, Veherex acquisitions, I wonder if these
were included in the number of possible small, mid-sized businesses you discussed at
your Capital Markets Day? Thanks.
Page 24 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Steven, it's Chris. When it comes to equities, the volatility change because of the way the
equity dampener works, which is a technical thing, it's Solvency II. And secondly, we have
got a put strategy under equity that we optimize in the ﬁrst half. So it's a combination of
equity debt that we do, just exactly technical thing and our put strategy that limits the
amount of downside risk from falling equities. When it comes to issuing debt, I'm not sure
that we can issue debt. So we're going to be opportunistic and if there's an opportunity to
raise capital cheaply, you should not let that go. It appears that at this point, our key one is
relative attractive form of capital with others. We've had a reverse inquiries. Our balance
sheet can sustain itself, something which you remember we'd have a right application.
Ideally you spent in inquiring companies. Would you use to buy back shares? We're not in
the business doing a leverage recap, but portion of ﬁnance can be doable if your total
solvency allows. To me, a share buyback or capital returns is a function of your total capital
base and it looks like a three year post, rather than a function of one speciﬁc single
transaction, So you need to look at in a more integral fashion.
When it comes to acquisitions, our famous pyramid that we produced on the Capital
Markets Day, indeed some of these businesses were implied in a pyramid. When we
produced this slide capital market day of course we were already working on Loyalis,
because then we signed the deal two months later, so that was something we knew was
coming. Veherex and VvAA were distance vaguely roomed at the time. So yes, they were
included in that potential pool of acquisitions.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, that's great. Thank you, Chris. Thanks, Jos.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Andrew Baker from Citi. Please go ahead, your
line is open.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple. So a follow-up to the famous I guess. So
there was I think EUR27 billion of GWP identiﬁed in that pyramid at the time. I appreciate
that some transactions have come and gone. Do you see the size of pyramid now as
similar or would it be reduced materially in anyway? And then maybe related to that, is
there anything to read into the review of the capital policy and really freeing up the ability
to potentially do buybacks as your outlook for M&A has -- and the pipeline for M&A has
changed materially. And then just ﬁnally, can you just conﬁrm there is still two year lag
between when you make a decision to go to a partial internal model and when you can
actually implement and have you actually started work on the partial internal model itself
yet? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Andrew, thanks for your questions. To your last question, we haven't really started working
on that because as said, all the bright and smart people are still working on IFRS 17 which
Page 25 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

FINAL

is a must do. From the start to the application and to the use in general one will need two
to 2.5 years, even up to three years if the right people in the market are not available
before you will see it in the numbers. The ﬁrst year you have to build to -- the model,
don't have to do the application, you have to prove that you use the model. So in general,
it will require at least 2.5 years.
To your ﬁrst question on the same experiments, as Chris already said, a number of
opportunities that we in the meantime have done are in that pyramid. We also have seen
companies for sale that we decided not to bid on. Those were also in this pyramid. There
has been a -- it's already in the Dutch market for a number of years that there is one
funeral insurance company that is for sale and we have not really looked at it and then
decided that the value that we want to deliver to our shareholders will not be in such
transaction and that was also in this pyramid? So yes, we still see opportunities. The size of
the opportunities might be smaller than for example Loyalis or Generali but there is still
some stuﬀ out there. So we're still optimistic about our ability to do transactions, but the
number indeed has decreased because we've done some and some of the potentials that
were still in there are refused to do by us.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Okay.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. At this time we have no further questions in the phone queue. I would like to
hand the call back over to you Mr. Baeten for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us during this call. Hopefully it was
helpful again to get the detailed answers on the detailed questions. We're looking
forward to see most of you soon. Chris and I will be on the road show over the next weeks
and with some of you we already planned the dinner and lunch and we're happy to see
you there and have a nice day for the remainder of this Happy Friday.

Operator
This will conclude today's conference. Thank you all for your participation, you may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
Page 26 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

