Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Peter Cox, Executive Director & Chief Underwriting Officer
David Andrew Horton, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director (Chair)
Martin Lindsay Bride , Executive Director & Group Finance Director

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew J. Ritchie , Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Joanna Tamar Parsons , Analyst
John A. Borgars , Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Paris Hadjiantonis , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Welcome to our Results Presentation for the Year-Ended
December 31, 2018.
If we have a quick look at the agenda, I'm going to give you an overview of the year, I'm
then going to hand over to Martin, this is his last analyst presentation before he retires at
the end of May. He is going to run you through the financials, and then I'm going to hand
over to Adrian, this is his first presentation as the Chief Underwriting Officer and he's
going to give us an overview of what's happening in the underwriting and talk briefly
about the split between specialty lines and cyber & executive risk. And then I will come
back for the outlook for 2019, the crystal ball will be out what is actually going to happen
for the rest of this year.
So if we look at the high level numbers for 2018, we saw some good top line growth, the
top line growth up 12%. That's on the back of rates increases across the portfolio of 3%.
So we saw some good rate increases across most of our lines in 2018. The growth
actually came across all divisions. All divisions grew to some extent, which was great, and
also our geographic footprint. So the U.S. went through the $1 million premium mark, up
20% year-on-year, which is the four years in five, it's grown by 20% and we expect that
sort of momentum to continue into 2019. We also grew internationally. We've been
Page 1 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

investing in our offices within Europe. We also did the Canadian acquisition in 2017. So we
grew everywhere geographically as well.
Bottom line, though, impacted by two things, investments, it's a tough year for
investments, spreads widening, interest rates rising and equity markets falling, so
investment income roughly down $100 million year-on-year to 0.8% from 2.8%. And also
we picked up some catastrophe claims in 2018 as we have done in 2017 and more
attritional claims especially in the property portfolio. That had an impact on the prior year
reserve releases, which Martin will go through in a minute. Although we did flag, of course,
at the end of 2017, the prior year reserve releases will be lower because we've used most
of our catastrophe reserves against the catastrophes of 2017 and the same applies in
2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Dividends in line with our normal plan of growing just over 5%, so dividend continues to
rise. And the final dividend at £0.078. So what's actually going on in the business, as I
mentioned, a great growth in the U.S., which is good and, of course, now we've gone
through the $1 billion, our aim is to see if we can get up to $2 billion of U.S. premiums. This
is a relatively small number compared with the size of the specialist insurance market in
the U.S. Continue to invest in the States in terms of peoples we recruited within the U.S.
last year and this year we're looking at opening two new offices in Denver and Seattle, so,
increasing our footprint and ensuring in the core offices we have or the key offices we
have, we have multi-products in each of those offices with the focus mainly on Boston and
Houston.
We are focusing outside the U.S. So you can see we recruited 34 underwriters outside the
U.S., in Europe, Canada, and Singapore, which is great. We have our Brexit plan in place as
far as we can because (00:03:12) we're still waiting for the final rules of Brexit. We have
our Irish insurance company, which can operate through Europe with branches in Spain,
Germany, and France. And of course Lloyd's got their Brussels operation up and running
and we started writing business through Lloyd's Brussels from January 1, this year.
As I mentioned, the Canadian acquisition is going really well. Canadian premiums are up
about 20% in 2018 over 2017 from a relatively low base. Some people changes that we've
actually announced, so Adrian, as I mentioned, taking over as CUO from Neil who retired
after 28 years with the company at the end of last year; and Tim Turner and Clive who
both joined Beazley in 1998 at the start of the marine division, Clive has not been well for
a number of years and therefore Tim Turner has taken over the lead of the marine
division.
Focusing on a few new strategic initiatives in 2018, two related to technology and data, so
Beazley Digital is all about how can we do simple business better and easier. So, we're
going to look at technology, have less touch from underwriting and claims on our simple
business and then we have some initiative called Faster, Smarter Underwriting, which is
looking at how do we use data and technology for our large risk business on both
underwriting and claims.

Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

Other key initiative is getting closer to the customer. We're going to spend more time
with our insureds in 2019, we have a good view of what they'd actually like. There is an
opportunity to sell more product and to actually understand what they would like for us to
think of in the future as customers generate new risks. We're going to have a key initiative
on place with the customer.
Some of you may be aware that we launched a smart tracker and this was how to write
portfolios of business and quote the shares (00:04:54) of business more cheaply in the
Lloyd's market. And in 2018, we launched this. We had a (00:05:00) $25 million budget. I
think we had to write slightly less than that. It got good momentum, good broker support.
And in 2019, our aim is to write in excess of $60 million. 90% of this business is supported
by third-party capital, so Beazley has a 10% share in it. And our aim is to grow this and we
will have a different stream of income in the future with different capital sources coming
in.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at some of the charts, the premium growth, you can see how the premium
growth is gaining momentum in 2018. Of course, 2014, 2015, 2016 were not great in a
rate environment. You can see how the growth has grown in 2018. We expect that to
continue at a similar-ish sort of level into 2019. Combined ratio impacted by the
catastrophes of 2017 and 2018 and some of the attritional losses in 2018 and our property
division expenses holding flattish down a bit this year to 39%, Martin will mention that in a
second. Base dividends continue to grow nicely from the £0.093 back in 2014 to a £0.117 in
2018. And you can see how the return on equity has been impacted this year by both
claims, catastrophe and attritional claims and the lower investment return.
We are very focused, as you all know, on growth in net asset value per share, and what
this chart shows is the great part at the bottom is if we can grow 15% plus the risk free
rate, we hit the top of the grey bar. And at 10% plus the risk free rate, we're at the
bottom of the grey bar. And you can see what we've achieved over the past nine years,
where the diamond is (00:06:36). So, we're just about achieving a 15% plus of risk free
rate over those nine years. And our belief is if we grow (00:06:42) net asset value per
share, the share price will respond accordingly to that, which you can see it has done with
more volatility over the past year as returns are a bit lower.
I will then hand over to Martin, who will go through the financials.

Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you very much, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. I'm Martin Bride, the
Finance Director of Beazley. So I'm going to just highlight one or two things in the financial
KPIs and then talk to you about my usual trio of subjects being investments, reserves, and
capital.
So on the KPIs, the only two things I'd really pull out. We improved efficiency of our
reinsurance purchasing last year. So, net written premium growth was actually even
stronger than the already very good 12% top line growth. As far as the per share metrics
are concerned, net asset value, net tangible asset, they were up slightly, but I think we

Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

have to be clear that the dollar-sterling exchange rate is really creating that. We carry our
capital in dollars because the vast majority of our business is dollar denominated. And
there's been a reasonably significant shift between year-end 2017 and year-end 2018, but
nevertheless a good position.
So investments, very happy with how the portfolio responded during the year, not
particularly excited about the investment outcome, but very happy with how the portfolio
responded. And so very little change, it's a very stable chart over time that you see, credit
to Stuart Simpson and his team, that you can see in the detail there, the grey, capital
growth assets, that are higher risk assets, some decisions taken during the year to reduce
down sort of low end of our possible weighting of those asset allocations, and that
certainly contributed to the outcome being better than it would have been if we hadn't
done that. As I said we can't really call it a great outcome in absolute terms.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that is the picture of the investment yield. The second half quite strong and particularly
boosted in the last one or two weeks of the year by a slight reversal of the very strong
upward trend we've seen in U.S. rates all the way through 2018. But in spite of that, slight
reduction backwards, the sort of the forward-looking prospects for 2019 are encouraging
compared to where we've been over the last 5 or even 10 years.
So reserve releases, Beazley does reserve prudently and we have a consistent approach,
reserves built up team-by-team and therefore we do expect releases on average when
we settle claims out. So the 2018 picture slightly different to the usual one. In that we do
have one of our businesses that's had a reasonably significant reserve increase, but it is
only one, the other four and in particular the maroon or magenta block from specialty
lines still performing very strongly. So as we have signaled at the start of the year, reserve
releases were below average in 2018 because we came into the year with no margin in
the nat cat. Notwithstanding that, we did need to strengthen reserves in our property
team in relation to some attritional claims that we were seeing in various portfolios. This
will happen occasionally even though we reserve prudently, but the key is that it is
occasionally.
We have a second version of this chart this year, where we've just taken out the effects of
the 2017 catastrophes. Our overall reserve for those catastrophes held up, but there was
a release from the reinsurance division and there was some increase in the cat reserves in
the property group. They net to approximately zero and so that's what the picture would
have been if you took that out, you can see there the underlying, I think it's a $21 million
strengthening in property group.
Potentially more importantly than the reserve releases during the year is the margin
(00:11:27) to the extent there is a lead indicator of what's going to happen next on
reserve releases, it's this chart, so this is showing you the margin. We believe the reserves
in our balance sheet have above our internal actuarial estimates that themselves have an
element of prudence in. And so you can see we're in the management range and we are
up from the position of last year. Clearly we've had another, as Andrew has described, we
had another relatively active year claims-wise. And so, we've not had a huge tailwind as
far as reserve strength is concerned, but notwithstanding that, we've taken the action
necessary to move the reserve strength up.
Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

Finally, capital, so we ended the year with a 26% surplus capital measured as a
percentage of the Lloyd's economic capital requirement, which supports our underwriting
at Lloyd's. That's slightly above our target range of 15% to 25%. So we view the position is
very strong. We've given the guidance that we think our capital requirement will grow in
line with the top line. You can see that the growth year-end 2017 to year-end 2018 I think is
9%. Adrian is going to talk to you about high single-digit growth prospects for next year,
so that rule of thumb appears to be working.
We did have a one-off effect in 2018 that we are now retaining more risk in our U.S.
admitted carrier and we increased the capital in that carrier to accommodate that extra
risk with a sort of not quite commensurate reduction in Lloyd's capital. There was, at the
margin, a bit of inefficiency, but that's sort of big step up and the U.S. capital is a one-off
from our perspective and we now would expect both measures to broadly to grow in line
with the respective premiums.
Final point on the capital front, we did redeem a small amount of subordinated debt, an
$18 million instrument late last year and we have our retail bond due for redemption in
September of 2019, so nothing is finalized yet but certainly the plans are for there to be
some form of debt issuance later on in the year and we'll be updating you about that
nearer the time. So that in terms of delivering capital to support the ongoing growth of
the business, there should be an increase, thanks to debt financing, and then hopefully a
return to slightly higher ROEs, which will also help generate capital to support the future
growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thank you, Martin. Good morning. My name is Adrian Cox, Chief Underwriting Officer. I'll
start out with a review of some of the achievements of last year, combined ratio, as
mentioned, 98%, I'll talk a little bit more about that on the next slide. Strong growth, I
think, is encouraging that that growth came across a number of our divisions that the
opportunities for us are relatively broad based. The three divisions, which grew in double
digits were specialty lines, PAC and property, marine and treaty both grew but less than
double digits.
Notably I think we were happy to grow our property exposure last year. So all of that
account has been in remediation, the underwriters have been working quite hard on that
since the middle of 2017. And because of all the hard work they put in, we were happy to
grow our exposure base last year, which I think is good news.
The rate change that we had of 3% was actually higher than planned. And I'm going to talk
a little bit more about that later on. I think it's worth noting that all the divisions barring
treaty beat their rate change plan last year and all divisions barring PAC were rate positive
last year. Our PAC division got dragged (00:15:38) down by the softening terrorism
market, which had another year of very low claims frequency. Talking of PAC, that division
achieved a 90% combined ratio last year, so the years of the re-underwriting of that book
and particularly sorting out some of the PA business in Australia finally paid off, so well
done to them. And as Martin mentioned, our reserve surplus increased a little this year
and we continue to reserve as we always have done.
Page 5 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Pleased with the progress that we and indeed the market made on PPL last year. We
didn't quite reach the top end of the targets that Lloyd's set us, but we will get a healthy
rebate for them for the efforts that we did. And we're confident that we (00:16:19) at
meeting the increased targets this year. It does look as if the market has finally turned the
corner on this issue and as far as we're concerned that's a good thing.
So, as Martin mentioned, good to see net premiums growing faster than gross. We've
been working on the efficiency of our reinsurance programs for a few years now. That's a
project I will also take on, in my new role. We can see the makeup of the combined ratio
there, the 39% expense ratio something that Martin will be basking in between now and
when he leaves. And the 59% is slightly higher than last year. Two things actually lie behind
that. First is the strengthening of the property book as Martin talked about, most of that
was in the 2017 year of account. We have also opened some of the medium tail (00:17:09)
business in specialty lines higher in 2018 than we had in 2017 and prior. And the reason
that we have done that, it reflects our view that the claims environment now is a little less
benign than it was in the immediate years following the global financial crisis and we have
acted accordingly.
This is a slide familiar to most of us. I think my predecessor believed and I certainly concur
with him that this does show nicely the benefits of a well-diversified portfolio. The dotted
line in the middle left shows that we are once again above 100%. So in aggregate we're
getting the same sort of pricing levels that we were back in 2008. A couple of things
worth noting, I think property, the green – not the green, the pink line at the top there, is
as high as it's been in the last decade, which is interesting and also interesting is the
bottom blue line there, even marine has turned positive, which doesn't happen very
often.
And moving on and our December rate change was just under 5%, which is an interesting
fact I think and as a visible sign of some changing market sentiment. And it does feel as if
there's some genuine momentum now building to re-price products in areas where
margin was – were being over squeezed. As always, loss activity is what's driving this. I
certainly think that the Lloyd's business (00:18:32) last year brought a lot of this into the
public eye. And overall we think that was no bad thing. Anecdotally we've heard that the
market lost a lot less business in the last quarter of last year than the brokers were
worrying that it had, that it was going to. And as evidence too (00:18:49) the domestic
markets – domestic carriers are also starting to re-underwrite and they're reacting to the
same issues that we've seen over here, which is why the market lost less business,
they're just not doing it as publicly as we have here. I think this is quite encouraging as we
look forward to 2019.
Our rate change plan for this year is roughly the same as last year. The indications for
January so far is that we will have beaten that so far. Again, opportunities across our most
divisions, our U.S. platform will continue to grow, we'll continue to do as we always have
with that. I think the growth hopefully will be slightly more widespread, so beyond
specialty lines into some of those other divisions. And as I mentioned earlier, our core
product suite is up and running and (00:19:32) our international initiatives, our corporate
suite being cyber, financial lines and medical malpractice and our hubs in London,
Barcelona, Miami, Toronto and Singapore are all doing well.
Page 6 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

As Andrew mentioned, we continue to build 5623 with a business plan of about $65
million. Last year, we really tested the concept with all stakeholders, regulatory, capital,
brokers and I think it worked. We brought new third-party capital into the syndicate this
year, there was quite a lot of interest in what we're doing and the mission that we're on.
And we continue to drive with vigor, the concept of reducing the frictional costs of placing
and administering business in the London market.
Given the cat activity we had in 2018, we're not expecting normal levels of reserve
releases from cat reserves because we don't have them. And finally, we will split specialty
lines into two divisions going forward and a little bit about that. We decided to split
specialty lines into specialty lines and cyber & executive risk for two reasons. Firstly that it
was getting a bit big. And secondly and more importantly, we thought that we could
generate some real symbiosis by bringing together the U.S. management liability and
cyber teams.

Bloomberg Transcript

Management liability in the U.S. D&O, primarily, but also it covers (00:20:56) some other
coverages. Our traditional reinsurance system (00:20:58) that have been overseen by the
board. Increasingly boards in the U.S. have taken more of an interest in the cyber purchase
and they're tending to purchase them together. Brokers are beginning to organize
themselves the same way and we thought we could generate some competitive
advantage by aligning with that practice.
As I said, we'll be reporting both divisions separately from H1 this year. You can see from
those stats that CyEx or cyber & executive risk is between 35% and 40% of the old total.
And it has a lower combined ratio target than the old specialty lines. It needs a lower
combined ratio to generate the same return on equity because it's shorter term business.
We should also expect it to have a slightly different reserve release strategy in specialty
lines (00:21:41) did because it's shorter tail. It also has aggregation risk or catastrophe risk.
So its reserve releases, if there are any, are more (00:21:51) shorter tail business with
those sorts of exposure. We have plans to grow both of those in 2019. If anything the
plans for specialty lines new are slightly more growth than CyEx new because some of the
real engines of U.S. growth are environmental and miscellaneous medical, for example,
they've been growing quite strongly and the bulk of our international business is within
specialty lines.
And with that I'll hand back over to Andrew.

David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Right. Thanks, Adrian. So, if I just give a summary of the outlook, I think we feel a bit more
positive at the beginning of 2019 than we did at the beginning of 2018. If we get back a
year ago, our view was despite the catastrophes of 2017 the industry was going to reload
and just have a go in a similar way that they did in 2017. Rates wouldn't respond because
of that because the extra capacity or the capacity reload, rates wouldn't go up that much.
And I think that's what we found in 2018. Having yet another year of some catastrophes
and margins not being that good, there is definitely more stress in the system, the Lloyd's
business planning process put some stress on some of our competitors as Adrian

Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

mentioned, some of the larger non-Lloyd's players are also feeling under pressure to be
re-underwrite and therefore feel more positive about rates in 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

(00:23:13) the second year of rate increases, not in every single line of business but
across most of our lines of business. And also with higher interest rates and high yields,
we feel we can make more money of our investment portfolio in 2019.
On the Brexit, we're as prepared, I think, as we can be, so whatever is going to happen
over the next month or two with Lloyd's Brussels and our insurance company in Ireland.
We had (00:23:40) executive committee member changes in 2018 and we have the
same in 2019. Martin is going to be leaving us at some point in May. I suppose I can start
now the four months of congratulating him and thanking him for everything he's done.
This can be the first time because I'm sure there's going to be other things like this are
going to happen. I probably won't do it on every investor meeting over the next two
weeks, Martin, but thank you very much for your contribution over the past 10 years, it's
been excellent.
It's great to be appointing Sally who's in the audience, who's our group actuary to Finance
Director when Martin retires. We've also got Dan Jones who's actually been involved in
the company to some extent since 2006 as the non-Executive Director and became our
Head of Broker Relations in 2011. And Lou Ann Layton who had historically – who's been at
Marsh for 31 years joined us in the end of November last year. And it's great she has
steeped in relationships with brokers and clients, that's fantastic. And Jerry Sullivan who's
been with us more than 10 years has taken on the Head of the U.S. Management
Committee, so he's overseeing distribution, people and systems to see if we can
continue the great growth we've had in the U.S. over the past few years.
I mentioned investing in technology. The industry needs to become more efficient and I
think there is the opportunity there with some of the London market initiatives and some
of the specific Beazley initiatives to be a lot more efficient and productive than we have
historically been. And also we continue to grow in terms of people. So we've never
stopped recruiting in the 33 years the company has been in existence, again with a little
bit more stress in the system and some of the insurers under some pressure to change
and adjust, I think it's going to be a good opportunity in 2019 to recruit.
Back of that, we are now open to questions.

Q&A
Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Three questions I think. First of all for Adrian, could
you just clarify on the specialty lines book, I'm talking the book as it is today, the whole
book, CyEx and specialty lines, how much is exposed to what I would describe as a trend
risk on claims? So the kind of claims you've been hearing about in broader market, D&O,
M&A, EPO (00:25:57) and the general book – how much of the book is exposed to that
kind of trend risk? Because you did mention that the claims environment and you've
referred to that on your opening (00:26:05).
Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

Second question, I guess, for Martin, placing retro or re-insurance, I guess, has been a
little trickier this year compared to last year. Just clarify how that's going. Is there any
major changes in your protections that you've put in place both retro and re-insurance?
And the final question is why is your expense ratio so good? It never seems to go off.
You're growing. I guess you paying people I presume, so what is there – is there some
underlying efficiency going on or should we expect the expense ratio to sort of creep up
a little bit? Thanks.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Want to (00:26:42) start?

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll start (00:26:42). Yes. So most of SL, specialty lines of old is exposed to trend risk. I
think the key is that it's not all exposed to the same trend risk, right? So whereas – one of
the aims as we built out specialty lines was to have the same sort of diversification that
we have in Beazley overall. So broadly speaking any liability book is exposed to trends of
business practice or societal changes or law changes and so on and so forth. And our job
is to try and figure out what those exposures are and manage them accordingly. So the
things that we see going on for example in D&O are completely different trends than
what we see going on in healthcare and there are some pluses and minuses across the
book.
Broadly speaking post-financial crisis, conditions were quite good for us. And risk
management had improved (00:27:35), corporate governance and improved (00:27:37)
and post 2011-2012, the economy was growing very nicely and that gave broad-based
quite good conditions for us. As always what happens is the plaintiff bar get reorganized
again (00:27:49) different ways to do things and sue (00:27:50) and that's why we're
seeing slight elevations in trends in different pockets of our book. It is by no means across
the whole specialty lines because we've diversified to manage that. But the increase in
(00:28:04) that we've done reflects the fact that those things are happening in parts of
the book.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

So on your other two questions, Andrew, I think on sort of purchasing, how was (00:28:17)
reinsurance and retro. As a company, we focused on gross underwriting profits and we
have generated incredibly good results for our reinsurers over time. So where we have
had claims, so we have had a few claims, we are clearly paying a bit more. But generally, I
think we've achieved pretty satisfactory renewals and there is still plenty of capital in the
market. And as I say, we have long-term relationships, we have incredibly good results for
our reinsurers and we work very closely with them. And I think we've achieved good
outcomes on the writing side as a consequence of that.
39% expense ratio, how (00:28:57) got. So we've always said, I think the key thing is if you
look at premium growth between 2014 and 2018, it's about 30%. When I sat here, I've
always said it's these periods of slightly higher premium growth, when we can get high
double-digit growth that you should be looking for us to generate some improvements in

Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

the expense ratio because as you kind of pointed out, we have brokerage, which doesn't
tend to go down and then we employ people and again they all expect generally to get
paid more. Now we try also to be more efficient. So I think we do work incredibly hard
internally to make sure that every pound we spend is spent carefully, spent efficiently
every day every year. And so what you've seen over the last four or five years is that that
very strong expense discipline coming together with the period where we've been able
to grow the top line quite well.
And the final part of the answer to your question is progressively I got a much lower
bonus this year because the result wasn't very good and that also at the margin
(00:30:09) takes the 2018 expense ratio down because we are very clear in this company
that a lot of – all variable reward is linked to the organizational performance and when that
performance is down therefore the bonus parts are down, we think that's a really
important principle.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Just to clarify on the outwards (00:30:32), so if the arrangements for example for the
specialty booth, I'm talking the whole specialty booth, the cash cover, that'd still – I think it
was $35 million and I (00:30:41).

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Can I pass this across to Adrian, he is the definitely the expert.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. A significant chunk of our reinsurance for specialty lines will start 01/01 (00:30:51)
that was all fine. Our large cash covers (00:30:55) placement, but we're not expecting
any issues with that.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

We should say, Andrew, our record cover is later in the year, so it's in April 1, so we haven't
bought record yet, so we're not aligned to Jan 1 with retro.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Thanks.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, Jonny Urwin, UBS, just two for me. So, firstly, could you give us a bit more color around
the 01 Jan renewals, how they went, market conditions in Lloyd's of London in particular?
And then secondly the investment return for 2019, you've got a bit of a tailwind now,
which is, obviously, nice, but I see you're saying you're reinvesting at 3.3%. Is that latest
and what can we expect for this year? Thanks.

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

January renewals, I think they're broadly in line with expectations. I mean outside the
reinsurance book January is not a huge month for us, so it's not a great leading indicator.
And as I said, I think we'll end up slightly above the business plan. But the roundups
(00:32:04) we have with all the divisions has meant that nothing has happened in January
that has impacted our 2019 financial particularly.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

I think as far as investment returns are concerned, I think the guidance I gave on the core
portfolio, the 85% is we expect to sort of receive two to three year treasuries plus 70-80
basis points uplift for credit risk. And then, as far as the 15% capital growth assets are
concerned, well, I think that could, obviously, there's a much wider range there as to what
we can expect. So that will be my benchmark Jonny. So that's, today, that's probably
about 310 (00:32:53) on the core portfolio because rates have eased back a bit.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. It's Kamran Hossain from RBC; two questions. One just on the reserve releases in
specialty, you called out (00:33:08) cyber for 2015-2016 reserves is developing positively.
I guess when we think about reserve releases in cyber, is – could you maybe give an idea
of the concept of that reserve release and whether if there were no cyber catastrophe
events whether you see these as being sustainable? That's first question. And the second
question on the combined ratio. I guess, we've always talked about a 90% combined ratio
being a decent starting point in the medium term. Given lower reserve releases next year,
what's that number, which you (00:33:38) start off within our models? Thanks.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Right. I'll take that (00:33:42). Maybe give that second one to Sally but the – so as far as
the cyber loss ratios and the CyEx reserve releases are concerned, I think the – as a
proportion of premiums, CyEx's business will have lower technical provisions than the new
SL business because it's got the short tail and the long tail. So therefore as a proportion
of premiums, the reserve releases you should expect it to be a slightly lower percentage
of premium from the new SL, it will also be more volatile because as Adrian's alluded to,
there is an aggregation risk in that portfolio. We haven't really seen that crystallize into a
claim incident yet. So there have been some quite strong reserve releases. I mean, you
can work out what the quantum of them is because -- in 2015 and 2016 in triangles, we're
only releasing on the shorter tail specialty lines business. So all of that loss ratio
movement essentially is in there and we're also giving you premium figures. We write
between $250 million and $300 million of cyber premiums now. So that's cyber.
Combined ratios, so the – yeah, below average reserve releases on the short tail
businesses, I think my view would be that the short tail businesses probably – in good
years we're making a reserve release of 10% of NEP and I would say 3% to 4% of that is
coming from the short tail businesses typically, if you look at recent history. So I would
guide for some 6% to 7% of NEP reserve release, and therefore sort of something around
Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

the 93% mark is probably mechanically what comes from that. We are now at a higher
investment yield world, and as I've said to a number of you in one-to-one meetings, 3%
investment yields and 90% combined ratio, it leads to a pretty big ROE. So we may need
to revisit at some point if we're going to stick with 3% plus investment yields, what the
long-term combined ratio is going to be. But...

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm happy with 3% and 90%.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Just two questions. Have you become more comfortable
with what the peak risk is on your cyber book? I mean do you have a number you might
share either today or maybe at the half year stage in terms of what type of (00:36:30)
risk you are taking on your balance sheet? The second question is again on that cyber
book. There is a margin in there still if I read correctly your release, how big is that margin?
And how does it drift off and run off the balance sheet? And thirdly, the 5.6% of your
margin, are you going to rebuild that in a normal cat year? Will that be rebuilding gradually
back to the middle of the range or are you happy where it is? Thanks.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. So, I'll start and then maybe Adrian, I don't know whether you could add in a few
things...

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Sure.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

...on the cyber risk. So, the peak risk on cyber, I mean, I – we view it as lower than our nat
cat risk. I personally model (00:37:27) is already large on nat cat risk, model (00:37:31) is
multiples bigger because we haven't yet really seen our first event, Andreas. So we're not
sure it's helpful to publish specific numbers. I know one or two of our competitors have.
Maybe Adrian can say a bit more about how we monitor that?
As far as Cyber is concerned, I mean when we business plan, we categorize our products
higher than 20% ROEs where we're looking to grow, less than 10% where we're looking to
remediate profit, and as far as I'm aware, cyber is still in that first category. Underneath
that there's an assumption of how big these systemic events are and how much they cost
and they haven't happened yet. So clearly, our historic cyber book has been very
profitable because we were pricing it to be a relatively high margin product and assuming
there were going to be some aggregation risk claims that there haven't been yet. But I
believe, as I say, Adrian, perhaps, will say a few things about how he sees the adequacy
of cyber pricing going forward.

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Page 12 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

Surely. So we've been talking about cyber aggregation risk for a long time and we spend
quite a lot of time investigating what our cyber exposures are and what our systemic risk
is. As Martin said, there are many few data points and there are some of the other
aggregation risks we have but that doesn't mean that we can't try to figure out what the
possible areas of accumulation are? What (00:39:03) that's impacted by three things
really, I think what is possible to do, who we're selling cyber to and what we're selling
them, right? And those three things have evolved very much over the last 10 years. And
that impacts the sort of aggregation risk that we have and the quantum of that risk. So,
you go back 9 or 10 years and our client base was a lot more focused on healthcare
industries and financial services, and that drove what sort of aggregation risk we had and
they mostly bought for (00:39:33) cover. The coverage that is bought now is a lot
different from that, our client base is a lot broader. And what is possible has changed and
we have to figure out what our accumulation does in response to that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we spend a lot of time thinking about what particular bottlenecks or points of
segregation are, what is it possible to do them, and therefore the impact that they may
have on our portfolio. And whilst we can't model them based upon past events, what we
can figure out are those areas of aggregation, accumulation, which sort of fits with the
same sort of principles that we have in other parts of the old specialty lines because
that's how we started thinking about D&O 14 years ago. Another liability book, so it's
possible to do that.
As Martin said, the risk – the error risk is quite high and that because we don't have those
data points. Referred to in the annual report are some further disclosures about how we
think about cyber and some relativities between that and the natural catastrophe risk and
we do have slightly less of that and partly because of that model risk, but I do believe you
can do quite a lot of thinking and work around what is possible and how that may impact
your client base.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Hi, Ben Cohen at Investec. Could I ask two things? Firstly on specialty lines, on the sort of
the non-cyber business. What is the likelihood that you couldn't sort of match the claims
inflation that you're allowing for in the year ahead, presuming that you need to see pricing
to move up if you're going to sort of offset some of the sort of trend risk? And is there a
scenario in which you need to shrink parts of those books if the market doesn't respond?
And the second question was looking ahead to the debt raise that you're likely to do in
the second half of the year, would you see that enabling you to grow more, build a bigger
buffer in terms of the capital position or potentially return more capital to shareholders?
Thanks.

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Shall I do the SL....

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah.

Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

FINAL

...trend first? As I said a few minutes ago, the trends that the products are exposed to in
specialty lines are very different and diverse and they're up a bit in some and they're
relatively flat in others. And we have to make sure that we're comfortable with the pricing
and the margin in that pricing according to what we think is happening to that trend. And
one of the jobs we try to do is to figure out what we think those are because they're quite
forward-looking.
I do think that the price changes we're seeing do – reflects the changes that have been
going on. And so, we are by no means getting the same level of rate change across the
whole of specialty lines, because they're exposed to different things. We had different
levels of loss activity across those different portfolios. And one of the useful things about
specialty lines is that we've built that diversity of products and client base, so that we're
not exposed to the same thing.
Will we and have we shrink things if we don't think there's enough margin left and we
can't get that – the price to match the rate change? Absolutely. And despite the strong
growth we've had in specialty lines over the past few years, we absolutely have strong
focus groups quite dramatically in some cases where we don't see the sufficient price.
Fortunately, what we have also been able to do is to find areas that we can grow where
there is that margin and we do see a sustainable growth profile for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

I think as far as the debt raise is concerned, Ben, so mechanically we'll be clearly above
our buffer at the end of the first year, because when you raise debt, you have to do it in
big lumps. The buffer at 15% to 25%, I think is fine. I was saying to Andrew yesterday I'm
slightly worried because they've never been down towards the bottom of that buffer
because I've been lucky to have these fantastic ROEs, while I've been CFO, and the first
time we do actually go there, people will worry and they shouldn't. I think 15% to 25%
buffer is more than enough. And no, we certainly wouldn't be raising debt-to-return equity.
So, I think any return of equity would be a function of the levels of ROE we make in the
growth prospects of the business.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Anything that's back on (00:43:52) returned equity, Ben, is when the outlook has been
lower growth and the ROEs have been high and at the moment the outlook is pretty
good growth. And therefore we need the debt to grow over the next number of years
rather than just in one year.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes. Hi. It's Paris Hadjiantonis from Credit Suisse. Firstly on – a question again about my
model I guess. If I just look at your rate increases, 3%, I know you're guiding for lower
reserve releases going forward, but wouldn't the additional growth ratio for year-on-year
or is there a reason why I shouldn't be having my additional loss falling. So maybe, I don't
know higher loss picks for 2019, which is something you the discussed for specialty loans
to an extent?
Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

And then secondly and coming back to your comment, Martín, 90% combined ratios and
3% investment returns might lead to high ROE, but you're growing out 10% more or less,
maybe the guidance is 5% to 10%. Why would you want to bring ROE, especially why
would you want to bring your combined ratios up? Do you want more growth?

FINAL

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Can I start? So, absolutely not. I mean, if we can make 90% ROE and 3% investment
return, we will definitely do it. And as in our business planning process, we grow the things
that make more than 20%. We try and remediate the things that are making less than
10%. So it doesn't, generally the outcome is a very stable combined ratio. So, there's not
a whole load of business, it's only going to make a 92% combined ratio that Adrian sitting
there saying, okay, we're not going to do that because it's 92% and we do 90%. It's – so,
no, I don't think there's any thought of changing our target business and products and
pricing in order to raise our combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

As far as the rates are concerned, I mean mechanically you're absolutely right, but I think
that's going to emerge at reserve release at some point assuming – so, we are not
altering our opening loss picks. As Adrian said, our 2018 opening loss picks are slightly
higher in some areas than 2017, and I believe our plans for this year are to open at broadly
similar levels in 2019. So, assuming that we have normalized claims activity, you're
absolutely right. If we sort of have two years of 3% or 4% rate increase, the final loss ratio
on that business should be lower than the 2016-2017 loss ratios, and I guess you'll see
that coming through in reserve releases in year two and three in short tail businesses, and
in sort of years four to six in the medium tail business.

Q - Joanna Tamar Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Joanna Parsons from Canaccord. Coming back to cyber again. There's been obviously a
lot of talk about potential growth in the cyber insurance post GDPR. You yourselves had
talked about using cyber as a – excuse me, as a platform for your European growth or
part of the platform for your growth. Could you give us a bit of feel for what you've
actually been seeing in that market, the sort of growth you've been seeing? Whether the
European demand has been as you anticipated, better, worse? And what you're seeing
on pricing and competition, because again you said not to talk about pricing pressure
there? And how is that reflecting on your book? And then finally on that, the joint venture
that you have with Munich Re, how that's going and they seem to be recruiting a few
people? So, are they looking to step out and do it themselves without your help going
forward?

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

We haven't noticed that. All right. Okay. So, the growth in international cyber was much
higher than the growth in the U.S. It is of a much, much smaller base than that.
Nonetheless, at maturity, the analogy we like to use is of D&O, right. So, the U.S. D&O
market grew much earlier than the international D&O market, but ultimately the
international D&O market is bigger than the U.S. market. And fundamentally that's what
we expect to happen to cyber in the fullness of time. And nothing has happened. This last
year has invalidated that assumption, I don't think. GDPR did provide a bit of a boost. My
own personal belief is that what provides the biggest boost to demand are big loss
Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

FINAL

events, because people react to what isn't even present. But I think GDPR did have some
impact.
It definitely had impact on the supply side too. So, I mean the insurance industry is a lot
more prepared to sell cyber in bulk internationally than it grew organically and in the U.S.
and I think there is a reasonable amount of competition both in the U.S. and internationally
in cyber. I think we still do it well, we still have a very good product out there. And as
demand is growing as fast, if not faster than supply. We do see price competition in cyber.
I think equally valid we see the products continuing to evolve and change. And part of that
is because of competition, but part of that is because what companies need to ensure is
changing as what is possible to do to them. It's changing and that partly reflects the rate
change that you see in cyber. I think it will continue to stay competitive. I think it will
continue to grow and the market will respond to loss events as and when they happen.
Oh, and Munich Re, yes. So, our joint venture with Munich Re is doing very well. The whole
vector concept has really appealed to the client base that we're after, and the sales cycle
for these things is very long because they're buying very, very large towers. But I think it's
positioned us very nicely in that space and we're comfortable with where we are. We've
seen Munich Re get themselves up for this a bit more, and that's a very distinct thing that
they're doing. It's away from our joint venture and we're fine with that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Just a quick question on nat cat, obviously very
active year for the last couple of years. Should we – do you think we're building in a larger
nat cat budget into forecasts? I was just interested in your thoughts on nat cat
environment. Obviously, an active year in 2018, but in total cost terms, it was average in
billions of dollars over a long period of time.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

I mean, no, we're not at the moment, Nick, we're not changing the nat cat budget. So,
we're holding the same budget in 2019 as we had in 2018, which was up a bit on 2017. So,
we actually want to wait and see because you're right. It's not as active a year, and yet the
impact in the industry is quite high. So, we're holding the budget flat into this year.

A - Adrian Peter Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Well, our nat cat budget reflects our view of the risk awarded writing nat cat. So, it will go
up and down according to how we see those numbers.

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Sorry, it's a quick follow-up question on PAC, which had a very strong result. I mean, it
looks like it was particularly driven by very strong prior year, particularly on the 2017 year. Is
that – I mean should we think of 2019 is kind of combined going forward for that division
or is it kind of this one off release of excessive conservatism when you try to underwrite
the book?

Page 16 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

Well, that's sort of setting the target for the guy who runs that division, who is sitting in the
audience, I think 90% seems like a reasonable target for that division, Andrew, going
forward. I mean it has a mixture of businesses in there, terrorism which until, and hopefully
there won't be, there is another terrorism that runs at a very low loss ratio. And then
contingency which is more – it doesn't vary as much, political can be quite volatile. And
then the growing A&H business in the U.S., which I think is doing incredibly well. So, I think
the PAC division is going to settle down to quite a profitable division because we have
got rid of the Australian business which was not performing well.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Australia is completely run off.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Australia is completely gone. Yeah. But we're still living with some of the run off. Ideally, it's
going to be – if it deteriorates further it's going to be small numbers in that division, while
the U.S. business looks good and is growing. And we've been working on that for a
number of years. We've got a good team in place and it's growing quite a lot in 2018 into
2019 from a relatively small base.
Sorry, one another follow-up. Are you concerned that now you're (00:52:59) out cyber.
Okay, I appreciate, it's not standalone cyber, it's with the management liability there as
well. I mean, you're going to make much clearer the profitability of that business. I
appreciate it's volatile and it's got at characteristics. Does that concern you at all from a
competitive and your competitive intelligence point of view and from what your
competitors can see?

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. I don't think we're concerned about that. And you guys have been pushing us to do
it for the last 10 years. So, it's great to have a question saying you're now concerned
we've done it.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

We have a management liability in there. I mean, they're going to be interesting lines
because they act completely differently from each other. (00:53:39) appears to be much
longer tail in the cyber business.
But they're sold together. Is that the rationale?
Yes.
(00:53:48)

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2019-02-07

I think John in the corner has got a question. And then, we probably need to wrap up
because it's 11:00 and we have some other meetings.

FINAL

Q - John A. Borgars

{BIO 15015364 <GO>}

John Borgars from Equity Development. The property business in the United States was
aiming to get higher – lower claims ratio by going to small- and medium-sized businesses.
But the effect of that currently is formed – well, the reported property results are formed
by the cat losses. Can you tell us what the underlying performance of the medium-sized
property business is doing?

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Without going into specific detail, John, the medium-sized book has performed well. So,
where we've had losses in the property business in the large risk book, so the mediumsized book which is still catastrophe exposed has performed pretty well through the
catastrophes of 2017 and 2018. We obviously don't disclose that level of detail, but it has.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Great. Okay. Thank you very much, everyone.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Appreciate it.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. We'll stop there. Thank you for coming.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

