Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chad Myers , Chief Financial Officer, Jackson
James Turner, Chief Risk Officer
John Foley, Chief Executive Officer, M&G Prudential
Mark FitzPatrick, Chief Financial Officer
Michael Falcon, Chief Executive Officer, North American Business
Michael Wells , Chief Executive Officer
Nic Nicandrou, Chief Executive Officer, Prudential Corporation Asia

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon Hocking, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Presentation
Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thank you for joining us today for our results presentation. We've got a lot to go through
with you this morning in, I think, a good level of detail. And hopefully, maybe you've had a
chance to review the early comments. I'm going to assume you've all read and studied
the disclosures and move right to the highlights.
So, again, resilient results on all of our key metrics in what was an interesting year, I think,
from a market volatility, interest rate, political point of view in most of our markets. And
we're obviously very pleased with the strength and the depth of the performance of the
varied business units. New business profits, again, up 11%, Asia up 14%, health and
protection helping that materially, Group IFRS up 6%. Looking through those numbers a
little bit. Asia up 14%, US fee income, up 8%. And if you strip out some of the one-timers
in the M&G Pru business, you see it up 5%. So, again, I think, a very strong performance
given the climate we were in. Free surplus generation at GBP4 billion, up 14%. Again, Asia

Page 1 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

free surplus generation, up 14%. Dividend per share up 5%, again, consistent with our
policy. And our solvency ratio at 232%.
So I'm going to spend a few minutes on some of the non-financial metrics for the year. So,
if you consider the normal practice of selling profitable product in the channels for what
you expect us to do, I'm going to give you a little color on the amount of work that was
done to further expand our capabilities, further extend our distribution, product, technical
reach around. And I'm going to focus on this slide, particular on the International business.
But to just give you a general feel for the magnitude of what the Group is accomplishing
concurrently with its day-to-day operations, and again, concurrently with the strategic
objective of the demerger.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, starting with UOB and our bank partnerships, I'll start upper left, and I'll move across.
So, UOB at 2010 and 2018, excellent performances. I think everyone's aware in APE and
new business profits, great partner. The new relationship extends 15 years. It adds
Vietnam and has a core component around their digital initiatives, their new digital bank,
or their focus on digital banking, which, again, aligns with some of the work we've been
doing. Standard Chartered, we brought into Ghana, so again, bringing an existing
relationship into one of our newer markets. This is the model you've seen of a successful
playbook being applied to a new regime that, we think, has excellent characteristics to it.
You also saw Siam Commercial, Robinson, O-Bank and OCBC, as well as some other
bank relationships brought into the fold. Now, these vary in size and structure. Some are
exclusive. Some are single product. Again, it just shows the team's flexibility, taking some
of the things we're best at and going in and partnering with these entities and coming up
with relationships that are highly profitable for us, for them and for the consumers.
On the distribution side, segmentation, we've been talking to you about for a while. In
Asia, 7,000 of our agents are now $1 million roundtable. That's up 20%. That's a material
number. And it's an absolute sense, certainly, as a percentage of million-dollar roundtable
producers around the world. And it goes to what we were talking before about one of the
things we needed to address is make sure that the more senior agents in our networks
have the products, skills, tools available to them to continue to succeed, and we're very
happy with that performance.
Two new provinces in China, again, one, January this year; one, end of last year. Materially
extending our footprint there. We continue to develop our China footprint and
capabilities. I want to remind you, this is a web-based -- excuse me, cloud-based, digitalbased, highly scalable platform we have in China. So, we still do build that physical
presence. We still need to build sales and support as we enter a market. But the
infrastructure, this is one of our most efficient businesses to expand. So, these are very
exciting for us on the licenses.
On the -- on extending distribution partners, TPL, digital provider for the UK for fee
advised. State Farm will launch later this year. I had a chance to meet those folks in
Nashville last week. And Morgan Stanley, on their advise platform, again, is coming up in
just a few months. So, continue to expand distribution platforms.

Page 2 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

Babylon, we showed you Ollie and his team, for those who join us in Singapore. This is
arguably the world's leading artificial intelligence medical platform. We're taking it into 10
cities -- excuse me, 10 countries this year in Southeast Asia, localizing it for each
geography, that can be anywhere from the language, to the illnesses, to the medical
provider model and support, but this is part of our desire to continue to build out a health
ecosystem for our consumers and in a larger consumer set, potential consumers and
people in these marketplaces to help them with health and longevity in the same way we
use robo-advice and technologies to help them with wealth. So, a continued expansion of
our capability there.
Environest [ph] is another US -- it's a very sophisticated platform for registered
investment advisory distribution, arguably, the most successful in the US, now connected
with them. PRUone is a point-of-sales technology that can now help, in Asia, our advisers,
agents and bank distribution folks, make presentations where the illustration materials
come in seconds. This is a material upgrade in some of the support they had, historically.
And then, PRUforce is an agent management technology that we're moving across the
region.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in the latter part of the year, the team embedded auto-underwriting in this. So, a
disproportionate amount of the cases can be underwritten point-of-sale, very convenient
for the client, very important for our agent field. So, this is, by no means, an exhaustive list
of what was done last year. But if you look at the combination of organic, inorganic, new
partnerships, new technologies, new distribution relationships, new geographies, it's -this is running concurrent with our normal business as usual. Obviously, we're happy with
the amount accomplished and proud of the work.
On progress towards demerger, this is the strategic separation of M&G Prudential from
Prudential plc, very good progress. We announced this a year ago. Probably, my least
favorite question is, Gosh, it seems like you've been working on this a long time. We have
in terms of hours, but I can tell you -- one year, we accomplished tremendous amounts,
and we stay at pace, and it feels like it's exactly where it should be, if not a little bit ahead
of where it should be. There's a lot to do here, and the majority of that work, we feel like,
has been accomplished.
If you think about the project and around, we announced three things this time last year.
And you see the legal transfer of Hong Kong, and the first piece is done. That was a fairly
unique transaction, historically. And that required a number of regulatory approvals, lots of
work by the teams, that's been completed. We are -- the reinsurance piece on the GBP12
billion UK block with Rothesay is done. There are still some court steps to that, that are
live, currently scheduled for June 30 of this year. But some approvals are required in that,
but good progress towards a Part VII transfer. We see that as a prerequisite before the
split, just to make sure that there's a clean separation and the entities and their interest.
The -- Hong Kong Insurance, HKIA, our new regulator, has been chosen as a group-wide
supervisor by the regulatory college and has been -- done a tremendous amount of work
for us, working with us and the industry, working with the global regulators on a groupwide supervisory regime, as well as an interim regime, very good progress on that.

Page 3 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

And again, their desire to -- as you heard in Singapore, to have a well-respected, wellregarded capital regime and a competitive environment for insurers as well. So, a good
balance in agendas. They've done a tremendous amount to help us over the last year and
get to where we need to. The teams raised GBP1.6 billion of new subordinated debt. That
is, again, about 9 points of that solvency ratio, just to be clear. But very good progress on
debt and restructuring. And this gives us, again, the ability to model the balance sheets of
the two entities the way we think is appropriate.
M&G Prudential, there's been a tremendous amount of work done here, from operational
platforms, tech platforms. We mentioned Aladdin, improving the client experiences.
Clients are very -- the time it takes for us to interact with a client in the various transaction
in almost every case is improving materially. Some of those core capabilities that we
wanted to get in place, you're seeing great progress there. We've added a Holdco, which
will be a legal entity that'd be listed. Approvals are required for it. Mike Evans has been
hired as Chairman. Mike, and John, and their team continue with good progress on
building out the rest of that Non-Executive Director board, and that's progressing well.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, integrating the support teams, getting to a single management team, getting
the cost saves, getting the structure correct to run it as one business continues at pace.
And again, the merger and transformation targets that were given to you continue at
pace and are still viewed as achievable in the time frames they were given.
Shifting back to the International business. So, why don't -- just spend a couple of minutes
to go back through what the ambition and the operating principles will be for the
International company. And you can start with the question of why is the US in? Why is -insert whatever country you'd like here. Why are we in a particular market? So, I want to
give you the filter we're using for that, okay, and give you the rationale for how we're
looking at it, and also remind everybody that we have been active managers of the
business, and we continue to -- that's the perspective we continue to keep. But it starts
with the idea that we're looking for markets with structural opportunity.
Is there a demonstrated demand for a product or service that we think we're the natural
owner of that risk or bring a unique capability to that solution? Okay. We're not looking to
enter every and every -- any possible good business that's got good returns. You see
we're more than comfortable, taking pieces of the value chain, if we think someone can
out-execute us or have scale of something we don't think is a critical component. But
we're looking, first and foremost, for structural opportunity.
Is there a natural demand in that market for products and services that we think we're a
logical provider of ? Can we operate in that market with discipline? That may go to the
ownership structure, regulatory models, competitive behavior. But do we think that a
disciplined model will succeed in that space? Okay. And that lens varies by country and by
issues that come out of that. But you've seen -- this is the capital allocation piece that, we
think, is most critical. You have to look at risk-adjusted returns. You have to expect higher
returns in markets where you're taking more risk, and you have to take market factors into
account when you're looking at allocating that capital. Okay.

Page 4 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

These businesses compete amongst themselves. I've said this before, we always have
more ideas than we have capital, and we have a lot of capital. That's a healthy dynamic for
a firm that's our size and growing, okay. And that's as true today as it was my first time up
here. We got a great set of ideas the team's looking at. We always do. And that just tells
you we've got creative people focused on new ways to deploy capital, and we're looking
very seriously at them.
Can we enhance capability? Is there something we have in our skill set and our toolkit that
-- in our team and our model that gives us a unique advantage in that marketplace, right.
Is it a cost advantage? Is it a technology advantage? Can we bring a partner in? Standard
Chartered, one of the most successful bank relationships in the industry with us, into
Ghana, okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, a lot of the -- the period of time where the partners get to know each other is
behind us in something like that because that's a highly productive relationship with very
good relationships and the principles, and it starts at a very different place than a
relationship with a bank we haven't done business with before. It could be a tech provider.
It could be a reinsurer. There's a variety of ways that we can approach this. But are there
things we can do with the relationships and capabilities we have to give us a unique
advantage in that market?
And then, finally, does that produce outcomes that justify the work, the capital? This goes
to scale. This goes to risk-adjusted returns. This goes to currency. All of those sort of
things, and if it produces those outcomes, again, it gives us the ability to continue
investing in initiatives like this, okay. That's the model. We expect the various pieces to
complement each other. We expect them to reduce risk. We expect them to diversify the
kind of exposure we have. We expect very fast returns on that capital and high returns on
that capital. I think you see that in the materials in front of you today. And so, this is where
our track record has come from historically, and we think this is the critical element for the
business to succeed going forward, okay.
You've got to have a discipline in how you go into a market. You've got to have a
discipline on when you come out of a market. Again, I think we've demonstrated, we'll
look very actively at businesses, channels, product lines, and if we like them at a certain
point in time, we'll do -- we'll compete aggressively with anyone. If we don't, we'll back off
or exit. And that's part of the firm's discipline, and that's part of the view how the entity
will go forward, okay. So, it's underpinned by the track record, right, but it's also where the
confidence comes from on where we see the business going forward, and where we
think the capabilities are in the group.
I'll switch to M&G Prudential for a moment. So, with the same sort of lens, right, on M&G
Prudential, okay, why should it succeed in its market? Well, first off, if you're going to be an
asset manager, if you're going to be a wealth manager, if you're going to provide
individual retirement accounts, you need investment performance. There is no -- that's
from an advisory platform, that's the consumers, that's in the institutional space. So, we
start with some good track records, the far-left column, if you will, PruFund's performance
at 88% relative to its comparables. The retail funds being 74% above median and 93% of
the institutional funds outperforming their benchmark.
Page 5 of 33



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

But what portfolios, right. So, we go back to capabilities. So, you have -- in this space, we
know we've got the need in Europe and the UK, in particular. And certainly, they can
expand outside of those boundaries. But for an individual's self-funding retirement, for
pensions looking to diversify assets for -- but particularly, around certain asset classes that
are harder to commoditize, okay. So, if you go upper right-hand side for a moment, and
we'll jump back to the center in a second, look at the types of asset classes where M&G
has succeeded, okay. The multi-asset fund proposition, some of the higher value, more
complicated, I think, more difficult-to-replicate models have been a huge success for
M&G.
Fixed income, it's clearly been successful, but very little dependency on a pure equity
play, okay. And again, some of the alts in the real estate that -- again, more complicated,
harder up, very good track records in those as well. But we think -- you get a couple of
things out of this. Very good track records with the right types of portfolios, you also don't
have an asset manager that's dependent on a single category being in vogue, okay. This
is a well-diversified company, right, across the respectrum. If a client wants to move out of
one position, they've got excellent alternatives, and they tend to be in the conservative
long-term space. That's their niche. That's what they're best at and the track record to
support it.
And then, you see, from the fund growth in the center, where the success is coming from.
It's very diverse in distribution and types of clients, okay, which, again, helps them across
different cycles. And at the most conservative, and I think on the fund flows, the GBP8.5
billion you saw last year go into PruFund, an asset manager with the option to have a
smooth product. It's a very unique characteristic. It serves a particular niche very well, and
it's got the performance of M&G wrapped by the capabilities of Prudential. So, it's a
tremendous combination, and we think it makes for a highly competitive model.
I'm going to do a couple of countries in Asia one at a time. A little bit of a deep dive. And
then, of course, Nic and all the rest of the CEOs and the team will be up here later to
answer any specific questions, if you want to go a little further. But taking that earlier lens,
the structural first. So, let's do Hong Kong. A lot of questions about Hong Kong in the last
couple of years. Tremendous success, how big can it get? Where does it continue to
grow? It's one of our best-run businesses. Derek and the team are just a great
management team. You have there markets there. You have domestic, and you have
Mainland. And now, we add this Greater Bay initiative, okay, which is effectively a hybrid.
The structural demand, locally you've seen, has been tremendous for us and a couple of
key competitors with the local residents, high net worth. Again, insurance is a core part of
savings and wealth planning and modeling. Health and protection has been a big part of
our push there very successfully. Mainland Chinese with economic interest in China
continue to increase in their foot traffic. You've added high-speed rail, new bridge, even
easier access. So, that continues to be fundamental pieces for the growth of the business.
And then, on the Greater Bay Area initiative, this is an alignment, if you will, of interest on
effectively 11 cities, Hong Kong, Macau and nine of the Mainland cities, with an insurance
connect model, very similar to Stock Connect where the intent of the regulators on both
sides of the Bay is to allow a client to be serviced on a health product or similar product,
Page 6 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

or if you think about it as a claims paid through an insurance connect pipeline through the
Bay. So, now, our Chinese Mainland client, who buys in Hong Kong, can have a bill paid in
the Mainland, okay. Now, this is work in progress. It's been announced by the government.
We'll get more details as it plays out.
This is a tremendous opportunity for us. At GBP1.5 trillion in GDP, okay. Think of this about
the size of South Korea, just this one -- 11-city project, you're seeing good cooperation
between Hong Kong regulation and the regulators in Beijing, okay. And I think it's an
interesting message on the role of insurance cross-border as well, okay. China views
penetration, Hong Kong views penetration as important social initiatives. Can we do a
better job of privatizing the risk of consumers in these markets? And so, again, further
alignment in that is beneficial to us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Are we positioned to take advantage of that? Well, we have the Number 1 agency force in
Hong Kong, tremendously productive, highly skilled, well-educated, incredible energy,
largest number of million-dollar roundtable producers, and the -- it's -- they're very, very
dynamic. It's a stunning group of people to spend some time with. We have, arguably, the
most successful bancassurance partnership with Standard Chartered. And then, we have
our resources go back to the -- to China for a second on the other side of the bay, where
we have capabilities there as well. So, watch this space. But this will continue to be a
market that, we think, has tremendous upside. You may have seen in the materials, Hong
Kong's fourth quarter sales were up 18%, continues to grow.
On execution, just strong, strong results. Continued product innovation focus. When
you're in that operation, they know exactly what they're working on. There's tight
alignment between the management team. There's tight alignment with the distribution
team. Very high quality presentation materials, support, very high quality from a regulatory
point of view, from a risk management point of view. And again, last year, IFRS up 33% for
the business.
Okay. China. So, structural demand. We don't need to spend a lot of time on growth in
China. But significant underinsurance, a government target to move that to 5% by 2020.
About half that now, pretty well discussed. GAAP is about the size of the US insurance
market, okay. For us, a material increase in the scale of the middle class. So, these are the
sorts of structural things we look at and say, okay, this is a market we -- has got the
fundamentals we need to succeed. It has the measurable structural demand that would
suggest we have a long time to run there, if we do a good job to compete effectively with
domestics.
So, we added two new provinces, as I mentioned. We're now in 87 cities, okay, branches
of provincial license. We have access to about 75% of the population and 78% of the GDP.
A reminder, we are a 50-50 joint venture with CITIC. The law now allows 51. Other than
AIA, no other insurer has 51, to be clear. Some noise around that in the marketplace, okay.
So, that conversation, for us, would be both the commercial discussion with CITIC, this is a
highly successful business, and then, like any highly successful business, if you were ever
to change ownership, both parties would want to agree to that, and it would be a
regulatory discussion because the entity is regulated by multiple regulators.

Page 7 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

So, we're very happy with them as a partner. As we enter these new markets, they're
tremendously helpful for us going into provinces where they have experience, and they
have brand, and they have presence. So, it absolutely accelerates our success in that
space. And we are very interested in continuing to do more and investing more in China.
But that said, we have 48,000 agents focusing on productivity, a 32% increase in milliondollar roundtable producers, we have 40 bank partners. So, we're continuing to grow
banca there as well. And we continue to grow our footprint.
On execution, we were -- we participated in their -- this pension trial. China, like many
other countries in Asia, has a very large aging population, and they are looking for ways to
manage the pension demands of those pensioners as the family model changes. The
historic model for pension support was their children and extended family. And the onechild policy has certainly changed the dynamic of that. And there is a clear and growing
need for a pension product in China.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, again, we're participating in that. We established -- I was over in December, we
opened up the WFOE. This is our wholly-owned foreign enterprise. It allows us, through
Eastspring, to service institutional and retail consumers in China. We got tremendous
support in doing that. And it's worked well in the remaining licenses that needs the QDLP
and others as well are in place. We've got a very good team. We're starting with there
experienced, capable, and we're very confident in how they are going to do.
On the risk management, again, received the Number 1 rating from the regulator on risk
management. Risk-adjusted returns, aligning with government's objectives. Again, it's
important for us to run these businesses at risk levels that we're comfortable with and risk
levels that local regulators are comfortable with. So, very pleased with the outcome there.
And then, I mentioned this briefly, but we continue to be -- this is -- because in some
ways, it's a late entrance for us. It's some of our most cutting-edge technology. So, this is
a cloud-based, primarily mobile-based, there's one signature piece towards the end, but
primarily mobile-based, and certainly, digital currency-based company for us. Almost all
transactions are on WeChat or Alipay, including the payment of claims.
Indonesia. So, we still very much like the structural opportunities in Indonesia, okay. We are
continuing to invest and to make progress towards getting its sales growth there. You see
the earnings are flat. And there's lots to do. And I'll give you an update now on some of
the progress there, and Nic will answer any questions you have later on it. But we've seen
some interesting behavior by competitors in that marketplace this year. It's been an
interesting year there. But fundamentally, the structural demand is there. It's a large
population, growing middle class, underinsured, all these same characteristics we like,
okay.
We talked about segmentation last time we were together. So, our lead agents are now
19% of the APE. This was the -- getting them more product difference support, technology
at the higher end of our book as far as agent productivity goes. A material increase in
million-dollar roundtable. Activation, training, all those elements are faster. Takaful is
succeeding very nicely in country. OCBC, on board now, is giving us some good support in
the bank channel. And then, we've revamped the flagship product and brought additional
products online. And again, this was one of the things this business needed, was newer
Page 8 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

and broader product sets to continue to actually monetize that and support the agency
base that we built. So, good progress towards those goals.
Up to the portfolio level for a second on Asia. So, again, Asia was not without its market
volatility this year, macro level. Lots of interesting challenges in Asia. And just stepping
back, you see the benefit of the portfolio. You see quality and resilient growth, all right.
You see compounding, insurance income being a larger and larger piece of what we're
doing. In the second graph, you see the compounding of 94% of what we're selling in
Asia is now recurring or regular premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

We told you we needed to penetrate more into the deeper, better relationships with our
consumers. 42% of our sales now are to existing clients. That is great progress. And 90%
retention rates on the client relationships. So, a very, very healthy set of metrics on the
recurring earnings, quality of the back book. And then, diversification, seven markets now,
over GBP100 million of IFRS earnings, 10 growing double digits. Good mix of product. The
bottom AP, a good mix of channel. So, very, very happy with the blended effect of our
position, the portfolio position we have in Asia.
Correlation to markets, the outcome is compounding, with very little market correlation.
That shouldn't surprise you, given the risk-off nature of the products and services we sell
in Asia. But again, you just see the renewal premium compounding 18% on the 10-year,
and then, as a measurement of scale, if you will, as a measurable benefit of scale, the
earning's compounding 22 would suggest we're doing this in a way that we're using our
scale to our advantage. And I think, there's a -- the dynamic of, can we continually keep
clients happy, pleased with what we're doing, products relevant to their lives, correct
amount of touch, correct support, all those things. You see that embedded in here.
There's a massive amount of work by our distribution and service people to make this
slide true. But again, it's compounding at scale.
Switching gears to the US. Structural. So, baby boomer movement through the US
economy is well-rehearsed. Still very true. $40 million in the next 10 years. The concern
about individual retirement, the headlines about pension funds, funding level of the state
and fed, all those sorts of things are as front and center as they've been in a very long
time, and the demand is there. Now, there has been regulatory, and there has been
headwinds that are well-rehearsed in this room that the business has dealt with, but the
underlying consumer demand for a -- some level of protection and a long-term savings
vehicle is absolutely intact.
And we think we have an advantaged position -- advantage platform to take advantage of
that. We have the industries' best wholesaling products, service platform, okay,
technology. You see the sort of things that the group's been able to do in linking with
partners that have highly complex or very, very modern sophisticated RIA platforms. That
gives us a cost advantage in the US. And again, we recognize there's a concentration risk
in the US business. So, you've seen us, from a strategic diversification point of view, look
at a number of things, that could be organic, that could be bolt-on, as we showed with
John Hancock. That's about a 10% increase in the general account. So, we're continuing to
keep an eye towards ways to diversify the US business.

Page 9 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

On execution, good year on growth and channel. Growth in selling group agreements.
Penetration of those relationships, new distribution partners, I mentioned earlier. And
again -- and the technology build to connect with these people at very, very sophisticated
levels, okay. It's a barrier to entry for some, and it's one that the team is quite
comfortable in meeting. So, we like the structural piece. We like how Jackson's positioned.
We see the need to do more with Jackson. And we think the execution of Jackson is fit for
the task.
US resilience, again, coming off of Singapore. We've been paying for hedges for a long
time. In a decade where markets have gone up, that's been an expensive luxury. I think
you saw, in the fourth quarter, the value of them. They did what they were supposed to
do. They produced about GBP900 million of capital, okay, in Q4. They -- The buffers we
discussed with you performed -- in Singapore performed exactly as we anticipated they
would. And you see where the RBC ratio is in Jackson. This is a well-protected business.
And there's not a whole lot -- from a granular point of view, not a whole lot to say here,
other than everything did what it was supposed to do.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I know there's been some concern about some of the changes to capital models in
the US. So, let's -- we intentionally went back to 2016. So, you start with a 485 RBC, you
generate 178 points of capital, again, highly capital-generative business -- excuse me, pay
the dividend, we have the impact of tax reform broken into two pieces, we show it here
as one. And you finish the year at 458. Let me give you a different look at this. If you look
at the right-hand side, we are managing this capital base to a specific set of parameters. I
hope that slide demonstrates that. We recognize what a properly capitalized business
looks like.
That said, come back to the left, you see we can do that while producing very good cash
flow off the business. You can do both of these at once, right. So, the strain in the market
produced no material difference in the RBC ratio. Again, the consistency is the story here.
So, the resilience of this business, as I mentioned to you in Singapore, only really gets
tested in a little bit of a strain. And it -- it did what it was supposed to do. The RBC -- for
the industry, the RBC 12/31 was not a particularly easy mark. But that said, Jackson's fine.
And one of my favorite slides. I guess, the question on this one, can we continue to grow
at scale? The answer is, yes. I think the key is a focus on all of the elements I discussed
earlier. Can you produce? Are the products you're selling efficient with capital? Do they
pay back the capital in a reasonable period of time? Do they provide a service to the
consumer? Are there consumer values, and they're willing to pay for it year-after-year?
Have we got those risks correctly priced and diversified or hedged?
And if we do, then, these slides should look like this. That should produce a supportable,
sustainable dividend. And this is now -- last year was GBP1.2 billion paid out, GBP800-plusmillion invested in new business. You see a material investment in organic and new
capability. We can do all of that and still have a very strong capital position. That's -- we
want to be -- we want the growth, but we also want a good, highly predictable, wellcovered dividend. And again, you see that here.

Page 10 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

So, with that, hopefully, what you see in there is quality growth, material increase and the
capabilities that this firm has year-over-year. I think that's one of the things we owe you
when we stand here. I think it positioned it more competitively for where it's going and
what it needs to be able to do in an ever-increasingly challenging market. M&G proved,
getting a tremendous amount done towards, not just the divestiture, to but be a better
firm, closer to their clients, better service, great performance. PCA doing what everyone
hopes PCA does, which is continue to grow highly profitable across a good diversified
portfolio of successful businesses. And then, Jackson demonstrating its resilience, its
capital management capability, its market position and its ability to diversify.
So, with that, Mark, I'll ask you to take over.

Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for coming, and extend my welcome that Mike
started off with. I'm very pleased with the Group's financial performance in 2018. It reflects
our strategic focus on driving growth while, at the same time, making good progress on
the preparations for our planned demerger.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the year, our businesses faced up to a number of external headwinds, with market
volatility and general global uncertainty ever present throughout the period. Yet in this
environment, we still delivered growth across our major earnings and cash metrics and
improved the capital position of the Group. You can see that here in the key measures
with, new business profit up 11%, IFRS operating profit up 6%, 11% growth in embedded
value, and Solvency II cover increasing by 30 percentage points to 232%.
Now, this is not a chance outcome, but the direct consequence of our disciplined
approach, which is reflected both in the quality of the business we have written over a
number of years, and the way we manage it while it is on our books. It also demonstrates
the strength of our platform and the market positions, enabling the Group to grow even
when the external environment is less favorable and to accelerate when the conditions
are right. So, what this means is that Prudential's financial performance benefits from
resilience throughout the cycle and is able to maintain the attractive combination of both
growth and quality. And I'll bring that to life now as we go through the next slides.
Before I run through each of the businesses in turn, I will cover some high-level
observations at a group level, and then, conclude with a more detailed outlook at the
overall group metrics. I've used this slide before to demonstrate that the long-term
consistency in the group's performance is ultimately driven by our ability to keep building
the base of earnings by writing good quality business in the first place, and then, actively
managing the in-force book to ensure we are able to retain it. In Asia, this can be
measured by the stock of recurring premium income from highly valuable sticky business
and in the US and at M&G Pru, at the accumulation of assets under management. Our
progress in 2018 continues this long-standing trend.
Importantly, we are growing in the areas that we have identified as strategic priorities. In
Asia, health and protection provides the earnings of the highest quality, which are largely

Page 11 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

immune to investment markets and which grew by 15% in 2018. And our increasing
presence in China really highlights the progress we are making in this very important
market. This is the outcome of our investment in growth and in building a platform for the
future, which, in the last five years alone, has seen us expand into six additional provinces,
providing access to another 380 million people.
Over the same period, IFRS earnings have also grown strongly, resulting in China
advancing from our eighth largest contributor to our fourth largest on 100% basis. China is
a good example of our approach across the region, but at a much larger scale, where the
headroom is material for many years to come. In the US and at M&G Prudential, we are
achieving growth in revenue in the areas where our products are differentiated, and our
execution is hard to replicate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to the performance of our individual business units and starting with Asia.
Across each of the major metrics shown here, our business has continued to extend its
track record of resilient growth with double-digit increases, which have been achieved at
the same time as improving the quality of the financial result. Asia remains well-capitalized
overall as well as in each of our local markets with significant headroom over regulatory
requirements.
Asia IFRS operating profit increased by 14%, driven by the continued strong contribution
from the Life business, which was up 15%. In asset management, like others in the
industry, Eastspring has seen more difficult conditions for external asset accumulation,
impacting both mix and margin. But unlike many others, it benefits from the structural
underpin of recurring growth in internal assets from the Life business. External flows
improved towards the end of 2018, and we have seen this continue into 2019, with
positive net flows and improvements in relative investment performance. We remain
focused on building further on Eastspring's leading asset management platform, which
continues to be a significant point of differentiation among our insurance peers in the
region.
Within the Life result, there have been some excellent contributions at a country level. In
Hong Kong, earnings are benefiting from the significant increase in scale of our business
over the last five years, where APE is now three times higher than it was in 2013, and the
move to a higher health and protection content meeting growing customer needs in this
area and has improved both the margin and the earnings profile. In Singapore, we have
repriced our products to good effect, and initiatives we have taken to improve claims
experience are having a positive impact. And in China, we are building our presence to
take advantage of the multitude of large scale opportunities, and we are very pleased
with the progress we are making.
In each of these markets, earnings will go at a different pace, but we're building scale and
breadth overall across the portfolio. And we now have seven countries contributing over
GBP100 million in IFRS profit. The pivot to a higher quality mix remains a key feature of our
strategy, with eight countries seeing an increase in the proportion of profit that comes
from insurance margin, which is predominantly derived from health and protection
business.

Page 12 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

Asia's EEV operating profit increased by 23%, benefiting from higher contributions for
both new business and in-force profits. The strong new business performance, with
profits rising 14%, can be viewed across a number of lenses. By geography, we've
achieved growth of over 10% in 10 of our markets. By channel, we've seen double-digit
growth in both banker and agency, and through the continued prioritization of higher
margin health and protection growing up 15%.
APE sales recovered well in the second half of the year, up 8%, underpinned by increasing
momentum in Hong Kong and China through the fourth quarter and strong growth in our
Asian markets of Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines. In Indonesia, we are progressing
with the multiple initiatives that Mike has covered but will need time for these to be
reflected in the new business metrics. However, across all markets, our focus on writing
sales with high-quality characteristics and attractive margins remains undiminished.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right-hand side, you can now see the profit from our in-force portfolio. The result
is driven by an increase in the unwind, predominantly reflecting the growing scale of the
business and also, to a lesser degree, the benefit of higher interest rates compared to
the prior year. In addition, through active management of the portfolio, we continue to
generate positive experience variances that, in turn, provide the basis to update our
assumptions. During 2018, these effects have been seen across a broad range of factors,
including persistency, expenses and claims, together with repricing of medical products in
Hong Kong and in Singapore.
So, in summary, our Asia business is in good shape. We are growing new business at
scale. This is adding to the stock of recurring premium income, and the quality is clearly
evident in both what we're writing today and what we have written in the past.
Turning now to the US, Jackson's underlying performance has proved resilient through a
period of significant market volatility. This saw a marked rise in yields before reversing
much of this benefit towards the end of the year and nervous equity markets that turned
sharply in the fourth quarter. So, over this period, Jackson has paid a dividend of $450
million, absorbed the impact of tax reforms, and through the effectiveness of its hedging
strategy, maintained its RBC capital ratio above 400%.
The underlying components and drivers of IFRS operating profit continue the trends of
the first half of the year. Fee income increased by 8%, reflecting the growth in average
separate account assets in our variable annuity business. Following the equity market
decline in the fourth quarter, 2019 will start the year from a lower base, although
policyholder asset values have already benefited from the market recovery in the year-todate. The reduced level of spread income is driven mainly by the factors I outlined at the
half-year stage, namely the contribution from swaps, which is becoming less material as
the instruments roll off, and secondly, the impact of lower reinvestment rates on the
overall portfolio yield. Given the increase in available yield since 2016, we expect the pace
of the decline in spread margin to moderate from here.
Jackson's headline results have been impacted by debt accounting effects relating to the
effects of market return on the mean reversion approach. This has generated a high level

Page 13 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

of deck acceleration compared to a positive deceleration in 2017. Overall, these marketrelated effects resulted in an adverse swing of GBP277 million. We'll put a slide in the
appendix to explain these dynamics more fully. Jackson's RBC capital ratio improved by
49 basis points over 2018 to end the year at 458%. While the equity drop in Q4 is not
something to be wished for, it has provided a tangible proof point for the effectiveness of
Jackson's hedging strategy and the ability of the business to manage market risk and the
impact of tax reform while generating capital and cash for shareholders.
Now, we talked about Jackson's statutory capital buffer in November in Singapore, and
you recall that this existed because of the healthy position of the in-force block leading to
floored out statutory reserves. This, what we call latent capital, helped to mitigate the
impact of the fall in equity markets in the fourth quarter as we anticipated. In addition, the
hedge portfolio, which is defensively positioned to protect against equity market
weaknesses, performed as expected, generating capital gains in excess of the
movement in reserves.

Bloomberg Transcript

So far in 2019, equity markets have performed better, rebounding off December lows.
This has also generated capital as the increase in statutory reserves posted at the yearend has largely unwound. Now, any further increase in equity markets from here is likely to
see more limited benefit recognized in statutory capital as reserves would move back to
the floored-out position, although the recreation of a latent capital buffer would, once
again, provide protection against downside market risks.
M&G Prudential has delivered good financial progress alongside a year of significant
structural and operational change, highlighting the strength of the underlying business. It's
important to note that both operating earnings and capital have benefited from favorable
contributions from sources that may not recur. While some of these might offer scope for
further positive development, they're unlikely to be of the same magnitude on a goforward basis. Nonetheless, these are very real contributions, recognizing the store value
that exists in the in-force book. I'll pick out these items individually on the following slides
to help demonstrate the robust performance.
IFRS operating profit of GBP1.634 billion was 19% higher than 2017. Focusing on the core
parts of the business on the left-hand side of the chart, M&G Prudential delivered strong
growth from the PruFund component of the with-profits fund with shareholder transfers
increasing 30% to GBP55 million. As we explained in Singapore, the PruFund product
profit signature is back-end loaded. And so, there is a substantial store of future
shareholder transfers embedded in the balance sheet as a result of the very strong sales
in the recent years.
Annuity earnings have performed in line with expectations, adjusted for the GBP12 billion
annuity liability block reinsured to Rothesay Life, which accounted for GBP140 million of
IFRS core operating profit in the previous year. Asset Management revenues increased by
6%, with higher overall margin achieved on favorable mix effects. The cost income ratio
increased to 59%, mainly reflecting costs related to preparation for Brexit, which
accounted for 2 percentage points. Taken together, these components of core IFRS
operating profit delivered 5% growth on a like-for-like basis.

Page 14 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

Of the one-off items, I will draw your attention to two, in particular. Firstly, as reported at
the half year, we have booked GBP166 million from insurance recoveries related to the
review of past annuity sales. And secondly, we have updated our longevity assumptions,
following favorable experience and the adoption of updated mortality tables under CMI
'16, which together added GBP441 million. Notwithstanding the current favorable trend in
mortality, our annuity reserves remain conservatively positioned, and we will continue to
assess our assumptions against our own experience and more recent CMI tables.
2018 was a tough year for the Asset Management industry, with investors generally
moving to more conservative positioning. In such an environment, M&G Prudential's wide
portfolio of investment and savings products provided a degree of resilience for both
flow and stock. Total AUM moved from GBP351 billion to GBP321 billion over the year. Of
this, GBP12 billion related to the UK annuity block sold to Rothesay and GBP6.5 billion was
a result of the redemption of a single institutional mandate with very low revenue
attaching.

Bloomberg Transcript

The underlying decline of GBP11.4 billion was primarily driven by GBP9 billion of negative
market movements combined with modest net outflows of GBP2.4 billion. The residual
net flow reflects the balance of continued strong net inflows into PruFund of GBP8.5
billion. Institutional demand for M&G's differentiated strategies in areas such as
infrastructure, illiquid debt, property and public debt and a growing presence in multiasset funds, all of which mitigated the impact of outflows from some of M&G's more
established retail funds.
M&G's experience in retail flows over 2018 is largely consistent with market trends.
Although financial markets have recovered somewhat since, investor sentiment remains
cautious, with investment association data showing January '19 to be the fourth
consecutive month of retail net outflows for the UK industry. However, the relatively
resilient performance of the 2018 overall across M&G Prudential demonstrates the value
of our diversified mix of assets and strategies and the compelling long-term performance
track record.
Given the number of moving parts in M&G Prudential's capital during the year, I thought it
would be helpful to break these out and show you the impact on PAC's shareholder
Solvency II position on the left. The impact of the Hong Kong transfer now completed and
reinsurance of the UK annuity portfolio was in line with the pro forma position we
disclosed at the time of their announcement. The rest of the capital build through the year
mainly reflects the components I referenced in IFRS, including items of a one-off nature
and net of remittances to group and together, have contributed 22 points of Solvency II
cover. The policyholder position on the right is an additional and very material source of
strength. This is a key point of differentiation for M&G Prudential amongst its peers and
represents a significant source of ongoing competitive advantage.
My next slide turns to Group level and completes the P&L. On both an IFRS and
embedded value basis, the operating performance remains the key driver of the
progression in shareholders' funds. This is stated after restructuring costs, which mainly
relate to M&G Prudential's merger and transformation in 2018, but also include a small

Page 15 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

amount relating to the wonderful IFRS 17. As we're now entering the design and build
phase of IFRS 17, you should expect our costs for this program to increase accordingly.
Higher rates in both Asia and the US had an adverse impact on the unrealized value of
fixed income securities, with the Asia element recognized in investment variances and the
US piece in the available-for-sale line. Investment variances related to the US favorable
annuity block were immaterial on an IFRS basis, reflecting favorable fair value movements
on equity derivatives. However, on an embedded value basis, investment variances
recognize the negative impact on future fees of lower account balances following the
decline in equity markets at the end of the year. Currency effects were strongly positive
as non-sterling balance sheets were translated at a more favorable rate. Shareholders'
equity on an embedded value basis increased to GBP49.8 billion at the end of the year,
equivalent to 1,920 pence per share.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you have seen from the business unit headline results, the group has delivered good
progress on free surplus generation, up 14%. Asia's in-force result was the largest
component of the Group total in 2018, emphasizing the growth and the scale of the book
and the quality of cash conversion in the product portfolio. M&G Prudential free surplus
generation from the in-force portfolio increased by GBP129 million, reflecting positive
experience. The non-recurring items I mentioned earlier added another GBP461 million,
which I've included separately as one-off items in the gray box.
We continue to invest in high-quality new business growth opportunities. The reduced
level of sales in the US and measures to optimize capital absorption at M&G Prudential
resulted in slightly lower new business strain. As a result, new business profit, expressed
as a multiple of new business strain, increased from 3.9 times in 2017 to 4.8 times in 2018.
These results, therefore, demonstrate that we are successfully managing both the back
book and the front book.
As we progress towards demerger, we are maintaining a keen focus on the quality of our
balance sheet and the sources of central liquidity available to the Group and in the future,
to each stand-alone business. Remittances from our operating entities continue to
generate a material source of dependable cash to fund central activities. Like free surplus
generation, Asia is the largest contributor to the total after-funding investment in new
business growth. We have additional funding flexibility through untapped credit facilities of
GBP2.6 billion and significant headroom remaining within our existing MTN program.
Ahead of the demerger, we have issued debt equivalent to GBP1.6 billion as we prepare
to rebalance the Group's current debt across Prudential and M&G Prudential. We were
pleased to have issued these bonds with substitution clauses, which will enable the
rebalancing process at the time of the demerger. These recent issues included sterling
and US dollar denominations, and we retain capacity to issue capital across both
businesses in sterling and non-sterling markets, and we'll focus on good execution, so
each business is capitalized with the appropriate quantity and mix of capital.
Turning now to the Group Solvency II capital position. Driven by the strength of our
operating results, the surplus has increased to GBP17.2 billion with a 30 percentage points

Page 16 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

increase in the coverage ratio to 232%. Adverse market effects were largely offset by
positive currency impacts and other items were net neutral too, after including 9
percentage points of net debt issuance in the period. We have been engaging closely
with the Hong Kong Insurance Authority as it develops a new Group capital regime for
which it has begun discussions with the industry.
As part of our engagement and based on estimated demerger timing, the hedge KIA has
confirmed that our existing subordinated debt instruments can continue to count as
capital resources towards meeting the group regulatory capital requirements that will
apply immediately post demerger. As the group capital framework develops, we will
update you on its progress. Overall, our current capital position under both internal and
external measures and at both local and group levels remains robust.
So, in my final slide, I leave you with an update of the embedded value growth I showed
you in Singapore in November. The messages then were as follows. Firstly, that new
business is the key driver of value and cash for the group centered on Asia's high-quality
compounding contributions. Second, that through the year, we are adding to the stock of
future profit in cash every year. And third, that this provides a powerful positive dynamic
that underpins the outlook for earnings and cash generation. You can see that 2018,
through the addition of another material cohort of high-quality new business, has added
yet another proof point in this consistently strong trend.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, I will hand you back to Mike.

Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Before we do the Q&A, if you don't mind, I asked Michael Falcon, who has joined us at the
beginning of the year as the CEO of the US, just to give you a few of his initial
observations and then we'll bring the whole team up for Q&A. Michael?

Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Thanks, Mike. Good afternoon now. My name is Michael Falcon. I'm the new guy. I've spent
the better part of the last 20 years of my life in the savings, investment and retirement
space, mostly in the US and the last four-plus years in Asia. I couldn't be more proud or
pleased to be here today and part of a great team at Pru and a fantastic team back in the
US at Jackson, some of the team is here today as well, meeting what I see as a really
great goal, not just financial, but social goal in terms of helping people retire successfully
and live a life post work with dignity. And I think guaranteed income is a big part of that.
And as you've heard over the years before, that's really at the core of what Jackson does.
So, as Mike said, he asked me to share a few early thoughts and observations. And I'll do
that this morning. I started 10 weeks ago. And since that time, I've spent a lot of time
learning about our business. Most of that meeting and working with my leadership team,
the management team at Jackson, employees, I've been through the sales conference,
I've been through an internal board cycle through our subsidiary boards, as well as
through group board cycle, all of the various control investment and asset liability

Page 17 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

committee meetings, I've had time to spend with the teams in each of the operational
centers, listening to client calls, watching how businesses process, time with our
technology group, looking at projects and prospects there, and even time on our internal
sales desk, listening to interactions with and advisors.
Over the past few weeks, I've done a little more external facing work and that will
continue over the next couple of months with clients, intermediary platforms as well as
our fund and asset management partners. I've listened and observed a lot. And I'm telling
you, I'm pretty impressed by what I've seen and heard since joining. It's also nice that it's
consistent with the opportunity I was told coming in. I'm finding it very much as bargain for.
But I'm really left with three, I think, key takeaways at this early stage that, I think, are
relevant today. The first is Jackson is a great business. It really has a tremendous set of
capabilities built over a long time and I think it demonstrates that in lots of ways, some of
which Mike and Mark have talked about this morning. I think it's a disciplined organization,
not just in terms of the way it protects and allocates capital, but in its operation. It's pretty
deliberate and has generally recognized for very, very high service levels and quality in
really every aspect of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think that drives from a strong service culture. And it's an organization where it is
historically very sales forward, but that sales to service, and particularly, interesting to hear
still reactions of how the business, the products and the teams performed through the
financial crisis for advisors and for end clients. And it's that distinguishing us from a
number of peers in the industry that, I think, one demonstrates a continued culture, but
really the impact that that has.
The second takeaway I have, and Mike highlighted this, I think, as well in his comments is,
Jackson is a resilient business. And I think we saw that through the market volatility,
hedges performing as we would have expected them to through the fourth quarter, but I
also think there's commercial resilience to this. There are obviously a number of
headwinds in the brokered VA market, in particular, in the US and brokered products
being somewhat out of favor.
We're also at the cyclical point with, deep into recovery, or maybe we're mid-cycle or late
cycle. There's arguments, but with the equity markets and rate environments, there's a lot
of headwind in the market, and yet, we have very, very strong commercial relationships
that we can continue to expand and build on. And so, I see a lot of resiliency in the
business, and particularly given that we're in the business of guaranteeing retirement
income, guaranteeing income and assets, if you will, I think resiliency is important.
And that leads really to my third takeaway again early on is that I'm optimistic about the
future of Jackson. I think the needs and demand for the capabilities that Jackson brings
are growing. We have a leadership position, particularly in fee-based and advisory, which
is still almost embryonic. I mean, it's really just in its infancy. And there's a lot to do. And
there's no question it's a difficult and complex product. It's a difficult and complex market.
But there is a market there. We are a leader in it and we have the ability to, I think, solve a

Page 18 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

lot of these friction points and make it easier for intermediaries, and then, clients to do
business with us.
It's no secret. And I think, there could be some more balance commercially in the book
over time between VA and other products. And the good news is that over its history, and
even currently, Jackson writes those types of exposures and has real capability to
originate across a spectrum of products, meeting end-client needs, and I think we'll see
more of that. And the final thing that gives me optimism is what I term sales alpha.
There's a real sustainable, competitive and differentiated advantage in terms of how
effectively Jackson and the team go to market, and that's really integrated from the back
end all the way to the front, but the most obvious, the point of the spear is the sales force
of 180-plus people out in the field, close to 200 back in the sales desk office, covering
advisors and platforms across the country.

Bloomberg Transcript

And it's a highly trained, skilled technical sales force with good longevity. And I think it's -as we shift into this advisor and fee-based model over the next three, five, 10 years, I
think it's extremely well-positioned to be cross-trained and meet the changing demands
of the market to deliver these products and services. So, going forward, I'll be back
obviously to share more solid plans or visions of the future, but I do appreciate the
opportunity to at least address you all at the start of my tenure here.
I think you'll see me continuing to spend time with the teams and spending more time the
external marketplace to get a gauge on where our biggest and best opportunities are.
You'll see a focus to continue on strategic diversification, which is important. And also,
what we can do to broaden our offering both new product as well as distribution,
deepening distribution relationships. And then, I'll be spending a fair amount of time with
the leadership team, aligning the organization to make sure we're putting resources
correctly behind the biggest opportunities, maybe pulling back from some of the less
important ones.
With that, I'm looking forward to many years of continued success at Jackson, building
stable, prudent, profitable and balanced growth.
So, I'll turn it back to you, Mike. Thank you.

Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thank you, Michael. I'll ask my colleagues to come on up here and we'll do some Q&A, if
we're good.

Questions And Answers
Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Morning. Oliver Steel of Deutsche Bank. So, three questions. The first is, just historically,
you've described 5% dividend increase as the worst case assumption. So, I'm just
wondering, in the light of double-digit growth elsewhere in your business, why you've
Page 19 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

chosen then to increase the dividend by 5%? Secondly, can you talk a little bit more about
the extra balance that you want in the US business? How far you want to go? What sort of
products you need to introduce? How you're going to achieve that? And then, thirdly, you
talked about the PruFund profits being back-end loaded. Can you give us some sort of
idea, I don't know, on a five-year view, let's say, based on the current business? What sort
of latent profit you've got there?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. So, I'm not sure, I've described the dividend as worst case. We think -- I think that
the language was earn it, stress it and pay it, specifically. And I think, the key of a
sustainable dividend is just that. There's plenty of case studies on dividend distribution
getting ahead of actual core earnings. And that's not how we see this firm. So, we've got
a lot going on this year, Oliver. I think you see the cash and the resilience of the center. It
was just viewed as cautious given the structural changes and the fact we're not done with
the final look at what the two entities will be. But it's certainly not -- it's not a reflection on
our confidence in the growth or earnings. It was just simply up here where the board
thought we would be cautious and think it's a good dividend increase, and obviously, one
that we can comfortably pay.
Extra US balance, I don't think we want to get too much -- and we've a variety of options
there. But I don't think we want to -- I think -- let's give Michael a little time to settle in
before we get into some of the specifics. You are seeing an increase in the index annuity
product sales in the US. You'll see that in the league tables. And Jackson is looking in a
variety of product initiatives. I think, for competitive reasons, anything else we're doing,
we'd want to keep confidential at this point. And then, Mark, a statement on PruFund
profits, looking forward, I'll let you...

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So, in terms of PruFund profit, I think we're going to be wonderfully consistent in our
messaging in terms of not disclosing anything in terms of some of that latency at this
stage, but I appreciate the attempt on it.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I got three questions, please. First on
Jackson. The guidance you've given today, and I think this is the same guidance that you
gave in Singapore about there being a sort of 40 to 50 point hit in 2020 for the VA
changes. I just wondered whether there's some offset here because you had the
additional hedging that you've had to put in place to cover the inadequacy of the current
regime, to cover the rate cap positions over and above the economic hedging, is that 40
to 50 basis points net of this, what you expect to save on hedging or is that potentially on
top? I just don't think about what the direction of the statutory cash flow is because you
seem to have had -- you potentially got four years on the banks, where you've got
exceptional items clouding the statutory cash flow. This is the first question.
And then, second question, again, on Jackson. Some of the movements we saw in the
S&P in the fourth quarter, we had some incredible zigzag markets sort of down 5%, up

Page 20 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

5%. I just wondered, if you could comment in terms of how you handled the over hedging,
handled it and was that within the range of what was foreseen. And then, just finally, on
Asia and the Greater Bay initiative you mentioned, I can see the opportunity, but also
presumably, there is a threat here as well. You've got a dominant position in Hong Kong,
but not in the mainland. What's the risk of mainland companies encroaching on the Hong
Kong core business? Thank you.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, Chad, if you don't mind, I'm going to put you and Steve to work on the first two
questions, and then, Nic on the Greater Bay initiative. Is that okay? The US team, get a
microphone, if we could.

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 19162601 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So, I guess the -- both questions kind of come together, so let me just start with the
second one, and then, we can roll -- wrap back around. So, in terms of Q4, the volatility
was there. That's exactly the kind of scenario we're built for. It's primarily an option-based
program, and it's resilient for gappy markets. It's not a purely futures-based dynamic
hedging model like a lot of the competitors do. So, those gappy markets actually help us.
When we got to the point we talked about in Singapore, and we talked about a couple
times about how the more difficult scenarios for us, two that we've seen in the last
several years, one was that 2017-2018, where reserves were floored out, and we're
having to spend more on hedging than we'd otherwise be inclined to do to protect
statutory balance sheet, and also, what we saw back in first quarter of '16 or first half of
'16, when the market was down fairly significantly, but we also had rates go to an all-time
low, which also is difficult on a statutory basis.
In both those cases, we were having to do additional hedging above and beyond what
our normal economic base, cash flow-based hedging program would do. So, what you
saw in Q4 was as reserves started to build, and we saw very nice balance between hedge
gain loss and reserve build, so -- and you saw -- because we had that kind of latent capital
position coming into a good capital formation in Q4. And obviously, the market's reversed
back up since then. We've seen those reserves release, as Mark mentioned, against
hedging losses we would've taken, but all-in-all, still well-balanced and very happy with the
outcome.
As we look into the new VA changes, that range we talked about is really kind of a pointin-time range. So, if you just said, today, we're going to flip regimes, that's where we get
our kind of 40 to 50 point result. As I think I've talked about before, that should be a
generally -- what you're seeing is an increase in adjusted capital and an increase in
required capital, and of similar magnitude, which is why the -- with the formula we're
starting at a 450% ratio. That's going to, by definition, bring the ratio down if it's one-forone top and bottom.
But what that will do is give us better alignment going forward. So, we'll have some more
reserves up than we would have had before, so there should be a little bit less pressure
on the upside. And if we saw Q1 '16 replay, we wouldn't expect the extra hedging we'd
have to do on the statutory side. So, it's not so much that there's a point-for-point today. If
Page 21 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

we said, we're going to put the new one in, we're going to get some sort of relief vis-avis hedging, but what we should see is, on a go-forward basis, a little bit less hedge
spend, specifically around those statutory-related tails. Okay?

FINAL

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Jon, just one last comment, I think you do -- there is an interesting question of what
the market will see as AA-level RBC as you are talking about a more -- a less-volatile
regime? So, that's, again, outside of our control of the market.
Nic, on Greater Bay Area initiative competitors coming over.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Well, the threat needs to be contextualized vis-a-vis the reasons why people come
across from Mainland China to buy in Hong Kong. There's a number of reasons why they
do that. The first one is diversification of assets, if you like. It gives Mainland customers
access to overseas types returns. The second reason is exposure to hard currencies, in
that, it allows them to effectively invest in products that are US dollar-denominated or
linked to the US dollar. Also, there's more comprehensive cover that they combine on
many of the critical illness and medical products, not least to cover them for early-stage
diseases and multistage-type illnesses, better hospital access, and actually, access to
Western brands, which are not as readily available in Mainland China.
So, all these -- that's why people buy in Hong Kong. Yes, ultimately, in time, they close
maybe the other way, particularly where, say, a Hong Kong resident wants to buy a
renminbi-denominated product. But those products are already available in the market.
So, my assessment -- our assessment is that the opportunity is much, much greater than
the threat. Just to build on what Mike covered earlier, we saw a 15% increase in the
number of visitors from Mainland China and Hong Kong, from 44 million to 51 million. In
fact, we saw a record level of visitors in the fourth quarter of 2018, aided by the increased
connectivity that's coming through the new road and the rail services. It's no coincidence
that behind the 18% increase in Hong Kong sales in the fourth quarter lies a 42% increase
in the Mainland China sales. So, you see those effects coming through as traffic of visitors
increases.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just a few questions. First of all, on cash remittances, it
looks like you've moved to around 100% payout at the moment on a cash remittance net
of holding company. I think it's largely driven by lower US dividend. But how do you think
about this number going forward? And especially, how do you plan to fund the things like
the payments you'll make to UOB, GBP600 million? Would you be using the debt that you
have recently raised or that has to be paid down as a restructuring or -- and you'll go
down on cash balance? Any thoughts on that would be great.
Secondly, in terms of US RBC. I mean, Mark, you also mentioned that US RBC is still doing
all right. But any thoughts on how things have moved in first quarter this year -- year-todate, I mean, how your equities' hedges have performed? How interest rates have
Page 22 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

performed? Because it kind of feels like equities up is negative, interest rate down slightly
is negative as well. So, shouldn't it be moving down more back to 400% RBC? Or do you
still believe it's around 450% at the moment? And what does it impact, like the dividend
from US? And lastly is on the UK capital. I mean, UK capital has moved up nicely because
of this longevity release, which will most likely happen for next two years as well. But you
still aim to maintain, say, 1.70%. So, are you looking to extract more dividend out of UK
because of that? Thank you.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Should I start off ?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Sure. Please.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, in terms of the cash remittance, effectively, the philosophy and the approaches, we
bring up what we need to the center. And candidly, in terms of where we're at, at the
moment, given the fact that we raised GBP1.6 billion, and we have a cash stock at the end
of the year to over GBP3.2 billion, bringing up extra for the US just didn't seem to make a
whole lot of sense. There's also capital efficiency, with actually having some of the extra
capital in the US because of some of the inadmissible DTA that we can bring in through
that component. So, there's a financial play in terms of doing that piece. But in essence,
we bring up what it is we need when it is we need it on that particular piece.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

On UK capital, I guess, Mark as well, I think or John, it doesn't -- I mean...

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

That's probably more a question for Mark.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So, in terms of the UK capital, in terms of where we're at, so we're very pleased with the
performance of that business, how it's done with the element of capital creation. We're
going to continue to keep a close eye on it. We're expecting the guys to continue to work
hard over the course of this year, continue to keep a close eye on it in terms of -- up to
the stage of demerger. We have set out the element of that we would -- we're aiming for
1-70. We'll look to see what happens closer to the time in terms of what that ultimate ratio
is going to be and what the ultimate capital position is going to be. The key thing to bear
in mind is that it's in our interest as a plc board to ensure that M&G Prudential and plc are
well-capitalized, well-regarded and set up for success. So, we will make sure that we do
those things for both those companies as part of the demerger.
Page 23 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

And then, Ashik, on the US RBC, so we don't give off-cycle, as we've discussed.
December 31, actually, was a perfect example. It's a point in time metric. That's a hard
mark, and Jackson did well on it. Directionally, capital is improving. I think Mark referenced
that in his comment. So, if you were running that calculation, that would actually be better,
but we're not going to disclose monthlies.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Just one question. There's an awful lot of talk about growth
in the presentation, yet the stock trades on 0.8 times embedded value, which is a kind of
rating that (inaudible) would have bought closed books for. So, there's a gap -- a major
gap in perception here. I wonder, whether you could talk a little bit about what you
perceive that gap because it's been around for some time to be about? And what
concrete proposals you have to close it?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Andrew, I think it's our job, as a management team, to manage the earnings, the quality
of the growth. I don't think -- the share price has some market factors to it that are
outside of our control. So, I think you're seeing that the messaging, the deployment of
capital, the performance, the consistency, all those things that are management's control.
But I think commenting on the share price is really a market issue and...

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig Paterson
I'm surprised you only have two questions this time. Just in terms, though. The -- It
surprised me that you increased the debt by a net GBP1.2 billion. And I read quickly the
release today that, post demerger, it would increase a little bit more. Has it been a
decision to increase the structural leverage within the group, and we've seen this benefit?
Or is some of that money going to be earmarked to redeem some debt when we go
back to the old level? That's question one.
And the second one, excuse my memory, I saw something about Babylon raising money
and whatever, just top rated, had some negative thoughts about why were they raising
money when Pru's just injected some money and etcetera, etcetera. So, I wonder if you
could just update on -- and I know it's only two or three months since you did it before,
but how's the Babylon rollout going? Is everything hunky-dory? Or is there any issues
there?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, Mark, do you want to comment on structural debt and something on the Babylon
rollouts? Probably, should stay away from Babylon's equity story, though, just for the
record. It's probably not -- it's outside of our jurisdiction as well.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So, in terms of the debt, the idea is to make sure that we have some flexibility as we go
through the changes in the movements in the debt stack ahead of the demerger, so
Page 24 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

making sure that we've got the right debt in the right place and that we've got flexibility in
terms of the tools that we use to move the right debt in the right place. And then, over
time, I'd expect to see the debt numbers coming back down. But over the course of the
buildup to and immediately post, there may well be, which is well worth highlighted in
terms of the MPN [ph] as well, the fact that it might lift up a little bit.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. On Babylon, the plans to launch this service in our first market, which is Malaysia, are
pretty well advanced. We -- as Mike said, the first phase was to get Babylon to help us
localize the app, both in terms of language, so it's now -- now exists in Bahasa, and also in
terms of local illnesses. So, that's done. We've engaged with the health ministry to get
approval as a health information service. So, we've gone through that, that particular step.
And of course, it's been very, very heavily tested by our 3,000-or-so staff that we have in
Malaysia.

Bloomberg Transcript

The launch is scheduled for April. It will include some of the basic features that we
showcased in terms of the diagnosis, the system checker, the digital twin. We've added a
number of additional services, such as AIME's dengue detection service, and also an
online doctor consultation, which will be available for free for our own customers but at a
charge for non-customers. And also, medicine dispensation will be part of that as well.
Later in the year, we will add wellness, rewards, chronic disease management and
hospital admission. So, as I said, it's well advanced in Malaysia. We've also started in Hong
Kong, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand.
But just to manage expectations, our emphasis at the first 12 to 18 months will be on
ramping up the user numbers, establishing service partners and connecting to existing
and new partners' platforms. We will be tracking the number of downloads that we're
achieving, how many of those are -- then convert into monthly active users, and then, in
time, how many of those will convert into revenue-generating users. We're also
developing our digital marketing tools and looking to put in place a very smooth model to
move from kind of online to offline handoffs, to telemarketing and agencies, so all that is
in -- is pretty much progressing as we expected, and we'll be able to give you more
updates later in the year.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes at SocGen. Couple of questions just on Jackson's hedging program, just to
come back to that. Wondered if you could give us more color about how you handle the
basis risk? And -- because I mean, looking at the disclosures, you seem to be hedging
with index options, mainly. And I'm just interested to hear how you structure the
policyholder asset liability management because I think policyholders have pretty broad
asset allocation choices. So, how do the options reflect that? And then, second question
is, looking at the cost of options, I think, Chad, you said the zigzag markets actually favor
options. But I didn't quite understand that because don't options rise in cost when
markets are volatile? So, wondered, if you could also just explain -- give us more color on
that.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}
Page 25 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

So, Chad, do you want to do the basis risk and cost of options across the cycle?

FINAL

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 19162601 <GO>}

Sure. I think on the basis risk, Steve covered some of that in Singapore, too, so there's
some refreshing there too on the slides. But just broadly speaking, when we put funds on
our platform, we underwrite them to certain characteristics. And so, while there might be
good funds out there that generate good alpha but don't really track well, those are the
types of funds we don't put on our platform. The ones that have more stable investment
offerings over time, that have relatively consistent betas that are easier for us to track on
a basis risk type of basis, those are the types of funds we have there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what we find is couple things. The funds that we -- because we do underwrite them,
they are very stable through time. We don't see a lot of short-term basis risk coming
through. We -- and over the long run, we really wouldn't expect to see much anyways
because most equity-type of markets and most equity-type of investments are going to
tend to correlate over time. The one exception of that will be the -- more the international
emerging markets, things like that. We do have hedges that we specifically have, and a lot
of that is more currency than it is actual direction of equity markets, although the last 12, 18
months has been fairly disbursed across global equity markets. But we do have hedges
on (inaudible) in addition to the S&P that have mitigated most of the basis risks that we've
seen in the underlying separate accounts.
With respect to -- also, what we don't see from our underlying policyholders is a lot of
movement, so they tend to stick with -- make allocations and stick with them. We don't
get a lot of in-and-out activity going on there, so that's very stable through time, which
also helps with the basis risk. With respect to cost of options, the point I was making
about the zigzag, so if you own options going into a market, you're effectively long
gamma. So, to the extent that you're doing like a delta row hedging replication-type
program, you're going to get -- you're going to see the sensitivity of the underlying equity
instruments moving on you, and you have to rebalance the delta -- the futures types of
position.
When you walk into that type of environment with options already in place, which we do,
which is expensive relative to just hedging with futures and steadily grinding up markets,
when you walk into that type of environment with options already in play, you're going to
outperform because the options are going to have a similar type of gamut to the
underlying liabilities, which is a key feature for us in stress times. And with respect to the
pricing or the costing of those options, there's things we can do to do things differently.
Instead of just outright owning put options, you can do put spreads and take advantage
of SKU. There's things like that, that we do that'll help in those environments. But typically
speaking, our option book is long enough in duration to get through these shapes of all -kind of all shocks.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

My one quick comment on the first point, we also have something coming from the Asset
Management side, been very impressed with this. It's a very large separate account
portfolio with a wide diversity of funds. There's diversification and balance on that
Page 26 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

portfolio itself. And there's great visibility, like instant visibility. So there isn't a lot of change
in allocations that end consumers make. But even where they do that, it's instantaneously
visible to the team. So they can see exactly what's there. And there's a level of risk
mitigation just in the size and diversification of those holdings. They're not all equity funds.
They're not all -- especially [ph] not all emerging market equity fund.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Nick, if you're managing money in the platform, they're seeing your net actual
holdings effectively realtime. So, they're hedging the actual underlying stocks and
positions in the sub-accounts, not necessarily trying to just track the fund, so it's the best
(inaudible).

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

It's at the balance sheet level. It's not at the contract -- the hedges aren't at the contract
level, which would be extremely expensive and problematic for that reason.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just 3 questions. I guess in China, as we get closer to
liberalization of the market, I mean, how do you see the relative merits of your joint
venture versus a wholly owned subsidiary of one of your competitors? That's the first
question. Second question just in regards to PruFund. I mean, it's been doing extremely
well. I'm not sure whether it's sold on third-party platforms.
And if it isn't, are you planning to do because that could, obviously, give a boost in terms
of sales volumes? And third question, just regards to all the movement on the holding
company, the debt and various other things. I guess, Mike, when would you be in a
position to give us more information on the synergies of these holding companies that
are demerging and the benefits that you'll see from the demerger to the market?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. Nic, you want to do China first?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, look, it's -- we've been quite open about our desire now that the market is
liberalized to own more than 50% of the business. If we're able to do that, then that will
give us an instant pickup, if you like, in the -- in our numbers. But as Mike said, that's
dependent on a couple of factors which are not entirely within our control. But I think the
market is wrong to underestimate the potential of simply growing this business and the
operational leverage within that. And let me just give you some more color around that, if
I may. When we look -- and we put up a slide in Singapore that's showing where our flows
and the new business value comes from amongst the now 19 provinces that we have.
When you go beyond -- beneath or rather, beyond that, you see that in a couple of places
in Guangzhou and in Beijing, we have penetration of between 1% and 2% in terms of
gross written premiums. And everywhere else, we're well below the 1% level.

Page 27 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

Overall, we're about 72 basis points of market share. Simply adding 10 basis points of
market share a year would increase over that 5-year period the new business
contribution. If you then overlay the projected 10% to 12.5% increase in growth in -- in
gross written premiums, that becomes 3.5 times the NBP. So, the operational leverage is
huge. And I think these numbers are conservative, bearing in mind that, over the last five
years, our NBP increased 5fivetimes. So really, the challenge is to grow that footprint,
which is where we've been investing time. We've added -- we're now operational in our
19th branch. We're preparing for our 20th branch. We upped the number of the presence
that we have in 10 extra cities. We're 87 now. That's not the only driver. We've increased -we now added 32 new sales support offices, bringing the total number to 214.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've increased our agency account 9%, from 44,000 to 48,000. We've signed up three
new bank partnerships, so that we're now operating with over 40 partners. That gives us
access to 5,000 bank outlets in that market. That's 20% up on a year ago. And we've
increased the number of wholesalers that are servicing those bank outlets by 28% to
1,400. Therefore, we're just going after that opportunity. We're doing all of that at the
same time as focusing on the high-end products. Health and protection is now 45% of our
sales.
Regular premium has gone up to 97%. Client retention is 94%. All of these drivers mean
that all the key indicators of future financial earnings and value have increased double
digit, whether it's embedded value, whether it's the gross written premiums, whether it's
the size -- the assets that we manage in that business. So simply by going after the
opportunity systematically, diligently and making sure we're doing quality gives us huge
operational leverage, which is actually much, much bigger than simply increasing our
ownership by 1% or by '25, 2030 as we said before.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thanks, Nic. John on PruFund and third-party platform?

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

We don't sell it on third-party platforms. But what we are looking is to -- how we are
looking to grow PruFund is through Europe. So, we are busy diligence or others are
diligencing us in terms of the product to sell-through our partners in Europe, our bank
channel partners in Europe. So, that's where we're heading with that product. Clearly,
we've got to maintain the integrity of the performance of that product. That's what drives
the sales. So, that's how we choose to do it.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Johnny, on the synergies. So, I think the -- for M&G Prudential, before we announced
the demerger, we announced the merger of the two entities, and they set cost targets,
and part of that was improving service and capability, and you're absolutely seeing that
now. And part of that was cost reduction, which is (inaudible) was mentioned was on track.
They're embedding -- as we're adding the capabilities to be a stand-alone firm, the
governance, the sovereign functions, etcetera, that's embedded in that model. So, that's
an added challenge for them.

Page 28 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

On the international side, when you're doing this level of work, it creates a sort of
inflection point to look at why you do things. You can argue as a management team, you
can come up with a reason to do that by yourself without any sort of external catalyst, but
this absolutely is a catalyst. So, there is a soup-to-nuts look at every process we have,
every role we have, how can we get closer to the client, do things faster, all that, and that
has some clear cost savings in it. But we'd like to announce, though, as we get to them,
not project them, but we do see a leaner closer-to-the-consumer model when this is all
done, and I think you need to be to stay relevant to the consumers in the accounts we
have, that's how we should be.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. I have three questions, if I can. Firstly, if I can just
come back to the debt leverage. I was just wondering if you can get a sense of what the
releverage capacity for Pru plc post the demerger is? I think if I -- so if my math is correct, I
think you end up with a IFRS debt leverage of around 22%, 24% for the International
business, so I've allocated about GBP3.5 billion to the UK. I was wondering if that's the
right sort of level? Or would you look to increase the leverage from that level going
forward?
And the second question, also on debt but regarding Jackson. I just wanted to understand
how much of your existing external debt counts towards the RBC ratio? And if there's any
room to inject more debt locally into the US and what the constraints are around that?
And then just finally, around the demerger timeline. I think I heard you say that you have a
court date for the Part VII transfer for the end of June. Assuming you get approval at that
point, what else is left? And how long would it take? Is there a risk that the demerger
might spill into next year?

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. Mark, do you want to do debt? Chad, do you want to do Jackson RBC? And then I'll
do timing.

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Okay. So, in terms of debt, the kind of ballpark that you're talking about in terms of your
numbers, I think, are fair. Clearly, we'll be looking at future opportunities in terms of where
we are with our debt levels in terms of the cost of debt. There's still quite a lot we need
to do with debt overall in terms of the restructuring of the debt in terms -- in anticipation
of the demerger, so we need to get the debt in the right buckets with the right features,
with the right characteristics. And from plc going forward, we'll be keeping a close eye in
terms of our overall debt levels. We'll be keeping a close eye on just ongoing
opportunities we have in the market and then how best to be able to fund those.

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 19162601 <GO>}

So, the only external debt that we have at Jackson outside of the spread lending business
is a surplus note that's due later -- due later next decade. It does count for capital
purposes and therefore, for RBC. There is more capacity to do that within Jackson's. So,

Page 29 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

then, I think, past that, it's just more of a question at plc where the most effective place to
raise debt.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

And the size of the note, just to give an order of magnitude?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 19162601 <GO>}

It's $250 million surplus notes, all it's -- currently is external debt.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the demerger timing, so we haven't said it would be this calendar year. We -- clearly,
we have to go off a full set of -- an audited [ph] set of financials, so that's one of the
criteria so half year or full year. You need the -- the debt piece Mark was mentioned, we
need to finalize what the balance sheet of both these entities look like, the governance in
place for the stand-alone firm, which is its board. The regulatory approvals in both
jurisdictions includes reconvening regulatory college on the international side.
And then, I think the task we've been given by the plc board is to make sure that the
quality, the execution is fit for purpose for two standalone FTSE companies of this scale.
So, it's as much a quality lens to make sure everything's ready to go. But the -- as you saw
from one of the earlier slides, a tremendous amount of work has been done to-date. And
we think we have the teams in place. And we think we're making very good progress for
it, but we'll keep you posted as we knock back some of these requirements. But think of
one of the dynamics being that the financials date -- and we want to go off out in
financials. We don't intend to do a counter -- an off-cycle set of books.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

It's Blair Stewart from Bank of America. First question is, you gave an indication of the
Asian surplus against local minimums. I just wonder how much of an indication of that is
the true surplus -- where would you be happy bringing that down to? And how fungible is
that as well? But I guess, more importantly, have you had anything you share with us with
your conversations with the Hong Kong regulators to how the plc capital position would
be regarded? That's the first question. Now secondly, for Nic, two smaller questions.
Indonesia, we've not really seen any impact of the initiative yet. Is there anything that
you're seeing that you can share with us that may be good, bad or different? And is the
Greater Bay Area initiative, is that a signal, do you think, of a more relaxed view from the
Chinese regulator on Mainland Chinese business after some tightening they did a year or
so ago? And finally -- actually, that's it.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. I appreciate that. Let me take the last one first. And then, James, if you wouldn't
mind, I'm going to have you just give him a little bit of -- and then Nic, you can do
Indonesia. So, I'm heading to China next Wednesday night for the China Development
Forum. And Blair, one of the specific questions will be with the various political leadership
is their view -- including the German regulator, what's their view of cross-border. It's come
Page 30 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

up before. I mean, it's never been -- you do not hear the same -- I've never heard the
same concern in Beijing or in a meeting with senior Chinese regulators that I've heard in a
meeting like this about Chinese -- what the concern is, is on penetration rates and levels
and quality of product and strength of balance sheet and asset liability.
That's the dialogue, and I've been a minimum of four to six times a year since I've taken
this role. So, there's been plenty of opportunity if they had a concern about cross-border
to raise that, and I've never had that come up. So -- but I intend to bring it up. The Greater
Bay initiative, I think, is -- got a lot of dynamics to it. The first key to it is to make sure -- for
us to make sure we're servicing those clients up to their expectation and candidly, up to
their regulator, government's expectation. So, that's one of the things you wanted to find,
is what do they see what that Insurance connect, what do we need to build to be ready
for it? I assume -- we're assuming Stock Connect is the model, just given the names. But
that's the type of thing to validate in one-on-one meetings and in various sessions with
the leadership of the country. So, we've got a shot to do that the next couple weeks.
James, on the discussion with HKIA.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Turner

{BIO 20145412 <GO>}

Yes. Okay, so Blair, in terms of HKIA, we are, as Mark said, actively participating in the HKIA
industry engagement on the development of the group-wide super ridge function. And so
that includes the future capital models. Because as you said, in a number of the countries,
the local stat is actually inviting constraint not the Solvency II numbers. And that said, we're
also continuing to engage with IIS and also on the development of conframe and ICS. But
the discussions with HKIA on the principles of the group supervision [ph] on capital have
progressed well. We've been working really closely with them for some time now. And
whilst it's too early to give you indicative numbers, we will update you once the HKIA's
proposals have been published for consultation.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Nic, on Indonesia?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. There's a lot of -- there's a -- don't really want to give a forward-looking statement
on Indonesia. There's a lot of work that we're doing to address what I referenced back in
November as the strategic dimension of the business as well as the operational
dimension. On the strategic dimension, if we can segment the market into kind of four
buckets, there is the agency linked, where we have a leading position. That part of the
market continues to be subdued. It's a big part of the market. It's around 25%, but it's not
moving. The product that we launched in September has introduced many customerfriendly features.
And of course, it's only available through our electronic platforms. In a country such as
Indonesia, with over 250,000 agents, it takes time to effectively train everyone to use
those electronic platforms and to also learn about the product. We -- that was taken place
through the fourth quarter. We're seeing good takeup of the product. We're seeing high
case sizes. But it's -- there's more to do. And there'll be a high net worth -- mass affluent

Page 31 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

FINAL

high net worth version of that coming later in the year. So, that's our response to that. The
second part of the market is the agency traditional. That's about 11 points in the market,
11% market.
Historically, we haven't done anything in that space. We launched our first simplified
endowment product in January, targeting effectively the rookies and the core agents.
We're seeing a good momentum in that. About 77% of the sales of that product are
coming from rookies and core agents. We are iterating that product. We are finding -we're trying to simplify it further. And we'll be introducing further simplification such as
underwriting with five questions later this quarter. So, we -- again, sales there are picking
up. It's making up about 6% of our APE in the early part of the year. There's a lot more we
can do there.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the banker, which is 40% of the market, we continue to push through with UOB. We've
now started doing business with the OCBC. Mike referenced that. We're visibly
onboarding another kind of small, medium-sized bank in Q1. And of course, once the
Taiwan CFC transaction completes, we'll get access to (inaudible) branch network there.
And we continue to look for opportunities in the retail space because UOB and SEB really
are in the wealth space, be it on an exclusive or nonexclusive basis. The balance of the
market, which is 23%, is on group business. There, we've had no presence historically.
We're launching, on the 22nd of April, our employee benefit-type business. The systems
are built. We're ready to roll that out. And we'll target the 27 million SMEs in that particular
market. I think we can get some decent traction.
At the same time, Babylon will -- is coming online later in Q2. And we're also exploring
opportunities to work with nontraditional and platform-based partners. And of course,
there's a lot of platforms that are getting a lot of traction in that market. The operational
dimension, which looked at where we were looking to retool our agency, is also
proceeding as I would like it to proceed at this stage. We've seen a -- we're giving better
training, better tools, better products to be Elite in the MDRT. That's around 2,000 of our
top agents, and their contribution is improving. So, you -- we saw a fair contribution to APE
rise from around 8% to 19%, and you saw that on the slide. We're putting a lot more
emphasis on Shariah. That grew 17% last year. It's now about 25% of our agency sales. And
we have a leadership position in that particular market.
We've set that up now as a separate business, with a separate CEO, separate budget.
And we are -- we expect to get more traction there. When it comes to the agency
leaders, we're giving them more support with hiring. One of the things that we saw in '17
and '18 is only about 60% of them hired a new agent. That number needs to get much,
much closer to 100, and we're giving them the appropriate support. And we're also
strengthening the infrastructure that we have to manage this -- very many branches, the
internal infrastructure. We're doubling the number of effectively sales support managers
and are reorganizing the management's structure. So, a lot of work. The -- A lot of work.
We've got, as I said, a great business there and a great platform. Notwithstanding some
of the difficulties, it is the #1 provider in that country. As I said before, I don't really want to
give a forward-looking statement. But the action plan that we referenced in November is
in motion.

Page 32 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-13

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Nic. And then, one additional comment on China -- the cross-border. We have had
Hong Kong validate and look at, from a regulatory point of view -- we're complying with
their rules on cross-border, and that's a normal part of their governance and their
previous form and their current form, so we have had those reviews, just to be clear.
Well, again, thank you very much for your time and attention, and we look forward to
seeing you at the half year.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 33 of 33

