Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Christian Becker-Hussong, Investor Relations
Christoph Jurecka, Chief Financial Officer
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Sami Taipalus , Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to today's conference call, The Munich Re Quarterly Statement
Q3 for 2019. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the
conference over to Mr. Christian Becker-Hussong, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, sir.

Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you, Holly. Good morning to everyone. Thanks for joining us on our call on our Q3
2019 earnings and we really appreciate your time given so many of our peers in the
European Insurance industry are reporting today. So in the interest of time, I'm happy to
immediately pass it on to our CFO, Christoph Jurecka for his opening remarks. Please
Christoph.

Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Christian. As usual, I'd like to give some personal remarks before,
we then go into the Q&A. Given an otherwise strong quarter after nine months
Muenchener has already met its original net earnings targets for the full year. This is
based on a very sound operating performance across all business segments. And I saw
Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

some preliminary remarks this morning on the quality of our operating results today and
I'd love to use the opportunity of this call to convince you that it's indeed a very high
quality operating performance we are showing in Q3. On top of the operating result, we
also saw a strong investment result, high currency gains and a low tax ratio, which then
compensated for the high nat cat and manmade losses, which we also saw, and they
were clearly significantly above average.
So finally, in line with our pre-release a few weeks ago, the net result amounted to
EUR865 million. As usual, I will start with the investment result. The ROI amounts to high
3.4% for the quarter and 3.2% for the first nine months. Thus, supporting our guidance of
approximately 3% for the full year. Adjusted for the seasonal dividend effect in Q2, the
regular income remained stable at 2.7%, despite the decline of interest rates.
The reinvestment yield was again 2.1%, also unchanged -- almost unchanged compared to
the first half of the year and this was supported by new investments in longer duration
sovereign bonds in the US and other non-Euro currencies, as well as some corporate
bonds and also again infrastructure investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

The extraordinary investment result was driven by disposal gains and they were to some
extent even unavoidable, given the low interest rates, but also the good equity market
performance we saw in the first nine months of this year. The gains on the fixed income
instruments mainly resulted from ALM optimization measures in our North American
entities, and the gains on equities more than offset the write-downs we had on equities
and also the losses we had on equity hedging derivatives, which we usually apply in order
to hedge the downside coming out of the equity -- exposure.
Fixed income derivatives and as you know they are partially related to the interest rate
hedging program for ERGO's Life back book. They went up significantly and they
reflected the weight decline. The weight decline also led to a strong increase in
unrealized gains, which then translated into high total return of 12% for the quarter and
also for year-to-date, but clearly the low yield environment is currently the main challenge
for the industry overall and I can assure you that given how closely we're matched in ALM
asset liability position and then given our active portfolio management that we expect the
short and mid-term impact on our financials to be manageable. Coming to the currency
result. This is of course closely linked to the investment result and this amounted to an
exceptionally high level of 228 million in Q3. Interpreting this figures, we have to be
careful. This is before policyholder participation and before tax of course.
So the 228 million are not to be interpreted at face value. The reason for the good
currency result was mainly US dollar. But on top of that due to ongoing geographic
diversification in the investment portfolio, we were able to generate gains in some
emerging market currencies as well.
Now I'd like to turn to reinsurance. In Q3, the underlying earnings quality was particularly
pleasing in both segments. In Life and Health, we posted a very strong technical result.
And in P&C, we observed an improvement of the normalized combined ratio over the
previous quarters and to our target level we have for this year. I would also like to mention

Page 2 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

that we are seeing a substantial premium increase as our growth initiatives are gaining
traction. Let's go into the details and here I would like to start with life and health
reinsurance. After the disappointing second-quarter, we saw Q3 was an exceptionally
strong one in terms of the technical result plus fee income, which was 218 million
supported by the restructuring of some treaties. The aggregate pure metric experience
has been favorable, particularly in Europe and the United States.
On top of that we also noted an improvement of the claims experience in Australia
compared to the first half of the year. But there we once more had to moderately adjust
reserves because of a further decline of the interest rates in Australia. So even -- given
the less negative result there, the business remains highly uncertain also for the outlook
of the entire Life and Health segment for the remainder of the year. And we talked about
it very last time -- this will largely then depend on the outcome of the annual reserve
review upcoming in Q4.

Bloomberg Transcript

So finally, despite the high Q3 result, we continue to see the substantial risk that we will
fall short of the guidance for the technical result plus fee income, which -- which is
EUR500 million as you know. P&C reinsurance -- in P&C, the Q3 combined ratio was
104.7% , reflecting a very high nat cat and man-made loss of 18.4 percentage points in the
combined ratio. However, if you look at the normalized combined ratio, we recorded a
positive trend and achieved the level of 98.2%, which is as I said, in line with our indication
for 2019. We still consider a level much closer to the 98% than where we are year-to-date
to be a realistic ambition for the full year.
Now primary insurance, ERGO. ERGO has so far ticked all the boxes for the year 2019 and
maintains its stable and pleasing financial development also in the third quarter. If I look at
the ERGO year-to-date result of EUR339 million and if I take into account that there are
included negative one-off due to the sale of international entities in the portfolio
restructuring of 150, so if I add the EUR50 to the EUR339, we would already be very close
to the EUR400, which is the target of ERGO for this year.
So having that in mind you could even argue that also ERGO achieved its annual target, its
full-year target already in the third quarter, which is another signal, I think, for the very
sound operating performance. In Q3, the net result of the German Life & Health business
fell short of the very high levels we achieved in the first two quarter and this is to some
usual quarterly earnings volatility we see in that segment from various effects, and there
are technical and accounting effects, (inaudible) here. And on top of that, of course, also
the timing of the realization of unrealized gains to finance the (inaudible).
In P&C Germany, the combined ratio in Q3 amounted to a very good level of 92 -- 92.1%.
Our Germany overall continues to make significant (inaudible) with respect to the
distribution setup and the product range, all of course in the context of the ESP, the ERGO
strategy program. We are all the more optimistic of meeting the 93% combined ratio
target by the end of this year.
International, the ongoing favorable development there with a combined ratio of 91.8% is
a clear testimony to the successful execution of the already mentioned portfolio

Page 3 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

streamlining, which clearly aims in strengthening the presence in our core markets and
seize opportunities in some dedicated growth areas, as you know. Going forward this
should of course further reduce the volatility of the segment's financial performance,
which in Q3, of course also again benefited from seasonality effects and Health business,
where we know that from other Q3 events as well.
The Group's capitalization remains very sound. The Solvency II ratio amounted to around
230%. As we see the negative impact of the significant interest rate decline in Q3 and this
was partially offset again by the strong operating economic earnings. For the full year we
now expect the economic earnings to significantly exceed the initial target which was over
2 or above EUR2.5 billion and we expect the economic earnings also to be substantially
higher than the increase of the Solvency II capital requirement. So higher than the increase
of the SCR. Let's finally focus on the outlook. Based on the experience so far, Q4 could
become another nat cat heavy quarter.
The usual uncertainties about developments in major losses and capital markets are
therefore even more pronounced this time around. Regarding the outlook for the
remainder of the year, and of course as we nearly have achieved our net income target
already by Q3, we now expect to beat the 2.5 billion target for 2019 and of course, we
are very pleased by the development. Apart from some minor adjustments the
expectations for most other key financial metrics have not changed compared to the 2018
Annual Report and also to the half-year result.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that of course I'm looking very much forward to answering your questions and hand it
back to Christian.

Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you, Christoph we can now go right into Q&A. And may I please ask you as always
to limit the number of your questions to a maximum of two per person otherwise please
go back to the queue. So may I please ask Holly to start announcing the first question.

Questions And Answers
A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Certainly. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question today from Kamran Hossain
of RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Two questions for me. The first one is just thinking about the combined
ratio, and thinking about how this might develop going into next year. I know in the past
you've talked about 97% being a reasonable level for 2020. Clearly there has been a little
bit of improvement as the year has gone on to the normalized number. Given that they -- I
guess the opportunity to see some funds we do expect that should we guess 97% where
kind of growth as you had expected or 98% or a little bit higher than that with a little bit
more volume growth than you'd originally anticipated. So that's the first question and the
Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

second question, given the way that the earnings had been made up year-to-date, could
you maybe just update on German GAAP earnings and kind of how that developing during
the year. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yes, of course, the combined ratio guidance for next year. First of all I have to apologize.
You know that we are not talking about the guidance that early usually but the option
space you have to mention -- mentioning is very much the option space we are also
seeing. We will be giving further details on that in beginning of next year. And of course it
will also depend on how the Q4 is now going to involve -- to evolve. We always said that
the combined ratio in itself is not a target, but it's something we look at in order to
achieve the net income target of EUR2.8 billion. And the optimization amount between
volume on the one hand side and combined ratio on the other hand, is something we are
carefully looking at when defining how to finally get to the EUR2.8.
German GAAP, so far nothing really spectacular. So German GAAP, I'm pretty much -- what
we would have expected looking at the IFRS figure. Generally you know that there is a
requirement to fill up the equalization reserve and this is something of course which
reduces German GAAP compared to where we are in IFRS. So the usual expectation is
long as we are filling up that with -- would be to be somewhat below that. But as far as we
see it so far this year absolutely in line with what we would have expected anyway.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great, thanks very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question today comes from Sami Taipalus of Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Yeah, hi, good morning, everyone. My first question is on solvency. And -- I guess the
solvency ratio still remains quite high by industry standards, but it's the lowest it's been I
think since Solvency II was introduced. What's your tolerance for where you're happy for
this ratio to move and what options would you look at -- to sort of counteract that. I mean,
I guess I know that your use of hybrid debt capacity or hybrid debt capital is quite low at
the moment. And but I guess on the other hand, would you be willing to issue hybrid
effective date to fund the buyback. That's my first question.
Second on US. Just on US casualty and it'd be interesting to hear your thoughts on US
casualty loss trends and whether you have adjusted your reserving at all to sort of reflect
on the (inaudible). Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Page 5 of 17



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Got it. Thank you for the questions, Sami. On solvency, I mean you all saw that it came
down somewhat. And that's probably where the question is coming from but on the other
hand, the solvency ratio is still clearly above our so-called optimal range. So, therefore,
this solvency ratio is not at all of any concern to us and will not affect our capital
management strategy going forward. It's very much interest-rate driven anyway. You know
that interest rates went up again since end of September. So a certain volatility is
something we anyway would have to expect in this figure. And so you see me completely
relaxed, when I look at our solvency figure -- even more and that's something I was
mentioning in my introductory remark that the Solvency II capital generation is still very
positive given the fact that we are expecting to exceed our initial economic earnings
targets substantially and then will have economic earnings by far higher than the SCR
increase. So in absolute terms, capital generation completely in line with our initial
planning or even above.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

But would you be happy to operate sort of around the [ph]220 or even below [ph]220
temporarily?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

I mean, did you know that our optimal range starts below 220. We were just, we start to
be in the optimal range. And I mean optimal clearly signals that we don't feel
uncomfortable, doesn't it. Oh yes. The casualty topic -- we could probably talk about
casualty (inaudible). I'll try to cut a long story a little bit short. The -- we are also seeing
some elevated reporting on claims in the US casualty area, but to make that very clear it's
not at all a surprise for us. It's something which we -- which is more like the continuation of
development we have been in for some time now.
If I may remind you in 2017 already we took decisive action on our primary book in the US,
by changing the strategy, but also by strengthening reserve somewhat. In '18, we took
action on our reinsurance book where we saw elevated loss (inaudible) loss reporting in
'18 already that was something which was not at all visible overall. Because still the
positive experience was by far exceeding the bits and pieces in small books and pockets
where we had to take action, but we did do so already in '18 and also in the year '19 in line
with our usual reserving strategy, which is of course to react immediately wherever we
see some kind of more negative indications than expected that we react immediately. In
that sense, we did react throughout all the quarters in this year already. And again,
nothing visible overall because we're talking about a limited part of our book overall and
the positive indications we're getting from other US casualty books and is still exceeding
the negative experience in some of them.
So I'll leave it with that for now with casualty. I hope it's clear enough.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Great, thank you.

Operator
Page 6 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Thank you. Our next question comes from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thank you for the opportunity. Two questions please. First one is so
just on the normalized combined ratio. It must be a pleasing number, the 98. I mean we
have to go back several quarters maybe two or three years to get a number with the 8,
the 98. And this was in a quarter, which was quite well talked about for lots of attritional,
lots of man-made. Could you just comment on how we got here in this quarter, do you
think it's because this time the man-made experience was just on the other end of the
large loss definition. So you could quantify it as large loss? Or is it the Risk Solutions which
help out more than usual.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the reason also I'm asking is because when you're confirming the 98 -- you're at 99
today for nine months. So it really need say 93, 94 level to get to 98 range for the full
year. So that's the first question please. Second is just on the very large FX and thanks for
your clarification that it's not just US dollar, but also emerging markets, and it's also prepolicyholder. But yeah, I mean --- is there some risk management questions being also
asked about how to -- whether you should be taking such a open currency position. I
mean just from the outside, for example, the US dollar last moved by this kind of
magnitude in 2Q18, and 2Q18 was a small EUR40 million FX gain. And this time you had
the similar move, got EUR228 million. And even I appreciate the ERGO. I mean the ERGO
Life is probably EUR70 million or EUR80 million, EUR90 million in this 228. So there is also
other parts. So just want to understand how you view the risks that come on the FX open.
Also on the (inaudible) positioning and on the asset side, but mainly on the risk your view
from the FX side. Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, thank you for the questions. In normalized combined ratio, I think it's mainly
really the operating improvement we are seeing. So we have been talking about the
measures we are implementing in some of our businesses with solutions; you mentioned
that also. For quite some quarters we under (inaudible) increase in tariff levels, things like
that. And we always said it will take some time until this really earns through the portfolios.
Now we're one quarter more ahead, so we see positive effect from that.
On top of that, it was not a particularly bad nat cat, so a small nat cat quarter which also
held, and then of course growth and the last couple of renewals we saw in the channel
reinsurance business also supported the development. And this is why I'm -- was kind of
optimistic when given my introductory remarks also for the remainder of the year,
because many of these trends are not one-offs, but they are just continuing. And if then
on top of that, you would assume normal -- the normal kind of seasonality, which we have
in Q4 that some nat cat activity is reduced. We still think there's a chance that we will get
much lower -- much closer to the 98 even if that would mean that for single quarter we
would need maybe not 94, but maybe 96 or 97 and then we would be already much
closer to the initial target of 98.
And then of course what we take from that is also some positive momentum for next year
of course. But again that's something we'll talk about more beginning of next year then.
Page 7 of 17



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FX, that's a very interesting question and indeed if you're seeing in '18 movement, dollar
movement of (inaudible) happened last time the effect was smaller and there are a
couple of reasons for that. First of all, I'd start with ERGO, what ERGO has is they use
foreign currency investments to increase the running yield, and as the liabilities, mainly
your liabilities, they have to somehow hedge the liabilities, also hedge the FX exposure
and not to have this FX mismatch. So what they did is they -- to certain extent increase the
dollar exposure. But what they did on top of this, they changed the hedging strategy. In
the past, what they did is more or less they did hedge the spot FX price.
And now they have a zero cost color around the FX. So which means around that midpoint
of the FX rate, they can benefit from the movement but of course it could also go against
them. Now, the good thing which happened here is that once they change the strategy,
the US dollar started appreciating. So timing wise that was just by coincidence probably
very well done. But given the risk capacity also the ERGO life and Health carriers have, we
feel -- we feel much better -- in a much better place such a zero cost color hedging
strategy because also the expected values of course do have a much cheaper hedging
strategy by doing that. And as you can see the ERGO Life and Health FX. This 94 out of
the 228. This is kind of a substantial portion of the overall development already. And then
again this is shared with policyholder and after tax, -- also those on net impact is much
smaller anyway. So this is the ERGO part. On the reinsurance side, the difficulty we have
when we talk about hedging, our FX exposure is that there is not a single number for our
exposure. It's very difficult to quantify it. Actually, because there are so many accounting
standards around which are not all the same, but not even similar some time.
So if you ask me, if you could take out FX exposure even more, I would ask you according
to which standard -- to Solvency II, to IFRS, to local GAAP, to maybe some local GAAPs we
have in some companies outside of Germany, because not all of the exposures of course
and MRG [ph] exposure. And -- sometimes the huge deviations in the FX exposure, we
have depending on how you value the liabilities, the US dollar liabilities to give you an
example, and the valuation differences are quite substantial.
So what we have to do is we have to take the position, a position somewhat in between
all these accounting standards, meaning we cannot completely hedge one of them and
then having the others with extremely large open exposures, but we have to somehow
optimize it to find the optimal point between all of these restrictions according to all these
different metrics and this gives us traditional (inaudible) -- traditionally in the long US dollar
position for IFRS, in reinsurance and that's why we benefited that much from the US dollar
increase this time.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Many thanks, very elaborate explanation. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Farooq Hanif of Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thank you very much. Just wanted to ask about the German ERGO German Life
policy participation issue. I'm wondering whether with the recovery in bond yields in Q4.
This could actually reverse and that you will find yourself in a position where you can make
the end of your commitment lower than you thought in Q3. And then the second question
is you talked, I mean you mentioned that you're going to come back on the growth versus
margin question at the end of the year, but qualitatively do you think in the environment
that you're seeing now, there is -- there are areas where you can grow with very good
margins. Thank you. Sorry -- referring to P&C rate. Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, thank you for the question, gives me the great opportunity to talk a little bit
about ERGO Life and Health. Because what I saw, is that already -- the operating earnings
level, there's quite a difference between the consensus and the figures we have been
releasing today.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first effect, I have to mention is the already mentioned FX effect due to the US dollar
exposure also within ERGO. This FX result is shown in our P&L structure below the
operating earnings, but at the full face value. So the deduction of the shareholder share
on that part of our earnings takes not place where it should take place in the FX result
itself, but higher up in the operating result already, higher up in the P&L. And if you look at
94 million FX result ERGO Life Health and on average 90% -- 85% is policyholder
participation on that. This already explains the first 80 or so million of difference between
the consensus and the actual operating earnings we have been showing for that
segment.
The second topic is policyholder participation -- we have been mentioning that. Last year
in Q3, we had a big one-off of changing in the policyholder participation for our Life
business as the assumptions. This really has been a one-off, so this is nothing we can
expect to happen again soon. There are always smaller changes to policyholder
participation assumptions given that the results also wavering a little bit from quarter to
quarter. These are very small comparatively small effects. So I would not overestimate any
potential impact from that for Q4. But what happened on top of what I mentioned already
in Q3 is that we just had the usual quarterly volatility hitting us a little bit here. Q1 and Q2
have been rather exceptionally high.
And now the Q3 is a little bit lower than average expectation, but this should not be over
interpreted in the context of what we expect for the full year. What are the reasons why
Q1 and Q2 have been higher and Q3 now lower. First of all, the quarterly result
development depends a lot on when you realize gains to finance the (inaudible). That's a
big driver of the quarter distribution. Secondly, in the second quarter, we changed the
policyholder assumptions for the Health business -- a one-off in Q2. And now in the third
quarter, we had some rather technical accounting topics, which came in as a negative
one-off in Q3 which burdened the result a little bit on top of not having the positive
aspects again, which we saw in the first quarter. What are these? These are really kind of
technical accounting (inaudible) technically. We have some consolidation cost allocation
effects, things like that. On top of that, we had a merger between two of our German
Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

companies. And the merger came also with some P&L effect, a small negative EUR10
million to EUR15 million effect negatively in the quarter. And then the variety of other
topics, which overall added up to a somewhat negative deviation compared to what an
average contribution of a quarter would have been.
Now, finally, what would be our assumption for an average contribution? Where would it
be? Well, the average somewhere between what we saw in Q1 and Q2 or what we did
see now in Q3. I hope that clarifies a little bit what we have been seeing in ERGO Life and
Health. But that's pretty much -- that's the picture, we see. Operationally as all these
things I've been talking about is things which are easily accessible. So we could realize
(inaudible) or not, or you have an accounting implication of a merger or you don't have it.
So these are all things overlying the operational development. The operational
development in our view is just stable and continues to be as expected. So favorable.
Sorry, the growth question. Yeah, you know the part of our strategy is anyway to have
selective growth in areas where we think or where we see attractive margins and
attractive market conditions. And there are some and more specifically, following the last
when you will, where we already did see some positive momentum, we continue that -- to
see that momentum not across the board, not everywhere, but in certain regions and
certain lines of business. For example, driven by large loss experience on
underperformance in the primary business, where we are looking at, for example. So, yes,
there are areas -- and we would look into -- in this overall more positive momentum, we
generally are seeing just not everywhere.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Jonny Urwin of UBS. Please go ahead, your line
is open.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thanks. Thanks very much, thanks for taking my questions. So, just one on the
normalized. I want to casualties, so normalized 98% very, very good. So I can't ask the
usual question around why are you behind guidance. So I've got another one for you.
Going into next year, I mean what's the risk -- the recent elevated losses -- it kind of
means that any attritional loss ratio improvement that we see could just be funding a
higher nat cat in man-made budget. So is, can you comment on that, just more
philosophically. Thank you and then just on casualty, what is the kind of notification pattern
to a reinsurer on like -- casualty claims trends. I mean for you guys to sit to see it, would it
mean that you'd need to see actual paid loss deterioration from the primaries, which I
don't think we're seeing at the moment. So, any color would be great on that? Thanks.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

I'll start with the second one. If you could only rely on the paid information by the primary
insurers that would be very late. So clearly that's not what we are looking at, but we are
looking at reported losses, already in the primary level. But on top of that we of course
also have the advantage that we have a primary presence in the US as well. And so we
have some direct access to the market on top of what we are getting from our clients,
which also helps us to understand the development much better -- much closer than if we
were only relying on the information we get from our clients.
So it's a mixed picture, but of course, what we try to be as close as possible to all the
developments which are ongoing in order to be really a front-runner in reacting, when
necessary. And as I've been mentioning before we already started in the '17 on our
primary books to (inaudible) react. At a point in time when the -- let's say, the public
communication about the issues has been much less than today. The normalized
combined ratio and I think your question was, if you would use it to go for more catrelated business. That's generally a question of risk budgeting and strategic planning.
We are not that far into the planning so far this year. So that's something again -- it's much
easier to talk about it in beginning of next year. Given the fact that also internally we have
not completely made up our mind yet again in the context of growth versus profitability.
And then of course when you talk about growth, it's not just growth, but also of course
the discussion where to grow and if cut is a part of that growth or not is something we will
-- will look deeply into and then make up our mind and be able to talk about it beginning
of next year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thanks, that's not quite what I mean. So, I mean, just given cash and man-made, is a bit
elevated again in Q3. It has been elevated for last couple of years. Do you think there is a
risk that any attritional loss ratio improvement that we see from current price
improvement is kind of offset by higher cat loss?

Q - Unidentified Participant
I think it's difficult really to finally answer that question based on a limited number of years
of experience. So we're looking into our stochastic modeling, which is many, many more
years of course on the modeling there. And if I look into these models everything what is
happening this year, but also the years before, is still in line with what we would have
expected. So we wouldn't say that this is -- so exceptionally high or it's so out -outstandingly unexpected to have no typhoons or hurricanes in the order of magnitude
we are seeing. So currently I would not see that. But of course there is a general difficulty
in capturing a long-term trend and so we will continue to carefully absorb what's going on
there.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Brillant. Thank you.

Operator
Page 11 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Thomas Fossard [ph] of
HSBC. Please go ahead, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Yes, good afternoon. Two questions from me. The first one is could you shed a bit more
light on the strong capital generation that you reported so far? What is the main driver of
the maintenance (inaudible) prices. That will be the first question. The second question is
looking at the IFRS numbers on nine months basis and making of all the positive and
negatives elements. It looks like actually you're very close to the initial EUR2.5 billion net
income target. So it is lso your perception or actually due to the strong operating results
that you were mentioning in your introductory remarks. Actually, you're getting even more
confident that the EUR2.8 net income for next year is becoming a very -- become a more
cautious guidance. Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Capital generation. You know that the details are only being released by us with our Q4
release, but it will not surprise you that it's a combination, very much driven by operational
good performance. And on top of that of course also good equity markets, FX result, all
the positive developments we see in the IFRS. Of course, also reflected and what we see
in our economic earnings with -- the only opposing trends being the interest, which is
clearly and that's what you see in the Solvency II ratio, which is clearly reducing both the
economic earnings, but also increasing at the same time the Solvency II capital -- the SCR
-- the solvency capital requirement.
IFRS -- I think it will be premature to in any way interpret being now in Q3 and with a very
good performance this year to already influence our assessment how hard or not hard it
is to achieve the 2.8. We are happy with where we stand. We see some constructive
trends in the market, which is clearly helpful. But on top of that, we always -- that 2.8 is an
ambitious target and I still consider this being a bit ambitious.
Thank you. Can we have the next question please.

Operator
Certainly. The next question comes from Michael Haid of Commerzbank. Please go
ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good morning. Two questions, both on German Life Insurance,
German Life and Health, actually. The investment income was surprisingly high to my
understanding, as you said it was driven by FX gains, losses on equity derivatives on
interest rate derivatives, you must have had some gains. And still I'm surprised by the high
amount of realizations of capital gains. Remember that you already financed (inaudible)
our requirements in the first half. And I was particularly surprised because 90% of total
investment income you have to give to the policyholder.

Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So, is that the restriction at the moment or do you have so much -- so elevated capital
gains in Life and Health -- German Life. Second question regarding the new business
margin, I know that you don't provide new business margins in German Life on a quarterly
basis, but I'm just interested at this current low interest rates. You still write profitable
business -- new business in Germany?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So first question, looking at the overall segment Life health altogether is sometimes
unfortunately a little bit misleading I must say. There are life companies in there and then
of course -- there's also the health part. But already within the life companies it's various
companies which sometimes makes it a little bit more difficult to really see what's
happening there. So I'm very happy to give you some more -- some more insight there.
On the health side, specifically, we have been benefiting from FX. That's something we
discussed already. On top of that very much also by equity markets, because they have a
comparatively higher portion of equities in the portfolio. And to make that digestible also
with -- from a risk capacity perspective and having in mind the shareholder share, many of
these equities are being hedged by derivatives. And the derivatives in an environment
where the equities only go up, they produced losses. And so realizations in the health
companies happen to at least somewhat offset the losses of these derivatives.
Again coming from an ALM perspective, but also from a perspective that according to
local GAAP, we have also to steer the regional -- the interest in a reasonable manner. So
this is the realization on equities part, very much driven by the derivative losses we have
on the equities in the same portfolios. In the life book, realizations are much more driven
by (inaudible). As you said, a lot of that happened in the first half of the year already and
nothing really happened in Q3. And that's a small portion probably still to be realized in
the fourth quarter. So the realization on fixed income is not in the life business to finance
(inaudible) has not really been a driver in Q3.
But what we saw is of course the gains on the derivatives and we have to hedge the low
interest environment in the traditional life back book, where we have the relatively high
guarantees. And you know that we do that with derivatives and some of these derivatives
at least are full valued mark-to-market at least according to IFRS, not so much to local
GAAP. And so with IFRS, we benefit from them. And this also of course increases the
return. And that's already the whole story. It's a little bit difficult to really see it. I must
admit when we mix up this different companies -- to life traditional companies, the life
new business companies and the health companies, and then to travel and then the
ERGO direct [ph] companies.
So, but the story in itself is really very much well adjusted. New business margin -- this very
much depends on the business mix. As you know there are some products, which are
relying much more on the interest rate level in the profitability than others. The mobile
metric products we have, the less we will be affected by the low interest rate. I do not
have a clear view. I must admit on the business mix so far in that year. Therefore it's
extremely difficult for me now to give an estimate what the overall amount is but clearly,
and that's where you are coming from with an interest rate with the German bond is
between minus 0.3 and minus 0.5 (inaudible). Clearly the challenge to offer savings type

Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

of products with a reasonable profitability. On top of that I am afraid I cannot tell you much
more today. And I have to -- have to postpone a more detailed answer to Q4.

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Perfect, thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from James Shuck of Citi. Please go ahead, your line
is open.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, good morning. So two questions from me. The first, you're just returning to the US
casualty. Would you mind just talking a little bit about some of the trends you're seeing on
smaller commercial and larger commercial. So leaving aside perhaps some of the mega
awards that you see, but just thinking about how the social inflation is filtering into the
larger commercial segment and perhaps a smaller commercial segment in the US in
particular.
And also be interested in getting any insights into your excess of loss retention rates and
how they have evolved over time. So perhaps thinking about how that's changed in the
marketplace and also for yourself. Secondly, there's an interesting dynamic going on at
the moment between primary pricing, particularly in the US and reinsurance pricing.
Obviously a lot of business that you write is proportional. It's easy to think that that's just
because primary pricing is going to go up, that that's going to benefit you in the same
way. But things to consider in terms of the mixed business and -- etc, those sorts of things
but also ceding commissions. So just also -- just interested to get your insights into that
dynamic and the association really between (inaudible) reinsurance pricing and how you
expect that to play out. Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. Well that's again something we could talk about hours about that. With respect to
the mega trends I don't think there is anything we see what you are not aware of. So
that's -- I mean, everything is the social inflation and everything is captured in the term
more or less and then the larger topics, which have been discussed a lot like the opioids
or child abuse (inaudible) all these kind of things also developments we're observing. I
don't think there is anything you have not heard before given what I read recently in
market publications and so on and so forth.
So I don't think I have to go in more detail into that. Looking at our casualty book overall,
clearly, our target is to have as much. Coming to your excess of loss question. We have
some excess of loss books as well. And these are the ones where we potentially think
they might be more affected than others, because proportional with relatively high trigger
points is something where we still think that our position is comparatively good, but the
excess of loss part is clearly the part of our book, where we are looking into more

Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

carefully. All in line with what I said before, that overall is digestible and then the volume of
that particular book also in the context of overall casualty book is really limited.
Coming back to your question on proportional and renewal (inaudible) of course, it's first
of all, highly relevant for us what is the pricing and the profitability assumption of the
primary insurer, before talking about set up a proportional structure at all. There we see
positive trends in some loss affected business and some areas, more specifically on
casualty. I don't think that the price increases we saw so far are already high enough to
capture the social inflation adequately already. So then needs to happen more. And on
top of that, it's a negotiation between reinsurance and primary insurance, about
commission structure and how to share -- hopefully then achieved profitability between
the two. And that's something which is done on a case by case base. I don't think I can
give you any more light other than -- this is clearly something where also the reinsurer has
some levers to additionally improve his pricing compared to what we already see on the
pricing of the final effect.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay, thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We're now going to take a follow-up question from Farooq Hanif. Please go
ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Apologies for prolonging the call, but just a quick comment if possible on what you think
politically is going to happen with April [ph] 2020 review.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Another one. Another long one. Politically, I don't know actually. I'm not even sure -probably a little bit early to answer that really. We now, as you know, after the Solvency II
2020 review document we received that -- what is the questionnaire, let's call it
questionnaire has more than 800 pages. So it's already kind of burdensome to work
through that. We are currently doing that -- assessing the various options. And then I think
what's happening there -- we'll -- after all the data has been taking place and so on and
so forth. What's happening -- or will be happening thereafter is the same like what
happened when Solvency II was first introduced, that then the debate on the political level
were just on the start. And so I think it's a little bit early to really see what the outcome will
be or how different players will then be positioning themselves. Because I just do not think
that we are well -- analyzed it already well enough what's on the table right now, not
specifically as a company, but the whole industry. And on top of that, also the political
parties, the political players involved. So a little bit early, maybe.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

It was worth a try. Thank you very much.

Page 15 of 17



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Operator
Thank you. We will now take a follow up question also from Vinit Malhotra. Please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thanks very much. Just a quick numbers one -- the nat cat reserve
releases. So even if I just total up the the (inaudible) of 740, say 740. And you have 577
million reported. So that's quite a decent idea of nat cat reserve releases. Are you happy
to quantify whether there are significantly more than this calculation or just the difference
in these two lines is a good enough guess. And I just also want to say this came up during
conversations today with investors (inaudible). Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

I apologize that I will not comment on your calculation and we will not disclose more this
time on the prior year development of our large losses. Why not, because it's just so
much business as usual. We are conservative in our large loss estimates as well and as
much as we see new large losses and this business is usual to us. It's also a business as
usual that we released some of the reserve we have in the -- we have put up for the large
losses in the last couple of years. And this (inaudible) completely unchanged, so
completely stable and also I think you can pretty much rely on that. But we will not -- we
won't further quantify that because it's just part of the overall development, and the
stable part.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Appreciate that. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. That will now conclude our question and answer session. I would like to hand
back to our speakers today for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, thanks to everybody for participating in our call. I have just a last remark for you in
order to make you aware that we will meet next time, of course, next year for discussing
our full-year 2019 earnings. The difference compared to previous years, though, is that we
will no longer split the earnings release into two separate events. So we will not have any
longer a separate renewal communication. At the beginning of February, we will merge
the former Analyst Call and the renewal call into one, which will happen at the end of
February, and I hope that is in your interest as well. So thanks very much for listening. For
further questions, please don't hesitate to call the IR team. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Operator
Thank you. That will now conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your
participation. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.
Page 16 of 17



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Page 17 of 17

