Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Q2 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo, Vice Chairman of Executive Board & CFO

Presentation
Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Hello, everyone. Following our announcement this week of David Knibbe's intended
appointment as CEO of NN Group, it is my pleasure as CFO to reﬂect on our company's
Second Quarter results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our capital position remained strong. We continue to improve our performance in
Netherlands Non-life, while Insurance Europe and Japan Life also showed higher results.
On the other hand, this quarter, we also saw lower private equity dividends at
Netherlands Life and higher claims in our reinsurance business.
An important highlight from this quarter is the announced agreement to acquire VIVAT
Non-life in the Netherlands. This transaction is expected to be completed sometime in the
First Quarter of next year. Also, we continue to develop new products that best meet our
customers' evolving needs. For example, the Smart Move oﬀer in Greece, a growing
guaranteed product that allows customers to build up a long-term investment with
regular payments.
NN wants to have a positive impact on society, contribute to the transition towards a lowcarbon economy and protect our environment. To achieve this, we signed a ﬁnancial
sector commitment to the Dutch Climate agreement. We joined forces with the social
enterprise Plastic Whale to ﬁght plastic waste. And NN Investment Partners launched a
new short-duration green bond fund that contributes to the United Nations' Sustainable
Development Goals.
Last month, we celebrated our ﬁfth anniversary as a stand-alone listed company, a big
milestone. Together with all colleagues, we developed our company to what it is today.
We remain fully committed to provide our customers with the products and services they
need to be able to secure their ﬁnancial futures. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
Page 1 of 2



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 2 of 2

