Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc 2019 1st Information
Meeting

FINAL

Company Participants
Fumiaki Ohkawabata, Senior Executive Officer of HR & General Admin., Accounting,
Compliance Dept and Chief Risk Officer
Masahiro Matsumoto, Executive Officer of International Business
Shiro Fujii, Executive VP of Corporate Planning, Corporate Comm., IR & Internal Audit
Dept., CFO and Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President, CEO & Director

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Director and Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Masao Muraki, Director and Senior Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Karasawa, President of MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings. Thank you very much for taking time out of your occupied
schedules to join us for this information meeting. I really appreciate your participation.
In fiscal 2018, a lot of large-scale natural disasters occurred. In Japan, there were 520,000
accident reports received for the entire group, significantly exceeding the number
received in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Overseas, hurricanes in the
United States, wildfire in California and continuous earthquakes in Indonesia resulted in
the fourth largest natural disaster losses in history. We express our sincere sympathy to all
the victims and people affected. Our entire group has made concerted efforts to support
the victims in rebuilding their lives, restoring businesses and recovering and reconstructing
the stricken areas through swift payment of insurance claims and other measures.
The group adjusted profit exceeded the revised forecast announced in November with
the impact on net income kept within a certain range by strengthened ERM. The Reiwa Era
began this month. But uncertainty over the global situation is growing mainly because the
trade friction between the United States and China is becoming increasingly severe and
Page 1 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

North Korea resumed missile launches. In addition, natural disasters have become even
larger and more frequent with the losses of historic magnitude incurred overseas in fiscal
2017 and in Japan in fiscal 2018.
Under these circumstances, the roles of the group are needed all the more as the
infrastructure to support the stability of customers and society during this time. The group
implements the Medium-Term Management plan with SDGs as a guidepost. While
contributing to the realization of a resilient and sustainable society, the company itself
aims to achieve resilient and sustainable growth by strengthening ERM to further stabilize
the group's financial soundness and profitability.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me move on to the explanation. Please turn to Page one of the handouts distributed
to you. This shows the key points covered in the presentation today. First, I will briefly
explain the operating results for fiscal 2018 and the forecast for fiscal 2019. I will then
describe the progress of the Medium-Term Management Plan in the order of numerical
targets, 3 key strategies, growth strategies by business domain and ERM.
So please turn to Page two of the handouts. The operating results for fiscal 2018 and the
forecasts for fiscal 2019 are as explained on Monday of this week. Due to the impact of
frequent natural disasters in Japan and abroad, the group adjusted profit decreased
about JPY 10 billion year-on-year. However, the adjusted profit surpassed the revised
forecast announced in November mainly because the reinsurance coverage functioned
properly and the loss ratio was favorable excluding natural disasters. The group adjusted
profit for fiscal 2019 is expected to fall slightly below the target primarily due to a slightly
slower recovery of earnings in the overseas business. However, all other businesses
performed well. And we will aim, to achieve profits higher than the targets.
Please turn to Page four of the group adjusted profit by business domain. The Domestic
Non-Life Insurance Business remained solid with #1 growth rate in gross premiums.
Excluding the impact of natural disasters, the loss ratio also remained favorable. And
profitability was greater than anticipated. In the Domestic Life Insurance Business, both
MSA Life and MSP Life recorded steady top and bottom line growth and secured a future
profit base.
In the International Business, the results fell short of the revised forecast chiefly due to
natural disasters that occurred in the second half. However, MS Amlin's initiatives to
recover earnings progressed steadily. And its earnings strength excluding external factors
such as the impact of natural disasters and the asset management environment has
improved significantly.
The effects of natural disasters in Japan and overseas in this fiscal year are as shown on
Page five of the materials. Payments under primary insurance in relation to natural
disasters in Japan were JPY 655 billion, the highest on the record, including the heavy
rainfall in July, Typhoon Jebi and Typhoon Trami. However, about 70% of this payment will
be recovered by collection under reinsurance. So the net loss incurred was JPY 210.8
billion. And the financial accounting impact was limited due to the reversal of catastrophe
loss reserves.

Page 2 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

Overseas, numerous disasters occurred in fiscal 2018 such as hurricanes Florence and
Michael and the California wildfires. And the total net loss incurred by the group was JPY
74.4 billion. This was significantly lower than the loss in fiscal 2017, which was the highest in
history. We will regard the natural disaster risk as one of the group's important risks and
continue to strengthen group-wide management.
Next, I would like to talk about the progress we have made in implementing medium-term
plan. And please turn to Page 10 of the handouts. In the Medium-Term Management Plan,
one of our aspirations is to become a world-leading insurance and financial services
group, which has been a vision of our group since its establishment. Specifically, this
means achieving a business scale that is globally ranked among the top 10 non-life
insurance groups, achieving group adjusted ROE of 10% in capital efficiency. And also
securing 180% to 220% in ESR (a soundness) indicator.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of business scale, in fiscal 2018, we ranked seventh in income for the non-life
insurance category of the Global 500 published annually by the business magazine
Fortune. We maintained our position among the top 10. We constantly maintain soundness
at appropriate levels throughout fiscal 2018. However, for capital efficiency, the group
adjusted ROE was 6.1% falling below the initial forecast, mainly due to the effects of
multiple natural disasters leaving issues to be solved. This fiscal year, the final year of
stage 1, we intend to achieve 8.3%. The target in stage 1 without fail and aim for 8.7%.
Next, I would like to talk about the progress we made in implementing 3 key strategies.
And please turn to Page 11 of the materials. The second major aspiration set forth in the
Medium-Term Management Plan is to create resilient systems. The needs of society are
changing, including increases in the size and complexity of risks, the emergence of new
risks and the social structure. To respond swiftly to these environmental changes, we must
become a resilient and sustainable company.
We have developed 3 key strategies to achieve these aspirations. In the first key strategy,
pursuing the group's comprehensive strengths, we have been working on a number of
initiatives to enhance competitiveness, leveraging group synergies by reviewing the
division of roles and cooperation to improve quality and operational efficiency. To
introduce one case from fiscal 2018, in the non-life insurance field in Japan, Mitsui
Sumitomo and Aioi Nissay Dowa jointly developed, Observe and Protect Automobile
Insurance, dash cam type, to support safe driving using a drive recorder, which made
product development quicker and lower in cost. The product was launched in January
2019 and was extremely well received. By the end of March 2019, MS&AD had sold
80,000 policies of this product.
In the Domestic Life Insurance field, we will expand sales channels for MSP Life insurance
product by utilizing MSA Life's sales network. In October, we will launch sales at
approximately 70 agents in the Tokyo metropolitan area and then expand it nationwide.
With respect to the promotion of digitalization, second item, please turn to Page 13 of the
handout. In fiscal 2018, we developed a number of platforms to promote digitalization. In
October 2018, we established a corporate venture capital in Silicon Valley. Including

Page 3 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

project under the due diligence, we have already proceeded with investments in 20
companies. In addition, we have recently established a framework and structure to
identify advanced digital technologies and cybersecurity technologies in Israel. Going
forward, we plan to use these platforms and leverage the technical know-how of startup
companies to improve customer experiences, increase business productivity and create
new business models.
For third key strategy, portfolio innovation, please turn to Page 16. The business portfolio
reform has been delayed slightly due to the slower recovery of earnings in the overseas
non-life insurance business. But we will continue to work on the reform as a medium-term
issue. The profitability of the life insurance business in particular is improving and
surpassing the plan. And the balance between the non-life and life insurance businesses
has improved, including expanded investment in the overseas life insurance business. This
enabled us to stabilize our earnings base.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business, while revenue from automobile insurance
has remained stable or expanded, profit from casualty insurance is steadily increasing.
And the product portfolio is shifting from one in which more than half of the profits come
from automobile insurance to a more balanced one. The sale of strategic equity holdings
has progressed ahead of the plan. And at the end of fiscal 2018, the integrated risk
amount accounted for by these holdings was 28.8%, achieving the target of less than
30% of the risk amount. To achieve our other target, keeping equity holdings to 10% of
the consolidated total assets, we will continue to make disposals of more than JPY 100
billion annually in this fiscal year and beyond.
Next, let me describe the status of implementing activities relating to creating shared
values. And please turn to Page 59 of the handout. Under the current Medium-Term
Management Plan, which specifies SDGs as a signpost, we have focused on 7 priority
issues with an aim to develop CSV-based management to create shared value with the
society. For example, to revitalize the Japanese economy, regional renewal and resilient
talent development are required. Therefore, the group offers partnership with local
governments across the country to help develop business continuity plans, BCP; held risk
management seminars; supported sports for people with disabilities and so forth. We
have been boosting the regional economy while promoting our group's business. I'm
confident that by introducing such activities to create the value of the group with society
to every location of group companies in Japan and overseas, both society and our group
should be able to achieve resilient sustainable growth.
Next, I'd like to explain about growth strategy by business domain. Please turn to pages
from 18 to 21. The Domestic Non-Life Insurance Business, the group's core business,
achieved a high premium growth rate in fiscal 2018. And the loss ratio fell below the initial
forecast excluding the impact of natural catastrophe. As a result, profitability was
maintained and expanded.
With respect to fire insurance, which has profitability issue, we strengthened response to
contracts with high loss ratio and have achieved steady results in both the individual and
corporate fields. Following the product and premium rate revisions scheduled for

Page 4 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

October, the underwriting profit is expected to rise gradually with an increase of JPY 13
billion in profit by fiscal 2021. As a result, we expect a surplus by fiscal 2021.

FINAL

With respect to the casualty insurance field, in fiscal 2018, we also expanded sales of
products for small and medium-sized companies and worked on initiatives for new risks
and markets. In fiscal 2018, this field continued to drive a premium increase. And it is
growing as a pillar of earnings, second to automobile insurance.
As we explained in the previous meeting, in order to achieve 30% level of expense ratio
in the future, we have been working to improve productivity by promoting R&D
investment during this Medium-Term Management Plan. In fiscal 2018, we promoted
online system renovation and the standardization of products and operating procedures.
As a result, expense ratio excluding R&D expenses decreased by 0.3 points. In fiscal 2019,
we expect a slight increase in expense ratio due to the impact of the consumption tax
hike. But we will work toward the lower ratio without the impact of the consumption tax
hike.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the joint non-life insurance service system, we were scheduled to have a cutover
from fiscal 2019. However, considering the response to natural catastrophe in fiscal 2018,
we decided to review the timing of the introduction to enhance ability to respond to
large-scale catastrophe and reinforce the introduction of advanced digital technologies.
Next, growth strategy for the Domestic Life Insurance Business, please turn to Page 27. In
the Domestic Life Insurance Business, we develop and provide a range of new products in
line with the aging society and changing lifestyle. In April 2018, MSA Life launched new
medical insurance, Ace Premia, which provides coverage for dementia, birth and infertility
treatment and anticancer drug treatment. It has been evaluated as the best coverage in
the industry. And the number of contracts is growing steadily.
In addition, MSP Life has launched pension products that fully utilize -- use the Tontine
system and whole life insurance with a focus on advancement. These products have been
adopted as a sales lineup by many financial institutions. The group adjusted profit of the
Domestic Life Insurance Business has consecutively exceeded JPY 30 billion since fiscal
2017, becoming one of the group's stable earning basis.
Now I'd like to talk about the International Business, please turn to Page 35. In fiscal 2018,
we welcomed MS First Capital into our group and captured growth markets, such as India
and China. And we thus solidify the strong base in Asia. In addition, MS Amlin is on the
road to earning recovery due to the effect of the loss ratio setting under the local
supervision policy. The company holds a leading position at Lloyd's, the world's leading
insurance market, on excellence of its human resources, expertise and specialities. High
presence in the market and brand power have not changed at all. We believe that these 2
strong basis form the platform for the group's International Business, which can respond
to changes in the global environment in the future.
We're also working to diversify our portfolio. For example, we are codeveloping a
telematics business with Toyota Motor Corporation and the International Life Insurance
Page 5 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

Business with blue-chip partners in a variety of regions. The environment surrounding
insurance is expected to experience many changes such as increase in natural
catastrophe, intensifying competition in emerging markets, progress in digitalization and
transitions in capital control and supervision enhancement. However, we believe that by
leveraging our strength, we will be able to pursue resilient and sustainable growth.
Explanation about MS Amlin is on Page 37. Mainly due to the large-scale natural disaster,
natural catastrophe in fiscal 2017, Lloyd's overall profitability declined. Since fiscal 2018,
local authorities in Lloyd's headquarters have been strengthening supervision. Although
Lloyd's faced several crisis in the past, it managed to sidestep them through
management reform and reorganization. During the current period of earnings
deterioration, signs of market improvement are emerging as a result of various initiatives.
And we believe that we'll be able to recover steadily.

Bloomberg Transcript

MS Amlin has been working to improve its portfolio and reduce costs since fiscal 2017.
Consequently, in fiscal 2018, the loss ratio excluding natural catastrophes improved
markedly. In addition, as a result of the company's steady cost reductions, its profitability
recovery efforts have begun to show effects. One of the group's strength is the global
development of the mobility service business, leveraging our partnership with Toyota
Motor Corporation.
Please refer to Page 40 of the materials. Telematics automobile insurance is a growing
market and is expected to expand approximately tenfold by 2035. The group
collaborates with Toyota Motor Corporation to offer telematics insurance in Europe,
Thailand and Japan and is providing telematics services for car dispatch service
companies such as Grab in Asia. In the United States, we are running a data business that
sells data to local insurance companies through a joint venture established with Toyota
Motor Company and Toyota Financial Services Corporation.
Next, I will talk about the policy on actions against natural catastrophe risks, please turn to
Page 51. Following the hurricanes in North America and other catastrophe in fiscal 2017,
large-scale natural catastrophe hit Japan in fiscal 2018. This situation has led to concerns
among shareholders and investors. One of the group's mission, however, is to protect the
lives of people from natural catastrophe and support business activities. Particularly in
Japan, which is the mother market, we believe that providing long-term stable insurance
coverage for natural catastrophe as a social infrastructure is an important role for the
group.
Meanwhile, in order for the group itself to be resilient and sustainable, when underwriting,
we will examine the regional insurance reading and conditions that fully reflect the risks of
natural catastrophe and enhance the group system for risk transfer through reinsurance in
order to control the natural disaster risk amount held and reduce the risk of fluctuation in
periodic profit and loss. Specifically, during the renewal in fiscal 2019, we reduced the held
risk amount of U.S. storm and flood disasters, arranged reinsurance coverage common to
MSI/ADI for the risk of domestic storm and flood disasters and reduce the risk of
fluctuations in periodic profit and loss.

Page 6 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

Next, I will talk about the business investment policy, please turn to Page 58. As we
explained previously, the group will return 40% to 60% of the adjusted profit to
shareholders and invest remaining funds in system improvement for steady growth of
existing businesses and in excellent businesses conducive to diverse regions and classes
as well as in new business creation in collaboration with partners. The policy for business
investment including overseas M&A is to consider the affinity of the corporate culture with
the counterpart company, the possibility of the creation of synergies, diversification of risk
portfolio and other factors.
With regard to economic rationality, we intend to make investment only when we can
confirm the rationality of investment prices by verifying them in conservation of the capital
cost of 7% based on business, regional characteristics, synergy effects and other factors.
Lastly, now to shareholders return, please turn to Page 64. As announced on Monday, we
plan to pay a full year dividend of JPY 140 to shareholders for fiscal 2018, a JPY 10
increase from the previous fiscal year. Then in addition, for the fiscal year 2019, we expect
to pay a full year dividend of JPY 150, another JPY 10 increase from the current fiscal year.
Also we decided to repurchase our own shares of up to JPY 32 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

The fiscal year 2019 will be the final year of Vision 2021 stage 1. Towards stage 2, we will
strive to achieve 2 aspirations: become a world-leading insurance and financial services
group; and create resilient systems that can swiftly respond to changes and development.
We will continue striving to meet the expectation of investors and other stakeholders. And
we ask for your continued support.
Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now I'd like to move on to Q&A. We have microphones held by our staff people. So
please wait for the microphone. And state your name and affiliation before stating a
question.
(Operator Instructions) Now if you have any questions, please raise your hand. The person
on the far side of this, probably the person from the sixth row from the front.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Deutsche Securities. My name is Muraki. I have 2 questions, please. Question number one
related to Page 16, that is International Business and business deployment outside of
Japan during the current fiscal year. Looking at the percentage of International Business,
profit is around 20% vis-Ã -vis the plan and compared with other 2 peers, you are a bit
behind in terms of this ratio. During the current fiscal year, just as last fiscal year, you
placed highest priority on profit remediation of Amlin. Is that your priority from a mediumterm perspective? Or are you giving thoughts to the large-sized M&A outside of Japan,
considering the excess capital?
Page 7 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

Page -- question number two relates to Page 53, that is return on risk. Looking at the
return on risk, you are very much focused on ERM, embedded management. How is it
being practiced at the present? Looking at this chart, it seems as a medium-term target,
10% in ROE is your target. And in that case, the ROR is 13%. So conducting new
businesses or when considering withdrawing from the existing businesses, rather than
looking at 7% in capital ratio, probably you should look at the cases that owe the higher
ROR than 13%. That should be the standard. But if you have any businesses below ROR of
13%, what is the time you will allow to such businesses continue to monitor the
performance and give some time to remediate? In the case of European insurance
companies, they monitor businesses in the -- within a cycle of one year. So they take a
more stringent view. But monitoring cycle, you conduct in your committee. So what sort of
actual actions or responses are you making vis-Ã -vis those businesses with ROR below
13%?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Mr. Muraki. Your first question relates to the percentage of International
Business -- to increase the percentage of International Business in the overall portfolio.
What is International Business? Which stage is RO -- International Business' related stage?
And looking at the International Business or new M&A, ROR of 13% could be the standard
of criteria. And how are you -- we monitoring the business was the second question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

With respect to the first question, that is to say our stance vis-Ã -vis M&A, aiming at the
reform of business portfolio, at this juncture, during fiscal '18 -- 2018, there has been
some slowness in recovery of MS Amlin. So there has been some slippage there.
However, moving toward 2022, we are aiming at reforming and changing the business
portfolio as shown here. And that stance remains unchanged. So from that perspective, in
terms of organic growth, including some capital increase, the organic growth, for that, we
are aiming at JPY 90 billion to JPY 100 billion. And currently, we have JPY 120 billion or so,
which means around JPY 20 billion or so could be used for new cases of M&A.
Of course, earlier the better in implementing that. But as I mentioned earlier, our policy
vis-Ã -vis M&A, that is to say, the affinity in corporate culture with our own group or
contributing to risk diversification or whether the target company has solid growth
strategy or whether we can maintain solid investment discipline. So these factors will
always be taken into consideration. Of course, we will have our antennas high so that we
can identify good cases. But if we tend to be too hasty, we might simply end up having
some non-high-quality deals. And therefore that would cause concerns on the part of
investors. And therefore, we would like to retain the current standards of looking at
various factors in making decisions.
In terms of the ERM and ROR, I would like to ask Mr. Fujii, CFO, to respond to that.

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

As Mr. Muraki mentioned, if we are to use ROR, the businesses with a low ROR must be
eliminated. How are we going to withdraw from those? In Japan, there are some lines

Page 8 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

which has a low ROR, in the case of fire insurance, I mentioned earlier. Are we going to
withdraw from fire insurance? Realistically, that is not doable. So we are trying to increase
premium rate. How are we doing that with respect to fire insurance or casualty lines,
including looking at those businesses as a group? If the group has a low ROR, we try to
increase premium rate. Or even if we do not raise premium rate, we may change and
revise terms and conditions of underwriting. So this is how we try to improve ROR. And
these efforts are underway, especially focusing on commercial businesses.
And similar perspective could be applied to International Business. But at the same time,
what sort of network are we going to deploy and establish. With respect to withdrawing
from any specific geographies, of course, we review and monitor on the quarterly basis as
to the existing business. But realistically speaking, we only have 2 concrete cases where
we immediately withdrew from those businesses as a result of ROR analysis. One
example of such withdrawal was the life insurance in China. But as we monitor the
businesses, we validate what the ROR levels are. So that's how we respond to those low
ROR businesses.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Also with respect to ROR, I'm looking at Page 54. There -- as interest rate decreased and
that must have impacted that. But the capital required for life insurance increased and that
represents a large chunk equivalent to strategically held equities. It only accounts for 13%
of adjusted profit. And therefore, life insurance has being contributing to lowering this
profit. And the interest rate risk inherent in MSA Life cannot be eliminated totally
immediately. So how are you going to improve ROR of your life insurance business?

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

As we just mentioned and right now, especially given the interest rate decline in Japan
that increased capital cost of MSA Life without a doubt. But at the same time, as you
already know, in the context of ALM, we are trying to improve the situation. So with
respect to MSA Life and as was mentioned in the presentation, including investment in
foreign bonds and alternative investment, by diversifying investment, we are trying to
take some risks. And as a result of that, this year, we are not expecting ESR to improve
substantially. But taking certain risks is some of the ideas that we have given thoughts to
and taking actions on.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Now the second from the front in the third row.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. Two questions. First, Page 19, that's about fire and
pricing strategy. 7% premium increase was suggested this time. When you divide them
into individual versus companies, what could be the impact to the different categories?
And in fact, this can improve the profitability earlier. But especially for individuals, we
expect improvement in profitability in a long run. That's why I'm asking this question.

Page 9 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

The second question is about Page 6. And that's about the contingency reserve. The
balance -- the target was lower than before. But as of now, the -- what is the level of
reserve that you're contemplating for fire? And also, whether there could be additional
risk coming from the additional inclusion in the reserve?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Mr. Watanabe. The first question was about the premium change for fire for
individual versus companies. And next is about the target for catastrophe loss reserve for
fire.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I'd like to ask (sic) (answer) in general. And then I ask Mr. Okawara (sic) (Mr.
Ohkawabata) to supplement my answer. First, about the fire insurance premium increase,
that was first reported by mass media. We did not make any official announcement. And
hope that you would understand that, that will be around 7%. And that will be mainly for
household and for corporations. This is more diversified according to individual
companies. And therefore, on average, that would be lower than 7%. But depending on
companies, the rate could be quite different. Based upon ERM, we enter into negotiation
with different companies. And therefore, it's hard to generalize. But on average, that will
be 7%.
As to catastrophe loss reserve target, in general, the target in conjunction with
reinsurance, we made sufficient reinsurance coverage preparation. And therefore, the
target level itself is now coming lower. But in terms of the balance of catastrophe loss
reserve, if the reversal or addition as planned would take place, then we believe by fiscal
year 2020, we will achieve the target.
And as for inclusion rate, in the case of MS, due to tax revision, that will be in the range of
5% to 6%. For Aioi Nissay Dowa, due to the impact of the reinsurance in overseas, that will
be in the range of 8% to 12%. And we consider that, that would be the level for the
current fiscal year. We don't expect major reversal for this year. And if there is no major
reversal, then we are confident that we can achieve the goal. And if there is anything to
add, Mr. Okawara -- Ohkawabata?

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

Not much to add. But as has been mentioned earlier by product and by line, the rate of
revision is quite different depending on loss ratio. There will be higher rate in some line or
depending on the region. But on average, the number that was just mentioned, that is 7%,
would be considered. And for the target of catastrophe loss reserve, addition of
reinsurance and the coverage common to the group with introduction of some capital for
that. The target, according to regulation, I believe, we achieved that -- the level that
complies with the law and within the current medium-term business plan with that
inclusion rate, by 2020, we will achieve the goal. And in fact, we can even exceed that
level entering the medium-term business plan period.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 10 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

Thank you very much. The fifth row from this side, third column from the front. The lady
there, please.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

I have 2 questions. The first question is quite simple this time. The reinsurance cost for
2019 fiscal year, how much is it going to increase year-on-year? That's the first question.
And the second question is somewhat complicated. Needless to say, you used adjusted
profit for medium term. And also excluding the reversal from cat loss reserve, we need to
look at various numbers. And I fully understand that. But vis-Ã -vis the GAAP-based profit,
how much are you focused on GAAP-based profit? And let me explain the reason why I
asked such a question. The next fiscal year, that is to say the fiscal year ending in March
2021 -- well, let me start with the March 2020, the fiscal year that we are in right now, the
natural disasters for which the payment is still not complete will take place. And therefore,
there has been some reversal from fire insurance. So that's a windfall. So to speak, for the
current fiscal year to a certain extent. And moving on to the March 2022, there are some
companies suffering from the impact in the current fiscal year. But suppose the loss ratio
of automobile insurance cannot be improved and if it remains at the same level and if the
cat loss reserve withdrawal continues like we saw a few years ago or maybe 10 years ago,
looking only at the automobile insurance cat loss reserve, the reserve will come down to
the level which is the minimum threshold. If that happens, that will have the downward
pressure on GAAP-based profit. So those negative factors will continue for the next few
years.
So on the business-as-usual basis, of course, we will look at those numbers on that period
and running the business on the business-as-usual basis is acceptable. But I would also like
to know what is your stance vis-Ã -vis those negative impact? Are you going to use
equities and use capital gains from that -- from the disposal of that as you did during the
last fiscal year? But for that to continue for a long run, that may not be quite appropriate.
So I'd like to know the stance of the management on that.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So I'll give you 3 rough answers. And if there is any additional comments, I'd like to ask Mr.
Ohkawabata to do that. For reinsurance cost for fiscal 2019, the increase was JPY 22
billion. There has been some -- excluding the impact of reinstatement premium. Excluding
that, there has been an increase of JPY 22 billion and also increased the reinsurance
coverage as well.
In terms of GAAP-based profit, to what extent are we focused on that, as far as we are
concerned, of course, by generating good adjusted profit. So that -- that can be used as a
resource out of which the shareholder return can be made. So we focus very much on
adjusted profit. But at the same time, vis-Ã -vis the market, when we give guidance to the
market, the focus of the market is GAAP-based profit. And because of the different
criteria used by different companies, mass media simply has to refer to GAAP-based
profit in comparing performance of different companies. And therefore, the GAAP-based
profit, which does not reflect accurately the adjusted profit, is released and used

Page 11 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

extensively. And that has -- causes trouble to us. However, as I mentioned, our focus is on
the adjusted profit.
And also, within our group, Mitsui Sumitomo does have adequate reserve for cat loss
reserve. And also, the loss level would be affected by consumption tax rate increase and
also the change in revision of a statutory interest rate. And also, for the premium for
automobile insurance, a great deal depends upon what sort of advisory risk premium the
rating organization is going to announce. So these would be reflected. And we'll try to
respond to those official numbers as much as possible. And also the -- oh, you asked
about generating capital gains. With respect to capital loss reserve -- cat loss reserve, if
the reserve needs to be increased by one shot, we have certain standards set internally.
And in that case, we generate some capital gains so that we can use that for providing for
those reserves. But we do maintain certain discipline even when we do that.
Mr. Ohkawabata, could you comment on that as well?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

Well I mean to add some comments there. With respect to the cost of reinsurance, your
first question, there has been some increase in cost by JPY 22 billion. The factors behind
that cost included the establishment of a joint group-based reinsurance contract. And
also, in order to enhance risk control, we added the reinsurance coverage. And at the
same time, as the direct insurance exposure increased, there has been some increase in
reinsurance. So including all those factors, the cost increase was JPY 22 billion. During the
last fiscal year, from the very beginning -- those increase of JPY 22 billion is from the
reinsurance cost at the beginning of the fiscal year. Compared with the running cost, since
we did have to pay some additional reinsurance cost during the fiscal year, there has
been hardly any change there.
And you also asked about the cat loss reserve of automobile insurance as a second
question. And as we just mentioned a moment ago, starting in fiscal -- from fiscal 2019, it
could reflect net withdrawal. But in -- with respect to keeping the loss ratio of automobile
at an appropriate level, including the revision of a premium for 2018 and '19, we
reexamined the coverage. And we tried to increase premium per unit. And in doing so,
we would like to keep the withdrawal at an appropriate level.
The criteria used for reversal from the cat loss reserve and also the examination of those
reinsurance policies, are they closely linked? Not necessarily, although they are linked to a
certain extent. But paying attention to that, we also look at the long-term trend of loss
ratio. And looking at the profitability situation, we would give thoughts to the usage of cat
loss reserve. The consumption tax hike is scheduled. And also the credit law revision is
being considered. So looking into those factors, we will consider whether it is necessary to
change the premium as well.

Q - Unidentified Participant
This may have been already covered by the President or my understanding may not be in
line with your comment. But if the cat loss reserve level of automobile insurance has come

Page 12 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

down in different companies. And -- does that mean that the general insurance rating
organization may accelerate its change of advisory risk premium? Could that be the
potential result of that?

FINAL

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

Allow me to make some supplementary comment. There is a certain validation criteria
before the advanced value advisory risk premium rate is revised. And incentive is
somewhat difficult to explain on this occasion. But anyway, based upon the actual results
conducted based upon valuation and also some estimate of the future trend is taken into
account. So in terms of factors close to incentive, that sort of factor could be taken into
account by the organization.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

If the cat loss reserve is withdrawn to a larger extent, then the provisions -- which means
loss has increased generally speaking. And therefore, if the actual withdrawal is higher
than the scheduled withdrawal, the reserve is likely to be depleted. And looking at that,
there is a chance that the general insurance rating organization could decide to revise the
premium. Of course, it's an impartial organization so I cannot predict what sort of action it
takes. But that factor could be taken into attention -- account.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

The gentleman on the front seat.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

Sato of Mizuho Securities. First question is about dividend. Last year -- last fiscal year, at
the beginning of the fiscal year, the -- it was announced as remaining the same. Then the - in the interim announcement, despite the expected reduction in profit, you announced
increase. And now this year, you announced a 10-year -- JPY 10 addition from the
beginning of the fiscal year. What are the ideas behind those decisions? What was
different from last year? That's the first question.
The second question is on Page 21. That's about system governance. Especially, the -- this
is the amount that was announced last year. Compared to that, I think there is an increase
by about JPY 26 billion. Well as the impact is rather small, what is the background reason
for change in investment for that -- for increase in investment? And as a result, 30%
expense ratio as the future target, when it could be achieved? It appears that, that will be
later than originally expected. Is that the case or not?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. So first question is about dividend policy comparing 2018 versus 2019. The
second question is about the system, especially the joint claims, there is definitely the
cost difference. That's what is being asked.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Page 13 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

In terms of the 30.0% expense ratio, when that could be achieved, I'd like to answer that
question -- that part of the question. Then I'd like to then turn to a group CEO to respond
to the rest of the question. About dividend policy, we often receive this question. And
therefore, we produced it in written statement, that is 40% to 60% against the adjusted
profit. We often hear the question as to whether we can do it automatically. But in case,
there is increase by JPY 10. Well as we explained before, we experienced natural
catastrophe in overseas. And there were some uncertainties in that particular fiscal year.
Yet, in Japan, we were rather conservative, watching the trend and then we became
confident. And therefore, originally, we did not intend to increase the dividend. But at the
time of the interim announcement, we first wanted to be conservative and announced
JPY 130 at the beginning. And then we announced a JPY 10 increase at the time of the
interim result announcement.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, when we decide dividend, we look at the last year's result and then the
current year's result as well as the next year's projection. We look at those 3 and try to
strike a right balance in deciding the level of the dividend. So that -- for instance, in the
previous year, due to natural disasters and so on, the adjusted profit had to be -- had to
go through the downward revision. Therefore, we tried to look at the upper range of 40%
to 60%, the reference that I mentioned earlier. But for the rest, we also refer to the next - the medium-term business plan. And when the future is somewhat uncertain, for
instance, when timing-wise it is considered to be rather difficult to achieve, then we refer
to 50% level. What we can commit is that we would never go below 40%. And by way of a
share buyback, that is included. Depending on the market condition, there may be a
situation when we could be higher than that. This time it was not. But there could be such
a possibility. Hope that this answered your question.
And 30% expense ratio, for the time being, the next plan as well as the next business
plan after the next, that may be the time. But with digitalization, with data utilization, we
want to drastically improve the productivity. And also, the kind of a drill structure of the
agencies, that has been the major concern for us has to be rectified. And also top line has
to continue to grow in a sustainable fashion. And those 3 are taken into consideration.
And therefore, as to the delay in the claims systems development, we are trying to catch
up with that by front loading some of the factors or other possibilities so that with that,
eventually, we want to achieve the final goal, despite delay that is currently experienced.

A - Unidentified Speaker
About the system called BRIDGE, MS&AD intend to standardize lines. And with that, we
aim at improved efficiency. Originally, we thought of JPY 13 billion. But looking at 2 systems
of 2 entities, to standardize them, that requires rather a long time for development. And
in the process last year, I have to say that we experienced unprecedented scale of
catastrophe. Therefore, the way the claim department responds or the capacity that was
originally anticipated or assumed, the -- in view of that, we have decided to be more
conservative so to speak, that is to increase the anticipated capacity. That requires
additional time and cost for redesigning the scale. And when the designs are changed,
then the hardware and others would be also affected. And given such a size, that is why
we have seen the difference in numbers, resulting in delay in timing.

Page 14 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

And another factor that I'd like to refer to is that during several years for development of
the system, the advanced technologies that are available in the market are also changing.
In fact, we are seeing some disruptive technologies that are introduced. And therefore, at
certain point of time, we might decide that the new technologies have to be captured
and introduced. We want to be flexible in introduction of such new technologies. And in
view of that need, we decided to change the design specification at least partially. So that
in terms of the timing of main release, it was staggered by two years as a result. And
therefore, they are securing the manpower and hardware increase, among others,
contributed to increase in cost for the development. Technology to be adopted, given
changing environment and society, for instance, the drive recorder and image information
available from that could be utilized. In fact, key in digitalization, that's data and how we
should go about analysis of such a data. In view of that, we decided to be flexible in
adapting various elements and factors.
As to the compromised impact or effect in response to natural catastrophe, for those,
that would correspond to adopted technology against anticipation, the system that was
expected to function had to be separated for some time. And therefore, compared to
what was originally expected, we decided that we have to delay some timing. And as a
result, the whole schedule for release, that will be delayed. That is why we decided to
announce the change in our plan. And in terms of the impact and the burden on the cost
and accounting, the -- that will be equivalent of two years. That is as a result of delay in
introduction. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. The man on the third row from this side and also second row from
the front.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Majima is my name, from Tokai Tokyo Securities. I'm referring to Page 37, relating to the
performance of Lloyd's overall. And for 2 financial years, Lloyd's recorded losses. And at
the end of March, Lloyd's had its press conference. And CEO of Lloyd's made the
following comment. The pricing increase is going on. And the fundamental loss ratio is
being recovered. And nonperforming loan is being removed and decreasing and
structural reform is progressing. So Lloyd's actually had a very strong view with respect to
its own improvement and recovery in fiscal 2019. Compared with that, your plan for Amlin
for the current fiscal year, you are expecting (GBP 47 million) for the current fiscal year. So
compared with the very strong view -- confident view expressed by Lloyd's, Amlin seems
to be somewhat conservative or weaker. What is the major factor behind that? Is it related
to asset management and investment? That's the first question.
And second one relates to reinsurance as well, Page 51. You talked about the increase in
reinsurance by paying additionally JPY 20 billion or so. Had you introduced the same
scheme a year before, the claims paid in the previous fiscal year, to what extent had that
been reduced or lowered?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Mr. Majima. The first question related to Lloyd's that seemed to be very
confident for the performance recovery for fiscal 2019. Compared with it, Amlin seemed
Page 15 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

to be weaker.
And secondly, had the new reinsurance scheme had been introduced, what would have
been the actual payment for the current fiscal year?

FINAL

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

With respect to the first question, that is to say the conservativeness relating to Lloyd's, I
would like to invite Mr. Matsumoto to make a comment on that. And with respect to
reinsurance, I would like to invite Mr. Ohkawabata to talk about that.

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I would like to respond to your first question. My name is Matsumoto. First of all, in
terms of Lloyd's overseas, the Lloyd's market, to what extent is it very bullish about its
own performance improvement, as you just mentioned, we believe that Lloyd's is going
to make a very strong progress in improving profitability. And that's the view of John Neal,
the CEO of Lloyd's. For the overall Lloyd's market, the underwriting capacity compared
with the previous fiscal year has come down by 8% year-on-year. And within Lloyd's, there
are approximately 100 syndicates. And some of syndicates increased its capacity. But
overall, the capacity decreased by 8% for Lloyd's market. And with each syndicate, Lloyd's
headquarters discussed the underwriting plan for fiscal 2019. And when the plan is
formulated for different categories, the profitability was examined. And if there is no
prospect of improvement in profitability, Lloyd's declined underwriting those businesses
or instructed the amount to be underwritten. And therefore, very strong forceful stance
was taken by Lloyd's overall vis-Ã -vis syndicates.
And this applies to Amlin as well. Compared with other syndicates, it's not that Amlin itself
is bigger or stronger. At the same time, for 2019, looking at Amlin's plan, I'm sure you all
must have felt in the following manner. The initiatives will improve, profitability is making
good progress without fail. As we have been explaining to you in the last fiscal year, out of
the natural catastrophe area, that is to say non-natural catastrophe business lines, the
additional provisioning for IBNR has been completed. On the other hand, Lloyd's market -and not just Lloyd's but overall London market for fiscal years '17 and '18 have performed
quite poorly. And because of that, the supervisory authorities have -- took a very strong
stance vis-Ã -vis reserving policy or budget formulation approach. And they took a very
forceful approach there.
So that was the general environment in which the MS Amlin had to take its own actions
with respect to the plan for non-cat business compared with the year before, the price
increase or improvement of terms and condition. And despite those actions actually being
taken, the ultimately expected or projected loss ratio was not changed from the previous
year in this plan. What I have just mentioned is that in the future, the business will become
the resources -- sources for profit in the future. That means the timing has been slipped
or delayed for recognizing the profit to be generated in the future. That's how we
understand the situation.

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}
Page 16 of 19



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

FINAL

Now if the new reinsurance coverage had been adopted, what would have been the
increased amount of reinsurance collection in fiscal 2018? These are the estimated level.
And the collection will increase based upon joint coverage. And the reinsurance collection
would increase by around JPY 30 billion according to our simulation. Did that answer your
question? Thank you.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

So with respect to your comments on Lloyd's, now that the new CEO has taken over, this
new CEO has been taking a very bullish attitude about the performance projection. Is that
right?

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

Right. The new CEO of Lloyd's, John Neal, is a person with whom we exchange views as
well. And as we did that, Lloyd's has a very strong determination to focus on profit
remediation during the current fiscal year. And that's the impression we obtained by
talking to him.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Generally speaking, in the Lloyd's market, Amlin still maintains either #1 or #2 positions
there. And in that, as the profit has improved in the Lloyd's market, MS Amlin will become
one of the model case to lead the entire syndicates in Lloyd's market. And with that
strong determination, Amlin is going to make -- take a leadership role in trying to pull the
overall performance of the Lloyd's market. So that's how we intend to make Amlin going
forward. And I hope you understand that. Thank you very much.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

Niwa from Citigroup Securities. The shareholders return and International Business are my
questions. I'm sorry there are some redundancy with what has been already asked. First,
about shareholders return, on Page 66, looking at the full version, it was mentioned earlier
that it is rather difficult to respond. And -- but this looks somewhat colorful. In terms of
shareholders return, can we expect that this is going to increase? According to simple
math, the 40% to 60% that is referred to, arriving at (JPY 205 billion), (JPY 250 billion). But
when the year ends up, would there be a reduction due to natural catastrophe or we have
to hold our breath and wait until the end of this fiscal year? I'd like to hear your view about
the likelihood of those numbers.
And now on Page 2, that's about International Business, overseas business and adjusted
profit and progress. This may be somewhat specific or the -- compared to medium-term
business plan, I was told that there is some delay. But it appears, in fact, it is delayed, the
JPY 100 billion organic accumulation. This looks rather similar to what was mentioned in
May 2017. So when we consider that, is it because of the downward revision of Amlin? Or
is it because of Toyota, BIG and the life insurance subsidiaries and the BIG? Are they the
reasons why?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Page 17 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

And so the first question related to dividend, answer is quite simple. First, as a
denominator, we have adjusted profit. And by expanding that, we try to increase the
return to the shareholders. And that's a basic position. And therefore, of course, dividend
or share buyback as well would be taken into consideration so that we can increase the
total shareholders return. But in case of any unexpected event, there may be a year when
we ask for your -- the permission. But as long as we expect that adjusted profit would
grow. So does the dividend. We are not trying to be stingy. But if we mentioned
something more than aggressive, then the expected consensus could go up. And
therefore, that would give us a higher hurdle to clear. But to us, in fact, the rising
consensus is actually reflecting the expectation toward us. And therefore, that is viewed
as an encouragement to us.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as to International Business, for organic part, yes, that is due to the delay in
improvement of profit by MS Amlin. On the other hand, the overseas life insurance and
equity participation ratio as well as the life insurance business, in the organic context, we
need to supplement some -- whether supplement is a good word or not. But anyway, we
shouldn't be too hasty looking at MS Amlin business. As in the case of Lloyd's business,
from 1988 to 1992, that's when the Lloyd's had to spend five years to turn loss to profit.
So they are exactly in the same situation. Given huge capacity, it is rather difficult to
increase the premium. And also underwriting discipline or use of reinsurance companies,
the capital enhancement, among others, those measures were deployed back then. And
therefore, the MS Amlin, if they make too much haste without taking full advantage of
their management resources, the -- that is not the desirable. And therefore, they should
solidify the ground -- the foundation for the business.
By so doing, we believe that they would contribute to our -- the business foundation. And
as the member within the group, we would just support them to embrace them and then
try to make up for the loss by them in other sectors -- other sections. We shouldn't betray
your expectations. So once stage 1 is complete, then we would revisit the plan whether
that requires further change or revision or not. We hope that we can maintain the grand
plan as is as much as we can under the leadership by Mr. Matsumoto. If there's anything to
add from your side.

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

Yes. A word or 2. In terms of delay, as was just explained, that is mainly due to MS Amlin.
And as was mentioned earlier, it's not because of delay because they failed to implement
what they should do. Rather, the -- how many years from now the profit could be
achieved? That is rather difficult to identify. That is why it was not included in the current
year's plan. And therefore, IBNR released last year whether that could be made in 2020
or 2021. We have to look at the market and watch for the environment. Without that, it is
rather difficult to reflect in our plan. And also change in condition, including increase in
premium and the reduction in loss ratio, when that could be -- that can start to reflect
those changes? Again, it is rather difficult to identify when that could be made. And that is
why it is not included in here.
(Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live
call.)

Page 18 of 19



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-05-24

Page 19 of 19

