Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

Company Participants
Andrea Warren, Partner

FINAL

Paige M Steffan, Associate

Other Participants
Holly Froum, Senior Litigation Analyst
Matthew Palazolo, Senior Insurance Analyst

Presentation
Matthew Palazolo

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Welcome to our Webinar on Insurers and Opioid Litigation. My name is
Matt Palazzola. I'm the Senior Property & Casualty Insurance Analyst at Bloomberg
Intelligence. With me is Holly Froum, our Consumer and Industrial Litigation Analyst. We're
joined by Andrea Warren from Barnes & Thornburg. She is an attorney representing
companies seeking recoveries from insurers, and Paige Steffen, from BatesCarey, who
works on behalf of insurance companies.
I'm just going to go through some quick admin before we start the call. This call is
recorded. There will be a replay. Just some quick notes on Bloomberg Intelligence, which
is the thrid slide here. We provide in-depth research on data on industries, companies as
well as governments, ESG, credit litigation and other factors that can impact business
decisions. There is no formal slides. So we have slide with the photos on it is the last one
you're going to see. With that, we're going to get into some initial comments and then
we're going to go in a Q&A format.
So over 2 million people have died in the United States due to the opioid crisis with annual
cost estimated about $80 billion per year. Relatively recently hundreds of lawsuits have
been filed by municipalities against opioid manufacturers and distributors. These
companies have insurance coverage and litigation over that coverage will have significant
financial implications and I'll pass it on to Holly.

Holly Froum

{BIO 20219265 <GO>}

Hi, everyone. So picking up where Matt left off, there are over 2,000 lawsuits in Federal
Court filed by counties and cities against manufacturers, distributors and retailers. States
have also sued separately in their own State Courts. Manufacturers are accused
downplaying the risks of addiction and overseeing the benefits of opioids. So,
manufacturers who make both branded and generic drugs are accused of inflating
demand and oversupplying. Meaning, failing to report suspicious orders and distributors
are also accused of failing to monitor and report suspicious orders.

Page 1 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

So the status of the litigation is that there is a trial scheduled for October 21st. J&J,
Mallinckrodt, Allergan and Endo, which are manufacturers -- four manufacturers have
settled that -- their first litigation. Purdue, which is a manufacturer that also is a defendant
in many of these cases filed for Chapter 11 after announcing it had settled with roughly
half of the states and a group of lawyers representing the counties in the federal
litigation. In the next trial, Teva and Amerisourcebergen, Cardinal Health, McKesson and
Walgreens are the remaining defendants.
Distributors in Teva as well as Ohio, the State of Ohio has sought to stay the trial, but we
don't think that's likely to happen. And acquaints in the next trial include federal and state
conspiracy claims, as well as Houston. The claimant was tried in Oklahoma against
Johnson & Johnson was nuisance and the release sought for nuisance is abatement. A
jury will decide liability for nuisance and the remedy -- and if the manufacturers and
distributors, et cetera are found liable, the remedy for nuisance will be determined by the
judge. Plaintiffs are also suing for compensatory damages in connection with their
conspiracy claims. As for settlement possibilities, we think distributors can pay more than
the $10 billion they reportedly offered to states and we estimate manufacturers could pay
less than $50 billion.

Matthew Palazolo

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thanks, Holly. So we're going to move into question-and-answer. So the first
question I had for Andrea was, could you pick up on the current landscape of litigation
around insurance coverage. Have we gone to the point where indemnifications are
actually being litigated? Or are all the cases currently focused on defense costs?

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Yes, we have reached that point, within the last year or so. And in fact, we just had a big
opinion issued last week or a few weeks ago by a federal court sitting in Illinois. In terms
of the commercial general liability policies, CGL policies of course, they provide that
insurers have a duty to defend and indemnify their insurers facing liability for damages
because of bodily injury. And over the last few years, as we know, many courts have found
that the opioid lawsuits, our suits seeking those types of damages because of bodily
injury and as a result, there is a duty to defend the insurers and those losses.
But over the last year, we've extended and we've seen more argument and now an
opinion showing that the carrier has indemnity obligations for that opioid litigation and the
resulting settlements there from. And that's important because of the settlements, and if
it doesn't settle then ultimately the judgment from a trial that these policy holders are
facing. And a few weeks ago that Illinois Federal Court granted our client summary
judgment finding that the carrier has the duty to indemnify it for the entire amount of its
settlement. It was a pharmaceutical distributor for the cost paid in that settlement of an
attorney general's lawsuit against it and several other wholesale drug distributors, alleging
responsiblity for the opioid epidemic in that state. And this was one of the first opinions, if
not first finding a duty to indemnify in the opioid litigation context, which is a significant
victory for policyholders, because of course, the duty to indemnify is narrower than the
duty to defend where if -- in the duty to defend context if there is any allegation even
Page 2 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

potentially covered, the insurer has that duty to then defend the policyholder for the
entire actions.
So now that we're in the indemnity round, it's a little different, it's a little narrower and
now that we have this opinion, we have some foresight on how courts will rule and of
course, in the settlement context, most CGL policies will provide that their allegations of
negligent and intend to act in these underlying opioid actions, most CGL policies will only
cover the negligent act. So insurers would first will argue that the settlement either isn't
covered or must be allocated between what portion of the settlement constituted and
settlement for the alleged negligence versus the alleged intentional act. And because of
this predicament that this puts the insurers in for obviously, requiring them to defend
themselves in the underlying allegation, and then in turn, turn around and say, well, here's
how we are portioning our liability that doesn't make sense.
So a lot of courts have found that if an insured enters into a settlement that disposes as
both covered and non-covered claims. So claim for negligence and intentional act, then
the insurers needed to identify encompases that entire settlement as long as covered
claims were the primary focus of the litigation and not with the lawsuit a few weeks ago or
the opinion on that lawsuit came down and said that the primary focus was of the
negligent act. The -- they were -- those were the primary focus. So we're not going to
allocate. The insured has that -- has the ability to get insurance coverage for the entire
settlement and the insurer has the duty to indemnify its policyholder for the amount of
the entire settlement. We're not foreseeing the insurer to allocate between the
underlying allegations that of course were never proven, because the case never went to
trial. So yes, we have entered that realm and it will be interesting to see more cases that
are issued, now that it's being litigated more.

Holly Froum

{BIO 20219265 <GO>}

So that's interersting. Do we have the name of that case in Illinois?

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Yes It's the Cincinnati Insurance Company versus H.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Company.

Holly Froum

{BIO 20219265 <GO>}

So wow. Okay. That's interesting. And Paige, we understand that there are coverage
issues in current cases, one based on the definition of an occurrence, and the other
relating to whether or not the claims relate to bodily injuries. Can you explain those and
how successful those two have been?

Paige M Steffan
Of course. So I think Andrea, touched on this a little bit in some of the litigation that's
been going on, but I'll kind of step back a little bit, discuss the policy language and then
move forward to what's actually been litigated. So, I'll start with the issue of bodily injury.
So, in typical commercial general liability policies, those policies generally provide
Page 3 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

coverage for loss that an insured pays by reason of liability for damages, because of or
account of or for bodily injury that takes place during the policy period. So the interesting
thing with some of these lawsuits is a lot of them are filed by government plaintiffs. And
the argument or the question is that some of these lawsuits filed by government plaintiffs
appear to allege economic damages from increased expenditures on public services such
as police services or welfare services, things of that nature.
And in fact, we've actually seen some of the government plaintiffs in the Track One
Opioid MDL concede in some of their lawsuits that they're are only seeking economic
damages for injury for their communities rather than for damages for personal harm
suffered by an individual or group as the policy would demand. However, we also do
recognize that there are suits actually filed by individuals or suits filed on behalf of babies
that have become addicted to opioids through their mothers, which obviously, that
changes that argument as well. And the complaints are all drafted a little differently, but
it's definitely a focus of the insurers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And within that argument of bodily injury, we also have a separate issue regarding the
damages. So the policies require that the damages because of bodily injury that takes
place during the policy period. What we're seeing a lot of is a lot of these governments
are looking for perspective, equitable abatement, which essentially forward-looking or
preventative measures to stop this opioid crisis and to provide treatment for their
residents, so that this addiction does not keep growing.
So something interesting about that, would -- there be an argument that the damages
occurring would not be compensatory that they would be future looking and also that
those damages would not be treating any bodily injury that took place during the policy
period, instead those damages would be treating injury that has not yet occurred or at
least not occurred during the policy period.
So another argument that -- or a difference, coverage issue that we discussed is whether
there is an occurrence. So the same CGL policies generally provide coverage for
damages paid on account of bodily injury, like we discussed that is caused by an
occurrence. An occurrence is typically defined to mean an accident or a continuous or
repeated exposure to substantially the same or general harmful conditions. I think Andrea,
touched on this a little bit, where although there are allegations of negligence, there are
some allegations in these complaints that the manufacturers participated in a scheme to
fraudulently market their prescription opioids as safe and effective, even though they may
have known that there will be deductive qualities. And there's also allegations that the
distributors intentionally failed to comply with their duties under the Controlled
Substances Act.
So in one of the cases that we've seen in Travelers versus Actavis, the California Court of
Appeals held that Actavis, which is a manufacturer of prescription opioids was not entitled
to coverage for the opioid suits filed by the State of California in the City of Chicago,
because their claims for damages were based entirely on Actavis' alleged fraudulent
marketing of opioids. But we will distinguish this case because as Andrea said, many of
the lawsuits that are at play now and the thousands of thousands that still remain, actually

Page 4 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

do allege at least some negligent conduct in courts typically reviewing those claims that
allege negligent conduct have found that there is an occurrence.
And I will touch on a final coverage issue, which is known loss. So these policies generally
do not provide coverage for harm that an insurerd knew about before the policy period or
that the insured expected or intended. Perhaps, maybe because these coverage
defenses are highly fact dependent and based very much so on what exactly each
defendant knew, courts have not yet really had the opportunity to decide whether these
known loss or intentional conduct coverage defenses applied to the opioid claims. But
essentially what we would look at there is seeing whether the insured knew that their
products or what they were distributing caused damage and whether they were aware of
any harm and if so when and who exactly knew that. So I would say, those would be some
of the three top coverage issues that we're looking at for the opioid claims, which would
be whether there is bodily injury, whether there is an occurrence, and whether there is a
known loss.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay. Great, Paige. Thank you. So, Andrea, we've been talking about CGL, general liability
policies. Is that really the only policy type at issue here or do directors and officers in
Arizona missions D&O, E&O policies are they coming into play at all yet?

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Well, I think that policyholders are starting to look to their D&O and E&O policies as well.
But as far as litigation is concerned that has mostly centered on those CGL policies. And
of course, the policyholders that may have a specialized life science policy that is tend to
coverage for a product liability or some of the Bermuda firms have specialized market
offering pharmaceutical policies, of course, you would want to look to those as well. It
really depends on the policy language and the underlying allegation and really just figuring
out what policies you have, what they could cover and they are really treating and our
situating and considering their coverage positions and thinking about what coverages you
may have.
For D&O policies of course, those are issued to protect the personal assets of corporate
directors and officers, student capacity and sometimes as a corporate. And E&O policies
are going to cover the professional [ph]mark active type claim, usually alleging some type
of failure to vendor professional services to a third party. But both D&O and E&O policies
will have that bodily injury exclusion for claims based on or arising out of alleged bodily
injury.
So that goes back to what Paige was saying where many courts are starting to find that
these underlying opioid lawsuits are alleging bodily injury because there is no exclusion in
the policy for economic damages. And the damages that these lawsuits are seeking -bodily injury should be interpreted more broadly if and when its determined because of
bodily injury -- the increased hospital needs, [ph]police needs, germ needs and that H.D.
Smith case I had discussed earlier, the court found that it doesn't matter that the State
Attorney General West Virginia saw it's own damages and dealing with the opioid usage
Page 5 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

compared it to a mother who's fourth child, concluding that the alleged costs were
incurred because of bodily injury.
So if the court finds that the underlying opioid lawsuits are indeed because of that
allocation for damages, because of bodily injury, then that could get you excluded under
the D&O and E&O policies. On the other hand some courts find that these are not
allegations of bodily injury. So then maybe you could look through D&O and E&O policies
and you can avoid that bodily injury exclusion. So it really depends on the jurisdiction. It
depends on your policy language and just being really aware of the interplay between the
different types of policies and as Paige indicated, making sure that you provided notice
and that you look at some of the prior notice exclusions and then of course, in the current
D&O policy, there are lot of exclusions for opioid litigation, there may be a very specific,
but very specific exclusion for it, but you must submit your timely notice of claim and then
sometime -- some policies circumstances that could lead to future claims and pursue the
acknowledgment of those claims and really scrutinize your coverage position. So that you
don't give up coverage under one of these, what we, -- what may have first been
perceived as an ancillary D&O and E&O coverage for this type of underlying opioid
litigation, but which may in fact provide coverage. And because of the breadth and the
number of claims arising from this opioid crisis, the insurers are going to look to those
policies provision for coverage when substantially similar actions were claimed, were
known, or should have been known to the insured prior to the policy period. So you really
have to step in and consider what you have, what allegations you may be facing and make
sure that notice is given timely.

Bloomberg Transcript

Matthew Palazolo
Okay, great Andrea. I want to follow-up with one more for you, Andrea. So far the
defendants have been limited to manufacturers and distributors. Is it possible that the
group of potential defendants expands, it could impact even maybe doctors who
prescribe these pills. I'd like to hear from actually both of you on that, but maybe Andrea
go first.

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Okay. Well, I mean the underlying litigation itself is again a retailer pharmacies and
prescribing physicians, even pharmacy benefit manager. So the group of defedants has a
little more experience than that and keep in mind that the group of plaintiffs is also
expanding, there are now class actions by individuals and businesses that are buying
healthcare, private healthcare insurance including anyone who have paid into an employer
provided health care program. They are doing in class actions, opioid manufacturers and
distributors for the increased health care costs and that would be premium deductable
co-pays due to the opioid crisis, alleging that the insurers have -- alleging that the insurers
have passed to customers, those costs in the form of higher premiums and deductibles
and co-pays. So really those fields, is the way I see it is somewhat more expensive.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay. Paige, your thoughts on that.
Page 6 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

Paige M Steffan
One thing I'll just add about the question of whether doctors will be pulled into this
litigation more. I think it's interesting to note that in the past couple of years, doctors have
actually been criminally charged with some of their actions of over prescribing opioids for
non-medical reasons and in some cases we've even seen doctors charged for some of
their patients that have overdosed on their drugs. So I think some of the focus on the
doctors has been from more of a criminal route, and at least how -- what we've seen so
far, and Andrea, like she said before, some of these doctors are actually named in some
of the underlying litigation. It's just that most of the focus and media attention has been
on some of these large Fortune 20 companies that we see in the news, quite a bit.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay, great. So Paige, we've been using the tobacco settlement as an analog for what's
going on with opioids. In that situation and sure saw very little liability. Are there
differences between opioids and tobacco? Are there similarities? Could you talk about -compare the two situations?

Bloomberg Transcript

Paige M Steffan
Yes. So I would say that although there are many parallels, there's also a lot of aspects of
this litigation that would distinguish tobacco from opioids. So first, I would say the parallel
some of them are pretty obvious. Both of the two involved allegations of fraudulent
marketing of dangerous addictive products that really caused a significant human toll in
this country. Although the opioid epidemic is relatively new and actually has caused fewer
injuries than that of tobacco, it's still extremely significant and obviously something that
needs to be resolved.
However, with that, we do see significant things that we can distinguish. The first I think
being that opioids have a legitimate medical purpose. Opioids as much as we're talking
about how they're addictive and have caused significant injury, they also help people and
they have a purpose in medicine, and they actually can do a lot of good as opposed to
tobacco where there was no legitimate medical purpose for that product.
Another kind of interesting thing that we see with opioid is the entire supply chain, how
we were just discussing is has been roped into this litigation, all the way from the
companies that grow the poppies that's used to manufacture the opioids all the way
down to the pharmacist that's actually distributing the pill to the consumer. As in tobacco it
was a lot more concentrated into a smaller group of manufacturers and we never really
saw that branch out into the distributors or retailers essentially.
And another thing that's interesting and I think unique to the opioid epidemic is these
intervening causes. We see illicit fentanyl, we see criminal actions by some of the doctors
that I spoke about, we see some black markets and all of these things really play into
whether the plaintiff's can even prove causation or liability on behalf of the manufacturers
and retailers and distributors, when there is a completely separate group of these
intervening causes of criminal actions that really kind of change up the whole story. And
Page 7 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

we didn't we -- something that we did not really see in tobacco or something that we
didn't have to work through.
And I would say another thing that the municipalities have kind of learned from the
tobacco settlement and are trying to stay away from is a lot of the money gained through
the Master Settlement Agreement for tobacco was not really returned to combat the
crisis. And now we see a lot of municipalities focusing on this abatement and focusing on
requesting relief that's very focused on treatment and education and making sure that
that this crisis can somehow come to an end. And I think some of those things, maybe
more than others will ultimately play into coverage issues and may affect coverage down
the line. But I think I would be hesitant to say that tobacco and opioids would follow a
similar path, because of all these differences that we see in the opioid epidemic.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay, awesome. So Paige, actually one more for you. We're talking about settlements.
Can you talk about the mechanics maybe of how much an insurer might be involved in the
negotiations for that, or what role they play in a settlement?

Bloomberg Transcript

Paige M Steffan
So I would say that's highly dependent on policy language and whether the insurer has the
right to consent to settlement, and whether how closely they are working with the insurer.
And I will just comment on how there is a couple of different routes of potential
settlement going on and that may be a good example of how and when insurers may be
able to participate. So in terms of global revolution, so trying to resolve the thousands and
thousands of claims that are pending, we've seen a couple different attempts at global
settlement, which I believe Holly spoke on briefly in the beginning.
One was, what I'll call a state-centric model, which was actually reported by Bloomberg
back in August, where some of the state AG's demanded $45 billion for a global
settlement from what we call the Big 3. The Big 3 distributors being AmerisourceBergen
Corporation, Cardinal Health, and McKesson Corporation. And currently these Big 3
responded with a $10 billion offer. So as that state-centric model is working, we're also
looking at a similar negotiation track, which is headed by the cities and counties taking
place in the opioid MDL in Cleveland. So back in September, Judge Polster, who is
heading this opioid MDL, certified this very novel negotiation class under which every
municipality in the US, which is more than 30,000 municipalities has until the end of
November to opt out of this class. And once the class is set, negotiators will then be able
to negotiate which -- with I believe is about 13 of the defendants, and they're negotiating
based on the conspiracy and the Controlled Substances Act violations.
So if some sort of a preliminary agreement is decided, then it will turn back to the class
and I believe it's 75% of the class or about that will have to vote in order for there to be
approval. And then from there the money would be allocated by -- to the municipalities by
relative number of opioids sold and death in each county. So both of these tracks, the
state-centric model is moving forward at the same time that the city and county
negotiation track is moving forward.
Page 8 of 11



FINAL

Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

And in the mix of all this, to make it even more confusing, we have Purdue filing
bankruptcy, which Holly also referenced, which automatically stays all of its active litigation,
including all of its opioid claims, which will then be moved -- to Bankruptcy Court. So
essentially Purdue is using that as another tool for settlement. So as you see there is lots
of pieces kind of moving at the same time and insurers and insured kind of being pulled in
different directions. But -- so I think the next couple of months will be very interesting as
the Track One Trial approaches and whether it goes forward or not, we've seen a lot of
movement in settlement, specifically I think like Holly mentioned before with Endo and
Allergan and Mallinckrodt, settling these bellwether trials as the MDL approaches in these
next couple of weeks.

Matthew Palazolo
Thanks. So, Andrea, could you talk about -- in a potential Master Settlement what role
insurers might play?

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

I would really just piggyback of what Paige had mentioned, and it really is going to depend
on the insurers participation in the matter and whether or not they've acknowledged their
coverage obligations and what the policy language says about those obligations, and
really be taken by a case-by-case basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Matthew Palazolo
Okay. So, maybe first Paige, maybe Andrea has some additional insurance. But at some
point, I'm assuming insurers recognized opioids could be misused, they probably sort of
adding some exclusions in policies relating to opioids. Is that true? And if so, when or if
could that have started?

Paige M Steffan
Yes. So, after there was a huge influx in the opioid cases, which was about the end of 2017
into 2018 that's only really saw a lot of opioid exclusions being written into policies. The
interesting thing about these is the wording of the opioid exclusions, it really varies, and
we've seen all different sorts of exclusions. Some of the broadest exclusions preclude
coverage for the abuse, the illicit use, or the unlawful distribution of any opioid or any
controlled substance.
On the opposite end of the spectrum, we've also seen opioid exclusions that are drafted
a lot more narrowly and preclude coverage from maybe a particular type of opioid or a
specific brand name or product. For example, we've seen some that may only exclude
Oxycotton or may only exclude Oxycodone. And sometimes this wording appears where
an insurer is possibly a manufacturer, maybe they only manufacture that one product, so
it's liability would typically only be tied to one product. Whereas, when we see some of
the distributors who deal in numerous products, different brand names, it becomes more
of an interesting puzzle, I would say, if a distributor is dealing with dozens and dozens of

Page 9 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

products and say one of those products is excluded by -- in opioid exclusion then, then
we'll have to dig in further into their dealings with that specific product.
We've also seen some interesting carve-outs with some exceptions. For example, maybe
there will an opioid exclusion for claims arising out of opioids. However, maybe they'll
include a carve-out for an insurered failure to provide the correct drug or correct dosage,
while feeling -- filling a prescription, which essentially would possibly go towards claims
against an individual pharmacist negligence in dispensing of those opioids.
To-date, we really haven't seen too many courts interpreting these exclusions. And once
we do as the litigation moves forward, it might be difficult to apply them over different
policies as I said, because some of these exclusions are extremely broad and some are
extremely narrow and again would also be fact dependent on the insureds dealings with
these specific drugs.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay, Andrea, do you have anything to add on exclusions?

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

No, no.

Bloomberg Transcript

Matthew Palazolo
Okay. So we're going to try to take some of the questions that we're getting through the
webinar. Andrea and Paige, you know, you can both jump in on this one. So first question
is, how would you size up the range of insured losses related to opioid litigation based on
current expectations? They don't want to take a stab at that one.

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Can you repeat that?

Matthew Palazolo
Sure. So how would you size up the range of insured losses related to opioid litigation
based on current expectations?

Paige M Steffan
Well, I guess my comment to that would be there is quite a bit of range on the different
insurers. For example, when we've seen some of the smaller manufacturers or
manufacturers that have a smaller percent market share. They're settling for example,
Endo settled the upcoming bellwether trial for $10 million, Allergan settled the upcoming
bellwether for $5 million, Mallinckrodt, I believe it was $24 million with an additional $5
million or $6 million in drugs. Whereas on the flip side, we see Purdue settling the State of
Page 10 of 11



Company N ame: Berkshire H athaway I nc
Company Ticker: BRK /A US Equity
Date: 2019-10-08

FINAL

Oklahoma lawsuit for $270 million earlier this summer. And we see the judgment against
Johnson & Johnson, who was the only remaining defendant, we see there being a $572
million judgment against it.
So it's kind of hard to tell right now, because we don't have any other recent large
judgments like the one against Johnson & Johnson, and we've seen some one-off
settlements. I think market share will be a big issue when it comes to the settlement
dollars. I also think, the number of defendants remaining in the cases for example with
Johnson & Johnson being signed, basically liable for the entire opioid epidemic in the
State of Oklahoma, the burden rests entirely on its shoulders there. So it will be
interesting to see how these cases develop, if and when they go to trial and what
defendants remain in those cases.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay, great. Let's see, so maybe Andrea, if you wanted to speculate on this, we can see.
So, the question is, there are some numbers from $70 billion to $100 billion for total
opioids settlement costs. Could you give a ballpark range of how much insurers could end
up paying that or kind of what percentage is typical?

Andrea Warren

{BIO 20258010 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

You know, we really haven't -- and I haven't analyzed that, so I would not be able to speak
on that.

Matthew Palazolo
Okay. I think we're going to leave it there. So, a replay of this call will be available through
the Bloomberg Terminal. I would like to thank Paige and Andrea. I think this is a great
discussion. If you have any follow-up questions, you can find Holly or my contact
informations through the webinar. So thanks very much for joining us everyone.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 11 of 11

