Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc 2019 2nd
Information Meeting

FINAL

Company Participants
Fumiaki Ohkawabata, Senior Executive Officer of HR & General Admin., Accounting,
Compliance Dept and Chief Risk Officer
Masahiro Matsumoto, Executive Officer of International Business
Shinichiro Funabiki, Sr. Exec. Officer, Chief Info. Officer, Chief Info. Security Officer &
Chief Digitalization Officer
Shiro Fujii, Executive VP of Corporate Planning, Corporate Comm., IR & Internal Audit
Dept., CFO and Director
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President, CEO & Director

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Director and Analyst
Koki Sato, Senior Analyst
Masao Muraki, Senior Analyst and Global Financial Strategist

Bloomberg Transcript

Natsumu Tsujino, Senior Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Hello, everyone. My name is Yasuyoshi Karasawa. And I'm the President and CEO of
MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings. Thank you for joining us at our information meeting
today.
Natural disasters caused a variety of damages in Japan and overseas this year, again. A
number of regions suffered serious damages, as a result. We would like to express our
sincere sympathy to all affected people. Our entire group is making concerted efforts to
help those affected to put their lives back in order as quickly as possible and aid the
reconstruction of disaster-stricken areas through the prompt payment of insurance claims
and other measures.
Following the conclusion of Stage 1 in this fiscal year, Stage 2 of our Vision 2021 mediumterm management plan, adopting the SDGs as guideposts will start in the next fiscal year.
Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

Natural catastrophes are becoming large and more frequent. The decline in the vitality of
regional communities and economies is becoming serious. Under these circumstances,
the role of our group should play is increasing. To realize a resilient and sustainable
society in 2030, MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings will achieve resilient and sustainable
growth by advancing CSV initiatives and strengthening ERM according to the Vision 2021
plan.
Let me start by explaining the main points of today's presentation. Please turn to Page
one of the handout. This page shows the main points of today's presentation. First, I'd like
to talk about the first half of fiscal year 2019 results and progress on the medium-term
management plan. I would then like to talk about the 6 challenges in Stage 2.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page two of the handout. Large-scale natural disasters occurred in Japan in
this fiscal year, again, causing losses estimated to surpass the forecast made at the
beginning of the fiscal year. As a result, the group-adjusted profit for fiscal 2019 is
expected to decrease JPY 43 billion from the forecast at the beginning of the fiscal year
to JPY 220 billion. However, we anticipate that net income will reach JPY 200 billion as
forecasted at the beginning of the fiscal year, thanks to the effect of the reversal of
catastrophe loss reserve, among others. The effects of natural disasters in Japan and
overseas in this fiscal year are as shown on Page six of the materials.
Our direct insurance payments for natural disasters in Japan, including Faxai and Hagibis
are estimated at about JPY 400 billion. We will cover about 70% of them with reinsurance.
We expect the net loss incurred to be JPY 123 billion. Judging from the conditions so far,
we expect our direct payment for natural disasters overseas overall to fall below the
forecast made at the beginning of the fiscal year.
Next, I'd like to report on the progress of the medium-term management plan. And
please turn to Page 12 of the handout. Under the medium-term plan, we are working to
achieve 2 goals adopted as our group's vision since the group's establishment, becoming
a world-leading insurance and financial services group and building resilient systems
necessary for realizing sustainable growth in the future.
In Stage 1, we established the domestic non-life insurance business as our stable earnings
base, steadily advanced 3 key strategies and achieved many results toward the goal of
building resilient systems. Meanwhile, in the area of business portfolio reform, portfolio
diversification into the life insurance business advanced well. But the international business
showed a delay in the recovery of profitability. We recognized the delay as one of the
issues that we should examine further towards Stage 2. Group adjusted ROE at the end
of fiscal 2019 is expected to be 7.1%, which is lower than the target for Stage 1 ending
fiscal 2019 of 8.3% due to the effect of natural disasters. We will continue to strive to
improve capital efficiency.
Next, I would like to report on the progress of our 3 key strategies. Please turn to Page 13
of the handout. Pursuing the group's comprehensive strengths is our first key strategy.
Our group has chosen reorganization by function as a business model that simultaneously
achieves growth and greater efficiency and has sought to achieve growth with its

Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

comprehensive strength, making the most of the group company's characteristics and
strength and to produce synergy.
As a result, our group has steadfastly maintained top line predominance in the domestic
non-life insurance market since the enforcement of the current medium-term plan.
Initiatives such as joint front line efforts by MS&AD, joint product development and
collaboration in the cybersecurity field utilizing the expertise and functions of inter-risk
research and consulting also advanced steadily.
For example, the claims department consolidated the 2 company service centers in
charge of overseas PL cases into MS in April. Furthermore, the 2 companies are advancing
joint initiatives, including the joint use of claim appraisers and cooperative investigations
by their adjusters following typhoon Faxai.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, many different initiatives are in progress in different fields of the group,
including cooperation between MSA Life and MSP Life in the domestic life insurance field.
We will improve our productivity and achieve future growth, applying the group's strength
of diversity to the maximum extent possible.
Please turn to Page 14 of the handout for the promotion of digitalization, our second key
strategy. Our initiatives for addressing the issues identified in the Vision 2021 such as the
promotion of business and process reform for improving the quality of products, services
and customer experiences; the development of new automobile insurance product and
claim service systems; the application of telematics technologies; the establishment of
corporate venture capital firms; and investment in business venture overseas are making
steady progress toward the goal of developing platforms for promoting digitalization.
Thanks to the evaluations received for these initiatives, our group was selected for the
2019 Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock jointly sponsored by the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Major changes in social
structure, including the development of 5G network technology that make high-speed,
large capacity, ultra-load delay simultaneous and multiple access possible. And increase in
unstructured data such as still images, videos and voices. And the use of AIs on a daily
basis will continue into the future. Our entire group will promote our digitalization and link
it to business model reforms taking environmental changes into consideration.
Please turn to Page 15 of the handout for the portfolio reform, our third key strategy.
Regarding the risk portfolio reforms, the sales of strategic equity holdings advanced
ahead of the plan. The sales brought the ratio of such equity holdings down to 27.6% of
the group risk amount at the end of September, lower than the target level of less than
30%. We will continue disposing the equity holdings worth more than JPY 100 billion
annually to achieve another target, which is less than 10% of the consolidated total assets
to be in equities.
Regarding business portfolio reforms, the profitability of domestic life insurance business
improved steadily with close to JPY 30 billion in the group-adjusted profit expected for
this fiscal year. And it has grown into one of the stable earnings base for our group. The
Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

balance between the non-life and life insurance businesses, including expanded
investment in the overseas life insurance business improved and the improved balance
enabled us to stabilize our earnings base. On the other hand, the recovery of profit from
the overseas non-life insurance business is delayed somewhat. We will continue taking
measures, including strengthening the system, which I will explain later, to address this as
a medium-term issue.
Next, I would like to talk about the 6 issues stated here as the issues to work on in Stage 2
of the medium-term plan, which will start in the next fiscal year.
First, let me explain the maintenance of stable income or the expansion of income in the
domestic non-life insurance business. Please turn to Page 17.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our group has established the core domestic non-life insurance business as a stable
earnings base by steadily raising its profitability since its implementation. In the first half of
fiscal 2019, our group achieved one of the highest premium growth rate in the industry.
Again, the combined ratio, excluding the effects of natural disasters remained stably
below 95% as well. When we prepared the medium-term plan, we were concerned about
negative factors such as the adverse effects that the consumption tax increase and the
decrease in legal interest rates may have. We will revise our automobile insurance
products and their premium rates in January 2020 to deal with these factors.
Regarding fire insurance, their effects caused by factors including reinsurance premium
hike due to large-scale natural disasters, we are continuing to step up our efforts to
handle contracts with high loss ratio in addition to the revision of products and premium
rates implemented this October. In the casualty insurance field, we expanded product
sales to small; and medium-sized companies and worked on initiatives for new risks and
new markets in fiscal 2019.
Next, I'd like to explain the second topic, our policy for addressing natural disaster risks.
Large-scale natural disasters have occurred frequently in recent years. We are working on
to control the -- retain the amount of natural disaster risks and reduce the risks of profit
fluctuation by offering coverage at appropriate premium rates and managing risks groupwide through reinsurance and other means. Through these initiatives, we've reduced the
retained net loss incurred substantially from the previous fiscal year to JPY 123 billion in
fiscal 2019. We will achieve the group's financial soundness and earnings stability while
continuing to provide adequate insurance coverage for natural disasters as a social
infrastructure in Japan, our home market, in particular.
The third topic is our response to the ongoing global low interest rate environment.
Please turn to Pages 27 and 47 of the handout. MSA Life susceptible to a big impact by
low interest rate in Japan is working to reduce the effects of low interest rates by
adopting a product strategy with an emphasis on protection-type products that are less
affected by the low rates, strengthening asset management systems and promoting
asset liability and management further.

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

In the asset management field, our entire group is also working to maintain and secure
earnings from managed assets by diversifying investments into assets that are expected
to produce relatively high returns. It is difficult for us to remain completely unaffected
because security and the liability of funds are important for claims payment. However, we
will also study a more efficient asset management strategy from a global perspective
going forward.
Now I would like to talk about the fourth subject, the growth strategy of the international
business. Please turn to Page 35 of the handout. Since 2000, the group has steadily
expanded its presence in each region and segment through the investment of capital in
local markets and M&A. We have expanded our business based on the market
characteristics of each region.
In particular, we have established the largest presence in the ASEAN region through
measures such as the acquisition of Aviva's (Asian) business in 2004. We have also
successfully built a platform as a global insurance and financial services group through
moves such as acquisition of Amlin in 2016 and the acquisition of the First Capital in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, the environment surrounding the international business is changing rapidly with
the development such as advances in digital technology and increased risk of natural
disaster. Amidst these environment changes under the original holding company
framework, the resources of each group company could not be sufficiently utilized and
delays in decision-making issues with the nature of group governance could be seen due
to the overlapping structure of Japan and regional holding companies. Or in the case of
MS&AD, company-based management and SBU-based management.
For example, MS&AD has many resources such as excellent underwriters and skilled
human resources with outside contacts. However, I suspect that these resources were not
being sufficiently utilized across regions. And we were missing out on growth
opportunities in some respect. In view of these issues, we had long been considering the
organizational framework of the international business.
After comparing and examining numerous proposed frameworks, we decided to
restructure the international business as announced the other day in order to achieve
further growth by effectively and efficiently using the strengths of each company in
response to changes in the business environment.
Please refer to Page 36, rather, of the handout to see what we aim to achieve. In concrete
terms through this reorganization under the new structure, MSI Head Office will take the
lead in business promotion and management. MSI Head Office departments in Japan,
including the Investment Planning Department, the Corporate Risk Management
Department and the Information Technology Planning Department will deepen their
commitment and strengthen the group's governance. The function of developing global
strategies will be concentrated in the new international planning department, which is to
be established and the new structure will be able to facilitate management decisions,
change the business model in response to rapid changes in the environment due to the

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

development of digital technology and identify opportunities for business investment
promptly.
First, we will improve productivity and promote the concentration of functions and
elimination, consolidation and streamlining of organizations and bases. We plan to cut
annual costs by more than JPY 10 billion by fiscal 2021. We will pursue the group's
comprehensive strengths and will use the group's company strengths such as skills and
networks across each region. In this way, we will accelerate the growth of the entire
group.
For example, we will use MS First Capital's expertise in large-scale construction insurance
and business insurance and related human networks, not only in the ASEAN region. But
also in a larger area, including India. We will use MS Amlin's skills in specialty insurance and
reinsurance in collaboration with group companies, particularly in Asia and will, thereby,
promote marketing in new markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to this, we will establish task forces in a number of areas using specialists at
MSI Head office and human resources at overseas entities who have a high level of
expertise and extensive experience and knowledge. And will, thereby, develop and
pursue group-wide growth strategies in the field of digitalization, asset management and
reinsurance as well as strategies for increasing profitability.
Please turn to Page 37 of the handout to see an outline of the reorganization. First, the
strategy planning functions of each regional holding company will be concentrated in MSI
Head office. The existing international departments will be reorganized as international
planning department, which will be responsible for considering global growth strategies
and international business department, which will be responsible for developing regional
strategies as well as business promotion and management.
MSI Head Office business management system will thus be strengthened. Regional
holding companies in Asia, Europe and the Americas will be eliminated. Excellent human
resources that overseas entities who are well-versed in management and the specific
circumstances of each country will become members of committees at MSI Head Office,
including international business strategic committee and MSI Head Office, will directly
supervise overseas entities. MSI Head Office departments, including accounting
department, the investment planning department, the corporate risk management
department and the information technology planning department will support the
international business in each field.
Please refer to Page 38 of the handout to see the temporary effect of the reorganization
on the results. As we explained in the recent conference call regarding our results, MS
Amlin Group has been treated as 1 asset group for an impairment test, which goodwill
was recorded. Following the reorganization, Lloyd's business, the European primary
insurance business and the reinsurance business will be treated as independent asset
groups for an impairment test.

Page 6 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

Consequently, the Lloyd's business and the Europe primary insurance business need to
post an impairment loss of JPY 175.4 billion before tax, which is approximately JPY 160
billion after tax will be posted for both companies as extraordinary losses. In association
with the reorganization, the shares of subsidiaries of the regional holding companies held
by the regional holding companies will be paid as individual in kind -- as dividends in kind
and as a result, are deemed loss on scale -- a sale will be recorded at the Mitsui
Sumitomo Insurance for tax purposes. As a result, tax expense will be decreased by
approximately JPY 170 billion. The effect of the extraordinary loss and the tax expenses is
reflected in the first half of fiscal 2019 and the full year forecast.
Next, I would like to explain our initiatives for improving capital efficiency. Please turn to
Page 57 of the handout. ERM is the basis of a group management at MS&AD Insurance
Group. We are monitoring ROR in each business and each company and are promoting
initiatives for improving ROR. We are using ROR and VA as criteria where we consider the
methods of asset management and reinsurance schemes. We have introduced the
evaluation using ROR when we develop or change products and consider sales policies.
We will continue to promote initiatives for achieving ROE of 10%, an ongoing challenge.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now outline the sixth issue, CSV activities. Please turn to Page 64 of the handout. We
aim to develop management based on CSV activities. We set 7 key issues in the mediumterm management plan.
To enable our shareholders and investors to understand the results of our initiatives more
easily, we have calculated quantitative economic and social impact. For example, in our
initiatives to help mitigate and adapt to climate change, we wrote approximately 4,600
new policies for a comprehensive guarantee plan for mega-solar power generation. The
policyholders' power generation reduced CO2 emissions by more than 1.69 million tons
compared with thermal power generation.
To promote the creation of values shared with society or CSV activities in the company,
we held sustainability contest this year. This was the second consecutive year that we held
the sustainability contest. I felt that the understanding of the story of value creation and
CSV activities have been enhanced into the whole group and sustainability initiatives has
been established. Two teams that earned the same score were awarded the grand price.
I will now outline the initiative of one of them, namely cmap. cmap is a website on which
forecast of the numbers of buildings that will be affected by typhoons, heavy rains and
earthquakes are displayed on the map immediately after the disasters occur. The
websites can be viewed on the personal computers and smartphones, among other
device, 24 hours a day, every day. We have been able to obtain information on warnings
and advisories and precipitation amounts. But it has been difficult to identify the areas that
will be affected by -- or are flooded.
Cmap enables users to obtain real-time damage predictions in areas that are relevant to
them. Cmap has been acclaimed by local governments, which support evacuation of
residents and self-defense forces, which rescue people on the front line. They say that

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

they are able to use cmap to identify the scale of the disaster in their regions and save
lives.

FINAL

Meanwhile, MS&AD Insurance Group will be able to build a system to respond rapidly to
disasters and customers and promptly determine the scale and amount of damage. I'm
sure that if each group company and each employee implements the story of value
creation, society and the group will be able to achieve resilient and sustainable growth.
Lastly, I would like to talk about shareholders' returns. Please turn to Page 70 of the
handout. As we announced last week on November 19, we will pay an interim dividend of
JPY 75 for the first half of 2019, up JPY 5 year-on-year and we will pay an annual dividend
of JPY 150, up JPY 10 year-on-year.
Also, we decided to repurchase our own shares of JPY 20 billion or less. We have just
over four months left in the fiscal 2019. We will do what we should do in Stage 1 of Vision
2021. In Stage 2, we will continue to pursue initiatives to become a world-leading
insurance and financial services group and build the resilient systems that can respond
rapidly to changes in the environment.
We will continue striving to meet the expectations of investors and other stakeholders.
And we ask for your continued support. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So we would move on to Q&A session. The microphone will be brought to you by the
staff. (Operator Instructions) Furthermore, we'd like to have as many questions as
possible from the people. So I'd like to ask individuals to limit to 2 questions per person.
So please raise your hand if you have question.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Watanabe of Daiwa Securities. I have 2 major questions. The first question relates to
shareholder return. Do you keep in mind an amount of the total shareholder return set at
the beginning of the fiscal year? Please share with us your thought.
I asked this because in the previous fiscal year, major natural disasters occurred and you
adopted 60% of the total payout ratio, which is the upper end of the range. Considering
60% of group adjusted profit after revision for this fiscal year. And that corresponds to
50% of the group adjusted profit at the beginning of the fiscal year of JPY 263 billion. So
I'd like to know your thoughts on that.
The second question relates to the international business reorganization. Reorganization
of international business was led by MSI. Please advise us why the reorganization this time
did not extend to integration of international businesses under ADI's control.

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

Furthermore, our 2 domestic non-life company is going to move closer toward integration
or do they continue to keep some distance? Please let me know the direction.

FINAL

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I'll respond to these questions. With respect to the first question,
our thinking on so-called shareholders' return. I may have said this on the previous
occasion. But using a range between 40% to 60%. If adjusted profit is revised down, we
will respond to your expectations by applying the upper end of the range. It's not a
determined rule. But basically, we want to live up to the expectations. And from that
perspective. And considering also the current stock price, we repurchased up to JPY 20
billion worth of our own shares in the interim period. I hope you understand it to be a
testimonial over positive attitude to shareholder return, although it cannot be promised.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the reorganization of international business. Considering reorganization of ADI and
MSI of international businesses, it was one of the perspectives. However, the AD's -Toyota retail business presented various issues such as collaboration with Toyota Motor
Corporation and related schemes and IT systems. And therefore, we are going to turn
around our international business under MSI's leadership, centering around MS Amlin and
to establish direct control structure.
Naturally, they're going to be the next stage going forward, would that involve overall
structure, including ADI? Or would combined consolidation be better? Or having separate
companies better? I think there'll be several options and including a business environment
at that time, if there are factors that brings our original strength to bear, accelerate
growth and efficiency, we'd like to examine other their alternatives as well. So the
reorganization this time did not yet show the final form.
I'm also often asked about MSI and ADI's reorganization. I think I talked about this several
times. We had not discarded a merger option when we opted for reorganization by
function. If the domestic non-life market is such that combined ratio is at or below 95%,
just as we have today, pursuing and achieving higher growth rather than higher efficiency
is more effective in producing better real amount of profit. Since we have 2 business
models over which to capture customer needs firmly. So accelerating our growth by
capturing customer needs is an option we should take now, we think.
We've always had one of the best revenue growth rate since we embarked on this plan.
And it's a proof of our growth, I believe. To achieve higher efficiency, we are working on
reorganization, including joint usage within the group. And we are ready for integration
anytime. Or maybe, as I've been explaining for some time now, splitting into different
functions could be an option, too.
With digitalization advancing, various business models may work in different forms with
business structure also changing. In such a situation, a former business that is divided into
functions may be easier for customers to understand. If that's the case, based on the
current form. But dividing it into different businesses and have business line by business
line, this model could be an alternative as well. An alternative merger would best suited

Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

totally to pursue higher efficiency. But now is not the right time to seek higher efficiency at
the expense of growth, in my view.
The proof of the matter can be seen in the growth achieved by both ADI and MSI, ranking
among the top because both companies capture the needs of the market well. Should
combined ratio, however, exceed 100 and efficiency enhancement becomes a top
priority, we are ready to think about the merger right away. And this is a shared
understanding within the group.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Murasaki (sic) (Muraki) of SMBC Nikko. I have 2 questions as well. First of all, with respect to
risk reduction, you showed risk versus return by segment analysis. What is the proportion
or percentage of higher or domestic natural disaster risks in the total risk exposure? Page
15 of the handout shows strategic equity holdings as a percentage of group's risk
exposure or risk amount.

Bloomberg Transcript

Likewise, what is your understanding of the size of a fire or domestic natural catastrophe
risk? And I suppose reinsurance cost is going to increase significantly. As the cost of
reinsurance increases, is it really possible to reduce such risks? I understand what you can
do is to raise pricing. But other than price hikes, are there any means of reducing such
risks? That's the first question.
Secondly, second point relates to the cost reduction. Having heard your presentation, I
believe, a merger is not a concrete option you are studying right now. Under Stage 2 that
starts next year, what is the centerpiece of cost reduction? What part are you going to
focus on? Could you give us a clue?
The announced reorganization of holding companies under MSI alone is going to save JPY
10 billion in cost. It means there was still a big room for cost reduction. That's how I felt
about it. So have you identified quite a number of such hidden reserves? Or was this the
last remaining area of such inefficiency?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

So the first question relates to the risk amount of fire and natural catastrophe. Is that
right? And for so-called risk reduction, are there means or methods for risk reduction. So I
would like to ask Mr. Ohkawabata to answer that.

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

The question that is to say, the so-called storm, flood and snow and natural catastrophe
risk exposure, first of all, the risk amount of the entire non-life underwritten at the end of
September totaled JPY 480 billion. And of that, we estimate the risk exposure relating to
storm, flood and snow and natural catastrophe to be a little over JPY 370 billion.
And we've been rigorously managing natural catastrophe risks, especially the level of risks
we retain on the group-wide basis over the past few years. And the holding company
Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

indicates each operating company's net retention amount. The net retention amount is
determined by taking into account the financial strength effect on ESR. And more recently,
impact on earnings, especially from the viewpoint of profit and loss of the period. So from
both perspectives, the net retention level is set and managed.
And your second question relating to the reduction of natural catastrophe risks. Basically,
the efficient utilization of reinsurance is at the base of our risk control efforts. Starting in
the current fiscal year, the reinsurance cost is a factor for consideration and in considering
rational economics, starting in the current fiscal year, we want to step up further in
studying and purchasing concretely the reasonable purchase of reinsurance through a
common coverage to unify the group's retention level. So including those group-based
efforts, we would like to pursue the rational economic consideration for that.

A - Shinichiro Funabiki

{BIO 19455601 <GO>}

May I add. If reinsurance premium would rise to lose its economic rationality, should we
take a certain risk or continue to use reinsurance? Our basic thought is to pursue the best
method from the ROR viewpoint as has been touched upon earlier. Since we do not know
the situation for next year, I hope you would understand that we are considering this now.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

As to a response on behalf of the entire group toward natural disasters, in the situation
where these large-scale natural disasters frequently occur in Japan and become almost
normal state, we believe we have responsibility to offer coverage stably in the long term.
In that sense, we should properly manage our own risk and increase the rate to proper
level.
Meanwhile, we will try to level profitability, in case catastrophe occurs, with securing
catastrophic loss reserve and other measures, including tax system support. We will
provide advice to each policyholder from ERM perspective on proper disaster reduction
measures and preventive actions against facility aging so that the accidents can be
reduced, while premium will be adjusted accordingly. We would like to enhance the teambased initiatives to different regions to activate their disaster reduction efforts in order to
strengthen resilience against disaster damage.
Reinsurance can cover risks when appropriately utilized. But it will eventually increase cost
as it must be paid back in the long term. Reinsurance is not unusable though. But it should
be recognized that reinsurance can be used for each fiscal year for leveling. Let me touch
up on cost and especially overseas.
Is there such a thing like a treasure chest? Lloyd's, the U.S. and other firms earned high
profits, especially Lloyd's. And this made them organizations with high cost, which is a fact.
For example, our Lloyd's syndicate had expense ratio of over 40%. But in the last three
years, faced with severe situation, they implemented many reforms to restore the
structure to secure top line, to change complicated structure to simpler, effective one.

Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

By conducting risk management on the whole, Amlin abolishes a holding company. And
(SVU) is to be revised, which will reduce cost. Therefore, it is not true there are potential
treasure chests of that sort. We were aiming at reducing total cost by JPY 50 billion
through functional reorganizations. Actually, JPY 60 billion cost cut was achieved. Mr.
Funabiki will explain this in the current plan.

A - Shinichiro Funabiki

{BIO 19455601 <GO>}

In Page 21, expense ratio and large system investment return are shown. Mr. Matsumoto
will add some points related to overseas business.
As the system investment during the latter half of the previous midterm management
plan and the first half of the current midterm plan, substantial cash out was done. Some of
them were completed in the current plan, especially sales area. As to online renovation to
realize better efficiency, we have released some of them every six months. And the one
released in October will bring the most efficacy. The total amount of cash out is planned
to be recovered in about five years after the release.
The insurance policy reach maturity every year. And contribution to profit will appear half
to us one year later. The released versions will be in effect -- effective cycle for five years.

Bloomberg Transcript

For example, online innovation will contribute about JPY 15 billion per year for profit. If
BRIDGE is completed, we expect a JPY 12 billion of effect per year. Thus, our investment
now should bring good effect in the future.

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

I'm Matsumoto. Let me explain the costs related to overseas reorganization. In case of
Amlin operation, under the Amlin holding company, there are Lloyd's reinsurance
company, a reinsurance company in Switzerland and (EC) company on the continent.
Namely 3 insurance companies exist.
Because of the group's structure, Amlin holding company needed functions like
consolidated accounting function and risk management functions. But if all these
operation companies will be directly under the MSI head office, all the redundant functions
will no longer be needed, which means we can reduce head counts as well as save office
space. In addition, we are revising portfolio to restore profitability, then the JPY 10 billion
include all the savings.
Please recognize similar situation existed for the ASEAN holding companies and the
companies under them. It is not directly relevant to our operation. But in October, Lloyd's
announced Blueprint One strategy, which tries to pursue efficiency of the entire Lloyd's
markets. Thus, taking into account these external factors, we would like to promote cost
reduction. Thank you.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

I'm Tsujino of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley. As the ESR declined a little, I suppose hybrid
ratio is about 15% of the group's capital. What is your intention to increase it further? To
what extent?
Hybrid procurement is good. But without doing other measures and if you assume
acquisition at the level of twice the book, what is the scale potential acquisition that can
be quickly implemented? If you want to do more, I suppose you need to do other things
seriously, such as reduction of strategic equity holding. So could you tell us more on these
points? That's my first question.
My second question. If some people think reinsurance rate is likely to go up by 10% to
20% next year for the Japanese typhoon risk, then your cost may increase by JPY 10
billion or JPY 20 billion. You said you will consider different factors for reinsurance. This
year, it was good. You have increased the coverage. But do you have any secret plan or
ideas for next term and the future?
For example, by rearranging the combination of different approaches, the similar
reinsurance effect can be achieved without increasing the rate or the premium or paying
the insurance amount.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I'll give you the overview in my response. And then I'll ask Fujii and Ohkawabata
respectively, to give you accurate answers.

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

About our fundraising policies and reinsurance, I'll be giving you just that answer. The
question was about our current thinking on the spare financial capacity we have for M&A
and other investments. As shown on the material, we have capital buffer totaling
approximately JPY 2.2 trillion or a little less. When we want ESR at or above 180%, as we
have shown, how much capacity do we still have in restore -- in store? I think the level is
around JPY 100 billion.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Over medium and long term, however, we'll reduce risks, including equity sales. And
accumulation of earnings will be included in the plan. And if new investment generates
positive earnings, it will also be added. Therefore, we can keep some flexibility rather
than being fixated on the current situation and take response if there are good
opportunities. I think we can do that. So we'll consider it within the available capital buffer.
And with respect to the reinsurance, I would like to ask Ohkawabata-san to respond to
that first on reinsurance.

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

Yes. It is quite true that as you asked or mentioned in your question, we are studying
reinsurance, assuming that reinsurance premium increase is undeniable. As you
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

mentioned -- or as was mentioned, we are earnestly discussing to secure reinsurance as
efficiently as possible and preparing for renewal activity. We have no secret scheme. But
we want to work out more pragmatic way or joint purchase or to prioritize profit and loss
of the period. So we'd like to combine a variety of patterns to work out a reinsurance
coverage.
So for fiscal '20, we would like to secure reinsurance coverage conducive to improvement
of ROR and earnings while firmly holding the perspective of rational economics.
Earlier asked how much issuing capacity we have. And the current situation is, as you
described earlier, by calculation, we can issue up to around JPY 500 billion. But do we
need to do that? Then if you ask how we are going to finance M&A, an answer would be
different depending upon specifics, the circumstances and what sort of a company the
target is.

Bloomberg Transcript

If it is vital for growth, we cannot preclude -- or rather, we might consider a capital
increase to carry it out. Realistically, is such a thing in our mind at this moment? No. That's
not in the case -- that's not the case. Whether to finance the deal with our own funds or
with external procurement, we'll make decision rationally. And that's how we've been
doing thus far. And we will continue to resort to that methodology.
So allow me to add some remarks with respect to reinsurance. Reinsurance is a business
done in a world of gentlemen's transactions. In my view, it is a sort of business that
doesn't hold if we unilaterally benefit and get the better of reinsurers at their expense.
We ourselves must earn adequate premium and if -- it needs to be higher than rates -premium rate in Japan and then cede the business to reinsurer at an appropriate rate.
On the other hand, I mentioned disaster prevention and mitigation in Japan at the offset,
including ERM by companies or advice on disaster prevention and mitigation. Our activities
to reduce natural catastrophe claims will be conducive to earning trust for the next round
of reinsurance. Our company is relatively well trusted by reinsurers. So for the time being,
we won't have any trouble securing coverage. However, if we continue doing this, as a
consequence, reinsurers will run away from Japan. So to avoid such eventuality, we
ourselves must advocate the need for enhanced infrastructure of the Japanese economy
and measures for disaster prevention and mitigation, offering customized advice to
corporates or individuals and encouraging renewal of outdated facilities. And furthermore,
we need to propose introduction of disaster prevention services.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

Sato of Mizuho Securities. The first question relates to the impairment loss on goodwill
triggered by the reorganization of international business. In terms of a qualitative
explanation, you said you passed an impairment test on the group basis. But when
treated as an independent asset group, the business posted an impairment loss of JPY
170 billion. While I understand that for this reasoning to hold the value of a future of
reinsurance need to be quite large, the future value. Otherwise, by calculation, it doesn't
hold. So in that sense, how the future outlook of reinsurance business changed from the

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

time of acquisition? I would appreciate it if you could share some quantitative aspects, if
possible, such as growth potential and profitability, among others.
And although it is not an essential aspect. But I'd like to confirm a persistent importance
you attach to the initial accounting profit plan. A variety of mixed items were in the plans,
some positive and some negative. But you kept the net income unchanged. ADI did not
make additional provisioning for cat loss reserves. It was not included in the plan, which
led me to think that there could be some additional factors going forward.
But even then, do you still insist on keeping the initial net income plan of JPY 200 billion?
Or in that context, if it is necessary for ADI as well, are you going to generate more capital
gains on sale of strategic equities? Could you share your thoughts on that?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

When treated as 1 asset group, an impairment test was passed. But treated
independently, 2 businesses had to post an impairment loss. So on this, this means, for
reinsurance business, the cash flow before discount is assumed to be quite large. And I
would like to have Mr. Matsumoto talk about the reinsurance business outlook. And also,
I'll have Mr. Ohkawabata talk about this net profit plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

Matsumoto is my name. How we see the overall trend of reinsurance business, that's the
first point that I'd like to explain to you. The reinsurance business of the world has thin,
roughly 2 digit increase, in pricing last year and again this year, not as much as for
Japanese risks. At the same time, what we saw was not just a rate increase. But continued
growth of the market overall, including emerging market growth. So from that
perspective, we think reinsurance is a promising market.
In such a situation, our group is endeavoring to grow while reducing volatility than in the
past through underwriting method or combining heavier risks portion with lighter risk
portion. Or geographically speaking, including emerging countries, we try to grow in those
geographies where reinsurance business itself is going to grow while keeping an eye on
geographical balance. So from this perspective, reinsurance business per se will grow in
the future. And we intend to earn profit in the reinsurance business as well in a wellbalanced manner while mindful of our balance between reinsurance and general risks.
That's all.

A - Fumiaki Ohkawabata

{BIO 19079772 <GO>}

So as to the question on net income on accounting. Basically, accounting net income and
adjusted profit will be both considered in performance forecast. So no change in our
stance. So we maintained and did not change JPY 200 billion outlook of accounting net
income because, as has been mentioned earlier, by the reversal of the catastrophe loss
reserve and other measures, JPY 200 billion net income is likely to be anticipated.
Where we did not adjust the forecast, we will flexibly cope with the future situation while
being aware of the forecast figure to make continuous efforts. Did that answer your
Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

question?

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

My first question is on reinsurance business. Compared with acquisition, corporate value
or share value is not changed, is it correct?

A - Masahiro Matsumoto

{BIO 22172854 <GO>}

Reinsurance business. I am Matsumoto. The reinsurance business entails 3 firms: Lloyd's,
Swiss reinsurance firm and the European continent insurance company, the direct insurer.
And please take it that of these 3, reinsurance firm and Swiss reinsurance company will
not be subject to any change. They are growing as we had anticipated at the time of
acquisition.
In terms of the catastrophe loss recovery, it may look like we were matching the numbers.
But we think catastrophe loss reserve for the fire insurance seems a bit insufficient. So MSI
is focusing on special reserve. And ADI has set the reserve at 12% from the beginning of
the year and 6% for MSI.

Bloomberg Transcript

At present stage, ADI has no need for special reserve and MSI need additional reserve.
That is why MSI added JPY 30 billion for reserve. Net profit on accounting base is
according to the initial forecast by reinforcing financial base, especially by strengthening
the preparedness against natural disaster of future. We maintain the initial forecast.
Of course, toward the end of the fiscal year, it is possible heavy snowfall and other
incidents may occur. In that case, it is possible that scenario may be adjusted.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

I am Majima of Tokai Tokyo Center. I have 2 questions concerning the corporate
properties and natural disasters. Recently, Typhoon Hagibis caused inundation of many
business properties in many locations, including condominiums near (Tako Tamago) by the
river. How was your P&L affected adversely by the typhoon damage on corporate
properties taking into account the recovery by your reinsurance? In Page 18 or so, there's
a description that rate hike was implemented once in September. But my first question is
that will you raise the rate again for corporate properties in the near future or not?
My second question is related to this. As you wrote in this material, you support business
operation against risks of natural disasters. Frankly speaking, after the typhoon damage,
you probably had to pay the claim by the major transportation companies like railroad
company. For example, special loss may be accounted for the fiscal year. I guess many
operating companies could not receive the insurance claim fully to cover the entire
damage incurred which shows a kind of a mismatch between the insurance product and
the actual claim payment. Since you say you support business operations against natural
disaster risks, what do you think of this kind of situation? So these are my 2 questions.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

Are you asking the weight of corporate property within the claim payment made after the
natural disasters?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

FINAL

Well what is your P&L concerning corporate property? If you know, I suppose you are not
focusing only on the corporate property.
Are you referring to the corporate property per se, not particularly about natural disaster?
What is your feeling if you're especially focused on the recent natural disaster?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

I see you're asking our thought on the impact of the recent natural disasters on the P&L of
corporate properties as well as whether provision of coverage is sufficient or not. Maybe
there is a mismatch. And what you are thinking about it. Mr. Fujii will respond.

A - Shiro Fujii

{BIO 16476704 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As shown on Page 18, for household sector, basically, the premium is set based on the
advisory risk rate. And premiums for commercial properties are set by concerned
individual companies conditions in addition to advisory rates. As stated on that page,
condominium management association, in general, have high loss ratios.
So we took measures to improve profitability. We raised premium or revised underwriting
conditions by which I mean setting deductible amount or raising it. So through those
means, we try to improve profitability.
With respect to 270 commercial policies mentioned there, we revised terms and
conditions of policies with deteriorating loss ratio. In doing so, instead of just raising
prices, we make a proposal that setting a deductible amount at JPY 500 million will have,
for instance, negligible impact on P&L, given the size of the company. In this manner, we
changed terms without changing the level of premium match. As a result, it improves
ROR. We've been implementing this underwriting. Having said that, are we making money
on fire insurance overall or not? Regrettably, overall profitability of fire insurance continues
to be negative, as shown in the handout.
About the issue of a mismatch you asked about, I don't know specifics of a company
reported by newspapers. If a company is really aware of its risks and share it with us, we'll
provide as much coverage as possible provided, as Karasawa said earlier that we receive
a price commensurate with the risk we underwrite. Then in that context, we'll decide on
the scope of coverage.
If a payment does not match expectations despite the coverage had been taken, it may
partly due to our inadequate explanation, we'll continue to make efforts in concluding
contracts to avoid such a risk. And we have adopted a methodology called risktech, as
mentioned earlier. And I'd like to ask Funabiki to talk about it.

Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

A - Shinichiro Funabiki

{BIO 19455601 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Question directly related to digitalization. So allow me to explain digitalization
to a certain extent. For commercial insurance, the scope of coverage, the amount and
premium rate have been decided bilaterally between the insurer and the policyholder
based upon the historical experience in most of the processes. A key point going forward
is how to predict various risks that will occur in the future by analyzing historical data and
come up with a new coverage proposal.
For example, what sort of phenomenon should it occur causes what sort of damages and
where? This is not limited to natural catastrophes. But also includes deterioration of
natural environment, man-made disasters among others. And as Karasawa explained this
several times, it is about how to forecast damages suffered by plants, the accidents and
catastrophes. And oftentimes, financial technology is called fintech and insurance
technology instech. Our group initiated a full-fledged new business of how to forecast
risks using technology this year. And we gave it a specific name, risktech.
And in this business, we match our data we accumulated, catastrophe data we
accumulated with individual companies' data and project and predict future risks to their
business or their industry to prevent and mitigate disasters. And at the same time, work
out new form of insurance coverage.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since our group has very many large property policies by examining the industry overall as
well as the company in question, we can propose an insurance best fitting to the industry.
And that's what we aim at through this new business. Thank you very much.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Majima. Allow me to add one word further. And you may not be fully
convinced about the mismatch issue. To us, it is a very regrettable outcome for an issue
of mismatch at the surface and taken out in this manner. Of course, I wouldn't refer to any
specific name of companies. But very many corporate customers are basically satisfied.
They are glad they had insurance that help them. The reason is we paid JPY 400 billion or
so for this natural catastrophe, of which commercial properties account for such and such
proportion is not really disclosed. But many companies are really satisfied.
On the other hand, as mentioned by Fujii, even if we suggested that we could underwrite
in this form or if you do such and such, we could underwrite. So they were not accepted.
Or because of a trade-off, it is very difficult to underwrite such a civil engineering
structure, unless such and such conditions are met. So through such negotiations,
insurance coverage conditions were explained. And basically, we underwrite what can be
underwritten to the extent possible.
For retail business, only 70% of so-called policies have flood coverage. We are making
efforts to promote flood coverage through those and other efforts. We'd like to eliminate
a sense of mismatch. However, media might tend to report about people who are angry
because they make more interesting articles. Satisfied people do not make interesting

Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

stories. So we ourselves have many really pleased customers. And we'd like to continue
working for ensuring a stable supply. Thank you.

FINAL

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

I am Otsuka of JP Morgan. I just have one question. Please tell me the relation between
the overseas business reorganization and the adjusted net income overseas, which you
are considering in the medium-term management plan. Specifically, in the previous
information meeting, mid-term plan, the current original plan for 2021 is JPY 117 billion of
net income. And you indicated, it may need some adjustment.
But as you have shown today, the target 2021 ROE is 10%. Thus, it has remained the same
that overseas divisions have to recover profitability. Please tell us more from the viewpoint
of how you would reach the targets through regional and overseas reorganization or
through impairment loss.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The assumption of the adjusted net income does not consider goodwill. In this
impairment loss, the package processing of goodwill was sort of done, which reduced the
burden of goodwill. But adjusted net income does not consider it, which means not
positive impact. However, as I said, cost of JPY 10 billion is a positive factor. For the aftertax figure, it will be positive as this is realized by fiscal 2021. But in total, unfortunately,
profitability recovery is slightly delayed in overseas business. I think we have to review and
revise it in the stage 2.
On the other hand, natural disaster pushed down our asset, which may undermine slightly
the target of ROE 10%. Taking into account this factor, we're committed to keep 10%
target after reverification. I hope you would recognize that there could be some
fluctuation in the group net income each business operation.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

I am Niwa of Citigroup. I may make some overlapping points. There are 2 points: fire
insurance profitability and your thought on Stage 2. Let me ask my first question.
When you talk about fire insurance profitability, what's the time spent to achieve profit?
For example, can you forecast time line to achieve 95% profitability in a certain item of
insurance product? Some members of other companies are saying they aim at achieving
higher profit in the certain line or item of product. I would like to share your explanation on
your thoughts as well as the industry mood on this.
My second question is about your idea on Stage 2. You told us about the overseas
business. In the presentation material, it shows in the fiscal '21, the group aims to achieve
JPY 350 billion adjusted net income. Payout ratio is 40% to 60%. Will you maintain this
outlook? I would like to know your thought on this.

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2019-11-27

FINAL

I will respond with outline. And others will give you details. First, with regard to the fire
insurance. We mentioned that in October, revision of products, the underwriting income
will be positive before the fiscal '21. Due to the effects of this revision, about JPY 13 billion
level of income will be restored. But turning it into black letter may be difficult within this
plan period because of increasing costs of the work revision. Because the -- even though
the rate hike takes place for the fire insurance, there are many long-term existing policies,
which have no impact.
In September, other companies rushed to increase higher insurance policies. But we were
relatively self restraint in our move. I hope it does not sound impolite to customers. But
we did not rush actively to respond to demand before the rate hike. So if we had done
so, profit to recovery would have been delayed in our structure.
So if based upon the referenced rates and other product revision is done, it may be
difficult during this time period. However, we will implement the countermeasure to
corporate properties by offering ideas for disaster prevention reduction as well as
increasing rates to the proper level. Though difficult, we'll make effort to make it almost
profitable in the fiscal '21.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, in the mid to long term, fire insurance should improve to enable the disclosure
of profit. To stably supply it to so-called national livelihood and corporate activities in the
long term, we want to design products to achieve combined ratio of 95% or enhanced
disaster prevention reduction or secure proper rates. It is difficult to clearly tell the
timeline as we do not disclose the next revision of rates at present. But we have such a
mid; to long-term perspective.
As to our thought on Stage 2 plan, as I said earlier, we have a long-term stable range of
ROE 10% or ESR 180 to 220, shareholders' return of 40 to 60, the payout ratio. So this
policy remained unchanged. Did that answer your question?
(Statements in English on this transcript were spoken by an interpreter present on the live
call.)

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

