Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager & Director

Other Participants
Alberto Villa
Anna Adamo
Ashik Musaddi
Federico Braga
Filippo Prini
Gian Luca Ferrari
Giovanni Razzoli
Matija Gergolet

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for holding, and welcome to today's Poste Italiane's
Third Quarter Nine Months 2019 Results Webcast. After the presentation, we will have a
question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I must advise you that this webcast is
being recorded today on Wednesday, the 6th of November, 2019.
And I would now like to hand the webcast over to your host today Matteo Del Fante, Chief
Executive Oﬃcer. Please go ahead, sir.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us today. We're pleased to
present Poste Italiane results for the third quarter and ﬁrst nine months of 2019. I will take
you through the key highlights before handing over to Guido for a more detailed
business review. I will then provide some closing remarks before, as usual we open up for
questions.
Slide number 3 please. In terms of major highlights, our uniquely diversiﬁed business
model has delivered sustainable revenues, adapting to changing macro and market
environments. The industrial transformation carried out during the ﬁrst phase of Deliver
2022 is providing a strong platform for innovation and new commercial initiatives that will
drive future growth.
Page 1 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

We remain fully focused on cost discipline, balancing headcount reduction with specialist
hires that actively support our transformation. An increase in non-HR cost is aligned with
our plan and directly support business growth. We are on track to meet all targets for
2019 at both a group and segment level thanks to the continued eﬀort of our people.
As announced in July, we have introduced an interim dividend policy with EUR0.154 per
share to be paid on November 20th, one-third of the Deliver 2022 dividend per shares for
the full year, which would be equal to EUR0.463.
Moving to ﬁnancial results at a group level on Slide 4. Revenues continued to increase, up
1.8% in Q3 and 1.7% for the nine months, conﬁrming our ability to extract greater value
from our distribution network and our successful diversiﬁcation across segments.
Reported EBIT for the quarter was up 1% to EUR459 million and EUR1.5 billion for the
nine-months, an increase of 2%. EBIT on an adjusted basis was EUR463 million for the
third quarter, almost ﬂat and EUR1.3 billion for the nine months, up 10.5% versus the same
period of last year. Reported net proﬁt grew 2.6% for the nine-months and was in line with
the third quarter of 2018. We continue to focus on a day-to-day delivery against our ﬁveyear plan, Deliver 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to revenue on Slide 5. Revenue trends across all segments were in line with the
long-term drivers presented in our strategic plan. By focusing on our customer needs and
developing a more diversiﬁed oﬀer, we are adapting to a changing macro environment.
Starting with Mail, Parcel & Distribution. Revenues in the nine months were down,
impacted by lower mail revenues and some one-oﬀ eﬀect as well as the phasing out of
passenger revenues from Mistral Air now re-branded as Poste Air Cargo. Parcel revenues
continue to increase at a sustained pace, thanks to strong B2C volumes from an
increasing diversiﬁed customer base, conﬁrming the long-term opportunity from ecommerce that underpins Deliver 2022.
Financial services revenues were broadly ﬂat in the quarter, but up in the nine months
when excluding capital gains, leveraging on our distribution network and commercial
initiatives.
Payment, Mobile & Digital and Insurance were strong growth engine in the third quarter.
PMD showed continued revenue growth, both for the quarter and for the nine-months,
driven by successful commercial initiative that capitalize on the synergies between
telecoms and card payments. Insurance Services posted revenue growth both for the
quarter and the nine months in life and P&C. Life revenues growth was coupled with the
successful diversiﬁcation towards multi-class product, while all P&C products lines
continue to grow.
Moving to EBIT on Slide 6. All of our segments are on track. Mail, Parcel and Distribution
EBIT was impacted by combination of lower mail revenues, lower intercompany revenues
as well as a higher cost linked to business transformation. Part of this cost increase relates
to the ramp-up of the Bologna hub, which along with the full implementation of the Joint
Page 2 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

Delivery Model by year-end will generate eﬃciencies from 2020 onwards. So the
complete roll out of our Deliver 2022 strategy for mail and parcel will create additional
cost eﬃciencies.
All other segments show continued operating proﬁtability progression. Growth in
ﬁnancial services operating proﬁtability was high single-digits, supported by higher
intersegment revenues and lower cost while Payments, Mobile & Digital as well as
Insurance Services are growing on a double-digit basis.
In the ﬁrst phase of Deliver 2022, we laid the foundation of our operational
transformation, these included restructuring our traditional logistic network for ecommerce, expanding our product oﬀer to meet customer needs, investing in digital and
physical infrastructures, creating new partnership to facilitate commercial initiativ and
setting a clear path for our people through training and development. Thanks to this
major initiative, the perception about Poste is changing.

Bloomberg Transcript

We now enter the next phase. Building on these foundations by focusing on customer
experience across all segments to extract additional value. To this end, I would like to
welcome Melany Libraro, our new Head of Customer Experience Transformation, who
brings extensive experience in leading online marketplaces and operating with major
international tech companies. Melany has brought in to anticipate and meet customer
needs in a user-friendly way. This process begins with our 70,000 colleagues who carry
out more than 5 million customer transaction every day. As users and ambassador of our
products, this colleagues are the main actors in Poste -- customer experience and are
critical to the successful -- to the success of our distribution platform.
On this Slide number 7, we have highlighted some of the major initiatives already
underway. In Mail, Parcel & Distribution, we're focusing on client friendly delivery to
improve customer experience. And our alternative delivery network now includes over
4,000 locations, ahead of expectations for 2019. In ﬁnancial services, we're building an
innovative asset gathering business, leveraging state-of-the-art digital properties and
enhancing our multi-channel wealth management platform oﬀer. An example of this
transformation is our partnership with Moneyfarm, a digital wealth management product
company.
We're also increasing our focus on third-party product and our new personal loan oﬀer is
now in place. These lines, remember you, carry no credit risk for Poste.
In PMD, we continue to expand the range of innovative services available via our PosteVita
up, including high frequency payments and QR code payment pilot projects. Our goal is
to make Poste digital payments product, a part of everyday life by targeting customer
spending, where hard cash is still dominant.
In insurance services, tangible results are already visible. MiFID II and IDD data presents
an opportunity to proﬁle our customers and upgrade our system to support the salesforce
customer interactions. As a result, we have designed multi-class life policies tailored to

Page 3 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

these diﬀerent customer needs. And today after less than one year, over one-third of new
life gross written premiums are multi-class products.
On P&C, we're ready to launch a motor insurance product using a distribution model
which will oﬀer seamless user experience thanks to state-of-the-art IT platform and an
eﬃcient claim management process. We're not going into more detail today, but we'd
like to take this opportunity to invite you to a post innovation workshop that will be held in
London for those of you that are interested and available in January 24, and there we will
explore these growth opportunities in more detail. More information will follow from our
Head of IR, Massimiliano.
Let me now hand over to Guido who will take you through a more detailed business
review. I will then provide some ﬁnancial comments before we open up to questions.
Over to Guido. Thank you.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Matteo, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me take you through each
segment, starting with Mail, Parcel and Distribution on Slide 9. Overall segment revenues
were down 3.5% in the quarter and 1.3% in the ﬁrst nine months of 2019. This trend was
expected and we are on track to meet our target for the full-year. To better compare
results year-on-year, please remember the nine months 2018 included EUR12 million of
passengers' revenues from Mistral Air, which is now Poste Air Cargo.
Mail revenues were down 8% in the quarter, while in the nine months they were down 5%,
in line with our long-term guidance. This higher quarterly decrease was due to several
speciﬁc reasons. First of all, this quarter is the ﬁrst period that no longer shows the beneﬁt
of the mail product repricing, which became eﬀective in July 2018.
In addition, some mail volumes, such as vehicle and road tax notiﬁcation as well as
ordinary banking bulk mail have been postponed to Q4. Furthermore, in Q3 2018 we
booked subsidies for newspapers and magazine delivery related to the ﬁrst half of 2018,
which for 2019 are booked in the relevant quarters.
Intercompany revenues were also down, mainly related to lower fees from postal savings
and payment slips. Parcel revenues accelerated strongly, up 14% in the quarter and 13% in
the ﬁrst nine months, outpacing the market. This is particularly meaningful as the initial
beneﬁt from the transformation of our network was already visible in the third quarter of
2018.
Operating proﬁt for the nine months 2019 mirrors this trend with EUR55 million lower
internal and external revenues. EBIT was also aﬀected by EUR118 million in higher
expenses related to business growth such as the ramp-up of the Bologna parcel hub and
the D&A related to CapEx. Additionally, we are not yet fully beneﬁting from eﬃciencies on
ongoing industrial transformation projects, which will have an eﬀect in the future. These
include Bologna hub, the total implementation of the Joint Delivery Model, the creation
of a uniﬁed SDA-Poste Italiane single commercial oﬀer for parcels. To conclude, EBIT is in
Page 4 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

line with our 2019 full-year target with Q4 expected to show an improvement year-on-year
on an adjusted basis.
On Slide 10, we look at the core volume and pricing trends for Mail & Parcel. Starting from
the left hand side, overall mail volumes fell only 1.5% in the third quarter, mainly due to a
greater contribution from lower margin products and 7.1% in the ﬁrst nine months of 2019.
Higher record in mail, on the other hand declined 7% in Q3. This was more than in recent
quarters, in part due to the postponement of some volumes to Q4. Average prices for
mail were up 2% for the ﬁrst nine months due to the repricing introduced in July 2018
while tariﬀs decreased 7% in the quarter due to the mix of volumes and the fact that unit
prices are now comparable year-on-year.
Moving to Parcels. Volumes increased more than 17%, boosted by a nearly 30% increase
in B2C volumes for the nine months. These results are encouraging as they are
comparable like-for-like with the third quarter last year where the ﬁrst results of Deliver
2022 had begun to show. The average price index for parcel was down 3% in the quarter
and 4% in the ﬁrst nine months, reﬂecting the changing volume mix with a greater
contribution from B2C, while within each product the average tariﬀ is broadly unchanged
in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Payments, Mobile & Digital on Slide 11. Card payment and telecom activities
drove revenues and EBIT progression. Revenues grew by 10.6% in the quarter and 9.8% in
the ﬁrst nine months. Card payments were up by 11% in the quarter, driven by a higher
number of Postepay cards and a strong increase in payment volumes across both physical
and digital channels.
For telecoms, revenues in the quarter rose by a strong 17%, with our commercial initiatives
helping us successfully navigate a highly competitive environment. Postepay Connect, our
bundled telecoms and payment services oﬀer, capitalizes on the convergence between
the two business lines to eﬀectively support revenue growth. Poste mobile SIM
penetration is high with seniors while Postepay evolution card are primarily used by
younger customers. Postepay Connect captures value by eﬀectively cross-selling sims to
younger consumers and up selling cards to seniors. In particular, the gradual shift of
Postepay towards higher margin Evolution cards further supports revenues as a result of
increased recurring fees and higher usage. Other payments revenues, which include
traditional payment services fell to the decreased tax payment fees in the period.
Moving to ﬁnancial services on Slide 12. Recurring distribution revenues continued to
contribute to the top line, delivering a reduced reliance on capital gains. Segment
revenues were stable in the quarter and nine-months and up in the year-to-date when
excluding capital gains, leveraging on our distribution network and commercial initiatives.
Net interest income is in line with our target of EUR1.6 billion for 2019, thanks to the
proactive portfolio management actions taken during Q4 2018 and Q1 2019 when we
purchased bonds at a higher yield to anticipate maturities and new ﬂows expected for
2019.

Page 5 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

Fees from postal savings distribution is in the nine months were down but in line with our
2019 target of EUR1.8 billion. New campaigns are in the pipeline for the fourth quarter
designed to leverage on the signiﬁcant upcoming expiries. Our focus on third-party
products continues. Loan and mortgage distribution fees rose 18% in the ﬁrst nine months
and will be further supported by the new oﬀer now in place with Intesa personal loans
and UniCredit salary backed loans. Asset management revenues were up 12% in the same
period, supported by positive net inﬂows.
Going forward, low interest rates are a clear headwind, but we are well positioned and
compare favorably with our peers. This is thanks to our average portfolio duration of 5.8
years, much longer than other Italian ﬁnancial institutions and the ﬂexibility we retain to
actively manage our portfolio to capture potential market opportunities. We are currently
assessing the impact of lower rates on net interest for 2020 onwards while identifying the
measures which will allow us to grow in a sustainable way with a changing product mix.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me remind you that our diversiﬁed business model can adapt to changing market
conditions, thanks to a wide range of ﬁnancial and insurance products tailored to our
customer needs. We did not capitalize -- we did not realize any capital gains in the third
quarter. Thanks to favorable market conditions, we have secured most of the remainder of
the capital gains planned for 2019, which will be realized in Q4. These conditions also
allowed us to secure a relevant part of the capital gains planned for 2020 through forward
contracts, increasing the visibility of 2020 revenue streams.
EBIT increased both in the quarter and in the ﬁrst nine months. This was due to higher
intersegment revenues with insurance being the major contributor and lower costs in
comparison with the same period in 2018, which saw higher costs related to
correspondence and real estate funds provisions. We conﬁrm that ﬁnancial services EBIT
is in line with 2019 targets.
Moving to group total ﬁnancial assets on Slide 13. Total ﬁnancial assets have increased by
over EUR26 billion since the end of December thanks to both market eﬀect and net
inﬂows. Deposits were up EUR6.2 billion related to a seasonal contribution from public
administration current accounts, retail deposits and Postepay. Insurance products
recorded EUR3 billion net inﬂows, thanks to multi-class products. Mutual funds posted net
inﬂows of plus EUR0.3 billion in a complex market environment. Flows from postal savings
were negative as expected, and in line with target for 2019. In a fast changing market
environment, we continued to develop suitable products for our customers by focusing
on their needs.
Moving to slide 14 on insurance services, where all product lines contributed to an
increase in segment revenues of over 16%. As highlighted, the strong performance in the
quarter and the ﬁrst nine months was driven by both life and non-life products. Life
insurance revenues were up, thanks to business growth capital with the successful
diversiﬁcation to multi-class products as well as enhanced proﬁtability. Multi-class product
penetration is expected to further improve thanks to the increasing volume of expiring
Class I policies. We also increased investment margin, supported by favorable market
condition.

Page 6 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

In the current low interest rate environment, our realized gains increased to over EUR15
billion at the end of September. This gives us greater conﬁdence in reaching our target
investment margin to stabilize policyholders' returns. Revenue contribution related to
P&C grew strongly, up 20% in the ﬁrst nine months, underpinned by solid growth across
all products. EBIT for the ﬁrst nine months grew by a strong 23.4%, well on track for 2019.
Let's move to Slide 15 on solvency. The solvency II ratio increased from 242% to 295% at
the end of September as the positive development in BTP market more than oﬀset the
impact of a further reduction in risk-free interest rates. The narrowing in the swap rate
negatively impacted the solvency II ratio due to a mismatch in asset and liability duration
and the increased value of embedded options. The decrease of BTP swap spread resulted
in a higher solvency II ratio beneﬁting from unrealized gains in the investment portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

In particular, unrealized gains amounted to EUR15.1 billion at the end of September,
reducing market and underwriting risk. We conﬁrm for 2019 a dividend upstream of 50%
from PosteVita to the parent company with no impact on the group dividend policy. This
will be worth some 10 percentage points of solvency II ratio for the full-year 2019.
Transitional measures have been approved by the regulator, but their beneﬁt is not
included in the ﬁgures shown on this slide. Those actions were part of the ongoing capital
management actions implemented to provide an additional buﬀer to weather potential
volatility in the future.
Moving to solvency II ratio sensitivity on Slide 16. We stand at 295% at the end of
September, a level which is above our managerial ambition through the cycle driven by a
positive BTP market environment. On this slide, we have outlined the impact of various
scenarios, a sudden increase of Italian spread by 100 basis points and 200 basis points.
The outcome of these two scenarios are comparable because at plus 200 basis points,
the country-speciﬁc volatility adjustment would be triggered. All scenarios presented here
conﬁrms that we are well-positioned against potential market volatility. We have already
demonstrated our ability to strengthen PosteVita's capital base at no cost to our
shareholders and continue to implement measures such as product and investment
portfolio diversiﬁcation to manage volatility in the long-term.
Moving to group costs on Slide 17. HR costs showed a year-on-year decline in the ﬁrst nine
months. The wage component increased, fully embedding for the ﬁrst time the ﬁrst salary
revision in three years. This was more than oﬀset by an acceleration in FTE reduction.
Early retirement charges were just EUR13 million. The bulk of these charges will be
booked in the fourth quarter. Since the quota 100 pension reform was introduced in 2019,
we have gained additional ﬂexibility as it allows us to oﬀer early retirement to more
people at a lower cost per capita. Non-HR costs increased by 5.9%, in line with our
expectations. This mainly relates to Payment, Mobile & Digital variable costs and the
ongoing industrial transformation mentioned in the Mail, Parcel and Distribution section.
On Slide 18, we look at Poste continuing workforce evolution and the new hires and
headcount reductions, which support Deliver 2022. Our average headcount decreased to
below 130,000 FTEs at the end of September, in line with our plan. This is the result of an
average reduction of more than 7,000 due to turnover and subsidized exits, leading to
over 13,000 exits since December 2017 out of an overall goal of 25,000 by 2022.
Page 7 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

Our ability to actively manage headcounts is conﬁrmed and supported by quota 100.
Since full year 2018, we made on average 2,800 new hires, including last-mile delivery
professionals as well as digital and ﬁnancial advisory specialists. We continue to execute
our hiring plan support transformation. Our average cost per FTE has increased since
year-end 2018 to support business growth. At the same time, the value-added per FTE
has increased as our workﬂow strategy delivers higher productivity.
Let me now hand back to Matteo for closing remarks on Slide 19. Thank you.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Before taking your question, let me close with some key points. These
results demonstrate again our continued progress against the commitments that we laid
out in February 2018 with our strategic plan, Deliver 2022. The new interim dividend
policy aligns the company to the best practice and demonstrates our ability to meet our
targets. While the wider macro environment has changed with even lower interest rate,
we're able to adapt and are conﬁdent in the power of our diversiﬁed business model.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our cost discipline supports growth in a balanced way, while we're accelerating our
CapEx plan to fuel the ongoing industrial transformation. All in all, this allow us to look
ahead building on our strong foundations by focusing on customer centric innovation
across all segment to extract additional value.
Looking ahead, we will provide you new guidance for 2020 within the Deliver 2022
framework in March next year alongside the announcement of our full year results for
2019. What I can tell you today is that we are very conﬁdent that our operating proﬁtability
will continue to progress going forward. We can now open to question please.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer
session. (Operator Instructions) Alternately you can submit your questions at any time via
the Q&A function on the webcast.
And your ﬁrst audio question comes from the line of Gian Luca Ferrari of Mediobanca.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes. Good morning, everyone. The ﬁrst question I have is on the NII trend, in particular,
this EUR410 million in Q3 is basically conﬁrming the trend of Q1 and Q2. I understood you
will come back in March on what we should expect for next year. But I think Guido
mentioned some potential measures to oﬀset the impact of low rates. Would those
Page 8 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

measures imply to increase the EUR300 million expected realized gains next year? Or you
are thinking more about other businesses contributing more. We saw an amazing result
from insurance, for example, that could oﬀset pressure on NII. I was wondering if capital
gains could be activated much more than the EUR300 million you are projecting next
year?
Second question is on another amazing number is on HR costs that are basically not
growing at all. You mentioned the quota 100 as a potential contributor for additional
ﬂexibility. Could we expect for the coming quarters and years? Basically a cost base and
HR cost base pretty stable. So not even reﬂecting inﬂation. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. NII is clearly a topic in current market environment, but I would like to say that is not
a topic that is creating any concern to us. We maintain our commitment to reduce reliance
on capital gain. In Deliver 2022, we had for next year, EUR340 million of capital gains and
a portion of those has already been secured. And without anticipating our March
guidance, I can tell you that at the moment, we're planning to stick to the plan. You have
to remember that in February '18, when we presented the plan and in March 19, when we
gave guidance within the Deliver 2022 framework, we had already envision for 2020,
lower NII for 2020. It was actually if you go back to our presentations, it was EUR1.5 million
versus the EUR1.6 million that we had committed for this year.
And we have to bear in mind that since we presented the plan beginning of 2018, we
have experienced over one year of spread, BTP spread widening because we had a
window from May 2018 to August this year. And in that period, we invested EUR7 billion,
around EUR7 billion of cash in higher yielding than we had anticipated in February 2018.
That has allowed us to increase duration, and this is clearly helping also the mark-tomarket of our portfolio.
Bear in mind that we have an additional support coming from the fact that on the liability
side, the repo or the lower rates we pay to some customers. Clearly, we have some
additional savings versus the plan. So all-in-all NII not a concern. We were not talking
about the negative mark-to-market of the portfolio and we don't talk today about the
positive mark-to-market of the same portfolio, so business as usual.
On HR costs, please, Guido?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes, I will just point you to a couple of things I mentioned already in my speech and try to
make a sense out of them for you. So ﬁrst of all, as I said, we have signiﬁcant more
ﬂexibility coming from quota 100. You have to think that -- just to give you a rough
number what we were expecting to be the cost of subsidized exit today will cost us
roughly EUR10,000 less in the new environment. So that kind of ﬂexibility can be
transformed in more people at the same cost or less people and less cost and we retain
that ﬂexibility also because I mentioned that we've done 13 out of 25,000 reductions that

Page 9 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

we had in the plan, which makes it -- bring us to a very, very good starting point for the
remainder of the plan.
Also in the speech I mentioned, one thing that I want to reiterate. Last year, the revision,
so to your point of inﬂation, last year the revision in the contract was done, following three
years of lack of revisions. So that revision had to take into account for three years, the
contract has not been reviewed. So that was kind of a one oﬀ. The new contract will be
reviewed sometime at the beginning of next year for 2020, but the starting base is
completely diﬀerent, because we start from a much better contract negotiated last year.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Alberto Villa of Intermonte.
Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon, I have a question on Slide 28 about the trend in net inﬂows in the
third quarter, if you can give us some more color about -- well, you had net outﬂows in the
quarter. I was wondering if you can give us an idea about what you're expecting for the
fourth quarter and the contribution of retainment inﬂows. It seems that the mix is
deﬁnitely favorable, I guess, from what you said during the call that the expectations are
from growing net inﬂows into the insurance. I was wondering if you can give us an order
of magnitude of net inﬂows you're expecting for the fourth quarter and maybe also for
2020.
And also on the postal saving oﬀering. Can we expect some news about eventually the
oﬀer you have I think you are going to negotiate with the CDP next year in terms of both
of the oﬀering to make it more appealing for the customer under the current interest rate
environment. And eventually if the current interest rate environment can put at risk the
commission you're getting from CDP? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So, I will take the ﬁrst part of the question,
I guess, the two are very much linked. But what we can tell you on the fourth quarter is,
again, I will point you to the fact that even the third quarter was positive in our view,
because as you mentioned, the retail net inﬂows were signiﬁcant at EUR1.3 billion. So the
reduction in the quarter is due to, mainly public administration deposits that as you know
are quite seasonal. So, we continue to see that positive trend into the fourth quarter. The
ﬁrst couple of month's data and the weekly progression are giving a lot of comfort. And
this is true for the main contributors of postal savings and then the others mainly, but then
deposits as well obviously. So, I can tell you that the Q4 and is absolutely in line with the

Page 10 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

target for the year and the progression is proving right even in the ﬁrst few weeks of this
quarter.

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

On postal savings, speciﬁcally, you've seen on Page 29 of the appendix that in the ﬁrst
nine months, we improve our performance versus last year by EUR750 million. And in
terms of new products in a lower rate environment, there is work every day basically to
support our commercial oﬀer. And speciﬁcally in the next week, we're going to have two
new products. And before the end of the year probably another two, so we navigate
these low rates environment on a basically a week-by-week basis with CDP and we don't
see any sign of weakness in the appetite of our clients for the products and for postal
savings. You have to remember that last part of the year is a period where we have a lot of
redemptions. So, we have also the opportunity on one side and the challenge to keep the
ﬂow, but so far, so good. We check, obviously, on a daily basis production, but we are
very comfortable at this point in time.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Anna Adamo of Autonomous
Research. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Good afternoon. I have two questions, please. Firstly, I noticed that Poste generated
negative draws this quarter. Expenses were rising faster than revenues. Can you clarify
how much of the cost base was inﬂated by additional CapEx and investments this quarter,
which, as you said will generate additional eﬃciencies in the future? That's my ﬁrst
question.
Then on insurance, the Solvency II ratio is back to very solid levels, well above the
guidance. But we all know that this ratio is sensitive to spreads. And are you, therefore
making any progress on the migration to internal models to create an additional buﬀer 1
times and less favorable? Thank you very much.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Anna, if you don't mind, I'll start from the second one.
As you know, we talked, I think, even on this call about this point. And my question -- my
answer will not be too diﬀerent from before, meaning that as I said, we're working on it.
And as you know, this is a very lengthy process that even the regulator tells us it's going to
take between two and three years. But what I can add this time is that we are working and
we have been working with a -- an advisor, a specialist advisor to implement a model that
helps us anticipate the Solvency II evolution yes on a standard basis, but this is really the

Page 11 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

ﬁrst step for us to prove and get a lot of insights. First on how to implement an internal
model, how to structure the team and then really how to use the data that this model
provides us to manage even going forward the evolution of the business. So that's what I
can tell you on internal models.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

On the ﬁrst question on overall, I believe, revenues versus overall cost, I think, on the
revenue side, we have shown certainly a strong performance on in line with the plan and
we reiterated our conﬁdence to meet the plan for 2019 in terms of guidance. On the cost
side, I will probably repeat some of the considerations of Guido, on the HR side, because
basically, we are starting for the ﬁrst year to have the full impact of the new labor contract
and that clearly shows. And at the same time on the non-HR cost, we had two elements
number one, the development cost related to variable cost of our growing business and
that's going from parcel distribution to PMD cost that has increased. And then there is the
business transformation mainly in logistics that has some D&A impact that you have seen
and some additional cost. One item that I would like again to reiterate your attention is
the fact that when you go to Page 18, our value added for FTE has grown from last year by
6 from 62 to 66. And I believe that the Deliver 2022 plan was to bring it to 70. So we are
nine months into 2018 and we already reached 66. So eﬃciency in that respect is clearly
ahead of the plan.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Ashik Musaddi of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, good afternoon, Matteo. Good afternoon, Guido.
Just a few questions. First of all, your NII moved up. If I look at quarter-on-quarter, which
was a bit of a surprise, because interest rates have been going down for the last three
quarters in a row. So what's driving your NII up that would be our ﬁrst question to learn?
And then like how should we think about next couple of quarters at least in the short term
in terms of NII projection? So that's number one.
Secondly, you mentioned about this transitional measures has been approved under
Solvency II. Can you just give us some more clarity what these are? How big it could be?
And what will it protect you for? I mean, will it protect you for interest rate? Or spread or
what will it protect you for? So that would be the second one.

Page 12 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

And third one is, mail volumes they didn't decline that much. But mail pricing did decline.
I think you mentioned about the volume, the mix shift from recorded to unrecorded. So,
how should we think about more mail volume decline going forward? I mean are you still
comfortable with your 5% total mail revenue decline guidance? Or shall we think about
anything else? So these three questions would be great. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes. I'll take NII, Ashik. Hi.
I think the duration of our portfolio of almost six year is telling you that there is clearly a
lag in between interest rates moving and impact on our interest margin. And the lag is
clearly higher than the one you would probably see in any ﬁnancial institution that for
what I know, have a signiﬁcantly lower duration, generally speaking. So, you don't see
today, but you might see next year the impact of lower rates in 2019. Having said that, we
had EUR1.5 billion for next year and as I answered before, we're very comfortable with that
target and we keep our line of reducing reliance on capital gain, which are there. But as I
said, we try not to use them and keep -- and speak to our Deliver 2022 plan.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, clear to know.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

And I'll take transitional, as I said, the measure was approved. In the next quarter, we'll
show the number eﬀect but what we care is not much about the number because we
manage without taking that into account, but we -- it is one of our managerial actions
because we spent quite enough time with the regulator on this measure, because we
believe this can be useful in volatile quarters and especially the BTP volatile quarters
when you ﬁnd yourself with a -- especially when the spread is high, but not high enough
to trigger volatility adjustment, this gives enough comfort in my mind to the regulator that
we are totally under control.
We know that from a business perspective, we are totally under control. We went through
this with you and all the others, because we discussed our business model, but we want
to make sure that it's evident to the market and to the regulator that we are completely
comfortable. So it's just a way to weather volatility, as I said in my speech.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

No, I mean I think this is really a good thing, because if this -- if you get the transitional
measures, and clearly you don't need to go to the internal model route, I mean, in two,
three years' time, you can do it peacefully. So no rush in. With the transitional measure, it
will deﬁnitely help you to address uneconomic volatility. But one thing I want to check is

Page 13 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

like what does it protect you for? Is it -- does it protect you for BTP spread as well or just
interest rates?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, it's -- as you know, the main eﬀect for us is BTP. So yes.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. Yes, that's good. Okay. Thank you.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

But you can ﬁnd detail on the attachment -- I'm sorry, on the second part of the Appendix
of the Presentation is on page of -- Page 35.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Last point on mail decline. So well, I think this year, it's been really a year, where we
showed that the ﬁrst quarter that was slower than we expected, a very good second
quarter, and now is one that is slower than we expected. Yes, there is certain volatility on
volumes, but we totally conﬁrm the 5% longer term decline, which is what we had during
the plan. And also, I think the ﬁrst signs of volumes for this current quarter are showing
what I said in my speech some of the volumes that we were expecting in Q3 coming in
Q4.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, that's very clear. Many thanks for this.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Matija Gergolet of Goldman
Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Yes, hello. Good afternoon. The ﬁrst question is about HR costs. Going back to the slide,
which you show at the end. You basically showing that for the ﬁrst nine months, your HR
costs are pretty much ﬂat. I think you were guiding back in February that you would
expect a bit of an increase in the cost because basically of the increase in international
contract. Should we expect like an acceleration in the fourth quarter? Or basically you are
slightly ahead on the HR costs compared to your plan? That's my ﬁrst question.
Page 14 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

Secondly, going to payments and mobile, there seems to be quite a bit of a change in the
revenue trend in this quarter compared to the ﬁrst half of the year, with no sharp
acceleration in telecom and some deceleration in card payments revenues. Can you
elaborate a little bit on why is that happening? Are you shifting revenues from one, let's
say, subdivision to the other? Or is there some underlying change in the trends that we
should be aware of?
And thirdly, maybe just a comment on the P&C, what is your latest thinking about motor
insurance, about entering that market? Or what's your latest thinging there? Thank you
very much.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I will start with the last one. Thank you, Matija.

Bloomberg Transcript

On motor, we are getting ready to launch a pilot project with employees of the company
only. That's usually the way we test our products. As I said in my introduction, we have
70,000 client-facing colleagues. And if they like the product, it means that they will clearly
recommend it and sell it.
On the second question on PMD, we are showing a strong resilient in telco. I agree with
you, we are supported by our ﬁxed-line business. So there is a reslilience in that space in
the other revenue level. I think that also card payment is slightly lower; I agree with you.
We are growing only 11% in the quarter versus the 17% over the nine months. But I think
this is still good double-digit growth. So we stick to our plan. I think what is important that
in all these businesses, we can leverage signiﬁcantly on the trust that our clients put on
Poste. You have, in our mobile business, a much lower churn rate than competition. You
have a much lower less than half lapse rate in insurance. You have in the appendix of the
presentation the quarter results of 2.56 if I remember correctly. So we have a very stable
and client base that really trust us. And I believe that if we continue giving them services
and develop our client-centric business model, this will only improve.
On cost, I can tell you, yes, it's slightly better than what we anticipated in February. We are
ahead of plan in terms of FTEs and you can see it on Page 17 on the EUR168 million
reduction. Maybe a portion of this will be reabsorbed by year end. But we're still in
progress, but certainly, we're ahead of the plan and some of this margin will stay with us
for the whole of 2019.
Thank you, Matija.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Giovanni Razzoli from Equita. Please
go ahead.
Page 15 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Thank you. But my question was already answered. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Federico Braga of UBS. Please
go ahead.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon everyone. Thanks for taking my question. Just two questions left
from my side. The ﬁrst one is on the capital ratios of the banking business, CET 1 ratio and
leverage ratio fell sharply in the quarter. So, I was wondering if you could give us a little
bit more color on the drivers there. And in particular with regards to the leverage ratio
2.7% if you plan to bring back this ratio to 3%? Or what's the approach there?
And then the second question is a follow-up on the telco revenues. In the quarter the
pricing picked up pretty well. If we look at the ARPU of the mobile division, it increased by
-- increased double digit in Q3 versus Q2 of this year. So I was wondering what's the key
driver there if it's a product mix? You mentioned pretty good results in the ﬁxed line
contract. So I was wondering what's the key driver there? Thank you very much.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sorry, my mic was oﬀ. So, I'll start again.
Leverage ratio, it's good to clarify that there's no speciﬁc regulatory requirement for
Bancoposta on this ratio. Obviously, the ratio that we have in our risk appetite framework.
But you need to consider that we are peculiar and this is why it doesn't apply to us
actually, because the increase in asset value related to lower BTP spreads obviously does
not impact the dominator and the nominator in the same way you would do to a normal
bank. So, we -- yes, it is below. But we're not particularly concerned by it, also because it
comes, because of a positive eﬀect from BTP spread reduction and the value of our
portfolio to increase. And that's on the leverage ratio.
On telecom revenue, I just would point to what Matteo was saying before on our ARPU,
which is particularly lowered compared to others. And in this quarter I think I would add
the positive contribution, which you see in the same line from ﬁxed lines, which had a very
good quarter and to continue to progress with the additional commercial oﬀers into this
new quarter.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Filippo Prini of Kepler. Please go
ahead.

Q - Filippo Prini

{BIO 15149583 <GO>}
Page 16 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

FINAL

Yes. Good afternoon. Two brief questions. The ﬁrst one is on the expected year retirement
cost for this year and next year, if you can remind us which is the expectation. And still on
this point, I would like just a clariﬁcation. Is it correct that before on the call you
mentioned that with quota 100, you would expect to have a saving of EUR10,000 there on
cost retirement per employee?
And the last one, I noticed that at the end of your presentation, you mentioned about
providing the new guidance for 2020 next March. Does this new guidance would include
also your dividends? Or do you if you can tell now that you plan to stick to your regional
plus 5% growth in DPS also for 2020. Thank you.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

I will start with the dividend. I think I read on some of your reports, probably was not you,
Filippo, but with the current market value of the share, the dividend yield has clearly gone
down. And some of you are pointing out to this situation. We have not opened the
dividend ﬁle. And so at the moment we stick to our plan. And I think that's all I can say at
this point in time.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the ﬁrst question on labor. I think the way we look at it is that quota 100 has basically
accelerated our and supported our plan in two ways because we end up as you
highlighted having a lower cost per head versus what we anticipated. And clearly give us
an additional buﬀer of early retirement versus the plan. So all-in-all, is helping our
transformation.
On early retirement charges. So I'm going to the ﬁrst part of your question, we have
provision 2018 for a signiﬁcant transformation that we actually -- you actually see on the -today on the nine months. We are sticking to the plan for year-end in terms of additional
early retirement. And then I think we would have at the end of 2019 than a meaningful
portion of the transformation we had in mind when we launched the plan in February
2018. So probably one of the big item of a revision of the plan, which is a topic for clearly
next year would probably go into more detail on this speciﬁc factor. So, how much do we
still need to keep this pace, which we clearly have the ability to do without impacting our
transformation and our ability to generate additional revenues.

Q - Filippo Prini

{BIO 15149583 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
Thank you. We have no further questions at this time. I would now like to hand the call
back over to Matteo Del Fante for his closing remarks. Please go ahead, sir.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you again to all of you for joining us today and for the questions. The next event, as
anticipated, for investors and analysts will be the Poste Innovation Workshop in London

Page 17 of 18



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-11-06

on January 24. Details to follow from our IR team. And thank you again. I hope to see you
all there.
Thank you very much.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your webcast for today. Thank you
for participating, and you may now all disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

