Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

S1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Gary Duggan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
James Quin, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Robin Shaw, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Joanna Parsons, Analyst
Luke Stratford-Higton, Analyst
Omar Resheq, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Morning, everyone, and welcome. Thank you very, very much for joining us. As you
probably know by now, after six years of me standing up, I'm Lance Batchelor, the Group
CEO of Saga, I'm joined today by our CFO, James Quinn, and also by the CEOs of our
Travel and Insurance Broking divisions, Robin Shaw and Gary Duggan. Our Chairman,
Patrick O'Sullivan, and a number of non-execs from our Board are also with us this
morning. So, welcome to you.
Now given that we're mainly going to spend this results presentation reporting on the
progress against the strategic reset that we did back in April, kind of makes sense for us
to follow a similar format to the one that we use then. So I will give a quick introduction.
Then I'm going to hand you over to James who will talk you through the numbers in more
detail. Gary, and then Robin will give you an update on their respective businesses. I will
then update you on membership and the brand. And I'll conclude and open the ﬂoor to
questions. I'll just let everyone settle.
So let's start with the headlines. As you will have seen from this morning's release, we've
made good progress against our strategic goals. From astounding start, the sales of our
three-year ﬁxed price insurance are good. And that has helped us in a number of other
areas. We are stabilizing Saga's branded Home and Motor policy count, despite a
challenging insurance market and without needing excessively to use price comparison
websites to drive the volume. Our retention has improved. The proportion of new

Page 1 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

customers buying from us direct has improved. We've been able to deliver margins above
our target range for the year. Meanwhile, on the other side of the business, our Cruise
division is really going full steam ahead. The launch of Saga's Spirit of Discovery was a
really signiﬁcant milestone for the Company. And the booking momentum that we've had
since then has meant that we've achieved this year's targets. And looking forward to next
year, over 55% of our total target volume is already booked. Now, remember that next
August we get a second new cruise ship and that increases our capacity by 28%. So given
that we're already 55% pre-built for next year, we are genuinely in a very strong position in
Cruise.
In the other part of our holidays business, Tour Operations, we're continuing the process
of transitioning the business towards higher margin, more diﬀerentiated products in a
very challenging market. So in short, we've made a good start. We're conﬁdent of hitting
our previous guidance for underlying PBT of between GBP105 million and GBP120
million. But there's plenty of work still to do.
So with that, I'm going to hand you over to James, who's going to take you through the
ﬁnancials in some more detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you, Lance. I'll now take you through the ﬁrst half results, starting with the main
headlines. Underlying proﬁt before tax of GBP53 million for the ﬁrst half is around half the
prior year ﬁgure. This is due to a combination of factors, including lower reserve releases,
margin pressure in Broking and temporarily lower earnings from Cruise. The key point to
make, however, is -- this is in line with the guidance that we provided in April.
On this slide, we showed both underlying and reported proﬁt before tax. And these are
for the most part, the same number. In terms of the items outside of underlying proﬁt
before tax, there are some relatively small ups and downs, but these eﬀectively net oﬀ to
zero. Debt ratio has increased as a result of lower reserve releases. That reduces the
denominator in the leverage ratio calculation. Actual net debt, excluding the debt relating
to the Spirit of Discovery, was stable in the ﬁrst half. And the interim dividend of 1.3p per
share is consistent with our rebased dividend policy.
On the next slide, I show the results by division. There are two points I would like to
highlight here. The reduction in the underwriting results is due to lower reserve releases,
which are tracking in line with our expectations. And the result of travel is very much a
one-oﬀ, including a GBP3.4 million loss from the cruise business compared to a proﬁt of
GBP4.3 million in the prior year. This is due to the fact that we only had one ship in
operation for three months of this half year and due to launch training and marketing
costs for the Spirit of Discovery. We expect a very diﬀerent picture from now onwards.
On the next slide, I show more information on the broking business. We've made some
good progress in broking in the ﬁrst half against the KPIs that I set out in April. However,
before I talk about that, I'll give you an update of the information I provided with our full

Page 2 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

year results, which shows the moving parts in written proﬁt between last year and this
year.
Compared to the ﬁrst half of last year, the new business contribution of home and motor
business has declined by GBP4.8 million. This is mainly due to the factors that I outlined at
the time of the full year results and relate to changes in distribution trends and the impact
of GDPR on direct mail volumes. In addition, we have in the ﬁrst half increased spending
on advertising to promote the new ﬁxed product and to bring customers in on a direct
basis. This is consistent with the direction we set out in April and our focus on Saga's
heritage strength as a direct-to-consumer brand.

Bloomberg Transcript

A point I would like to make here is that our new business margins on net of a prudent
deferral of part of the premium paid on three-year ﬁxed policies. This makes allowance for
future customer retention levels as well as the likelihood of customers making material
mid-term adjustments or claiming on their policy. In which case, we would reset the price
on renewal. As of 31 July, we had deferred GBP1.8 million of revenue on 112,000 policies.
That's about 8.5% of the total net written premiums of all the business written on a threeyear ﬁxed basis. And it allows us to absorb inﬂation running above our base case
assumptions through the life of those policies.
Turning back to the chart, we've seen a GBP4.4 million of reduction in renewal margins,
almost all on home, mainly due to the impact of discounting in the prior year [ph] and an
increase in net rates from panel insurers. We've been seeing some small other changes,
such as reduction in travel volumes that was expected and a small increase in operating
costs, which is due to the fact that we've accrued six months of bonus payments whereas
previously all such costs were recognized at the end of the year.
Now, I do recognize this is not -- does not make for easy reading, but the key point here is
that these year-on-year movements were very much what we had expected. And as I
explain on the next slide, the underlying trends in the business show good signs of
progress.
At the time of our full year results, I set out a view of expectations for the performance of
the broking business as we implemented a new strategy. And on this slide, I show you an
update of how we are doing. In terms of policy volumes, our goal for this year was to hold
home and motor volumes as fairly stable. At the half year, overall, home and motor
policies were down by 4%, largely due to a planned reduction in our motorcycle [ph]brok,
Bennetts . For the Saga branded home and motor business, policy -- policy volumes
reduced by 1.9%, which is slightly below expectations and due in part to very competitive
conditions for new business.
With a disciplined approach to pricing and with the beneﬁts of the three-year product,
we've started to shift our distribution model back towards direct. For the ﬁrst half, direct
new business represented 53% of total Saga branded home and motor new business,
compared to 44% in the second half of last year. In relation to retention, we have a
positive story. Across home and motor, retentions are more than 1 point higher than in the

Page 3 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

prior period and around 3 points higher than in the second half of last year. This is due to
various initiatives to improve customer retentions.
In terms of proﬁtability, at the time of the full year results, I provided an indicative range
for gross margins per policy after marketing costs and across home and motor combined.
We're slightly above the top half -- the top-end of that range in the ﬁrst half at GBP75.50.
The full year margin is expected to be in the guided range of GBP71 to GBP74 as a result
of changes to renewal pricing for long tenured customers, which were largely
implemented in July.
And last, I would expect overheads to come in within expectations for the full year, and I
would anticipate a lower written to earned charge compared to the GBP5 million. The
point I want to leave you with is that we have stabilized the broking business and we are
making good progress in some critically important areas. While it's still early days, we will
continue to test and learn with diﬀerent approaches to advertising spend and improve
our insurance propositions to drive a further shift back to direct over time. Gary will talk
more about this shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I would turn to our underwriting business. Earned premiums in AICL declined by
9%, although this is a somewhat backward looking view reﬂecting a loss of panel share
last year. AICL's share has now increased again as a result of actions to improve
competitiveness. And this should lead to a more stable picture for the full year. Claims
trends have been largely in line with expectations. We've seen a modest increase in
inﬂation trends in theft and some other small risks. This has had a modest overall impact
on inﬂation and that's consistent with what we hear from other insurers.
Overall, however, this is within normal ranges and large bodily injury claims experience
has been fairly good. During the ﬁrst half, we released GBP18 million of reserves. That's in
part due to the reduction in the Ogden discount rate from minus 0.75% to minus 0.25%
and in part a recognition of prudence in best estimate reserves. Our expectations for AICL
are unchanged from the comments I made in April. To be speciﬁc, we expect reported
results to trend to medium-term combined ratio of around 97% in the next two years. The
focus within AICL now is an improving pricing sophistication and supporting footprint
expansion in line with the role of the underwriter as a key enabler of the Group's
insurance strategy.
Turning now to travel. Highlights of the ﬁrst half has been the completion of the Spirit of
Discovery from a purely ﬁnancial perspective on time and on budget. Bookings for both
this year and next year for the two ships have been very strong, particularly following a
step-up in marketing activities from June. We have an increasing level of conﬁdence in
achieving the target of GBP40 million of EBITDA per ship, albeit there's still a long way to
go for next year. In terms of this year, the loss increase in the ﬁrst half was in line with
expectations and is due to the sale of the Pearl in April and marketing and other costs
relating to the Spirit of Discovery.
In relation to tour ops, the travel industry overall is going through a period of major
change and the added political uncertainties around Brexit have exacerbated those

Page 4 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

pressures. We have seen a 5.6% decline in passenger numbers and a 3% decline in
revenues in the ﬁrst half. In addition, gross margins have fallen from around 20% to 17.6%
in the current year due to one-oﬀs in the prior year of about 1 percentage point and the
impact of price discounting in the ﬁrst half of about 1.5 percentage points. While the
demand environment remains fairly challenging, we do expect to see improved margins
in the second half. And Robin will talk to this shortly. Overall, our priorities for tour ops are
unchanged. We will shift towards higher margin and diﬀerentiated holidays, particularly
based around tours and river cruise.
Next, I will cover emerging businesses and central costs. Emerging businesses'
underlying proﬁt before tax reduced by GBP0.5 million [ph] in the prior -- in this period.
And that's mainly due to margin pressures in the group's printing business. Central
expenses increased by GBP4.7 million for three reasons: investments in brand and IT
capabilities of around GBP3 million; an increase in legal and professional fees of around
GBP1 million; and an accrual of six months of bonus payments of a further GBP1 million. To
give you more of a sense of what is included in this category, we provide additional
disclosure in the back of the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Around GBP4.5 million of the total central costs related to PLC costs and share-based
payments for senior management. A further GBP4.8 million relates to centrally managed
costs such as group group IT and shared service costs, as well as professional fees, group
audit fees and insurance costs. And GBP6.3 million relates to central brand spend, the
costs of membership and depreciation on IT assets that are used across the group. The
point here is that a relatively small portion relates to central overheads, and the majority
of these costs beneﬁt the trading divisions of the group.
In this respect, to get the full picture of the group's cost base, I share analysis of total
admin and marketing costs on the next slide. This slide analyzes how group admin and
marketing costs have changed compared to the prior period. There are three main
moving parts. The biggest is the fact that we are now accruing half a year of bonuses. This
adds GBP3.2 million to costs. But it is of course, a cosmetic change. We have then, as
expected, also spends around GBP6 million more on marketing costs than in the ﬁrst half
of last year, and that split more or less 50/50 between broking and cruise. These
investments were ﬂanked with our year-end results and are an important part of our
strategic reset. This is then partially oﬀset by around GBP4 million in high deferrals under
the written to earned adjustments and the quota share treaty. Net of these items, total
admin and marketing costs were pretty much ﬂat as we continue to take a disciplined
approach to expenses.
On the next slide, I set out available operating cash for the ﬁrst half. There are two speciﬁc
one-oﬀ factors, which have reduced operating cash in the ﬁrst half. We injected GBP25
million into travel in February to help meet the ﬁnal installments due on the Spirit of
Adventure. And we had a one-oﬀ beneﬁt in working capital last year, which reversed in
the ﬁrst half of this year. This was in an amount of GBP15 million. Adding these two items
back, our cash conversion, which is namely the percentage of EBITDA that translates into
operating cash would have been around 75%. This is consistent with a level in the prior
year, adjusted similarly to exclude the working capital one-oﬀ. We expect the cash
conversion ratio to increase once the two ships are operational. And that's because they
Page 5 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

will start to make a positive contribution to Group cash ﬂow above and beyond that
needed to fund cruise's debt service commitments. This should help to demonstrate how
we can achieve a cash conversion ratio of at least 85% for the next two ﬁnancial years.
On the next slide, I'll provide an update on Group debt. The important point I want to
make here is, this is pretty much the same chart that I showed with year-end results. Net
debt, excluding the cruise debt, was largely unchanged in the ﬁrst half, mainly due to the
one-oﬀ factors outlined above. Our total debt has increased entirely as expected
following the completion of the Spirit of Discovery in July. As I explained in April, the main
covenants in our short-term debt is calculated, excluding both the debt and earnings
relating to the two new ships.

Bloomberg Transcript

At 31 July, our debt to EBITDA ratio, excluding the Spirit of Discovery, was 2.2 times, well
within our covenant of 3.5 times. I do expect this ratio will increase in the short-term, and
that's due to lower ex-cruise EBITDA as reserve releases decline. However, with a target
future cash conversion ratio of at least 85%, we expect our non-cruise debt to reduce
signiﬁcantly in the next few years. My goal remains to repay the short-term loans and the
revolving credit facility ahead of these -- the expiry of these facilities in May 2023 and we
remain on track to do so. In the meantime, also in line with what I set out in April, I intend
for the Group to maintain 0.5 turn of headroom to the covenant level.
I'll now wrap up with a quick update on how we see the second half. In broking, we
expect the full year Saga branded home and motor policy count to be slightly lower than
last year. Consistent with the picture in the ﬁrst half. We expect margins in the second half
to be lower than the ﬁrst, but, overall, in line with the indicative target range of GBP71 to
GBP74 we set out in April.
AICL results for the second half are expected to be broadly in line with what we reported
in the ﬁrst half of the year. In travel, we expect to see a slightly improved picture in tour
ops compared to the ﬁrst half. And with the Spirit of Discovery making a full contribution.
Central costs are expected to be around GBP5 million higher in the second half, and that
is due to the timing of certain IT and membership investments. Perhaps, most importantly,
overall, as mentioned before, our target for full year underlying proﬁt before tax of
between GBP105 million and GBP120 million is unchanged.
With that, I will hand over to Gary.

Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thank you, James, for the introduction. In April, I advised of a
new transformational insurance broken strategy, the rationale for the changes, and why I
thought we were in a strong position to respond to the challenges ahead. We have a
proﬁtable insurance business built on solid foundations, and we're just six months now
into the implementation of this fundamental change to our strategy.
I'm pleased to say that we've made good progress on our three key priorities growing
direct channels by launching disruptive new propositions, keeping more of our customers
Page 6 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

for longer, and becoming more eﬃcient as a business. We launched our groundbreaking
three-year ﬁxed price products in April, and I'm delighted to say it's been extremely
popular with both new and existing customers.
It's become clear that customers within our demographic are prepared to pay slightly
more in the ﬁrst year for a high quality product with the reassurance that if their
circumstances don't change, neither will their price. We've also received some very
positive PR in being one of a small number of insurance companies that are actually
proactively responded to the pricing challenge as part of the FCA market study.
Over 60% of customers buying a policy from our direct channels have chosen the higher
premium three-year ﬁxed price products. And in H1, we sold 112,000 policies to new and
existing customers. And the latest trading data shows that that's increased to over a
180,000 [ph] now. This has really helped to increase our sales through direct channels, as
James mentioned, which now represents over 50% of new business and is 8% up on H2
last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to which, our revenue per policy on new business has increased by GBP6 per
policy since H1 last year. And we have driven some of this growth by launching oﬀ ﬁrst
advertising campaign for almost a decade now. The campaign was successful in driving
20% increase in quotes and a 9% increase in brand consideration, though there remains
some work to be done in optimizing our channel mix and increasing our conversion rates.
For those of you out there who may not quite ﬁt into our demographic and missed the
adverts during (inaudible) or the entertaining daytime programs that you may have
missed, we thought we'd give you an opportunity to see our ﬁrst kind of advert, our motor
advert. It's the ﬁrst time that we say we've done this in almost a decade above the line.
(Video Presentation) So, whilst new business is really important to us, retention is
absolutely key to any insurance business. I committed to developing a more progressive
approach to customer loyalty in the future back in April. And this approach has already
paid dividends in H1 and both home and motor retention rates haven't increased since
last year, as James mentioned.
We've adopted a broader range of solutions to the customer retention challenge now.
We've utilized some behavioral economics techniques, working in partnership with Swiss
Re. We've increased the prominence of our membership program beneﬁts in the renewal
letters. And we've now got over 800,000 insurance customers who are Saga members,
which gives them another compelling reason to stay with Saga.
We provided our customers with an increased choice of products now, including our
three-year ﬁxed price product, and 25% of our customers are now moving over to the
three-year ﬁxed price product at renewal. So it's clearly very popular with our existing
customers.
And ﬁnally, we've implemented some new pricing models that would recognize the
higher value that comes from our longstanding customers. As a consequence of all of
Page 7 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

these actions, our overall motor and home policy volumes have been stabilizing. As you
can see, there is a change in the channel and the product mix. We increased our PCW
sales in the second half of last year, following the impacts of GDPR in May. But you can
now see a shift back to direct channels in the ﬁrst half. And this chart also illustrates the
increasing volume of three-year ﬁxed price policies across the portfolio, which we
anticipate will drive further improvements in retention rates in the future.
We launched ﬁxed price in April, May time. So the 30% of ﬁxed price in new business that
you see there from direct has now actually risen to a run rate of 60% of our direct sales.
Interestingly, actually, 10% of our ﬁxed price policies originated from a PCW inquiry,
despite the fact that the product isn't actually available on our PCW. And similarly, the 18%
of retained business on three-year ﬁx in H1 was actually increased to 25% of renewals in
recent months. So you can see the shift back towards direct channels and three-year ﬁx is
improving as we build our understanding and we look to optimize our product and
channel mix moving forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

I said back in April that we would continue to focus on driving eﬃciencies into our
business and our operational costs have -- by policy have continued to reduce, by now -down by 18% compared to 2017, '18. And they decreased by another 1.3% in the ﬁrst half of
this year. We have recently implemented some new technology solutions into our
business, which will help to drive our cost down even further, such as robotics and
webcams. All of our motor policies have now transferred over the Guidewire. And we are
now beginning to leverage Guidewire's digital capabilities to improve our customer
journeys, which will help deliver a better online experience for our customers and
increase our conversion rates.
I also have signaled the need to expand our footprint and increase our competitiveness
on our panels. The good news is we've managed to sign two new insurers onto our home
panel and we've launched a new breakdown partnership with the RAC. I'm delighted to
be able to announce that we have also reached agreement with Sabre, who will be our
ﬁrst new insurer to join the motor panel since 2015.
We're also now working with another insurer who wants to join the motor panel next year.
So this increased panel competitiveness will really help to provide even more
opportunities to drive improved quotability and conversion rates in the future. We
needed to expand the footprint beyond its historically very narrow base of customers.
And following the implementation of a series of initiatives already this year, I can conﬁrm
that we've increased both quotability and competitiveness in H1.
Our motor quotability for example has increased by 4 percentage points since the
beginning of the year. Now, looking ahead, to H2, we'll continue to execute our
innovation program and we have a number of propositions in development to build on
the success of the three-year ﬁxed price policies. We are continuing to reﬁne the threeyear ﬁxed price proposition and our advertising campaign strategy in light of the initial
learnings that we've taken from the launch. And this will help us to optimize any future
investment, focusing on the customer segments and the channels which deliver the
maximum value.

Page 8 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

We will also continue to increase personalization within our renewal materials and we'll
leverage our membership program to drive an increase in retention rates. We also have
plan to introduce a new pricing engine this year that will signiﬁcantly improve our pricing
capabilities and decisioning in the future. We also have a number of additional footprint
expansion initiatives in H2 that will also help to drive our quotability and competitiveness.
And we will commence the migration of our home policies onto Guidewire and accelerate
our digital program to drive further eﬃciencies into our operation.
So in summary, it's early days in the implementation of our new strategy, but I believe
we've made good progress in executing against the key priorities we set out in April.
We've driven growth in our direct channels. We've sold over 180,000 ﬁxed price policies.
We've increased our retention rates and we've delivered further operational eﬃciencies.
We operate in a highly competitive market, but right now in a much better position to
respond to the challenges given the progress we've made in H1.
Now, I would like to hand you over to Robin Shaw, our travel business CEO. Thank you.

Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Gary. Good morning, everyone. As always, it has been an eventful six months
in travel, but I'm pleased to report that we continue to make positive progress in the
transformation of our travel businesses, particularly cruise. However, our half year results
are against the backdrop of a challenging market, particularly for Tour Operations.
Indeed, the adult market for seven-plus night holidays, according to GFK is down 5%.
I will, however, start with cruise. And we've been talking about cruise for a long time now.
So it's a great pleasure I can show you a picture of a real ship and not just a mock-up.
(Video Presentation) The last three months have been absolutely amazing and we
successfully delivered our ﬁrst new build, Spirit of Discovery on time and on budget. The
ship has been widely applauded for its design, style and overall quality. And most
importantly, since launch, we have seen a signiﬁcant uptick in bookings. I will touch on
this later. As James mentioned earlier, our half one cruise performance was an underlying
PBT loss of GBP3.4 million, which is in line with our previous guidance and reﬂects taking
Saga Pearl out of service in April in order to prepare for the new build Spirit of Discovery
coming into operation and includes marketing and training costs.
I am also pleased to announce that we've agreed the sale of Saga Sapphire, which will
leave us in mid-June 2020 prior to the arrival of our second new build Spirit of Adventure
in August 2020. As of today, we have virtually achieved our '19-'20 full year revenue
target, which means for our new build Spirit of Discovery, we are conﬁdent of achieving
on a pro rata basis a GBP40 million EBITDA for the ﬁrst full six months of trading.
Booked revenue for '20/'21 has also been strong in recent weeks. And we have now
booked 55.7% of our full year revenue target for the year to 31 January 2021. And this
again gives us full conﬁdence in our ability to achieve the GBP40 million EBITDA per
vessel per annum.
Page 9 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

Turning to tour operations, as mentioned earlier, outbound UK travel has been tough for
the ﬁrst seven months of our ﬁnancial year. The Brexit uncertainty has had a impact on
both people willing to travel, but also general consumer conﬁdence. Overall, our
passenger number declined a 5.6% is in line with the market, but we continue to move
away from short-haul stays down 19% and into tours and rivers, which grew by 7% and 15%
respectively. This reﬂects our focus into the more diﬀerentiated and higher margin
segments. However, half one did result in a marked reduction in gross margins from 20%
in half one to 17.6% in the ﬁrst half of this year and reﬂects the very competitive pricing as
all travel operators chased volumes, particularly where there were inventory
commitments.
Looking forward, top line trading conditions have been continued to be diﬃcult. And we
expect similar overall revenue declines in half two versus half one. However, we do expect
to see margins to return to levels closer to the prior year resulting from proﬁt
improvement initiatives taken throughout the year, including beneﬁts from our holiday
transformation plans.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to talk a little about '20/'21 [ph] trading. The chart on the left shows the
cumulative booked revenues for '20/'21 as at 14 September and how they have tracked
over the last 14 weeks. As noted on the graph, the rate of sales has increased signiﬁcantly
since the launch of Spirit of Discovery and now stands at GBP84 million. This represents
55.7% of our total full year ticket revenue target of GBP151 million. The increase in ticket
revenue in '20/'21 is a direct result of our increase in capacity with a new ships of 28%
year-on-year.
To be clear, the step change in bookings since the new ship launch has exceeded our
expectations. As noted on the previous chart, tour ops trading for '20/'21 is down 4.3% on
prior year. The chart on the right breaks down this performance into the key segments
and shows a relatively strong performance in rivers, which is important given our
inventory commitments.
Stays have stabilized as we start to overlap signiﬁcant reductions in the prior year. And our
key challenge in the coming months is ensuring we optimize our tour load factors, given
the overall demand environment. Importantly, we are seeing the beneﬁt of investing in
commercial tools and expertise, and we are already seeing margin improvements on
booked '20/'21 revenues. Earlier, I commented about how well our new ship has been
received into the markets, both by the general media and indeed the travel and cruise
media. The Mail say it's clear that the Spirit of Discovery is a game-changer with chic
interiors in a palette of cool shades.
The Times, it turns out that Spirit of Discovery is pretty cool. Travel agents through Travel
Weekly, I along with many of the agents onboard, probably had some preconceived
notions, but these were all undone after two days. The decor isunderstated luxury is
contemporary with ﬂashes of opulence. And most importantly, our valued guests are
particularly impressed. (Video Presentation). It'll be nice if all our customers had GBP105
[ph] savings with us.

Page 10 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

In summary, we have delivered a high quality, unique small cruise ship into the UK market
and it is certainly challenging in a very positive way how the brand -- Saga brand is
perceived. In summary, cruise is in an excellent place and our conﬁdence is high that we
will fully achieve our targets, notably GBP40 million EBITDA per ship per annum. The
overall demand environment for tour ops is tough. And given the continuing political and
economic uncertainty, we do not see this changing in the short term.
However, within tour ops, we are making good progress with our transformation strategy
and we are already seeing those margin improvements for '20/'21 bookings. Our NPS
scores are market leading. And we continue to review all elements of the customer
journey. We know that small improvements add up. And we are committed to raising the
bar even higher. Indeed, we are looking forward to Q3, where we will see the impact of
the new ship on our NPS scores.
Lastly, I am very pleased to say that we are still on track as a travel division to deliver
underlying PBT of between GBP60 million and GBP75 million by '21, '22. Thank you.

Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks very much, Robin. I hope it has come across that we've made a good start.
We're now focused on speciﬁc and clear actions to build the momentum in cruise and
also to improve the quality of our oﬀerings in tour operations business. And on the
insurance side, we want to turn an increasingly stable platform into one from which we
can grow.
Let me take a few minutes just to update you on the brand and membership. The focus of
the ﬁrst half has been on driving brand consideration on the back of our new products in
cruise and insurance and with Saga's ﬁrst above the line marketing campaign in over 10
years. Also on strengthening the route to our customers through our membership and
growing their engagement. And we've done that. Additional marketing and the launch of
ﬁxed price of Spirit of Discovery have all added to a positive dialogue with our customers.
We've also continued to improve our membership oﬀering by adding entertainment
possibilities to the travel and dining propositions, and we've increased the proportion of
members that we can e-mail by over half over the last six months.
And these two things together have helped us to boost the engaged proportion of our
members by 61%, albeit from a lower base. Now, there's still a lot to do. And in July, we
did some detailed sampling to help us understand which areas might be holding us back
in membership. And they are the digital experience and the lack of broad regional
footprint for many of our members. Now we've got a number of actions planned for the
second half that are going to help us address these challenges and continue to drive
membership momentum. So, for example, the launch of our new app. And we've also
signed up Mitchells and Butler, which takes us to more than 1,800 restaurants across the
UK in all regions.
Now, we've said all along that membership needs to drive real commercial value into the
business. And we're starting to see strong evidence of its value and some meaningful

Page 11 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

ﬁnancial beneﬁts. We set ourselves a target this year of taking 4,000 passenger bookings
through Saga possibilities by the end of the year. And in fact, we've already sold over 95%
of that volume in the ﬁrst six months. Very importantly, over 75% of those bookings are for
[ph] cruise, and over 65% of those bookings were made by customers who have not
previously traveled with Saga Cruise.
So let me summarize, we have made some really good progress, but we still have a great
deal to do. We have signiﬁcantly de-risked cruise expansion. And we've established a
more stable insurance platform from which we can start to grow. We're very focused on
delivering the guided proﬁtability for the current year. And we're taking further actions
now to ensure that we can grow from next year and beyond.
So, that concludes the presentation. Thank you. And with that, I'll open up to questions
that would be very helpful if you could say your name when you get the mic.
Any questions?

Questions And Answers
Q - Omar Resheq
Hello. Omar Resheq from KfW Bank in Germany. I have a quick question...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Sorry, I missed your ﬁrst name.

Q - Omar Resheq
Omar.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Omar. Hello.

Q - Omar Resheq
Yes, hello. I have a question regarding -- two questions regarding Brexit. First, as far as I
know, your revenues are completely focused on UK. So I guess regulation wise, there
wouldn't be so many obstacles if there would be a half Brexit. Is that correct?

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Are you talking about on holidays business or across the whole base? You're right. The
huge majority -- really all of our revenues are UK based. The main impact we have is that
some of our holiday customers do go into EU markets and we'll see what the trading
conditions are going in there, but we are overwhelmingly a UK-based business.

Q - Omar Resheq
Page 12 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

And the second question, you had quite high impairment lost in the last year on goodwill.
And my question is the uncertainties regarding Brexit increased in the last weeks, do you
expect that, there might be further higher impairments or did you already included these
uncertainties in your last impairment?

FINAL

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

James, do you want to take that?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes, so for goodwill, I mean, we've looked at the goodwill again for the half year and
there's no change in the goodwill carrying value. I mean, Brexit is a consideration in that.
It's one of the things that we look at as a stress test against it. And if I'm honest with you, I
don't think it's probably the biggest input into the valuation of goodwill. So, I think the
real driver of goodwill there is us delivering on our plan. And while I wouldn't say that's
insensitive to Brexit, I don't think Brexit is going to be the biggest piece of that equation.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Omar. Any questions?

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Ed Morris, JP Morgan. Two questions, please. First of all, you just commented on
some of the learnings that you'd made from the roll-out of three-year ﬁx and some slight
changes that you've made. I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about that process
and what you may have learned and changed since it was initially launched.
And then secondly, could you just talk a little bit about the competitive backdrop in motor
and in home? It seems to be some evidence that pricing is stabilizing, potentially doing a
little bit better. But can you just talk about your thoughts, please? Thank you.
Gary, may I pass this to you?

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

In terms of the learnings set from the campaign, clearly, I'd say it's the ﬁrst time we've
been out there for 10 years now in terms of above the line activity. So, we're learning them
and working with our marketing agency to see which channels work best for us. And that
means, it's online work better than TV, work best than press. What we've actually seen is
TV and social media and digital channels actually work better than press in the initial
launch. So, for example, we look to shift some of our activity into the future to those
channels that have delivered better value, if you like, in terms of policy sales and also
brand consideration. The motor advert cannot perform better than the home advert. That
was a bit clearer. So we're learning as we go, but obviously we'll build all of those
learnings into the next campaigns that we're looking to undertake between now and kind
of the end of the year. So I think that's set in probably in terms of the above the line
campaign and the marketing activity.

Page 13 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

And in terms of the competitive backdrop, I think you're right. I mean, generally, relatively
stable. People talk in most around about 5% claims inﬂation that seems to be pretty
standard view across the across the industry in motor -- sorry in home similarly. So, we're
not seeing huge swings in terms of the inﬂation rate assumptions for the market. It still
remains a very competitive market. But I think, as we said earlier, it's not so kind of make
some good progress in our areas. And hopefully, the new panel members coming on and
the work we're doing on footprint expansion will help us to compete even more
eﬀectively in the future. I don't know, James, anything you'd add to that.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I agree with all of that.
Okay.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. I am Ben Cohen, Investec. Just following up on the second of those questions. I think
you talked about how you've been squeezed a little bit in your home broking margin from
your suppliers essentially needing to raise prices I guess because of claims inﬂation that
they're seeing or margins that aren't up to scratch. Is there a risk of that coming through
as well on the motor side? If we go through a sort of a repricing cycle in motor and that
could impact your margins.
And the second question I had was in terms of the broad strategy of the group.
Obviously, Elliott has taken a stake in the business now. I just wondered sort of where the
board is, where management is in terms of thinking about the best composition of the
Group, given that this probably isn't a structure that you would get to if you were sort of
starting a company fresh. Thank you.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Just going to ask Gary to take the ﬁrst half of that and I'll take the second.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. On the home side, Ben, I think we mentioned that back in April as well, that
we've started to see some kind of net rate inﬂation on our book on home. But actually, we
are now starting to see that the insurers are starting to see an improvement in the
performance of our book. So, we anticipate (inaudible) moving forward and that's kind of
a one-oﬀ correction, if you like, for the insurers incentive and net rate increases. And we
predict moving forward that it will -- into the future, that it will be kind of more in line with
the rest of the market as they've kind of corrected the net rate pricing on our particular
portfolio. And there's no evidence that, that has kind of created any kind of (inaudible)
impact on the motor book at the moment. The motor inﬂation, claims inﬂation, net rate
inﬂation that we're seeing is pretty well in line with the rest of the market.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Page 14 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

And on your second question, Ben, look, two things to say. The ﬁrst is management and
the Board are not wedded and have never been wedded to any particular structure for
Saga. What we want is to create shareholder value and we want to create fantastic oﬀers
for our customers and members. And we will go with whichever structure makes sense in
order to achieve that. What I would say, though, is that I don't believe that in the last ﬁve
or six years, we have demonstrated the capability of what Saga can be. We now have what
I believe are the best insurance policies in the UK market. And as you heard, they're
selling really, really well.
And we have the best cruise ship in the UK market with another one to come. And they
held together by Saga Possibilities, which is the membership structure and that appears
to be gathering momentum in driving cross-sales across the Group. So my belief is that
it's only now that we are really testing the current structure of Saga to ﬁnd out what it's
capable of. And I think when the Board is open-minded as we move forward and we want
to see what can we get out of Saga, now that if you like, it's ﬁring on all three cylinders.
But again, we're not religiously wedded to any one structure and we'll stay open-minded
as we move forward.
Any more questions around the room? Nick?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Hi. Good morning. Just a couple of questions, please. Firstly, on other broking segment,
which is now your second most proﬁtable insurance broking segment. Within that, can
you just give a feel for what the market environment is like for private medical insurance in
terms of margins and volumes because that doesn't often get much discussion? Thank
you.
And secondly, on the medium-term growth outlook, I think you said in April that you had
an aspiration for 5% per annum policy growth in the medium-term, which would drive
GBP20 million uplift in proﬁt on a three- to ﬁve-year basis. Obviously, it's early days now,
but can you just say how conﬁdent you're in aspiration given what you've seen so far for
the strategy reset? Thanks.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I'll let Gary lead and James jump in if you want to.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah, I'll just pick up the PMI piece. So, we actually -- we have probably one of the most
comprehensive products in the market. Very good product compared to a lot of the
competition. But we are seeing -- so, we are seeing some increased competition at new
business from a couple of the big players in the PMI market in terms of new business
volumes. The good news is at the same time our retention rates are very strong. So once
we've recruited customers into our business on PMI products, because of the nature of
the product and the fact we can roll-out pre-existing conditions, we're seeing our
retention rates increase further. So, that's helping to compensate for some of the
competitive challenges we see in terms of new business. I don't know...
Page 15 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

No, I don't think, Nick, in terms [ph] of your second one. I mean I think -- I mean, ther's no
question that Saga branded policy count is -- I mean, it's a little bit below where I think we
would have expected to be. But I mean, down 2%, I wouldn't say that sort of taken us
dramatically oﬀ track. I mean, it's a little bit weaker. Perhaps, the market's been part of
that, but I wouldn't say that's dramatically changed that. I think in terms of the other
aspects of growth, I mean, this year was always going to be a somewhat transitional year
anyway.
And in terms of us, we think about the growth from here. I mean, that was really two paths.
One was a pick-up in new business share. And the second one then was higher
retentions. And it's sort of more a 50-50 between those. I think in terms of the higher
retentions, not any [ph] substantial portion of that comes from the experience that we'll
see around three-year ﬁx and how loyal those customers are. So, right now, I've seen
nobody's actually renewed on those policies, so it's a bit hard to tell what it's going to be.
But I think we would certainly expect retention levels to be higher than they are otherwise.
I think in terms of new business, I think one of the things we need there is to keep
improving the proposition and also keep investing in new marketing techniques, because
what we don't -- won't do is, we won't get there by giving people more -- sending more
direct mail out. So we have to keep testing and learning. So I think it's probably a bit early
to say whether how conﬁdent are we. I think our conﬁdence is basically the same as it was.
We're still very much early days, but clearly with some signs of progress.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Joanna Parsons from Canaccord. Just one question, please. On Saga Possibilities and the
Membership, is the Slide 35 the actual numbers at the moment? And could you just give
us a little bit more color as to what is going on there? Are you seeing growth there? Are
you seeing changes in the composition and what your plans now? Thank you.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yeah. At a headline level, the number of Saga Possibilities members is a reﬂection of the
number of Saga customers, which is broadly ﬂat. What we're seeing is over 80% of new
customers choose to be Saga Possibilities members and we lose -- if we lose customers,
then we lose Saga Possibilities members with them. So that total number in the
Membership scheme is roughly ﬂat at the moment. But what I would say is our focus in the
ﬁrst six months of the year was very speciﬁcally on driving engagement from the current
base of Saga members. That's where we put the huge amount of eﬀort over the last half.
So, we made the oﬀer richer to them in terms of the number of beneﬁts that they can get.
We focused on driving cross-sell. We focused on driving accessibility of e-mail, for
example. And the second line you can see there is a signiﬁcant increase in the number of
customers that we are in touch with and able to communicate because that has been a
relatively small proportion of the base and is growing quite steeply. And I mentioned
earlier on, our target had been 4,000 cross sales for the year, and that we've achieved
over 90% of that in the ﬁrst six months of the year. I think that's a reﬂection of the growth
and engagement that we've seen. So, we're very pleased that we're starting to monetize
that relationship.
Page 16 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

The question was, if the composition of the membership changing in terms of what
products they bought from, do you mean?

FINAL

Looking at the -- the marketing director is shaking his head at me. So no, broadly stable.
Thank you. Was there enough question here?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Jason Street, Arlington Capital Market. On the cruise side, ﬁrstly, there is no reason really
why the cruise market wouldn't have been aﬀected by exactly the same things as tour
operating market. So, could you have done even better had circumstances been more
friendly?
And secondly, I wonder, you sort of half made this point, but I wasn't entirely sure whether
those right or not that some of your customers would have been waiting for feedback
about what the new ships were like. I mean, they're likely to be pretty conservative
bookers. And this was a brand new ship. They like the old ones. Is there some sense that
there's a sort of relief that the new ships or is as good or rather better than the old one?
And therefore, we'll see more sort of strengths in future bookings and conﬁdence in the
new ship to come.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Robin, do you want to ﬁll this?

A - Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Absolutely. Firstly, pleased to get a cruise question. Thank you very much. The cruise
market is slightly diﬀerent than the tour ops market. And generally, it's no older
demographic. And arguably, they are slightly more immune to maybe the more mass
market, tour ops market.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So we do see that. But clearly, has there been an underlying impact? It's hard to say there
hasn't been. But what we've seen is that with the launch, the buzz, the excitement around
the new ship has far more outweighed that to the extent that everything we kind of market
around the new ship is now far more impactful than it was before, because we're
marketing what is being kind of in the media, the social media, when people Google the
ship from all the activity we're doing. It's getting rave reviews. So I think we're not seeing
it in cruise because of this upsurge of excitement and bookings from the new cruise ships.
So that's the ﬁrst point on that.
I think in terms of people holding back, our existing customers holding back until they
ﬁnd out what the ship is like. Actually, it's probably the opposite. Our existing customers
are very loyal to us because they know what we do and they just can't wait to get
onboard. To the extent that we almost have to make sure that we kind of curtail their
demand in the ﬁrst few months to make sure we had enough capacity to introduce ﬁrsttime buyers to cruise. The feedback has been fabulous from our existing guests. We knew
Page 17 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

lots of them wanted to maybe pick holes in that, but that has not been the case. And
they've been blown away with what we've produced. And we're exceptionally proud as
well. Any more questions in the room?

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Maybe I can ask you second cruise question to make you more happy. You just said you
have very loyal customers. Do you have an approximate idea of the repeater rate in the
cruise business?

A - Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

For us, traditionally, up until this kind of new area that we're in, we've been at about 75%
repeaters, 25% ﬁrst-time buyers. Moving forward, clearly, that has to change because
we're moving in a situation where we need to generate more like 45,000 passengers a
year versus the existing 25,000 passengers. And the good news is that we are seeing ﬁrsttime buyers now starting to grow and grow to the extent now on a few of the cruises
recently picking the shorter ones, which encouraged ﬁrst-time buyers. We're getting in
excess of 40% ﬁrst-time buyers on those particular cruises.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

At the back there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Luke Stratford-Higton

{BIO 21041344 <GO>}

Luke Stratford-Higton, UBS. Two questions. Firstly, on Ogden, you mentioned there was a
gain there. So what would reserve releases have been without the change in the Ogden
rate? And secondly, on cruise, again, you mentioned that the sale of the Sapphire had
been agreed. Is there any detail around what the purchase price was and how that
compares to the book value you have on the balance sheet?

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

James, do you want to take that ﬁrst?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah. So I think the change in the Ogden discount rate, I mean, we're not talking very
much money here. I think [1:01:52] (inaudible) GBP5 million, GBP6 million. I can't read [ph]
the exact number, but I think it's in that sort of ballpark. And I think the -- on the second
one -- sorry, what was the question, again.

Q - Luke Stratford-Higton

{BIO 21041344 <GO>}

Sapphire sale.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So, in the last -- second half last year, we had written down the Sapphire. In actual fact, the
sale price is slightly better than what we had written it down to. So if you look in the ways
Page 18 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

of the impairments outside of underlying proﬁt before tax it's actually a GBP3 million
reversal, which is actually the actual sale price relative to the -- what we've written it down
to. One or two more? All the way down the left, my left, your right.

FINAL

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi, morning. It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. I've just got one question. I was just
wondering, given your early learnings in the three-year ﬁxed insurance policy, where do
you think penetration levels can get to? I mean it's tracking quite well at the moment. And
sort of second part to that question, given that there is -- the early success that you've
had, do you think others might try to copy the product?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

In terms of penetration levels, I mean we'll [1:03:17] [ph]say 60-odd-percent is a pretty
good starting point from standing start actually. It's really about giving customers choice.
The important thing for us is giving customers the choice, some customers who want to
come in and shop and aggregators. Some people would rather have a discount and then
shop around on renewal and other people that want to. It's about giving the customers
the choice. I think the reason that I believe that the three-year ﬁx has been so successful
within our demographic is all of the research and the analysis suggests that customers
typically within our demographic frankly don't particularly want to shop around
necessarily if they can be conﬁdent and reassured with the fact that -- a lot of them around
ﬁxed income over a period. So, if they around ﬁxed income and they know they've got
ﬁxed insurance costs the next three years, that gives them that kind of conﬁdence in
reinsurance. So there is no reason with all the work we're doing on the above the line why
that shouldn't potentially grow beyond the 60% book. It's all about growing the numbers,
not necessarily [1:04:07] the display of ﬁxed versus kind of non-ﬁxed.
And second part of the question, remind me sorry. (inaudible).

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

I was just wondering, do you think others will try to copy it because it is such a successful
product?

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean a few people have said this. Well if they do, kind of what is the sincerest form
of ﬂattery is -- people -- I'm sure are watching to see what's going on and how we're
performing. I think our focus just needs to be on driving as much as growth as we can
within the three-year ﬁxed. And if people copy those then, ﬁne people copy us. We've got
a whole range of new propositions that we're looking at as well. So it doesn't stop with
the three-year ﬁx. We're looking at health and well-being packages. We're looking at
travel products. So we're looking at the next stage of innovation within our business to
build on to the success we've had so far with three-year ﬁx.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Page 19 of 20



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-09-19

FINAL

I think the point there is, we know that when we build diﬀerentiated products for Saga
customers, then we can win in the market. And if you look back historically for several
years for a decade roughly, our product was not diﬀerentiated. And what's really exciting
for us is to see the impact of a product speciﬁcally designed for Saga customers in
consultation with them in both insurance and cruise and how rapidly the customer
responds when you put a product like that in front of them. And as Gary says, there's
more to come.
Any last question? Otherwise, we will wrap up. Thank you very, very much for your
attention. We'll be here for a few minutes after this, if you want to grab us for anything
else. Thanks.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

