Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

S1 2019 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Alex Wynaendts , Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Executive Board, Chairman
of the Management Board
Jan Willem Weidema, Head of Investor Relations
Matthew Rider, Chief Financial Officer, Member of the Management Board, Member of
the Executive Board

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
David Motemaden, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Patrick Lemmens , Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good day and welcome to the Aegon First Half Year 2019 Results
Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn
the conference over to Jan Willem Weidema, CO, Aegon. Please go ahead.

Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Thank you.0 Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining this conference call on
Aegon's first half 2019 results. We would appreciate if you could take a moment to review
our disclaimer on forward-looking statements, which you can find in the back of the
presentation.
We will start today with our CEO, Alex Wynaendts, who will give an overview of where we
stand with regard to the delivery of our strategy and our achievements in the first half of
the year. After this, our CFO, Matt Rider will walk you through the financial highlights of the
first half of 2019. At the end of the presentation, we will of course leave more than
sufficient time for your questions.
Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

I will now hand it over to Alex.

Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you Jan Willem, and good morning everyone. And also thank you all of you for your
continued interest in Aegon and for joining us on today's call, which is a busy day, as we all
know.
You will remember, in February we provided you with new medium-term targets. The
economic context in the first half of this year has been challenging with interest rates
falling to historic lows in many of our key markets. In this environment, our hedging
progress protected us well and we have achieved significant progress in many of the
strategically important areas. Very importantly, we have maintained a strong capital
position and have been able to increase our dividend to our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before going into more details on the actions we have taken and the underlying
developments, let's first together have a look at the progress we've made towards our
targets. Normalized capital generation, the cornerstone of our targets has increased by
20% compared to the first half of 2018. With normalized capital generation of EUR740
million, we are well on track to deliver on our target of EUR4.1 billion for the three year
period 2019 to 2021. And what's more, in this period, we have maintained a strong capital
position.
Our Group Solvency II ratio of 197% is at the top end of our range and our holding cash
buffer has been increased. This allows us to raise our interim dividend by 7% to EUR0.15
per share. As a result, our dividend payout ratio of normalized capital generation is 43%
and this puts us on track towards a full year target of 45% to 55%. The dividend is
supported by well-diversified remittances from our subsidiaries of EUR765 million. This is
in line with our full year guidance.
The Netherlands retained its planned remittance, as a result of being just below its new
Solvency II ratio target zone. Our return on equity at 9.6% is slightly below our 10% target,
although, we remain fully committed to do everything we can to achieving a return on
equity of more than 10% while recognizing the challenges that the current environment
brings. In line with our strategy, we have taken several key portfolio actions as we have
shown on Slide 3.
As you are by now hopefully well aware of, we have regrouped our businesses in three
distinct strategic portfolio categories. In each of these categories, we are making good
progress. In the Manage for Value category, we focus on optimizing our capital position
and reducing expenses. In the first half of 2019, we have started a process of transferring
the administration of the defined pension book from Aegon Leven in the Netherlands to
our in-house low cost administrator TKP. This process is unique in the Netherlands and will
allow us to achieve a more variable and lower cost base in our Life business. Furthermore,
we are considering various options to accelerate the release of required capital in the
Netherlands.

Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Our Drive for Growth businesses are the cornerstone of our growth strategy. The vast
majority of the new business trend is to invest in this category and we are focused on
accelerating growth in these businesses. As an example, in the US business, we have
created dedicated leadership teams for Workplace Solutions and Individual Solutions. This
allows us to sharpen our focus on the specific market segment and customer
requirements. We are already seeing increased commercial momentum in the
organization.
Our partnership with TCS is bearing fruit as demonstrated by notably increasing customer
satisfaction. An excellent customer experience is key to achieving our growth targets in a
sustainable way.
In the UK, we successfully financed the Cofunds integration. The migration of the
Nationwide portfolio has happened smoothly as we have applied the learnings from the
retail migration last year. Our team in the UK is now realizing to remain cost efficiencies as
we dismantle the Cofunds system. Furthermore, a number of actions have been taken in
Scale-up for the Future business. We announced in May that we are divesting Aegon stake
in the Japanese joint ventures for EUR130 million, we expect to realize a book gain of
EUR50 million. We've also decided to wind down our Mexican joint venture as it did not
meet our financial objectives. And in India, we are building the leading digital insurance
company of the country and we have just agreed a distribution partnership with MobiKwik,
the country's second largest mobile wallet provider. We're confident that we'll be
partnered with more leading e-commerce providers to increase our reach in the vast and
developing Indian market. And finally, here in the Netherlands, we are in the process of
regionally integrating Aegon Bank and Knab to strengthen our leading position as a digital
bank.
I'm now turning to Slide 4. As mentioned, capital generation is significantly higher
compared with last year's first half. Capital generation has increased in all strategic
categories and it was mainly driven by inforce earnings, as a result of the actions we've
taken earlier, just rate increases in long-term care and our universal life book. In line with
our targets, the vast majority of the new business strain is invested in the Drive for Growth
category. We invested mainly in indexed universal life new business in the US. Also the
evolving business mix leads to a higher new business strain, for example from continued
growth in a Scale-up for the Future market in Spain.
On the right-hand graph, you can see the distribution of capital allocated across the three
strategic categories. And as expected, capital allocated to demand for value category is
slowly declining as a result of the run-off of the large underlying Life Insurance books in
the UK and here in the Netherlands. And consequently, we therefore able to allocate now
more capital to the other two categories.
On Slide 5, we show the development of our gross and net deposits. Obviously, we are
not satisfied with the overall negative net deposits. However, underlying, we observe an
improving commercial momentum with gross deposits increasing in most regions and this
will lead to positive net deposits over time. In the US, we recorded higher takeover
deposits of retirement plans, higher Variable Annuity deposits reflecting product
advancements and increased fixed indexed annuity sales. Unfortunately, net deposits in
Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

the US were negative, mainly due to contract discontinuances in the retirement plans. We
will take a deeper dive into the US operations on the next slide. Aegon Asset
Management continues to grow its third-party business, whereby our Chinese asset
management joint venture is a strong contributor.
Let's now take a quick look at Life and General Insurance sales on slide 6. Although we are
not yet where we want to be, Life sales in the US increased in strategically relevant
distribution channels, also sales in China are developing positively. In Accident Health, the
decline in new business is mostly driven by last year's management decision to
discontinue certain product lines. In the US we saw positive developments in our Individual
business as we gain market share, while the competitive environment in Employee
Benefit business resulted in lower new production. Looking forward, let me share with you
the challenges, we're seeing in our markets, and the actions we are taking.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now on Slide 7. So, clearly the financial markets are challenging at the moment. This is
mainly the case in two areas. Firstly, the lower interest rates put our Variable Annuity and
Life New business in the US under pressure. It is difficult to provide attractively-priced
products to our customers, while also ensuring economic pricing of our products. We are
well equipped to meet this challenge with a strong capital position and the unique
franchise.
Secondly, dislocated credit spreads impact our Dutch capital position negatively, as Matt
will explain in more detail in a moment. And as a result of this market environment, we will
continue to expand the less capital intensive service businesses and selectively consider
other options to optimize the Dutch capital position. In the US, we're improving our
service delivery in the Retirement Plan business to stop the current outflows and retain
more customers. Furthermore, we are addressing the intense competition in the US
workplace market by bundling products to provide attractive employee benefit
propositions to customers and leverage a cross-selling potential.
In the UK, we've financed the Cofunds migration, it can now fully concentrate on growing
and expanding divisions. Customers will benefit from leading propositions and further
enhance platform functionality. Operationally, our biggest challenge is to lower expenses
in our back books to make them more variable. And for this, we have partnerships with
TCS in the US and Atos in the UK, and we're making good progress with the
implementation of these partnerships, recognizing full implementation will take several
years. Also in our other markets, we are actively addressing our challenges. Our High Net
Worth business in Asia is expanding its product range, its geographic reach and is
developing new distribution capacity to counter the increased competition in the market.
And in Spain, our joint venture with Santander is developing according to our plans and we
have now the opportunity to expand the business to the Banco Popular branches that
Santander acquired. Now at the same time, we are in a turnaround process for our own
business to improve profitability in Spain.
Let me give you some more insights on what we're doing in the US on the next slides.
And now on Slide 8. As mentioned briefly before, we have realigned our Transamerica

Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

organization. All workplace related businesses such as Retirement Plans, Employee
Benefits and Stable Value Solutions are now under a single management under the
leadership of Blake Bostwick. This alignment is making Transamerica much more
responsive in the competitive market environment. And the renewed market focus is
already visible in the improving commercial momentum in the workplace area.
We are seeing that written sales have significant increased and we are proud to have won
several large mandates including one mandate with EUR3 billion of assets. This large case
reflects the skills and capabilities that we have a plan for the Mercer acquisition which
allows us now to compete effectively in the large case markets.
However, we also experienced net outflows in Retirement Plans in the first half of 2019.
Due to the nature of the business, net flows can be lumpy. Current outflows are partly
due to some service challenges we had experienced in the Workplace Solutions areas in
the past. That's why we are making the needed investments and the team is working very
hard to reestablish the service levels that customers should be able to expect from
Transamerica.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in addition, we continue to rollout our bundled propositions. Managed Advice is now
available in the middle market and customers are responding positively to this
proposition. So overall, we are confident that we are back on track to stand out in the US
workplace business with a compelling brand narrative and integrated solutions. Let's now
turn to Individual solutions on the following slides.
In the Slide 9, under the leadership of Dave Paulsen, the Individual Solutions team is
implementing an integrated view across all of our distribution channels and the product
suite for individuals. As a first sign of success, we increased our market shares in recent
months for some of our key strategic products, the Indexed Universal Life, Variable
Annuities and Fixed-Indexed Annuities, and this demonstrates the competitiveness of our
product range.
Our partnership with TCS is also contributing to this progress. With higher customer
satisfaction, as evidenced with by significant increase of the tNPS scores since we
announced the partnership. The next step is to bring the first new products under the
bank's platform over the next quarters. And in addition to our cooperation with TCS, we
are now also partnering with a specialist provider for long-term care - Long Term Care
Group . In the last week, we started to implement this new partnership which brings
extensive expertise in managing long-term care cases efficiently , cost efficiently, and with
higher customer services scores. So let me now summarize. We're starting to see good
commercial momentum in key areas, but we will need to continue to invest into a harder
to improve retention. Overall, we've made good progress in the execution of our
strategy, by driving efficiencies in those businesses we manage for value by allocating
capital to those activities with the best growth prospects.
Let us now turn to more insights into the financial results for the first half this year. And
Matt, can you please take us through these figures?

Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Alex, and good morning everyone. Let me start by talking you through the
financial highlights for the first six months of 2019. Underlying earnings before tax were
slightly lower mainly as a result of lower earnings from the United States, which I will
elaborate on later in my presentation.
So far this year, markets have been turbulent with interest rates falling to historically low
levels in all of our markets. Despite these developments, we have maintained a strong
group capital position with the Group Solvency II ratio being at the upper end of our target
range. In addition, we increased normalized capital generation and maintained a solid
excess cash buffer at the holding. This allows us to raise our interim dividend to EUR0.15
per share, which is an increase of 7% versus the first half of 2018. I will discuss the capital
position in more detail on the following slides.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can see on Slide 12, our Group Solvency II ratio declined to 197% in the first half of
2019, but remains at the top end of our target range. Own funds grew over the period,
driven by strong capital generation, despite the approximately EUR300 million paid out
for the final 2018 dividend. Model & assumption changes had on balance, a negative
impact of 9 percentage points on the Group Solvency ratio. This was mainly due to the
lowering of the ultimate forward rate and a methodology change in the Netherlands
relating to capital charges for illiquid investments. After discussions with the Dutch Central
Bank, certain illiquid investments will be treated as equities under the standard formula
instead of loans under the internal model. This resulted in a significant increase in required
capital.
We also updated our actuarial and other assumptions in our US and Asian businesses in
the first half of 2019, in line with our normal practices. In Asia, a change in expense
allocations, reflecting a lower sales outlook in Transamerica Life Bermuda resulted in
lower owned funds. The SCR increased by EUR700 million mainly as a result of adverse
market movements, which negatively impacted the Group ratio by 15 percentage points.
The impact on the ratio was almost fully driven by adverse spread movements in the
Netherlands. Interest rates and equity market movements had no material impact. Lastly,
one-time items had a positive impact on balance mainly driven by the proceeds from the
divestment of Aegon's businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Now let's turn to Slide 13 and briefly discuss the solvency ratios of each of our main
operating units. The solvency ratios in the US and the UK remains strong. In the United
States, the RBC ratio improved by 7 percentage points to a strong 472%. This
improvement was driven by retained capital generation and favorable market impacts.
In the second half of the year, we expect to see a benefit of close to 10 percentage
points from the merger of two of our legal entities - TALIC and TLIC. In the United
Kingdom, the Solvency II ratio decreased by 19 percentage points to 165%. This decline
was mainly driven by GBP160 million of remittances to the holding, including an
extraordinary dividend of GBP100 million on the back of Aegon UK's solid and resilient
capital position.

Page 6 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

As announced at the full year 2018 results, we reviewed the Solvency II target range for
the Netherlands following a change to the modeling of the dynamic volatility adjuster. This
resulted in increased credit sensitivities for the Dutch business and therefore we decided
to increase the bottom end of the target range by 5 percentage points to 155%. In the
Netherlands, the Solvency II ratio fell slightly below the target range to 152% due to
several factors, most notably, increased capital charges for the the illiquid investments,
the lowering of the UFR and adverse credit spread movements on which I'll elaborate on
later on in the presentation.
Furthermore, Aegon Bank has been removed from the calculation of the Solvency II ratio
of Aegon the Netherlands to be in-line with peers and to be consistent with the
calculation of Aegon's Group Solvency II ratio. The change had a positive impact of 3
percentage points on the Dutch ratio while management actions contributed a positive 9
percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before turning to our IFRS results, let me first provide some additional color on the market
movements which impacted the capital position of Aegon the Netherlands on the
following slides.
As you can see on Slide 14, adverse credit spread movements account for a 38
Percentage point decline in the Solvency II ratio of Aegon the Netherlands. On one hand,
mortgage spreads widened as mortgage issuers did not adjust consumer prices, while
risk free rates dropped sharply. This negatively impacted the value of the mortgage
portfolio. On the other hand, spread tightening in the bond market led to a decline in the
EIOPA VA from 24 basis points to 9 basis points, which resulted in an increase in the value
of insurance liabilities.
Let me stress that these are counter intuitive movements for a company that holds its
assets to maturity. In our view, this reflects imperfections in the Solvency II regime and is
not a reflection of deteriorating economics or the credit quality of our mortgage portfolio.
Previously, we had addressed the basis risk in credit spreads through our dynamic volatility
adjuster. As you may recall, we changed the modeling of the dynamic volatility adjuster in
the second half of 2018 to better align with guidance from EIOPA. If the previous DVA
would still have been applied at the end of June, the Solvency II ratio of the Netherlands
would have been 10 to 15 percentage points higher. Other market movements, including
lower interest rates had no material impact on the ratio due to the effectiveness of our
hedging programs in the Netherlands.
On the next slide, I would like to provide some historic context around mortgage spreads.
As you can see on the chart on the left hand side of Slide 15, mortgage spreads are well
above the levels seen in recent years. The increase in mortgage spreads in the first half
of 2019, to 171 basis points was driven by a strong decrease in risk free rates, while
consumer mortgage rates hardly moved. The spread widening in the first half of 2019 is
clearly not a reflection of deterioration of the credit quality of Aegon's mortgage
portfolio. Mortgages continue to be an attractive asset class with very low defaults. As a
result, we expect the spread widening to translate into normalized -- higher normalized
capital generation over the duration of the book. In fact, as Aegon is an active mortgage
issuer, we're putting assets on the books of the life company and the bank at very
Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

attractive spreads, which will benefit future earnings. If consumer mortgage prices would
adjust to the lower interest rate level through competitive dynamics, we would expect a
positive impact to the Solvency II ratio of Aegon the Netherlands. If mortgage spreads
return to their long-term average of 125 basis points, the Solvency II ratio of Aegon the
Netherlands would be expected to return to be within its target range. This of course is
provided that all else, including the EIOPA VA, remain equal.
Let me now move on to the next slide which provides a summary of our latest Solvency II
sensitivities for the group and for our main units. As you can see on Slide 16, we have
expanded the list of sensitivities to better reflect the basis risk associated with the
Solvency II position in the Netherlands. Let me highlight again that we do not view
mortgage spread widening as an indication of credit deterioration and expect any impacts
on the ratio to reverse over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another point I'd like to touch upon is our sensitivity to interest rates. Interest rates fell to
historically low levels in all of our markets in recent months. Due to our effective hedging
programs, we have been able to maintain a strong capital position in the first half of this
year. In the scenario of interest rates dropping another 50 basis points from current
levels, the Solvency II ratio of the group would remain well within our target range.
Now let's turn to the IFRS results, starting with underlying earnings. During the first half of
2019, underlying earnings declined by 5 percentage points compared -- 5% compared
with the same period last year. This was mainly driven by lower earnings from the
Retirement Plan and Variable Annuity businesses in the US. These businesses reported
lower fee income from lower asset balances and investments in the business to improve
customer experience and drive growth going forward. These developments were offset
by strengthening of the US dollar in addition to better claims experience in Life, higher
earnings in fixed annuities and a reserve release in long-term care.
Experience in the long-term care business continues to be in-line or slightly better than
expected. Earnings and asset management were EUR23 million lower as a result of lower
performance fees compared with last year's exceptionally high level. Increased holding
expenses resulted from a change in the way interest expenses on certain securities are
recorded in the P&L. Interest on Tier 2 securities issued last year are taken through the
P&L, while the interest expenses for the perpetuals they replaced used to be recognized
directly through equity.
Let us now move to the development of net income in the first half of this year. On Slide
18, you can see that IFRS net income amounted to EUR618 million. The loss from fair value
items totaled EUR394 million and was mainly driven by a shortfall in the Liability Adequacy
Test in the Netherlands, which I will discuss in more detail later in the presentation. The
Liability Adequacy Test or LAT shortfall was partly offset by gains on interest rate hedges
and positive real estate revaluations in the Netherlands, as well as fair value gains in the
Americas. Realized gains totaled EUR275 million in the first six months of 2019 and
primarily related to the sale of bonds in the Netherlands as part of trading designed to
optimize the investment portfolio.

Page 8 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Other charges of EUR93 million included EUR64 million of assumption changes, mainly in
the US. These were primarily related to mortality, lapse and surrender assumption
changes in Life insurance following the annual assumption review. Furthermore, we
incurred restructuring charges in the UK and in the US, as well as expenses related to the
implementation of IFRS 9 and 17. These charges were partly offset by a EUR70 million gain
on the sale of Aegon's operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and the gain
resulting from the restructuring of financing agreements related to the merger of two
reinsurance captives in the US.
Let's turn to Slide 19. As mentioned on the previous slide, a shortfall in the LAT in the
Netherlands was the main driver for the fair value losses in the first half of this year. The
LAT is a test, which assesses the adequacy of the insurance technical provisions. This test
compares the IFRS carrying amount of insurance liabilities to their fair value, while taking
into account the difference between the fair value and carrying amount of mortgages, as
well as certain unrealized gains on bonds. In the first half of 2019, mortgage spreads
widened. This decreased the value of Aegon's mortgage portfolio. In addition, the
reduction in illiquidity premium increased the fair value of IFRS insurance liability. This is
similar to what we saw under Solvency II. These two elements combined, drove the
shortfall in the LAT, resulting in a strengthening of our IFRS technical provisions.
Note that the impact of lower interest rates on the LAT shortfall was completely offset by
fair value gains on interest rate hedges, gains on the guarantee provision, and interest
related gains on bond sales. This matching is a consequence of hedging programs we
have in place to protect solvency capital in case interest rates decline. These programs
were entirely effective during the first half of 2019. However, the impact of credit spread
movements on the LAT has no hedging related offset. We view these credit spread
movements as non-permanent and expect them to reverse over time. Therefore, we do
not hedge them.
Now that we have a LAT efficiency, our IFRS results in the Netherlands will move up and
down with market movements, in particular, if basis risk and credit spread movement
materializes, interest rate movements will have less of an impact though as both fair value
movements on assets and liabilities will be recognized in the P&L.
On the next slide, I will give you more details on the capital generation and remittances of
the units. In the first six months of 2019, our units contributed over EUR850 million of
normalized capital generation. I would like to point out that our normalized capital
generation was largely unaffected by market movements in the first half of the year.
Specifically in the Netherlands, higher capital generation as a result of spread movements
offset the impact from lower interest rates.
Normalized capital generation and gross remittances from the various units well covered
the dividend payment of EUR0.15 per share, which translates to approximately EUR310
million in total external dividend payments. Let me expand on remittances and excess
cash in the holding on the next slide.

Page 9 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

At the end of the first half of 2019, holding excess cash amounted to EUR1.6 billion. Gross
remittances to the holding of EUR765 million included a special dividend of EUR112 million
from the U.K, underpinning their resilient capital position and EUR131 million following the
divestment of Aegon's operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Planned
remittances from the Netherlands were retained over the first half of the year. Aegon the
Netherlands intends to resume remittances once it's solvency ratio exceeds the bottom
end of its target range. Capital injections of EUR142 million were mainly related to funding
growth in our Scale-up for the Future businesses.
In the second half of 2019, we expect to pay EUR115 million of earn-outs related to the
performance of the Santander joint venture since the start of the partnership. In addition,
we anticipate a payment of EUR215 million to Santander in 2020, as the expansion of our
partnership announced in 2018 is expected to close next year. As a result, our pro forma
excess capital position sits within our target range of EUR1 billion to EUR1.5 billion.
Before I conclude my presentation, let me summarize the first half of 2019. We have
made good progress in driving efficiencies and allocating capital to those activities with
the best growth prospects. We have also maintained a solid capital position and increased
normalized capital generation. As such, we remain committed to deliver on our targets
and increase value to shareholders.
With that, I conclude my presentation. Alex and I are now happy to take your questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from the line of Farooq
Hanif from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, there. Hi, good morning everybody. Can you talk about what actions you can take in
the Netherlands, from your own actions rather than depending on the market to put
yourself well back into the target range? So I'm thinking around mortgage repricing,
modeling changes and any other approaches. Secondly, has your appetite for illliquid now
changed? And can you give the details of what particular securities are now treated as
equities? Is this something that affects you or everybody in the Netherlands? And thirdly,
you talked about optimization in the Netherlands or taking actions to accelerate the
release of required capital. Can you talk about what you mean there? Thank you.

A - Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Hi, Farooq. Alex here, good morning. I think that Matt very clearly laid out the impacts on
our Solvency II from a number of items of which most are uneconomical. I'm not
suggesting a deteriorating economies rather it's the model and the abnormalities in the
model that have led to a lower rates. Having said that, it is clear that Aegon the
Netherlands has to pay dividends as every other units does and we need to take the
Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

actions and we'll take the actions that will bring it back into at least the middle of the
target range so that we can comfortably continue or resume paying dividends out of the
Netherlands. There are number of actions that we are considering, I will name a few of
them.
For example, we are looking at reinsuring longevity. That is an action that we hope to be
able to take before the end of the year and that will have clearly a positive impact and as
such improve our ratio. It's also clear that the recent Vivat transaction, that market enter is
a priority. Private equity investors in the Dutch Life insurance market is creating a new
environment and is also providing a new options for us to consider and we will be
considering each of these options very carefully because we do realize that we have an
enormous amount of capital that is kind of trapped into Aegon Leven, and as you know
this business is part of our Managed for Value category. In the Managed for Value
category we have two priorities, it's about reducing cost and variabilizing expenses and
accelerating the release of capital. So we're looking at all the options including the
recently, I would say, new environments that offers, in our view, much more optionality
around the back book and we will explore them aggressively.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Maybe I'd take the illiquid asset point. So as I mentioned in the presentation, the change
to the required capital for illiquid investments resulted in about an 8 percentage point
decrease in the Dutch solvency ratio. This happened as a consequence of direction from
the Dutch Central Bank to treat these illiquid assets as basically equity investments under
the standard formula rather than as more debt like securities under our internal model. I
would say that we are still in discussions with DNB on the ultimate treatment of these. We
took the conservative route for this first half year, but we have not concluded on this with
them as yet. We still like the illiquid asset class, the ones that this new approach applies to
is really in the consumer loans and direct lending space and maybe just as a reminder, we
have about EUR3.2 billion of alternative assets as part of the total alternative asset
program in the Netherlands and we added about EUR800 million this year. It will -- so far
this year, it will cause us to go back and have a look at basically the trade-off between
required capital and excess spread, but again we are in constant discussion with the
Dutch Central Bank on the treatment of these new asset classes.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
We'll take our next question from the line of Albert Ploegh from ING Bank. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes, good morning all. Yeah, for the bit of follow-up question on the previous ones. First
of all, on the, -- I hear what you say on the mortgage spreads being an economically, -that they impact on the solvency ratio. But basically I think Q3 so far, of course, spread
effects has actually only started to widen further. So can you give maybe a little bit feeling
Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

-- yeah, how that -- so clearly things worsened further? So I'm sort of little bit puzzled also
on your EUR1.5 billion cash remittances guidance for this year. I assume that normally it
was something like a EUR100 million to EUR200 million difference for the Dutch business
in there. So are you really comfortable that you can pull off something like the reinsurance
protection by year-end to deliver on this or are you still basically now zero assumption in
the EUR1.5 billion cash remittances service can be made up good elsewhere in the group.
And then basically I had one question more on the -- yeah, on the back book and front
book yields in the US. I remember that in the second half of last year, they were more or
less at the same level. So no drag on earnings from that. Yeah, obviously that has
widened, but can you maybe give a bit of a heads up where we stand today. That will be
helpful. Thank you.

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So let's talk about the mortgage spreads for a moment. Again, it had a
considerable impact on our solvency ratio and we see them as extremely wide relative to
certainly recent history. Albert, you rightly point out that we have had even slightly more
widening in the mortgage spreads and we've also seen interest rate decline and changes
in the EIOPA VA. And just to give you a little bit of guidance here, we would estimate
something like a 5 percentage point reduction in the Dutch solvency ratio like as of today,
based on sort of all the available information. But again, the markets are a bit
disconnected now and we would expect these to come back over time.
With respect to the overall gross remittances guidance. Probably the best thing that I can
say is, we put out a target at the beginning of the year and based on what we see, we're
still going to be able to meet that target. Talking about the back book and the front book
yields in the US, I think for the first half of the year, we had new money yields sitting at
4.09% and the back book yield was at 4.65% and I think that covers those questions.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from the line of Robin van den Broek
from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, good morning everybody. First of all, on your Dutch Solvency II ratio above 155% you
indicate that you feel comfortable to remit capital to the group. Just wondering if you
could talk about, do you afar benefit within that ratio, seems to me that on the back of the
current curve that's well over a 100 percentage point. Is the regulator still comfortable
with remitting capital on ex-UFR ratios like that? Secondly, I think it's interesting that you
specify in the slides that the mortgage spreads beneficial for capital generation is more
than offsetting the headwinds coming from interest rates. Can you quantify those two
dynamics because I think in the past you said that one bip of rates movement downwards
Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

is roughly 1 million of capital generation. So, year-to-date interest rates are a pretty big
headwind. So could you maybe give us also the number on what tailwind do you expect
from the mortgage side and confirm that, that one bips for 1 million is still valid?
Then aggressively looking for ways to offload balance sheet in the Netherlands, can you
comment a little bit more about that -- I presume you're talking about private equity
coming into the market. Can you talk a little bit more about to how aggressive things can
go there, because given the multiples that Athora has paid, you could argue that private
equity is a better owner for this books of business, but would you go as far to offload your
entire book or could we just expect to see something small happening here?
And lastly on your normalized capital generation, you're already hitting numbers above
EUR700 million, that puts your annualized number above EUR1.4 billion that's over a three
year framework assuming no further growth. You're already at EUR4.2 billion versus a
EUR4.1 billion target. Can you talk a little bit about the quality of that sprint in H1? It seems
to me that the quality has improved year-over-year and also because your strain has gone
up, but are there any one-offs in there that we should think about or can we actually
expect you guys to deliver on something materially better than the EUR4.1 billion target?
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. On the Dutch Solvency II ratio, the idea is -- the bottom end of the target range
155%, as long as we can get over that one, then we will feel comfortable paying a
dividend. I think as you well know, the UFR continues to be a drag, both in terms of our
normalized capital generation, but also were reflecting in the first half of the year, the 15
basis point decline in the UFR when -- but I think your question was more specifically, does
the Dutch regulator look at solvency ratio after -- or taking out the UFR. The way that we
look at economic reality is we look at that as a flow issue, not so much a stock issue. So as
long as we see our dividend base increasing, including the reduction in the UFR over time,
then that's really the basis by which we are able to rationalize paying dividends out of the
Dutch organization.
On the second point, I can validate the 1 basis point -- for the 1 basis point change in
interest rates gives EUR1 million benefit. For the rest of it, the mortgage piece of it, let's
refer that to IR later. The explanation is quite detailed to do that one on the call now.
When you talk about aggressively pursuing, say management actions to release capital
from the Dutch business, I think we've been very clear with respect to our strategy for
that -- for these Manage for Value businesses, we really -- we really focus on capital
optimization, variabilizing expenses, but most notably accelerating capital repatriation to
the holding over time. Now, there are many ways to do this. There are other management
actions that we can take to release capital. For example longevity reinsurance which we'll
pursue in the second half of the year.
But the entrance of private equity into the Dutch Life market as a consequence of the
Vivat transaction has opened up opportunities. There is interest out there for long
duration Dutch Life liabilities. And we have to factor that into our thinking, there is a bit of
a new reality. We all knew that it was coming after we saw so much private equity interest
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

in the Vivat transaction. So this is, let's just say that it creates additional options to release
capital in accordance with our strategy for managing for value books.
The normalized capital generation your math -- your math is right, and we've seen some
actually some good increases in new business strain, it's largely mix of business related,
but I would actually expect -- I would -- that's normalized capital generation target over
three years. I would like to see some additional production that would increase new
business strain. So right now, if we don't grow the business, yes, normalized capital
generation will -- we will easily hit our target. But I'd rather invest for the future, invest in
new business, and then that will generate capital going forward in years to come.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you for that.

Operator
We'll take our next question from the line of Matthias de Wit from Kempen. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. I've got three questions please. First is, just to come back on the
longevity reinsurance. Is there currently a lot of appetite in the market to absorb large
parts of -- or significant portions of longevity risk because we've only seen quite small
transactions so far in the Netherlands? Can you maybe also say something about how
much or what proportion of the SCR and risk margin is currently linked to longevity? And
then secondly, can you provide some guidance on the impact of low rates on earnings
and capital generation at group level and maybe also provide some comments on the
long-term care book which is particularly sensitive to rates and then very small last one on
Retirement Services, outflows are slowing down and so I wonder if you could already
expect a return to inflows as of the second half. Thank you.

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

So on the longevity reinsurance, yes, we have indications from several reinsurance
companies that there is capacity to handle a reasonable transaction. I think with respect to
the SCR related to longevity, I would just refer you to the FSCR. The information is
contained there. Let's see, impact of low interest rates on earnings, so, basically, so
earnings, so let's say, underlying earnings in the US as an example, basically 10 basis
points interest results in 10 million additional deck unlocking, so that comes through above
the line, given you some pretty good -- I think we've given you some pretty good
guidance on IFRS sensitivities. There is not so -- how do you want to say it -- on the, so -on interest rate sensitivities elsewhere on, let's say capital, we've given the sensitivities
on Slide 16 for the major units and the (Technical Difficulty) group. Long-term care, not so
much interest rate sensitive simply because we had locked in long-term interest rates
long ago with forward starting swaps and those things are still in place and effective and
maybe Alex, you can take the retirement...

Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

A - Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yeah, on the Retirement Services and the gross deposits. So we had very significant gross
deposits with EUR65 billion. But, what is more encouraging is to see that our written sales
and that means the contracts that we have closed on our retirement, and they take
usually six to nine months before effectively the deposits are being transfered, we see
that for written sales, there was an increase of 74% to EUR10 billion. So we know that
EUR10 billion of inflows will be coming in the next six to nine months. And I'm positive
about the momentum here, because we are now seeing that we're also becoming -- to
become successful in the large case segment of the market, with two sales in excess of
EUR1 billion in the large case and there -- here what we see, we are able now to leverage
the skills and capabilities that we have acquired with the Mercer transaction. But at the
same time in our annuities, in particular, variable annuities, you see, we've been able to
increase our market share and the gross deposits on the new product, Retirement
Income Choice product has been increased by 76%. So positive momentum on gross
deposits.
Now, I will certainly say that on retirement, it is a lumpy business. So inflows and outflows
don't always match in terms of timing, but the positive is to see that written sales have
started to increase significantly.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will take our next question from the line of Nick Holmes from Societe Generale. Your
line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Oh. Hi, there. Thanks very much. Just a couple of quick questions on the US. So the first
one, I know this fixed annuity sales grew by 75%. My question is, why do you think now is a
good time to sell these when bond yields are obviously falling and also, is the interest
rate guarantee on these products re-settable so that you can reset for lower rates? And
then secondly, I'm surprised that US Life sales were down 12%. I would have thought this is
a key product for you. Wondered if you could give us a bit more color. Thank you.

A - Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Nick, good morning. The fixed annuities are indexed fixed annuities. So it's not the
traditional fixed annuities of which you know we've effectively put in run-off and that's why
the sales, by the way, from a relatively low level have increased very significantly. And
there we do not have the type of guarantees and this type of spread risk that we had in
the traditional fixed annuities. In terms of Life, what we're seeing is that we are making
clearly progress in our IUL, Index Universal Life in particular through our distribution
channel WFG, where we are now gaining share in the market. So we're getting a bigger
proportion of their sales. And that has been a positive. While at the same time, we are relaunching a number of our more traditional products, which as you know are products that
Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

are becoming more and more commoditized and also, where the price -- the pressure is
important. So we need to balance the sales versus productivity -- profitability of the
product in particular with low interest rates.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

FINAL

That's great. Very clear. Thank you, Alex.

Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next line -- from the line of Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Your
line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, thank you very much. Just a couple of quick questions. I mean, when I think about
what's going on, it stems from your very overweight position in mortgages, and
previously, you had a valuation which followed the liabilities very well. You were forced to
then change, it had an effect on your solvency and now it's falling apart again, even if it's
not economic, but do you think that there could be some wholesale changes you can
make in the asset mix to better match your assets and liabilities such that they move
together because it seems that it's emanating from the same place? That's the first
question.
The second question is, the illiquid asset that you talked about, these are the peer-topeer loans, if I'm correct. So these are unsecured personal credit. I guess why did -- I
mean, these are, I guess, relatively risky sort of assets -- and but I wonder why the
regulator has now decided to change the approach you've used to calibrate to the
standard formula.
And the third question is just in relation to remittances, it appears that you had fairly large
remittances from the European business, which appears a bit one-off, you've obviously
got one-off from the UK and the US was actually -- the remittance from the US was quite
low. So, can you explain that as well? Thank you.

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

So on the first one, I mean, the issue that we're having in Dutch Solvency is the disconnect
between the portfolio -- the asset portfolio and as you rightfully say, largely overweight on
mortgages relative to what's going on with the EIOPA VA. The way to solve that mismatch
problem would be to invest in the basket of securities that represents the reference
portfolio for EIOPA VA which includes, for example, Italian government bonds. So that's
something that from an economic standpoint, we choose to look at the economics, yes,
there is volatility in the solvency ratio. There is no question about this. I think that changes
to the way that the volatility adjuster works will be a top priority for the whole insurance
industry in Europe as we go into the 2020 review of Solvency II partial internal models. So
at this point, yes, there are technically wholesale changes that we can make to the
investment portfolio, but we have no intention of doing that.

Page 16 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

With regard to the illiquid assets and the Dutch Central Banks now asking us to go to
standard formula equity treatment, your question was, why do they do that at this
moment in time. We are constantly reviewed by the Dutch Central Bank on a number of
issues, for example, the dynamic volatility adjuster in the second half of 2018, our
adjustments to that model came at the request of DNB. And strictly speaking, according
to EIOPA guidance as well. That had muted a bit. It acted as a little bit of a dampener in
terms of volatility that we are experiencing in the volatility adjuster. Similarly with mortgage
valuations, at one moment in time, we had a smoothing mechanism where we would look
at consumer prices over a relatively short period of time, and now, we look at them at a
moment in time, which is adding additional volatility. So it's a challenge, I think, as all
companies are getting used to implementing Solvency II and not only companies but also
regulators. I think they are filling in the gray areas at this moment in time, but that's the
state of play with the Dutch Central Bank at this point.
With regard to your question about US remittances, saying that they are low, this is just
simply timing issue. So we have a budget for planned remittances from the US and we
feel very confident that they are going to be able to meet their budget for the overall
year.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We'll take our next question from the line of David Motemaden from Evercore. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - David Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Hi. Just a question for Matt, on [Audio Gap] if rates are around this level when you guys
do your statutory cash flow testing, I guess, do you have any sense for the size, if there
will be a charge at the end of the year on a stat basis and how big that may be? And then
on this point, in the past you've said that the long-term care book has had a deficiency on
a cash flow basis, but you've been able to aggregate with other lines of business and
resulted in you guys not having to add reserves there. Just given the move-in rates, is that
still the case? And then finally, just on the IFRS assumptions in the US, some of your peers
have now moved below 4% on their 10 year assumption. Just wondering what sort of
sensitivity there is to IFRS book value, if you were to lower your assumption by 50 basis
points. Thank you.

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Sure. So first of all, on the cash flow testing. I think the best way to answer the question is
to refer you to the capital sensitivities on interest rates. And that takes into account all that
we know including, where we would think year-end cash flow testing would end up. So I
think that, that is a pretty good guide for thinking about the US capital situation. But
effectively we are in, -- I think we're in pretty good shape. But the same -- you can just
look through to the sensitivities. On the long-term care testing, the more binding
constraint is on the premium deficiency reserve testing and given the fact that we have
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

had continued good experience in the block, we do not view the lower interest rates as
putting that one into danger. So, but again on the overall sensitivities to interest rates, I
can refer you to the capital sensitivities that we're publishing.
On the IFRS assumptions in the US, I think you know well, currently, we are assuming an
increase to 4.25% on the 10 year -- over the next 10 years. I don't -- we just went through
our economic assumption review. We decided not to change that figure and at this
moment, I don't really have an estimate of what our deck unlocking would be, if we move
that it would certainly depend on how we did the grading but that's something that we
can -- that we can get to you.

Operator
Thank you. We'll get our next question from the line of Patrick Lemmens from Robeco.
Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Patrick Lemmens

{BIO 2551607 <GO>}

Yes, hello, good morning. I would like to start with the observation, which is, well, if
mortgage spreads are going up that much in the Netherlands, it must also be banks who
are facing ever tougher interest conditions and need to get higher mortgage spreads to
compensate for that, but maybe two questions, if I may. The first one is, if you look at the
capital unlock in the Netherlands, let's say, for example, you could do a 25% of the total
book selling or getting sort of getting it off your hands, what would be the impact on
capital and also what would be the timeframe to do this and probably also given sort of
the changing future leadership, could that be done also before March next year or would
you want to wait with those kind of strategic decisions?

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

So, may be on your observation, yeah, I think you're entirely right that banks are certainly
looking for yield here and in a low interest rate environment. So you can imagine that they
wouldn't be so anxious to reduce consumer pricing. And in fact, I mean we're issuing quite
some mortgages ourselves putting it in the balance sheet of the bank, putting it under
the balance sheet of the Life company. So we actually like writing these mortgages at
attractive spreads and I think we did over EUR3 billion in mortgage production in the first
half of the year.
So it was quite some good business that we've been able to put on the book, but you're
right, we don't know the direction of mortgage spreads going forward. But we would
expect to a certain extent that they would ultimately compete it away. But we'll see, we'll
see. With respect to the, let's say, the capital unlocking in the Dutch business, I think it's
very difficult to comment on timing or what the financial consequences would be simply
because you have to identify the piece of business that you might be willing to sell or reinsure or whatsoever and then you would have to have a good understanding of the price.
But I think the read through from the Vivat transaction is that for the entirety of the Life
business, they were able to get a price that was quite a high percentage of their own
funds. So that's probably the best way to look at it, but in terms of timing and structure
and so on, that's difficult to comment on.
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Operator
We'll get our next question from the line of Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you. Just a couple of quick questions on the new business. If I look at your
new business, if I measure your efficiency of how you efficiently use the capital, the new
business strain to generate new business and then if I look at that, in the first half of 2019,
you used actually more new business strain but generate less new business value
compared to the 2018. I just wonder why is that the case and also a related question is
actually, if I look at this, this number actually this kind of ratio efficiency actually fluctuate
quite a lot from 2017, 2018, now in 2019. So what is actually the driving force underlying
this kind of efficiency if I measure it that way?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then secondly is, again you talked about the PE coming into Netherlands actually
open the optionality for you to think about the Netherlands book. Just wonder where is,
given your governance structure and, you know, there is association there and where, kind
of, where is the discussion with association regarding to this. And then the last thing is
about small question about the bank. So obviously, you're combining the bank with Knab. I
just wonder, the franchise-wise and also I understood that the customer base of these
two kind of banks are very different and what's the plan and why you're doing this, I just
wonder? Thank you.

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Let me take your points here. So on the first one, the -- let's say, the efficiency ratio that
you're looking at is, I would say, a little bit of a distorted view. So I'm assuming that you're
looking at new business strain compared to MCVNB. And in that context, it's a little bit of
an apple and an orange. But in broad terms, in broad terms, I can say the following. What
we saw is an increase in new business strain over the first half of the year relative to prior
periods, but it was mainly due to mix of business and it comes down to business that
where we sold a little bit more Indexed Universal Life, which has a higher strain, little bit
more Variable Annuity, has a higher strain, more strain in the workplace business in the UK.
And even though production was reasonably flattish, the mix of business had a change.
Now, you do raise an important point on the MCVNB and that is the impact of lower
interest rates. And I think if you look through carefully here, we are still trying to grow the
Variable Annuity business in the United States, but what we're seeing is interest rates are
coming down and we're creating negative MCVNB's. But in order to drive commercial
momentum in that business, we are at this moment still emphasizing being competitive in
the market. We do not want to lose our market competitive position. We do not, in this
case, want to be a first mover on price. We think that other companies will react to the low
interest rates, we want to be a fast follower but not a leader in this context.
You talked about PE coming into the Netherlands. I think the -- probably -- and I think
Patrick was alluding to this earlier, we are going to evaluate options for the Dutch Life
Insurance business on many dimensions, but looking at the core strategy for Manage for
Value businesses, which is to release capital. We are not going to wait for a new CEO to

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

FINAL

come in. Alex, certainly has a mandate through May of 2020 and Alex and I are going to
run the business the way that it needs to be run in the best interest of all stakeholders,
including foremost shareholders.
Now the (Inaudible) Aegon is an important player in this. They have a responsibility toward
all stakeholders, including employees, the public at large, and so on. So they'll need to be
taken along this journey. They own slightly more than 14% of our common shares, they
need to be taken, -- they need to be taken along and -- but I think the most important
point is that we would not sit on our hands and wait to take action.

A - Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Should I add a few comments on Knab and the integration? Well, actually, it's very simple.
You're absolutely right. There is not exactly the same customer base in Knab. We have a
big percentage of self-employed. But the reality is that we are looking for synergies and
cost efficiencies but also process efficiencies around compliance everywhere where we
can. So, it's, I think, obvious that having Knab on one side, with its systems, its compliant
systems, its Know-Your-Customer, all the money laundering issues as you know become
more and very heavy and have that alongside in the Aegon Bank being duplicated doesn't
make a lot of sense. So, we're bringing it all onto one platform, one system, one
management to ensure efficiency from cost but also efficiencies on areas of compliance,
on the areas of Know-Your-Customer and there it is not so relevant if the customers are
different, we need to make sure we do it and that's why we are doing this integration that
will drive also quite some significant cost reductions.

Operator
We'll take our last question from the line of Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, hi, good morning, Alex. Good morning, Matt. Just couple of questions. I mean, yeah,
I mean this private equity thing is pretty interesting, I mean people have paid some crazy
multiples for businesses, not crazy over, I mean it's a logical multiple. But it's clearly the
best way to unlock value, but what I struggle with that is how would you unlock value up to
a full extent. I mean, the best way to do it is to split the US and the other businesses.
Now, if you just try and do reinsurance, basically, I mean, Aegon Netherlands will again
become a very small part of the group basically. I mean UK is like 5%, you have some of
the European businesses, which in aggregate is a 10%, Netherlands will be like 5%, 10%.
So what is still the logic of keeping this altogether? I mean there is clear -- clearly better
value unlocking that can happen if we think about doing a split. So that's one question.
Second -- I mean, and we have discussed this in past as well, but just trying to think again
just because this private equity debate is picking up.
Secondly is, in terms of Netherlands cash generation and capital generation. I used to
remember that it was EUR300 million, EUR325 million and it looks like your first half run
rate is suggesting EUR400 million annual. So if I'm missing anything on there and the last
Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

bit would be, can you just remind us as to what the US cash flows for the year should be,
the dividends, the remittance from US? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Matthew Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Okay. So on the first one, I mean, as we've talked about private equity entering into the
Dutch market does create some interesting opportunities. You can think of a variety of
structures to unlock capital and all I can say is that we would look at all options. Now
depending on what those options are, they could ultimately have strategic consequences
with the structure of the group. But we're going to take a little bit of time and think about
how best to optimize the capital structure in the Netherlands, get them back into
dividend-paying status, and again, as I have said, to accelerate the repatriation of capital
out of the Dutch Life business to the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to the Netherlands capital generation, yeah, I mean, the point is that their
capital generation is quite good. It's growing. It is a consequence, in fact, of the illiquid
asset program and expense reduction measures and many other things that we do on
the management side to be able to accelerate capital generation. So it is a bit frustrating
to see that normalized capital generation, while increasing, we have strange market
movements that are affecting the solvency ratio and it's obviously -- the part that's
frustrating is the sort of non-economic elements of Solvency II that are creating
headwinds for us at this moment in time. But you have it right. Our capital generation is
improving. So that is a good thing. In terms of the US cash flows for the year, I think we're
definitely on target and we would expect something in the EUR900 million range for the
year and I would think growing from there.

Operator
We have no further questions. Please go ahead for any additional closing remarks.

A - Alex Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Thank you, everybody, and I wish you a good day. And wish you also a good rest of the
summer and see you all soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Operator
That concludes today's conference call. Thank you everyone for your participation. You
may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

