Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

Swiss Re AG at Deutsche Bank Depositary Receipts Virtual
Investor Conference

FINAL

Company Participants
Manfred Gasser, Unknown

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Unidentified Participant
Hello. Welcome to the Deutsche Bank Depositary Receipts Virtual Investor Conference,
dbVIC. This is Zafar Aziz from the Deutsche Bank team. I'm pleased to announce our next
presentation will be from Swiss Re from Switzerland.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I introduce our speaker, a few points to note. (Operator Instructions) On a final
note, all of today's presentation will be recorded and can be accessed by the Deutsche
Bank website adr.db.com.
At this point, I'm very pleased to welcome Manfred Gasser, IR Senior Manager from Swiss
Re. Over to you, Manfred.

Manf red Gasser

{BIO 20450590 <GO>}

All right. Good morning, or good afternoon to all of you and thanks for having me. So in
this short presentation I'm going to first give you an overview of Swiss Re and our
overview -- global overview and group strategy and then spend some time on all of the 3
business units and then conclude with our capital management story.
Now to give you a timely -- the first overview of Swiss Re. Obviously, we are a reinsurance
company, founded in Switzerland more than 150 years ago. We are either the largest or
second-largest reinsurer in the world, depending on how you want to measure it. Our
financial strength is very important for a reinsurance company, therefore our S&P rating,
for example, is AA minus. So very strong. Also important is strong balance sheet that is
best expressed in our Swiss solvency test ratio of 251%. Just keep in mind the regulator
would ask for 100% solvency ratio. And also very important for us is sustainability and
there we got a AAA rating from MSCI.
As mentioned before, we have 3 business units. The business units where we are best
known for is reinsurance. Next to reinsurance, we have corporate solutions, which is a
Page 1 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

FINAL

primary insurance or direct insurance for large corporates and finally, we have Life Capital
where we manage closed books but also open Life & Health books.
On the next slide this is a -- you see a bit of an overview on what our key differentiators
are and for our company, which is the direct client access that we have. Our core risk
knowledge and the capital strength. Below you see how the 3 business units are
positioned in their individual competitive fields. So far Reinsurance, we are the #1 global
property reinsurer. We are the top 2 global reinsurer in the Life & Health business and in
the high-growth markets, which is mainly Asia. And Latin America, we are the #1 reinsurer.
On Corporate Solutions, we are a smaller player, we are top 5 to 10 in the excess layer
markets and growing our business in the Primary Lead segment. In Life Capital, we are the
leading U.K. life and health -- life and pension consolidator and are growing our open
B2B2C platforms.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of business line diversification and global diversification, you can see on this slide
here that we are very well diversified. P&C Re, which is the property and casualty business
of our reinsurance businesses is the largest part of our book with 47% and 37% is Life &
Health reinsurance and then the 2 smaller segments, Corporate Solutions and Life Capital
with 11% share of premium and 5% premium for Life Capital. The regional state, you can
see in the middle that the Americas, which is mainly U.S. and Canada is by far the largest
part with 47% where as 32% from the EMEAs and 22% from Asia. Now here to note is that
we expect this is going to change over time and that the Asia share will increase over the
next years.
Premium growth over the last couple of years has been very steady. So a CAGR of 5%
over the last seven years, which is pretty much in line with our expectations and we
expect that to continue. While we are so positive about our debt is -- not only the current
market environment. But also the long-term opportunities, in terms of current market
environment, we see especially on the P&C side, that the prices are improving not only
for the reinsurance business but recently even more pronounced in the commercial lines
and credit increasing interest rates well at least to the low points that we had two years
ago we see an uplift also there and a benefit especially for our longer-term lines in
casualty and Life & Health.
The expected market growth for the next years is overall 5% for the high-growth markets,
which is again mainly Asia. We expect that growth to be even more pronounced with 9%.
In the long term, we are very optimistic about our outlook that is driven by the risk pools in
the world growing everywhere and also the high-growth markets that I have mentioned
continue to grow nicely. And in general, in the world we see a significant protection gap in
terms of underpenetration of insurance.
For our strategy, left-hand side, you see our strategic framework allocating capital to the
most attractive risk pools is probably the most important element of that framework and
we built a franchise that allows us to very efficiently allocate capital between single risk
pools. In the middle you see the near-term priorities that focus either on growth or
expanding our competitive advantage in the risk knowledge field and that all should lead
us to achieve our financial -- group financial targets in terms of return of equity, which is

Page 2 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

700 basis points of risk free. Risk free for us is the 10-year U.S. treasury yield. And we also
have an economic growth target, which is the ENW per share growth of 10% per annum.
Now if you look back over the last seven years and also of our performances, (inaudible)
you see that most of the times we achieved both of those targets. But also -- but you
would also notice that we are exposed to volatility from -- especially from natural
catastrophes and especially 2017 and '18 were quite significant years in terms of natural
catastrophes in the world.
Now more concretely to the Reinsurance business to P&C and Life & Health Reinsurance.
As mentioned, it's the largest part of our business or more than 80% of the premium are
coming from that business unit. That the core of that business is the differentiation and
we tried to achieve that in 3 different pillars. We separate our business into core,
transactions and solutions. Core is really the bread-and-butter business of Reinsurance
and there the key driver for us is to simplify the business and drive additional efficiency in
order to achieve better margins. But in recent years the 2 other pillars become even more
important transactions and solutions. Transactions there we write larger transactions with
the -- especially with the larger clients so that would be the top-50 insurance companies
in the world, where we help them to either optimize their profit streams or achieve capital
optimization, different types of transactions that we can offer to our clients. And in that
field competition is very small because there's only a few selected players who can
actually be active in that field because you need to have a large balance sheet and you
need to have structuring capabilities, which many of the players don't have.
Then finally, in terms of solutions, we try to add value to our clients, to either access
(inaudible) core improve their performance on existing risks.
On the next slide, you see a few selected examples of what those solutions can be, one
that to point out here is Magnum. Magnum is a underwrited -- an automated underwriting
platform that we offer to our clients and to underwrite risks globally. The underwriting
platform, Magnum, is working on all the (iPods) or any other portable device that clients
use and allow them to close the large part of a single risk policy directly on the go. Just to
give you a bit of a better sense on how relevant that platform for us already is with clients
is one of the key driver for very strong growth in Asia and especially in China over the last
years.
At the moment, there are more than 100,000 sales agents of our clients in China being
active in the market and underwriting life policies using our Magnum platform. In 2018
alone, we processed more than 13 million policies with that platform alone.
On the next slide, you see the developments of our direct relationship with our clients. On
the Life & Health Reinsurance side you see that 96% of the business, we direct -- we write
direct to the clients that means there's no broker in between.
On the P&C side, the role of the broker is more important. But even there, we write 47%
of our business directly with our clients. Now, the chart below that looks like an eyeball or
spaghetti chart, it's just one example of the many interactions between Swiss Re and our
Page 3 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

FINAL

clients. In this example, you see a client based in the U.S. and at the bottom you see all
the individual or you don't see it precisely. But what you should see is the individual names
of our employees and their interactions with the clients or with our clients on the other
side. And that's just the interactions in one individual year. And that's just underlying the
relevance and the support that our clients are getting from Swiss Re all over the world,
that is something that is quite unique in the market and it's not -- cannot be reproduced
by any tier 2 or tier 3 reinsurer in that market.
I also mentioned the importance of transactions already. The chart on the right-hand side
just shows you the economic profit that we generated over the last years from
transactions. As you can see it's a bit of an up and down but the trend is definitely
positive. A CAGR of 16% since 2010 coming from those larger transactions.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of business mix for Reinsurance. You see the development here in the different
regions, Americas, EMEA and Asia. Here, the most important point to point out is Asia on
the right-hand side, which we grew from 2010 from $3.3 billion to $15.4 billion. Now this is
economic earnings that means it will take into account the full lifetime of any contract that
we write. That also means that it will take time until that -- those premiums, those
economic premiums that you see on this slide will be earned in U.S. GAAP, which is our
reporting framework. But that is also one reason why we are very confident to say that the
contribution of Asia will only increase in the next few years in terms of U.S. GAAP because
we actually already have written that book and see the economic development on our
book.
Then going on to -- moving on to Corporate Solutions. And Corporate Solutions has
started off in 2012, if you will, at least externally. It's a -- the business unit where we write
direct insurance to large corporates. That business unit has now more than $4 billion of
profits but it's also fair to say that the performance of Corporate Solutions over the last
two years was not in line with our expectations. 2017 was heavily impacted by the
hurricanes in the U.S. Harvey and Maria. But the underperformance unfortunately
continued in 2018 driven by a difficult market environment in terms of pricing but also
higher-than-expected losses from large man-made disasters.
Now we communicate here that we are taking actions in Corporate Solutions and will
improve the performance of the business units going forward and with our last press
release with our Q1 results, we mentioned that we are trying to finalize the current review
of our business units and also to resume position of that business unit by Second Quarter
and we'll provide a technical update on the performance of the business units with our
half year figures end of July. And since our new CEO of that business unit has joined just a
couple of weeks ago, we will provide a more detailed overview of the future strategic
positioning of the business units with our Investors Day in November. In the meantime this
focus is very much on restoring the profitability and the quality of that book.
One area where we are active in improving is our U.S. general liability book that we
already reduced by 30% since 2016 and it's likely that, that number will even increase. On
the other hand, as mentioned at the beginning, is that we see quite significant price
increases in that environment year-on-year. When we compare the First Quarter of 2019
with the First Quarter of 2018, we see the prices went up by 5% and we see that trend
Page 4 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

FINAL

actually even accelerating. And that combined with the actions that we are now taking in
this business unit gives us some confidence that the performance going forward will be
again in line with expectations.
Then moving on to Life Capital. Life Capital is also a business unit that is a bit in transition.
One large part of Life Capital are our closed Life portfolios in the U.K. Now that is the
business -- that specific business venture is called ReAssure and that is an entity that we
announced that we will -- that we are trying to IPO in the course of 2019. The preparations
are on track and we are still aiming to conclude that process in 2019. The reason why we
want to IPO that business is because we believe it's not Swiss Re has not the optimal
balance sheet to own the majority of that business. But even after the IPO we will -- or we
expect to remain a significant shareholder of that business unit because we believe it's
very nicely positioned in the U.K. in the attractive market with more opportunities to come.

Bloomberg Transcript

From the business alone in the course of 2018, we were able to generate a gross cash
generation of $818 million, which is a very strong contributor to our ordinary dividend in
2019. Now MS&AD is a larger primary insurer in Japan and one of our long-term clients in
Reinsurance. We agreed with MS&AD in the course of the last 1.5 years that they buy 25%
share in Reinsurance and that already has happened. Then the next step for us is the IPO,
that I have just mentioned.
Now next to ReAssure. There are 2 other businesses in Life Capital and they are focusing
on the open Life & Health books and the businesses are called elipsLife, which is group
life business and then iptiQ, which is a white labeling offering focused on the Life & Health
side. Now those 2 business are relatively small in the broader contest of Swiss Re. But
growing very dynamically and we expect to talk a lot more about those individual
businesses in the future, if the trend in the growth is continuing as we see at the moment,
which is actually higher than our initial expectations.
Finally, I want to talk about capital management, since capital management is an
extremely important part of the equity story to most of our shareholders and we have 4
very clear priorities when it comes to capital management. The most important one for us
is, to ensure that we have a superior capital position at all the time that gives us the
flexibility and to deploy capital whenever we find attractive opportunities. The most
relevant metric, as I mentioned at the beginning, is our SST ratio. So Swiss solvency test
ratio that at the beginning of the year stood at 251% SST. Our internal target for the SST
ratio is 220%. So we are quite a bit above our own internal target, which means we are a
bit of capital access position there. And all of -- just to reiterate the capital level that would
be required from our regulator would be the 100%. So we want to act significantly above
that just to underline the capital strengths to our clients that we are here for our clients in
any circumstances.
Now, the second priority right after the capital position is growing our regular dividend in
line with our earning power. If you look back how our ordinary dividend developed over
the last years, it has been an increase of roughly 3% per share with a more substantial
increase in 2019 where we increased the ordinary dividend by 12%.

Page 5 of 8



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

Then the third priority of our capital management priorities is to deploy capital to our
business units where we see growth opportunities and where we see that the growth
actually is able to meet our profitability goals and targets. This could be either organic or
in the form of M&A. What I also have to say is that it's very difficult on the Reinsurance side
to find attractive M&A opportunities that is because our global footprint is already very
well advanced and we are the largest or the second largest reinsurer in the world and it's
very difficult to find an attractive target in that space that would be of strategic
importance. For the other 2 business units, M&A remains a possibility.
Then coming to our fourth priority, which is to repatriate excess capital to our
shareholders. That goes back to the comment that I made before that our SST ratio is
above our 220% target and if we are not successful in deploying our capital to this growth
areas then we have a very strong track record that we would give excess capital back to
our shareholders.
In the past, we used special dividends, I would say as a tool for giving excess capital back
to our shareholders over the last four years. We consistently used the tool of -- or in the
form of a share buyback. Also this year we received the authorization for a share buyback
program from our AGM. The share buyback program has been adjusted slightly from last
year. Last year the maximum was $1 billion. For 2000 -- or for this cycle, we have
authorization for share buyback of 2 tranches, each of CHF 1 billion. The first tranche has
been started right after our Q1 disclosure and it's running at the moment. The second
tranche. And so the second CHF 1 billion is contingent to the development of the capital
position of Swiss Re throughout the year. That means, if our capital position would
significantly increase despite the ongoing share buyback in the course of the year that
could be one trigger for us to also trigger the second tranche of the share buyback.
Another driver for that -- for the second tranche of the share buyback would or could be a
successful IPO of ReAssure that I've mentioned before.
And this is already the end of my presentation, I'm happy to take any questions that you
might have.

Questions And Answers
A - Manf red Gasser

{BIO 20450590 <GO>}

So I have a question here asking for the rational for the ReAssure spin-off.
There are different reasons for that. One is, that most of our investors actually value our
franchise in terms of retail and equity performance. Now just the nature of the ReAssure
business is that it is very difficult to achieve return on equities in excess of 6%, just
because how the accounting works for that business. But nevertheless, it is spinning off
some very attractive gross cash generation over the year. But again, most of our investors
value often return on equity performance and it has been drag on our return on equity
performance.
The second important driver for this decision is that we have a bit of a regulatory
disadvantage when it comes to our competitors in the U.K. that is because we in
Page 6 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

FINAL

Switzerland are constrained with this SST framework, Swiss Solvency Test framework,
while our peers in the U.K. are constrained to with the Solvency II framework. And with
most of the transactions that you would be able to perform in ReAssure, a lot of credit
risk comes with it, which gets quite some significant or more significant tranches on the
SST than they do in Solvency II. So that is those reasons combined give us the reason that
we thought we are not the best balance sheet for ReAssure at least not to hold the
majority owning.
So then what are the drivers behind the stock price decline in the past months, is another
question.
Actually I would say, it's probably more focused on the last weeks. So the share prices
have been performing quite nicely at the beginning of the year, then one driver for the
decrease in the share price is obviously the dividend payout that happened right after the
AGM a couple of weeks ago. And since we're paying out a quite significant dividend this
year of CHF 5.6 per share you saw the share price decreasing by almost that amount
when we went ex-dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now the other reason for the decrease is more Swiss Re specific reaction on our Q1
results, which were below expectations, or below market expectations and especially
driven by the underperformance, I would say, of our Corporate Solutions business. As
mentioned, we communicated the market that we will conclude the review of that
business in the Second Quarter and we'll try to bring the performance of that business
back into -- in line with our expectations.
Then finally and that is not Swiss Re specific, just market specific the noise around trade
fears between the U.S. and Asia was another significant driver why our share price came
down a bit.
Another question is on climate change and the business -- and impact on our business
model.
Now that is a very good question. Climate change is a topic that we have been focusing
on since 2000, well I shouldn't say 2000 actually since ages. It's high up the priority list for
our organization and probably also require some research on this topic and impact on the
insurance industry. We of course have our own pricing and loss assumptions and do our
own risk modeling and we take our assumptions on what the impact of climate change is
in terms of the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes into our models and reflect
it also in our pricing.
Then I have another question on what is your appetite for issuing more debt.
So in our company, in our full company presentation, we would find a slide that gives an
overview on what we did in terms of optimizing our capital structure over the last years.
So there was quite some deleveraging especially in our reinsurance business over the last
five years or six years, more than 10 billion of deleveraging of our business unit of BU
Reinsurance balance sheet. But what we have -- but where we are active in the last couple
Page 7 of 8



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-05-16

FINAL

of years is adding some additional flexibility especially on group level in the form of
contingent capital. And -- well I'm not going -- I can't really give you a precise plan of what
we are going to issue is that we are quite happy with the current capital structure that we
have and whenever you see us announcing that the one point which you want to expire
you could expect us that we were trying to look into refinancing in one form or the other.
And that is all I have in terms of questions. And I see we also ran out of time. So thank you
very much for your time. And if you have any other follow-up questions, please feel free
to reach out to me directly, or to any other colleague in the Investor Relations team. You'll
find our contacts on our website and we try to come back to you as quick as possible.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 8 of 8

