Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

Discovery Ltd Annual Shareholder/Analyst Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Deon Marius Viljoen, Group CFO
Thabane Vincent Maphai, Independent Non-Executive Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Tinyiko Mabunda, ESG Analyst

Presentation
Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. I think we can start. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is my pleasure to
welcome you. Today is the 20th Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Discovery
Limited. I'm Vincent Maphai, an independent non-executive director of Discovery Limited.
Unfortunately, our Chairman, Mr. Mark Tucker, is not able to be present with us at this AGM
this morning.
The Board has proposed that I chair this AGM today. Are there any objections for me
continuing to chair this meeting? Thank you. No objections.
For this representing 81.95% of the issued share capital of the company were received.
And as more than 3 members are present, we have a quorum. The notice of the meeting
was distributed to all members of the company within the stipulated time required. And I
therefore declare this meeting open.
In terms of clause 25 of the Memorandum of Incorporation of the company, I rule that we
conclude the 8 ordinary shares -- ordinary and 4 special proposed resolutions by poll.
May I inquire if everybody present has signed the attendance register and completed the
poll sheet with our transfer secretaries at the back? If anyone has not, please do so as this
will enable the transfer secretaries to complete their polls.
I need to point out that if you have already voted, you are free to change your vote after
the resolution has come up for discussion. If, however, you do so, please alert me to the
back in order for the transfer secretaries to amend their records accordingly.
For good order, I propose that you read out the results of the poll of the 8 ordinary and 4
special proposed resolutions at the end of the meeting.
Page 1 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

We now come to the agenda.
I propose that the notice of the meeting be accepted as being read. Thank you.

FINAL

Ordinary resolutions number 1, consideration of the annual financial statements.
We now get to point 1 of the agenda where the shareholders are asked to accept the
annual audited financial statements, including the directors' report, audited report and the
report by the Audit Committee of the company and all of its subsidiaries for the year
ended 30 June 2019.
Are there any questions? I propose that the annual financial statements be accepted.
Resolution 2, reappointment of the external auditor. The company's Audit Committee has
nominated that PricewaterhouseCoopers be reappointed as independent external
auditor of the company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting. Mr.
Andrew Taylor is the individual registered auditor who will undertake the audit for the
financial year ending 30 June 2020. I propose that PwC be reappointed as the external
auditors.

Bloomberg Transcript

3, election of the Independent Audit Committee. I propose that the following separate
resolutions be considered.
3.1, Mr. Les Owen, who is an independent non-executive director of the company, be
elected as a member and chairperson of the audit -- of the company's Audit Committee
for the financial year ending 30 June 2020.
3.2, Ms. Sindi Zilwa, who is an independent non-executive director of the company, be
elected as a member of the company's Audit Committee for the financial year ending 30
June 2020.
3.3, Ms. Sonja De Bruyn Sebotsa, who is an independent non-executive director of the
company, be elected as a member of the company's Audit Committee for the financial
year ending 30 June 2020.
Resolution 4, reelection of the appointment of directors. Mr. Richard Farber, Mr. Herman
Bosman and Ms. Faith Khanyile all retire in accordance with the Article 41.3 of the
company's MOI. And being eligible, offer themselves for reelection and are hereby
nominated for election by the shareholders as directors of the company. Mr. Tucker was
appointed as an independent non-executive director. And his appointment must be
ratified by shareholders.
Resolutions 4.1 to 4.4, as aforementioned [ph] are as follows.

Page 2 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

4.1, it is proposed that Mr. Ricky Farber who retires in terms of clause 41.3 of the
company's Memorandum of Incorporation and who, being eligible, offer himself for
reelection, be reelected as a director of the company.

FINAL

4.2, it is proposed that Mr. Herman Bosman, who retires in terms of clause 41.3 of the
company's Memorandum of Incorporation and who, being eligible, offers himself for
reelection, be elected as director of the company.
4.3, it is proposed that Ms. Faith Khanyile, who retires in terms of clause 41.3 of the
company's Memorandum of Incorporation and who, being eligible, offers herself for
reelection, be reelected as a director of the company.
4.4, it is proposed that the appointment of Mr. Mark Tucker as an independent nonexecutive director be ratified.

Bloomberg Transcript

5, endorsement -- advisory endorsement of the remuneration policy. In terms of King IV,
shareholders of the company are provided with an opportunity to pass non-binding
advisory votes on their remuneration policy and the implementation report. The vote
allows shareholders to express their views on the remuneration policies adopted and the
implementation thereof. But will not be binding on the company. Furthermore, King IV
recommends the remuneration policy should be -- the remuneration policy should record
the measures that the Board commits to in the event that either the remuneration policy
or the implementation report or both have been voted against by 25% or more of the
voting rights exercised by the shareholders.
5.1, it is proposed to endorse, through a binding -- a non-binding advisory vote, the
company's remuneration policy, as set out in the remuneration report contained in the
integrated annual report.
5.2, it is proposed to endorse, through a non-binding advisory vote, excluding the
remuneration of the non-executive directors for their services as directors and members
of statutory committees, the company's implementation report as set out in the
integrated annual report.
6, adoption of the Discovery Limited long-term incentive plan. I propose that, to allow the
company to replace the existing cash-settled LTIP with an equity settled-LTIP, that the
Discovery Limited long-term incentive plan be and is hereby ratified and approved. The
resolution requires a 75% majority of the votes cast by shareholders present in person or
by proxy at this meeting in terms of Schedule 14 of the JSE Listings Requirements.
7, authority to implement special and ordinary resolutions. I propose that any director of
the company or the company's secretary be and is hereby authorized to do all such
things, sign all such documents and take all such actions as may be necessary for
incidental or incidental to the implementation of the ordinary and special resolutions to be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting convened to consider these ordinary
resolutions.

Page 3 of 11



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

8, in terms of clause 15.2.2 and 15.2.3 of the MOI, the Board requires the approval of the
ordinary shareholders to issue and allot and grant options over the unissued redeemable
no par value preference shares; the noncumulative, nonparticipating, nonconvertible
voluntary redeemable no par value preference shares; and the perpetual no par value
preference shares in the share capital of the company. As such, it is proposed that
shareholders provide the requisite authority to the Board of Directors to issue up to 10
million a preference -- A preference shares, 12 million B preference shares and 20 million
C preference shares by passing the following ordinary resolution number 8.1, ordinary
resolution number 8.2 and ordinary resolution number 8.3.
As required by and subject to the MOI and the provisions of the Companies Act and the
JSE Listings Requirements, the Board of Directors are authorized, as they in their
discretion deem fit, to allot, issue and grant options over and to undertake to allot, issue
and grant options over 10 million A preference shares from the authorized but unissued A
preference shares in the share company of the -- in the share capital of the company.
Such authority shall be valid until the company's next AGM or for 15 months from the date
of this resolution number 8.1, whichever period is shorter.
8.2, as required by and subject to the MOI and the provisions of the Companies Act and
the JSE Listings Requirements, each as presently constituted and as amended from time
to time, the Board of Directors are authorized, as they in discretion deem fit, to allot,
issue and grant options over and to undertake to allot, issue and grant options over 12
million B preference shares and the authorized but unissued [ph] B preference shares in
the share capital of the company. Such authority shall endure until the company's next
Annual General Meeting or for 15 months from the date of this ordinary resolution 8.2,
whichever period is shorter.
8.3, as required by and subject to the MOI and the provisions of the Companies Act and
the JSE Listings Requirements, each as presently constituted and as amended from time
to time, the Board of Directors are authorized, as they in their discretion deem fit, to allot,
issue and grant options over and to undertake to allot, issue and grant options over 20
million C preference shares from the authorized but unissued C preference shares in the
share capital of the company. Such authority shall endure until the company's next Annual
General Meeting or for 15 months from the date of this ordinary resolution number 8.3,
whichever period is shorter.
We now come to special resolutions.
Approval of non-executive directors' remuneration. I propose that the payment of the
fees as set out on Page seven of the Discovery Notice of Annual General Meeting for the
year ended 30 June 2019 be approved as the basis for calculating the remuneration of
the non-executive directors for their services as directors of the company for the financial
year ending 30 June 2020.
2, general authority to repurchase shares. I propose that the Board is hereby authorized
by a way of renewable general authority, in terms of the provisions of the JSE Listings
Requirements and as permitted in the company's MOI, to approve the repurchase of its

Page 4 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

own ordinary shares by the company and the repurchase of ordinary shares in the
company by any of its subsidiaries upon such terms and conditions and in such amounts
as the Board may from time to time determine. But subject to the MOI of the company,
the provisions of the Companies Act and the JSE Listings Requirements when applicable.
The restrictions that the JSE prescribes have been included in the notice of the Annual
General Meeting. And I will not repeat them.
3, financial assistance in terms of selection -- of Section 44 and 45 of the Companies Act.
I propose that to the extent required by the Companies Act, the Board of Directors of the
company may, subject to compliance with the requirements of the company's MOI, the
Companies Act and the JSE Listings Requirements, each as presently constituted and as
amended from time to time, authorize the company to provide direct or indirect financial
assistance, as contemplated in Section 44 and/or Section 45 of the Companies Act. The
detail of the authority has been included in the notice of this meeting. And I'm not going
to repeat this here. The authority shall endure until the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting of the company.
4, specific authority under the Companies Act and the MOI relating to an issue of shares
to LTIP. I propose that subject to passing of ordinary resolution number 6, the company's
authorized, pursuant to Section 41 of the Companies Act and the requirements of the
MOI, to allot and issue. And representing cumulatively the maximum allotment over the
multiple year duration of the LTIP, a maximum of 32,914,537 ordinary shares in the
authorized share capital of the company, which represents 5% of the total issued share
company of the -- issued share capital of the company at the date of this AGM notice, to
the LTIP. In respect of which beneficiaries of the LTIP will acquire a vested rights, at the
subscription price equal to the weighted average of the market value, at which such
ordinary shares are traded on the JSE, as determined over the 30 business days
immediately preceding the date of this issue of such ordinary shares by the company.
Approvals required for resolutions.
Ordinary resolutions numbers 1 to 4 and an ordinary resolutions numbers 7 and 8
contained in this notice of the Annual General Meeting require the approval by more than
50% of the votes exercised on the resolutions by shareholders present or represented
by proxy at the Annual General Meeting and further subject to provisions of the
Companies Act, the company's MOI and the JSE Listings Requirements.
Special resolutions number 1 to 4 and ordinary resolutions number 5 and 6 contained in
this notice of the Annual General Meeting require the approval by at least 75% of the
votes exercised on the resolutions by shareholders present or represented by proxy at
the Annual General Meeting and further subject to the provisions of the Companies Act,
the company's MOI and the JSE Listings Requirements.
Are there any questions in respect of the above resolutions?
If anyone has not yet recorded their votes to the transfer secretaries, please do so now.

Page 5 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

I will now ask the transfer secretaries to provide me with the results of the poll.

Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

FINAL

There's a question on the line.

Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Okay.

Questions And Answers
Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

You're speaking to Tinyiko from Aeon Investment Management. I just have a few
questions with regards to ordinary resolution number 2, the reappointment of your
external auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers has been the special appointed auditor for
Discovery since 2001, which equates to about 19 years. We are a little concerned about
the lack of independence this results in.
The second question is with regards to ordinary resolution 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, the election of
independent audit -- of the independent Auditors Committee. So Mr. Les Own, if I'm not
mistaken, has been on the Board for 12 years. And has been a member of the Audit
Committee for 11 years. His audit quality tenure also brings into question the issue of
independence. As well -- sorry, he's also Chairperson of the Audit Committee. He's a
member of the Actuarial Committee, which we believe compromises the integrity of his
independence as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 3.2, Ms. Sindi Zilwa has been a Board
member for 17 years and a member of the Audit Committee for 16 years. Please correct
me if I'm mistaken. This also then -- does this -- this also then brings into question her
independence as a member of the Audit Committee, which would then contradict change
for principles. And 3.3, Ms. Sonja De Bruyn, she has been a Board member since
December 2005. Her Board tenure exceeds our company policy. However, I just needed
to get some clarity with regards to Discovery's Board tenure policy.

A - Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Deon, would you like to say anything first?

A - Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, chief [ph]. It's Deon Viljoen here, group CFO. Just to address your first
question in connection with PwC and their appointment, maybe just first off, to make the
statement that we have absolutely no doubt in terms of PwC's independence. It is
something that is formally reviewed by the Audit Committee and by PwC and their own
internal processes on an annual basis. So there's absolutely no doubt in that regard. Also
to point out that Mr. Andrew Taylor, who now takes over as the lead engagement partner,
do so as a result of formal rotation requirements from both sides, both PwC and
ourselves. So just to put that in context.

Page 6 of 11



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

But also, just an acknowledgment of your points, there have been auditors for a good
many years. And as you may know, we are soon to implement a compulsory audit firm
rotation in South Africa. That requirement comes up in around 2023 for us. And this is an
item that's been actively managed by the Audit Committee and the Board to determine
the most opportune time to introduce that rotation. The reality is that the timing of that
and the intention is to do that well ahead of the compulsory audit rotation base. But there
are a number of factors that we are considering in making sure that we find the optimal
timing for that, in particular, to make sure that we have as many of the firms that are
capable and accredited to do the audits are able to propose for the audits at that time.
And so that is what we are managing. There are also certain other regulatory
requirements that may play out over that time period, which we also need to take
cognizance of, such as the potential requirement for joint audits, et cetera. But that we'll
have to see how the regulations play out. So this is now and actively being managed to
make sure that we appoint the best one to take over from PwC. But in the meantime, just
to give you the comfort that we have absolutely no concern with PwC's independence.
Maybe just on the others. And we also have the Chairman of the Audit Committee
present if he would like to add to that. But just to a similar point you make on the
independence of the members appointed to the Audit Committee. Similarly, on an annual
basis, we assess their independence and whether there are any conflicts of interest or
loss of independence of those directors who serve on the Board for a longer period of
time. We are very much aware. And we've had engagement with many shareholders
around this issue that, as a default, in around the 10 or 12 years, some shareholders have
expressed concern to ensure that those directors are independent. We do that as, again,
as a formal review. And I guess similar to the point I made on the external audits, if there's
any indications that any of those members have lost their independence, we would
immediately react to that.
However, given the phase of growth where the group is currently, as you know, we are
undertaking a number of strategic expansions, both in South Africa and globally, a fairly
complex -- a strategic positioning. But very unique opportunity for us globally. And it is very
useful to have directors on the Board that had a number of years of experience,
particularly around the complex areas of introducing shared value into the strategy. And
making sure that we don't meet any unintended consequences from that. And so what
we have found is the contribution of those members who have seen the strategic
development of the group are exceptional at the Board. And you would want to make
sure that you retain that.
Having said that, we also recognize that we need to respond to that general perception
issue. And we manage our succession on a continuous basis. And this is an item that is
managed through the Board to make sure that we can introduce that succession in a
controlled fashion and in a way that we -- first, we capitalize on the experience. But also
that the newer members that we bring on to the Board can contribute in the areas that
we require.
Adrian, I don't know if you also want to answer that. I hope that's answered.

Page 7 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

A - Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Thank you. Any further questions? Thank you.

FINAL

We will now move to the results.
Number 1, the first ordinary resolution and the consideration of annual financial
statements, we have 100% vote in favor.
Resolution 2, on the reappointment of external auditors, we have 86.75% in favor.
Resolution 3.1, on the election of Mr. Les Owen, we have 93.13% in favor.
3.2, on the election of Ms. Sindi Zilwa, we have 80.69% in favor.
3.3, on the election of Ms. Sonja De Bruyn, we have 79.35% in favor.
4.1, on the election of Mr. Richard Farber, we have 92.92%.
4.2, on the reelection of Mr. Herman Bosman, we have 92.23% in favor.

Bloomberg Transcript

4.3, on the reelection of Ms. Faith Khanyile, we have 99.67% in favor.
4.4, on the reelection of Mr. Mark Tucker, we have 99.78% in favor.
5.1, on the non-binding advisory vote on the remuneration policy, we have 85.79% in favor.
5.2, on the non-binding advisory vote on the implementation of the remuneration policy,
we have 84.24% in favor.
Adoption of the limited long-term incentive plan, we have 88.66% in favor.
Directors' authority to take all such actions necessary to implement the aforesaid ordinary
resolutions and special resolutions mentioned below, we have 99.99% in favor.
8.1, on the general authority to issue preference shares, we have 98.51% in favor.
8.2, on the general authority to issue preference shares, we have 98.47% in favor.
8.3, on the general authority to issue preference shares, we have 98.51% in favor.
Then approval on non-executive director resolutions, we have 85.84%.

Page 8 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

On the general authority to repurchase shares, we have 99.38%.

FINAL

Resolution 3, on the authority to provide financial assistance in terms of Section 44 and 45
of the Companies Act, we have 93.10%.
And finally, specific authority -- resolution for specific authority under the Companies Act
relating to the issue of shares to the LTIP, we have 99.13%.
And that brings us to the end of the results.
Is there anything that anybody wishes to raise now?

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Sir, one more question, please.

A - Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Yes, please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Okay, so we noticed this year, in the notice, the approval of non-executive director's
remuneration for 2019, 2020, the fees that were proposed were not split between the
base -- a base fee and a meeting attendance fee. Is it possible maybe in the future to
split the fees to a base fee and an attendance fee, thus, striking a balance between
accounting for ongoing work and interaction by both members?

A - Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

So it's Deon here again. If I understood the question, it's about restructuring the nonexecutive fees from a base plus as well a meeting fee to all inclusive retention. Is that
correct?

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

The reasoning behind that is really that it is an embedded practice at the moment, just in
the benchmarks that we've done. And we've received some advice from our independent
remuneration adviser through the Remuneration Committee to have rather an all-inclusive
fee. We often have additional meetings. We do have probably a few more meetings that - in a cycle than most groups would have. And it was better and more manageable to
have an all-inclusive fee. I guess the counterargument to that is that the per meeting fee
with the sure attendance of directors at the meeting. And I can give you the absolute
assurance that, particularly in Discovery, that is not an issue. The directors all attend the
meetings with great -- with way minimal exception. And therefore, at the pace we move,
Page 9 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

FINAL

certainly, we don't extend the meeting. Those directors would also make sure that they
absolutely are familiar and provide their inputs. And so that is not really an issue. It's more
around getting a manageable and a proper base fee because it becomes very difficult to
manage otherwise. So that was the advice we received from an independent
remuneration sector.

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Okay and just, sorry, last question. Sorry, last question.

A - Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Yes, please continue.

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

With regards to your remuneration policy, in the future, is it possible to maybe disclose
your actual FTI targets and outcomes that were achieved by the -- by the CEO, the CFO
and the prescribed officers? So when -- you would have your metrics that you use to
determine the FTIs and the LTIs. But could we also get the actual outcome that was
achieved by the CFO, the CEO and the prescribed officers?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

We'll certainly take that recommendation forward and see what further disclosure we
could make. Maybe just to point out that, obviously, for all the other prescribed officers,
the business performance is felt up in quite a lot of detail in the operational reviews. And
most of their scorecards -- or a large part of their individual scorecards would be linked to
those key performance measures of those individual operating units. We then provide
more detail around the CEO and the CFO. But we will certainly take that point forward,
benchmark those factors and include their disclosures that's required.

Q - Tinyiko Mabunda

{BIO 20843642 <GO>}

Yes and the constituents of the benchmarks would also be -- I really appreciate if you
would disclose those as well.

A - Deon Marius Viljoen

{BIO 15316870 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Thabane Vincent Maphai

{BIO 3049183 <GO>}

Any further questions? Thank you.
All right. Well this brings us almost to the end. I would like to take this opportunity to thank
the executive directors, management and all staff under the leadership of Mr. Adrian Gore
for all the successes that they have achieved during the past financial year. By any
standards, the results have been quite outstanding. Thank you very much, Adrian. And
your team. I also wish to thank all of you for your attendance. And wish you a well -- and
rest in the coming holiday.
Page 10 of 11



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2019-11-28

And now I declare the meeting closed, thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thank you.

Page 11 of 11

