Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager

Other Participants
Anna Adamo, Analyst
Federico Braga, Analyst
Gian Luca Ferrari, Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to today's
2Q and First Half 2019 Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only
mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday,
the 31st of July, 2019.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Matteo Del Fante.
Please go ahead, sir.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us this morning as we
present Poste Italiane results for the second quarter and ﬁrst half of 2019. I will take you
through the key highlights before handing over to our CFO, Guido Nola, for a more
detailed business review. I will then provide some closing remarks, before we open the
call for questions.
Let's start with a quick overview on Slide 3. The ﬁrst half of the year, operating proﬁt was
up 2.6% to EUR1.1 billion, resulting in net proﬁt for the ﬁrst half of EUR0.8 billion, in line
with 2019 targets. All segments provided a positive contribution to revenue growth. In
particular, strong parts of revenue growth continues to oﬀset the mail decline in our core
logistic business, supported by the ongoing industrial transformation on which I will
update you later.
Recurring revenue growth is also visible across all other segments. In particular, insurance
revenues were supported by strong multi-class and P&C growth. Multi-class products now

Page 1 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

represent over one-third of new production. In the medium- to long-term, this transition in
mix will contribute to increase recurring proﬁtability and reduce capital absorption.
Our Solvency II ratio increased in the quarter with levels in line with our managerial
ambition through the cycle. Our focus on cost discipline is conﬁrmed, both in terms of HR
and non-HR costs, while we continue to deploy CapEx to support our Deliver 2022
strategic plan. As a result, we conﬁrm our 2019 guidance, which we announced at our
Capital Markets Day in March for both the Group and all segments. In order to align with
market best practice, we have decided to introduce an interim dividend policy and we
have started all necessary steps to allow payment in Q4.
Moving to Group ﬁnancial results on Slide 4. Revenues increase in the quarter and in the
year, demonstrating our continued ability to capitalize on our distribution network. Thanks
to our ongoing cost discipline, operating costs remain broadly unchanged and in line
with expectation, with lower FTEs oﬀsetting the 2019 salary increase as well as higher cost
related to increased business activity. As a result, EBIT is up by over EUR100 million in the
quarter, thanks to our Deliver 2022 operational eﬀorts.

Bloomberg Transcript

EBIT for the ﬁrst half stood at EUR1.08 billion, on track to meet our 2019 targets. We
remind you that, as usual, every year, early retirement charges will be booked in the last
quarter of the year. Below EBIT, there is no signiﬁcant impact on our proﬁtability, given
that we have practically no debt. Reported net proﬁt in the second quarter increased by
almost 30% to EUR324 million, leading to EUR763 million in the ﬁrst half. We continue to
deliver on a quarter-by-quarter basis and remain focus on consistently meeting the
milestones laid out in our strategic plan.
Moving please to Slide 5. All segments contributed to quarterly revenues growth, driven
by Group-wide Deliver 2022 operational and commercial initiatives. Mail, parcel and
distribution revenues recovered in the second quarter with double-digit parcel revenue
growth, more than oﬀsetting mail decline. Payment, mobile and digital revenues were
also up double-digits, driven by card payments, which are growing at a pace double the
market, while ﬁnancial services continue to show progress on an adjusted basis.
And in insurance services, life gross written premium increased by 14% in the ﬁrst half,
thanks to mainly the performance of multi-asset products. Guido will go deeper into the
segments performance, which produced a solid progression both in life and P&C
revenues. In addition, we took advantage of the market in the second quarter to book
investment income as per 2019 objectives.
Let's now move to EBIT by segment on slide number 6. Here you can see that adjusted
operating proﬁtability increased in the ﬁrst half across all segments. Guido will give you
more details of the segment ﬁnancials on an adjusted basis, net of non-recurring items
such as capital gains. Let me just highlight that operating proﬁtability beneﬁts of the
signiﬁcant diversiﬁcation eﬀect of our businesses. One year ago, for example, the solid
progression of operation proﬁtability was mainly driven by ﬁnancial services, while
positive trend this year is led by the insurance services. Our segments are all supporting

Page 2 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

our Deliver 2022 journey. And this clear progression, which matches the evolution of the
top line allow us to conﬁrm all segments 2019 EBIT targets.
On slide number 7, I want to spend a few minutes talking about the most recent
developments in our Mail and Parcel business, as we continue to accelerate the industrial
turnaround. Let me start with sorting. On the 16th of July, the President the Republic of
Italy together with senior government representative, inaugurated our new automated
parcel sorting center in Bologna. This state-of-the-art plan is a key piece of infrastructure
as we transform our call postal business to capitalize on the high growth potential of ecommerce. This 50 million facility is now operating adding sorting capacity of 250,000
parcels per day to our network. It is a remarkable facility and we will be hosting a
dedicated site visit for analysts and investors on September 19. You will receive invitations
shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are also been some further developments. Let me just mention a few of them.
Logistics; Mistral Air now supports B2C parcel distribution with new routes. The
restructuring has been successfully completed and our air cargo division as register a
positive EBIT every month of the year so far. Moving to customer experience, both
existing and new partners are seeing the value in our enhanced oﬀer center on each
shopper's needs. In particular, our improved customized delivery options including sameday delivery are critical to our Amazon partnership, while easier, parcel returns are a key
component our new exclusive agreement with Zalando. We are constantly improving our
customer oﬀer with the regular introduction of new services. Last week for example, we
launched a new schedule delivery pilot project, which allow us to deliver parcel in a time
slot, agreed in advance with customers.
Moving to delivery, the rollout of our joint delivery model is progressing according to
plan, with 80% of targeted delivery centers now operating under the new model, well on
track to reach a 100% by the end of 2019. We're now able to oﬀer around 3,500
alternative delivery points across Italy meeting the full target envisage for 2019 a well
ahead of schedule. Thanks to the more than 2,000 location introduce in Q2. This another
initiatives are made possible by our strong capital expenditure plan. CapEx for the Group,
was up 50% in the ﬁrst quarter, totaling EUR230 million of which 80% was in mail, parcel
and distribution.
Our Deliver 2022 CapEx plan ensures we are eﬀectively meeting any challenges
presented by constantly evolving competitive environment, and we will be the foundation
of continued successful delivery of our plan.
Before I hand over to Guido, I would like to announce that Poste Italiane will have a
dedicated Investor Relations point of contact, for our North American investor base
eﬀective from September. We have ask Giacomo Riccitelli, our former Head of M&A, a
member of the IR team in Rome to relocate to Boston as a further demonstration of our
ongoing commitment to keep a transparent and constructive dialog with the ﬁnancial
community. That's all from me now. Guido will now take you through a more detailed
business review. I will then provide some ﬁnal comments before we open the session to
your question. Thank you. Please, Guido.

Page 3 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. And good morning everyone. Let me take you through each business
segment starting with Mail, Parcel and Distribution on Slide 9. With strong B2C and B2B
parcel performance oﬀset the decline of mail revenues. Overall segment revenues were
up 1.5% in the quarter and broadly stable in the ﬁrst half on track to meet the 2019 targets.
Mail revenues recovered, leading to a ﬁrst half down 3% in line with 2019 targets. The
quarter beneﬁted from mail volumes related to the European elections. Please also bear
in mind that starting from the third quarter year-on-year comparison will no longer see the
beneﬁt of the mail products repricing, which became eﬀective in July 2018.
Parcel revenues continue to grow strongly, and were up 12% in the quarter and 13% in the
ﬁrst half, supported by B2C and B2B, as we capitalize on the ongoing industrial
turnaround. Other revenues include the contribution from Mistral Air, the successful
restructuring of which has resulted in positive EBIT performance for the year-to-date.

Bloomberg Transcript

Reported EBIT for the ﬁrst half was down by EUR103 million due to higher costs, mainly
related to increased business activity. Nevertheless, EBIT continues to progress in line with
our target for 2019.
On Slide 10, we look at the core, volume and price trends for Mail and Parcels. Starting
from the left hand side, overall mail volumes recovered from the ﬁrst quarter and were
down by less than 8% in the second quarter and 9.4% in the ﬁrst half. As mentioned in the
ﬁrst quarter, volumes for higher margins and more predictable items such as recorded
mail as well as corporate and public administration related products, proved to be more
resilient. These higher value products are more directly linked to our commercial eﬀorts
and oﬀer more visibility on forward volumes.
Average price in mail were up 7% in the quarter and in the ﬁrst half. Thanks to the positive
volume mix eﬀect just described as well as the repricing of several products in July 2018.
Overall, Parcel volumes increased in the second quarter by over 16% and almost 18% in
the ﬁrst half, boosted by a signiﬁcant increase in B2C volumes up by about 30%. Updated
market data for the ﬁrst half of 2019 is not currently available, but our internal estimate
suggest that the trend seen in 2018 continues and we are growing at a faster pace than
the rest of the market.
B2B volumes also rose by a signiﬁcant 14% in the ﬁrst half. The average price index for
parcel was down 4% in both the quarter and in the ﬁrst half, reﬂecting the overall change - changing volume mix to fast growing B2C. Looking at each product for Q2, prices
increased for B2B, while for B2C they were broadly stable.
Moving to payment, mobile and digital on Slide 11. Continued revenue growth was
supported by the rise in both card volumes and transactions. Revenues grew by over 11%
in the quarter and 9% in the ﬁrst half. Card payments we're up by 25% in the quarter
driven by higher number of Postepay cards and a strong increase of payment volumes in
both physical and digital channels. We are also gaining market share in this space.

Page 4 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

As we are growing at a pace which is about double the rest of the market. As you know
last November, we launched Postepay Connect, an innovative, integrated oﬀer which
bundles payments and mobile services, allowing both B2B payments and giga transfer
within the community. Cost of Postepay Connect volumes grew with average daily sales of
1,200 units.
On average 6,000 PostePay Evolution and 3,800 SIM cards were sold each day, leading to
a stock of 4.4 million mobile and ﬁxed lines, up by more than 7% year-on-year. These
ﬁgures contributed to the resilience of telco revenues, as we continue to successfully
manage a competitive environment with commercial initiatives aimed at strengthening
customer loyalty.
On the payment revenues, which include traditional payment services including money
transfers were down 3% mainly related to decreased bollettino and tax payments, in line
with the trend embedded in Deliver 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

EBIT for payments mobile and digital increased by over 22% in the quarter and almost
10% in the ﬁrst half, beneﬁting from positive non-recurring items related to the release of
VAT provisions mentioned in the previous quarter. Other variable costs grew related to
increased business and commercial initiatives in telco. Overall, we conﬁrm, we are on
track with our 2019 targets, both in terms of revenues and operating proﬁtability.
We recently signed an MoU with Eni, which aims to leverage Poste Italiane's over 26
million debit and prepaid cards in Eni's footprint. 4,300 service station with over 1 million
daily investors, sorry -- 1 million daily visitors and the more than 8 million gas and
electricity clients that generate over 41 million utility bills per year. Poste and Eni are
working to identify new solutions to maximize security and ease of use for both physical
and digital transactions at Eni service stations, including withdrawal and bill payments,
while other initiatives in the pipeline include a new utilities build system using block chain
technology.
Moving to ﬁnancial services, on Slide 12. Segment revenues were stable in the quarter and
up on an adjusted basis in the ﬁrst half, demonstrating a continued improvement in
sustainable revenue generation, leveraging on our unrivaled distribution network and
Deliver 2022 commercial initiatives. Taking advantage of favorable market conditions, we
have already secured, about 40 million additional capital gains to be booked in Q4, in
line with 2019 target, and at the same time we secured a relevant portion of the capital
gains envisage for 2020. As you can see in the appendix, unrealized losses at the of June
improved to EUR2 billion versus EUR3 billion at the end of March. As of today this ﬁgure
has improved further to about EUR0.6 billion.
Net interest income was up 10% for the ﬁrst half, beneﬁting from our proactive portfolio
management approach. As we anticipated 2019 maturities of the back book and new
deposit inﬂows expected for the year. This included about EUR7.7 billion of investments
between the third quarter 2018 and the ﬁrst quarter 2019 in a wider Italian credit spread
environment, contributing to an increase in the average return of our BTP portfolio by 6
basis points year-on-year. These actions provide us with more visibility on the NII target

Page 5 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

for 2019 and 2020. Fees from postal savings, distribution in the ﬁrst half are in line with
our target of EUR1.8 billion for 2019. While we are monitoring the potential challenges
presented by a low rate for longer scenario.
Third-party loan and mortgage distribution fees continue to increase up 20% in ﬁrst half
supported by higher volumes. The implementation of agreement signed with Intesa and
UniCredit are expected to provide further beneﬁt starting from year-end. Transaction
banking was down 2% in the half due to the envisaged decline of traditional payments by
retail clients. As a result, reported EBIT rose in both the quarter and the half in line with
2019 targets. Adjusted EBIT in the quarter was down as the second quarter '18 included
approximately EUR17 million non-recurring provision on real estate funds, while the
second quarter 2019 was impacted by a small number of speciﬁc items mainly related to
IFRS 9 valuation of ﬁnancial instruments and negative rates on derivatives collaterals.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Group total ﬁnancial assets on Slide 13. Total ﬁnancial assets increased by over
EUR16 billion since December, driven by contributions from all product lines and positive
market eﬀects. Deposits were up EUR6.4 billion related to a positive contribution from
public administration current accounts and Postepay. Insurance products registered
EUR2.4 billion of net inﬂows, thanks to the signiﬁcant commercial eﬀorts related to multiclass products. More than a third of the new life production is in multi-class, in line with
the long-term target plan for 2022.
Mutual funds posted positive net inﬂows in the ﬁrst half of EUR224 million, in a market
environment characterized by a negative ﬂows and customers looking for safer and more
liquid options for their assets. Postal saving ﬂows are negative as expected and are in-line
with target for 2019. Overall in a fast changing market environment, we continue to
demonstrate our ability to propose the right product for our customer, thanks to our
diversiﬁed oﬀering.
Moving to Slide 14, on Insurance Services. Segment revenues increased by 27% in the
quarter and 16% in the ﬁrst half. As already highlighted the strong performance in the
quarter and the half was supported by both Life and non-life products conﬁrming the
ongoing successful diversiﬁcation of our business. Life insurance revenues were up,
thanks to business growth and the successful diversiﬁcation to multi-class oﬀer
embedding enhanced margins. Higher margins on our Life Insurance products allow for
lower cost provisioning, as future costs are more than covered by future revenues.
Furthermore, revenues beneﬁted from the front-loading of investment income envisage
for the full year 2019, as the company took advantage of positive market conditions.
Revenue contributions related to P&C grew strongly, up 24% in the ﬁrst half underpinned
by solid growth across all product oﬀered. EBIT grew 40% in the quarter and 26% in the
half. Based on performance in the ﬁrst half, we continue our EBIT -- we conﬁrm our EBIT
guidance for insurance services for 2019 of EUR0.9 billion.
To close on product mix in the ﬁrst half, we experienced EUR7.6 billion outﬂows mainly
related to traditional product such as Class 1 policies which embedded a minimum
guaranteed return. At the same time we placed EUR10 billion in gross written premiums

Page 6 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

with no minimum guaranteed return and over one-third being capital-light multi-class
product. This signiﬁcantly diﬀerent mix means that in the medium to long-term, we will be
beneﬁting from higher recurring management fees on new products, coupled with lower
capital absorption, which will help stabilize Solvency II ratio over the plan.
Let's move to Slide 15, on our solvency at the end of June. Solvency II stood at 242% as
the reduction caused by lower interest rate was more than oﬀset by earnings, better
ﬁnancial conditions, as well as the positive impact of managerial actions. The reduction of
BTP spread on the risk free rates resulted in higher unrealized gains in the investment
portfolio valued at EUR7.7 billion at the end of June. As a result, underwriting risk also
decreased.

Bloomberg Transcript

To brieﬂy align the key managerial action which provided for the support, we revised
intra-Group distribution commissioning terms from insurance to ﬁnancial services.
PosteVita is no longer liable to pay management fees to BancoPosta in the unlikely event
portfolio returns are below the minimum guarantee. This amendment does not impact
business today or in the future, but this new distribution terms resulted in a positive
impact on solvency capital requirements. Besides the activity, the active management of
our investment portfolio from equities, corporates allowed us to take advantage of
positive market conditions resulting in lower capital requirements.
Let me also remind you that our solvency ratio beneﬁts from the previously announced
decision to limit the dividend upstream from PosteVita to Poste Italiane to 50%, which
allow us to retain ﬂexibility while ensuring our Group dividend policy remains unchanged.
Putting all these things together, we can say that our aim to build a structurally resilience
solvency position over the course of the plan is on track.
Moving to solvency II sensitivities on Slide 16. We stand at 242% at the end of June in line
with our managerial ambition through the cycle. This ratio embeds that BTP spread over
the risk free rate of some 200 basis points on the 10-year maturity. On this slide we have
outlined the impact of various scenarios, all of them conﬁrm that we are well position
against potential market volatility.
All the managerial actions that we have been undertaking over the past quarters have
strengthened our capital position, providing us with a signiﬁcant buﬀer. In fact, in the
event of a widening spread on Italian government bonds up to about 400 basis points,
our solvency ratio would still be in line with our managerial ambition through the cycle of
200%. Let me ﬂag two relevant items which contribute to these outcomes.
First of all, the impact of government credit spread is not linear, because of the country
volatility adjustment, which triggers as an add-on discount factor to liabilities beyond a
given threshold, mitigating the reduction of assets. This also explains why in the event of a
spread widening by 60 basis points the Solvency II ratio would provide a similar result to
the plus 200 basis point scenario. In fact, with a plus 60 basis point scenario, the country
volatility adjustment would not be triggered, analyzing assets versus liabilities.

Page 7 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

Second, at the end of June, our investment portfolio embedded EUR7.7 billion of
unrealized gains. A signiﬁcant buﬀer against potential redemptions under the stress
scenario simulated, contributing to reduce underwriting risk. The last scenario presented
envisage the risk free rate down by 25 basis point which implies negative rates on the 10year maturity. In this case we show a signiﬁcant resilience implying Solvency II ratio of
227%. So under all diﬀerent scenarios presented our Solvency II ratio remains consistent
with managerial ambitions through the cycle.
Moving to Group cost on Slide 17. HR costs were stable in the ﬁrst half as we continue to
eﬀectively manage the evolution of our workforce. The impact of higher wages agreed to
support our Deliver 2022 transformation and more speciﬁcally introduction of the more
ﬂexible joined delivery model as well as costs related to new hires were oﬀset by the
ongoing headcount reduction. Early retirement charges were just EUR9 million, as this
charges are booked in the fourth quarter. Non-HR costs increased by 5%, in particular, net
of the eﬀect of the ﬁrst time adoption of new accounting principle IFRS 16, the increase is
related to higher variable cost to support increased business activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 18, we focus on the new hires and headcount reduction, which continue to
support our ongoing Deliver 2022 transformation. Our average headcount stood below
130,000 FTEs at the end of June in line with our overall Deliver 2022 plan. This is the
result of an average reduction of 6,800 or turnover and subsidized exit, as well as lower
ﬁxed term contracts. Our ability to actively manage headcount is conﬁrmed and also
supported by the pension reform legislation of Quattrocento.
In full year 2018, we have made on average 2,300 new hires such as last mile delivery,
ﬁnancial advisor and digital specialist. The average cost per FTE has increased since yearend 2018, so has the value-added per FTE, conﬁrming the success of our work force
strategy to support business growth.
Let me now hand back to Matteo for closing remarks on Page 19. Thank you very much.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Before taking your questions, let me close with some key points. The
results today demonstrate again our continued delivery against the commitments we laid
out in Deliver 2022. They show the continued progression of our four sectors, and I must
say the power of our diversiﬁed business model. A unique feature of the Poste Italiane
investment case.
Let me take the chance to thank all my colleagues for their commitment to making Poste a
successful story. We will continue our journey, on a step by step basis with a focus on
ﬂawless execution every day and every quarter. We are seeing the impact of our eﬀorts to
enhance our powerful distribution platform as demonstrated by the increase in
proﬁtability across all segments, and our cost discipline is also allowing us to support
growth in a balanced way, while accelerating our CapEx plan, which is essential to power
the ongoing industrial transformation in a digital era. As a result, the ﬁrst half generated
Group net proﬁt of EUR0.8 billion well on track to meet our 2019 targets.

Page 8 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Thank you very much for your attention. Let's now open to questions, please.

Questions And Answers

FINAL

Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your ﬁrst question comes from the line of Gian Luca Ferrari. Please
ask your question.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes. Good morning, everyone. And well done, again, with this result. First question is on
ﬂows. I think you are doing extremely well on the multi-class, another EUR1.5 billion in Q2.
Asset gatherers reporting so far are saying that in June, July there is an increasing
appetite coming from retail clients towards asset management product. I was wondering
if you see these in the July ﬂows. So the multi-class are even getting better in Q3 or not.

Bloomberg Transcript

And linked to this, as part of that, you are at minus EUR3.7 billion in CDP products and if
I'm not wrong you have an ambition of reducing outﬂows at roughly speaking EUR4
billion per year. And I also spotted some campaigns on air on the Supersmart Premium
Libretto. So I was wondering if now there would be more focus on postal products just to
match the EUR4 billion ambition for full year '19?
The second question is on NII. I mean you have also macro hedging in place at
BancoPosta from the SGR. So I was wondering if -- with the current level of interest rate,
the EUR400 million-ish NII per quarter is something you could conﬁrm also for Q3 and
Q4, and I know you have an oﬃcial target of EUR1.5 billion NII in 2020 and probably, you
don't want to upgrade it today, but could we say that EUR400 million per quarter could
be the run rate also into 2020, despite the current level of interest rates.
And the ﬁnal question is, if Matteo wants to make a comment on the Intesa-Sisal pay deal
that press reported this morning. And if this is giving any kind of impact for Poste? Thank
you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for the questions. We still -- we see on the multi-class, as we
highlighted, a change in mix, which we had already identiﬁed in the ﬁrst quarter with
conﬁrm in the second and still there in July. Telling you that -- sorry in the second quarter.
Telling you that it improved in July, I think it's a bit premature. Our network is moving very
slowly and we're not too reactive to market performance. So I think it's solid on track.
On the postal savings, the Risparmio Postale, we are on track, as stated by the CFO, with
the ﬁrst half of the year with the year-end result. You have to be aware that the postal
savings have very strong seasonal monthly factor, which are highlighting, for example,
usually the best month of the year is August, year-end is also very good. So looking at the

Page 9 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

ﬁrst half and extrapolating the full year is not a good exercise, because you cannot take
into consideration the monthly seasonal pattern.

FINAL

On the target of EUR4 billion negative outﬂow that you mentioned is a target that we gave
in February 2018 as an average for the three-year agreement with CDP. So it should not be
taken as the target for this year.
On NII, yes, I can conﬁrm that we have enough visibility today on second half to conﬁrm
the pattern of the ﬁrst two quarters. You have to be aware that with the volatility that Italian
registry experienced in the last few months, we invested short of EUR8 billion of cash and
we invested it at above 3%. So that today the tenure is at 1.5 around. So we have put some
good assets in the portfolio for certainly the second half and that gives us a decent level
of conﬁdence and visibility, also, for 2020, but that I think is premature to mention with
more -- in more detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

The last question on Intesa-Sisal, yes, we have seen the announcement on the press. We
are in that space already, as you know, and the tobacconist, we have our own agreement
with 40,000 of them. But for PostePay you need to think that the key element of the
tobacconist agreement was the one of logistic. For us that -- country to -- the market that
we have already 13,000 points, so 13,000 oﬃces for payments and transactions in the
ﬁnancial space, the value adding an additional network is to make the e-commerce
proposal of Poste Italiane more eﬀective.
We mentioned the exclusive agreement with Zalando that has chosen Poste Italiane as the
leader of e-commerce logistic in Italy, because of the return ﬂexibility that the
combination of the 13,000 post oﬃces and the -- around 10,000 -- through deposit that
we will add for return are giving us. So this is really the angle we are coming from, which
is really the one of the logistic and in terms of the transaction payments the -- our
PostePay recharge or the bollettino payments, we are already in the space. Thank you.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Anna Adamo. Please ask your
question.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. First of all, thank you for the level of disclosure this quarter, especially
on the insurance capital position. I have three questions, please. Going back to the
question on NII. And can you disclose your sensitivity to lower reinvestment yields, let's
say, minus 50 basis points, how much impact will have on NII?
The second question is on the net revenues of the insurance business. Can you explain
the main drivers behind the revenue strength in Q2 and whether there are any one-oﬀs in
Page 10 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

the numbers?

FINAL

And, lastly, I'm referring to Slide 35, and I see that there are EUR1.1 billion of reduction in
SCR as a result of deferred tax assets. Can you explain the mechanics behind this beneﬁt
for Poste? Thank you.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Hi, Anna, this is Guido. On the ﬁrst question what I can tell you is, we don't provide the full
sensitivity, but a 50% or even 100% change in rates would be marginal for NII this year.
You need to remember that most of our portfolio is ﬁxed rate. We don't have a signiﬁcant
-- the signiﬁcant part of our macro hedge is for -- starting from 2020. So that doesn't
impact and therefore the only bid that has a ﬂoating leg is the deposit. We have the
industry of ﬁnance.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think if we understood correctly the second question, if there is any one-oﬀ item on Q2
on the insurance side, is the acceleration, call it front-loading of some of the margin
revenues that are in the plan of 2019 is a component, but its not the total component of
the increase growth of revenues and EBIT of the insurance segment, which is also due to
higher volumes and revise product mix and patterns of fees which have been realigned
on higher running fees again slower upfronts. And that is starting to pay in the portfolio,
which as you've seen in terms of reserves keeps growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the last question, Guido, yes.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So I guess you're referring to the LAC DT on Page 34, and that has nothing to -- well it's
not related to DTAs that as you know is one of the components of the Solvency II ratio,
that obviously moves with the -- has an eﬀect that is normally contrary to the own funds.
So in this case, we had a positive eﬀect on all the other items, therefore, in this quarter,
this has, let's say less of an absorbing eﬀect, but it's not related to DTA.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Federico Braga. Please
ask your question.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning everyone. I have four questions if you don't mind. The ﬁrst one, again
on NII, just to understand if NII comes under pressure especially in 2020 more
importantly in 2021 and beyond. Would you be willing to rely more on capital gains, then

Page 11 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

maybe originally planned. So would you be -- would you be willing to change a little bit
your mix in order to oﬀset some weaker than expected NII?
The second question is on postal savings revenues. There has been a quite severe decline
quarter-on-quarter in Q2 this year versus the ﬁrst quarter of 2019, like a EUR35 million
sequential decline. So I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more on color -more color on this considering that I was expecting the source of revenues to be a little bit
more stable.
The third question is on the asset management revenues. The current run rate is at EUR25
million per quarter. So I was wondering if you're still conﬁdent in your 2020 target of
EUR200 million of revenues in Asset Management, which would imply, basically the
current run rate to double from current levels, and if yes, what would be the key driver
behind this strong acceleration.
And the last question is on the number of FTEs. Is it possible to expect an increase in the
number of FTEs in the second half of the year, considering that, if I'm not wrong, most of
the new hires that you have planned in your 2022 targets should happen this year. So
should we expect the number of FTEs to increase in the second half of the year. Thank
you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. I think NII is certainly with the current rate environment and the increased liquidity
and monetary easing that we see down the road topic that we need to be address in the
plan, as I say to the previous question, we are, -- we have enough visibility for this year
and basically next year to not be worried about lower rates for a longer period of time.
You have to remember that we're not -- and the second question, sorry, was. Are you
prepared to use capital gain to support lower NII? At the moment we stick to our capital
gain policy. So we're not planning to use it as of today, part of the portfolio has capital
gains of around EUR1.5 billion on a mark-to-market basis, and then obviously you know
there is another portion, which is negative. But we have ﬂexibility for that amount today,
but it's not something that we plan, and when we will do next year budget and planning,
we will give more details on this.
On postal savings we conﬁrm our year end targets. Certainly here again lower rates are
putting pressure on upfront products more than pass books, because the upfront
products, generating upfront fees are getting less appealing for us, for investors. So there
is certainly attention that we put in, but we are slightly ahead of plan Q2 and we follow
this extremely closely and we don't anticipate any concern or any disappointment in the
next two quarters. Guido if you want to take question three and four?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. On question three, simple, you mentioned EUR200 million in -- but if you look back
at the presentation we had in March at the Capital Markets Day, the target we gave is for
EUR0.1 billion. So even with a run rate, like the one we had as of today we believe we'll hit

Page 12 of 14



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

the target. If you have in mind EUR0.2 billion is because you look -- you might be looking
at 2018. But you need to remember that in that number, we had Anima included.

FINAL

So on the fourth question though, I understood was on FTE, but I'm not sure, I got exactly
what angle.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Yes. So actually, just to go back on the third question. I was referring to the 2020 targets.
If I'm not wrong the EUR200 million of revenues in 2020. So, this is what imply...

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry I thought for the year. On 2020 we laid the ground 1.5 year ago on some
targets we have already outperformed in 2018 on other targets we are online. On asset
management, we will make up our mind on the way, sorry to be a bit evasive with this
answer but reality as I said is that our clients and our distribution network is following to
some extent markets and investor appetite that is mainly in reality, driven by the sales
process network, which is according to me with the regulation than in the interest of the
client. And therefore, if asset management is not the product that comes out of the -- that
process and there has been more weight on for example multi-class as we experienced in
the ﬁrst half of the year that would be it. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

So at the moment that we will revise the 2020 and we will do it beginning of next year.
You will have the ﬁnal answer to your question, I'm sorry.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So, I guess one last point on growth of FTE. What I can tell you is that again we conﬁrm
our number. You need to remember that there is some seasonal eﬀect in that number. So
we maintain that number and again, we have a number of hirings, we have planned,
especially as I said in my speech before in certain areas, but again some of them are also
seasonal.

Operator
There seems to be no further questions at this time, please continue.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

If there are no additional questions. I thank everybody for today and for the time you put
in on Poste and obviously, our team, and speciﬁcally the Head of IR Massimiliano Riggi is
available for any follow-up. And thank you.

Operator
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all
disconnect.

Page 13 of 14



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Page 14 of 14

