Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

Q1 2019 Hannover Rueck SE Assets Under Management
Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Sven Althoff , Member of the Executive Board
Ulrich Wallin, Chairman of the Executive Board & CEO

Other Participants
Andrew James Ritchie , Partner, Insurance
Edward Morris , Equity Analyst
Frank Kopfinger, Research Analyst
James Austin Shuck, Director
Michael Hermann Haid, Analyst
Paris Hadjiantonis , Research Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Banca di credito finanziario S.p.A., Research Division

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you to today's Hannover Re International
Conference Call on 1st of January 2019 P&C Treaty Renewals. For your information, this
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to hand the call over to your host today, Mr. Ulrich Wallin, Chief
Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Thank you very much. And good morning to our -- today's renewals conference call. I'm
joined by Sven Althoff, who is responsible for our P&C business, in particular, the speciality
lines. And he will help me to give you the details of the renewal fees net 1/1. And I will also
give you updated guidances for 2019. And also, one for 2018, which is, of course, a little
bit more concrete because book closing activities have been going on for some while.
If we look at market situation and the market condition, the 1/1 renewal -- first, just to say,
of course, that we have had significant cap losses in 2017, which resulted in slight rate
increases for 2018. But certainly below expectations of many observers. Then in 2018, we
had, actually, quite a lot more cap losses to, again, a year, which is above, say, the 10-year
average on cap losses. In addition, we had a number of rather significant man-made
losses.
Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

So from a large-loss point of view, 2018 was better than 2017. But it was certainly a lot
worse than the years 2012 to 2016. That had resulted in some further slight hardening of
the market. But not a lot. I mean, it's, again, only a very slight drift up in the overall quality
of the premiums of the reinsurance market.
The capacity in the market has remained very resilient to those losses, both on the
traditional capacity as well as on the ILS capacity, the reductions were rather small. So
there was still more capacity offered than there was a demand from the reinsurance
buyer, which meant -- which means, that, largely, still continues to be a buyer's market
rather than a seller's market.
The -- if I said -- I mean, there's a -- say, if the capital remains stable, however, I would also
say that the demand for reinsurance had also increased a little bit, driven to quite some
extent by primary insurance company involved in large commercial business had
experienced quite a lot of volatility to their results in 2017 and 2018. And it has the
ambition to manage those volatilities and reinsurance, of course, is a very good tool to
manage such volatilities of the primary insurer, their result. And therefore, we have seen
additional demand. We also had seen additional demand from capital-management point
of view, they are particularly based on risk-based regulation like Solvency II, also like
reinsurance can help ceding companies to reduce their cost of capital and, therefore, run
their capital more efficiently. And we have also seen increased demand on that front.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then, also, cyber insurance continued to see some growth and new kind of opportunity to
grow the business by, derivatively, small at this time is reinsurance that is developed in
collaboration with the newly arrived InsurTech market.
On the ILS market, the retro capacity that was available was reduced to some extent, just
to be said that more than 60% of the retro capacity provided worldwide is actually
provided by the ILS markets. And due to heavy losses, they were a little bit more cautious
in providing that capacity, however, it did not have any effects on the pricing of the
reinsurance business at the 1/1 renewal. So all in all, I mean, continued soft market, I would
say.
If you look at our outcome for Hannover Re, overall, we were not too unhappy with the
outcome of our renewals. We managed to improve the rating quality of our book a little
bit, after having being able to improve it also a little bit in 2018. So from that point of view,
if I look at the overall renewed book of business, the pricing should be sufficient to cover
the cost of capital. We, also, managed to grow our book of business double digits -premium grew by 15.4%. And Sven will elaborate on that in more detail. But it is driven, in
particular, by relationship management with some of our larger clients. And territorial wise,
China, North America and Germany have seen the most pronounced growth.
We have seen continued good showing on -- at the renewal season. So we could continue
to underwrite our business selectively. And concentrate on the business that fulfills our
margin requirement.

Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

We, also, were able to place our retros pretty much in line with expectation. So we could
keep the net risk on NatCat in line or inside our -- somewhat our slightly increased risk
appetite for natural catastrophe risk. We still are underweight on cat. And we will continue
to be underweight on cat because part of the cat renewals were still somewhat
disappointing, on last 3 programs we still saw some decreases. And one thing that's for
sure, if you believe that the trend of cat losses is increasing due to global warming, this is
definitely not included in the current pricing of the natural catastrophe business.
This slide should be quite familiar for you, which shows you that there's a time lag on the
financial year of development that you see on the rating quality on the underwriting year,
meaning that half of the premium and earnings that you have in any given financial year
stems from previous years. That means that in 2019, of course, we still have half of the
business that stemmed from 2017 and '18. But the rating quality was even less than we
have seen in 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, if you look at it, I mean, '16, '17, '18 and '19 are only marginally different when it
comes to the rating quality. This is probably of those for year '16, still most favorable,
because it still benefited from the '15. And '14 year, which were a lot better. And I mean,
'17 is the bottom of the cycle. And then, '18 and '19 slightly better. But all four years, pricing
quality still significantly below, say, the five years, 2012 to 2016. So we are in a, kind of, a
soft market, their margins being under pressure. So it's very important to have a
competitive advantages to outperform the average market player and, of course, at
Hannover Re, the point to our long-standing business relationship and our lower expense
ratio.
With that, I would hand over to Sven on the details of the 1/1 renewals season.

Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Thank you, Ulrich. A very good morning, also, from my side. I apologize in advance, I do
have a cold, just -- but I hope you can hear me well, nonetheless. We are reporting about
our traditional 1/1 renewals today. As you can see, this is approximately 46% of our overall
P&C business. And when we just deduct the structured reinsurance and facultative
reinsurance, 66% of our traditional P&C business. There is no special report on the
structured side this year. You will remember, we had a special report last year. But there
was no special situation for the -- a '19 renewal and the portfolio is mostly stable on the
structured side.
But let me talk a little about the traditional business. You can see that the 1st of January
renewals is the time of year when we are renewing most of our European business, well,
approximately 50% of our U.S. business and 2/3s of our Asian business. When we will
report on our Q1 and Q2 figures, we will also give you an update on the later renewals in
the year. 8% is going to renew until the 1st of April, another 16% then until 1st of July. And
when it comes to the April renewals, of course, we are observing or we will report on the
price increases after the various losses we had in Japan, most notably the Typhoon Jebi.
And in July, we will able to report the impact of the California wildfires, because wildfires
happen relatively late of the year. So the impact on the 1/1 renewals was still relatively
limited. Some programs were already placed, when the full extent of the wildfires
Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

became clear. So the 1st of July renewals will be a better indicator how the market is
repricing the market after those effects.
As Ulrich already said, we were able to show a significant growth with our traditional
business at 1/1. But let me walk you through the slides here in more detail. I mean, as a
start it's worthwhile noting that already in the existing business. So the renewals business,
due to price increase or us increasing our shares a little bit and ceding companies having
more underlying growth themselves, we were able to renew a little more than we have
actually lost through the cancellation and restructuring of treaties, where we had lost EUR
639 million. But the renewal book alone, leads to a renewal of EUR 665 million. And in
addition to that, we were able to produce additional new business, which were at the bulk
of the underlying growth of 15.4% at this year's renewal and at constant exchange rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

From a pricing environment point of view, Ulrich already mentioned that, overall, the
market was relatively flat to slightly up. The rate increases we have seen were mostly
coming from the areas that actually had losses in the calendar year 2018. You could also
observe that the trend from the previous years, the higher demand for proportional
reinsurance certainly continued. Very often this additional demand is still driven out of the
internal solvency models, our clients are using for their risk management. And due to our
strong position in the market, i.e., the long-standing and stable client relationships and,
also, our strong financial strength rating, we were very well positioned to take advantage
and write business out of this additional demands from our clients.
Also very notable is the increased volume on the non-proportional business, where we
have managed to write 8.4% more than in the previous years, here the supports through
the rates' change is a little higher than on the proportional side. So here, we can report
1.1%, as a rate change on our renewal book of business. But also, here as you can see, we
have found additional areas of new business. And I will report on that in a little more detail
when we go through the February's portfolios of our P&C business.
So Slide 14 is summarizing the renewal by line of business. You can see that we, overall,
have an improved pricing environment of positive 0.9%. And also, see that we had
particularly strong growth in North America, Europe and in Asia.
And the worldwide treaty line, where we could grow by 29%, a significant part of that
actually is resulting from China. And while there was pressure on the rating environment
for the entire region was minus 0.4%, on the business where we actually did grow, the
underlying rate development was slightly more positive. The rates development here was
a positive 0.1%. So more or less stable. And this meant that we could write this additional
business taking into account our minimum margin requirements in order to earn our cost
of capital.
The next slide, you can see that those areas where we did see losses in the calendar year
2019 (sic) (2018), reacted the most when it comes to the price changes. So for example,
you see strong rates development in marine and in credit, surety and political risks, much
more meaningful than in the more benign areas. And I already mentioned that for the rest
of the year, we can expect other areas to also show a little stronger rate development,

Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

notably, Japan and part of the U.S. American portfolio, which is impacted, as I already
mentioned, by the California wildfires. So overall, a relatively flat picture. But was good
reactions in those areas, where we did see more than the average loss situation.
Ulrich already commented on the rate quality for the financial year 2019. On this slide, we
are talking about the price level development from an underwriting-year perspective.
Here, you can see that after the 2019 renewal, we are approaching a pricing level which is
relatively close to the years 2011 and 2015, which were underwriting years, that's from a
rate quality point of view were rather acceptable. So the trend is certainly is showing on a
-- in a positive direction. But with some overspill from a financial-year perspective from the
previous and softer underwriting years into 2019.
Now let me go into the individual portfolios, where I will start with North America. For
North America, we could observe a growth of almost 22%. And this is supported by a -- at
least slightly improved rating environment there's a positive 0.3%. The growth is mainly
coming from existing client relationships on the property side, where there was additional
demand and we could utilize our very strong position with those clients, in order to take
advantage on this side. But we could also broaden our client base, which we have been
able to do over the last couple of years, already. So this is certainly, also, a very pleasing
development.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the casualty side, we still only see limited growth opportunities. Some did actually
exist. So we grew our casualty portfolio a little bit. But we are still deemphasizing our large
-- the large commercial excess casualty exposure in our writings on the reinsurance side.
Last but not least, we continue to see a strong demand on the cyber side. And like
already in the last couple of years, we were able to add some new business into our
portfolio, also from a cyber perspective.
Continental Europe was another strong area of growth. Here we can report 15% growth,
the main contributor was our subsidiary E+ S Re, which as you know, is writing our German
business. So E+ S Re could maintain and build its leading position in the German
reinsurance market. There were particular growth opportunities in Germany coming from
the property side. Here, we can certainly observe that after the last couple of difficult
years for the German commercial fire business, the market is starting to re-underwrite
and in part significant re-underwrite their portfolios. So we would be able to take
advantage of this under -- re-underwriting activity with some selected clients.
Another driver for the growth in Continental Europe was, again, Solvency II driven. And
most notably, we could see this development in Italy, where Italy standalone we could
grow our portfolio by 50%. But we also had other spots in Europe, like, for example,
Netherlands, where we did see some additional demand. So overall, a strong picture in
Continental Europe, with certainly the bulk of the growth coming from Germany. And
overall, a 15% growth year-on-year.
The Marine renewals was very mixed. On the Marine side, we had a couple of significant
losses, most notably, a major fire in a German shipyard. And also a Marine loss is coming
Page 5 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

out of Japan, following Typhoon Jebi. And -- so the market was repricing the business
after those losses. But it did not so in a very consistent manner. This led us to
deemphasize some programs and grow with other clients, where the price increases
were a little more meaningful. And in addition, we have to report a slightly shrinking client
base. You may have followed that particularly in the loan market, there were quite a
number of Marine portfolios, either on the (haul) or on the cargo side were closed down
or significantly re-underwritten by our ceding companies. This is, of course, leading to a
lesser demand for reinsurance and at times, even no demand for reinsurance any longer
because those clients do no longer write Marine portfolios. And what we could also see
was, clients that have come through merger and acquisition activity had an increased risk
appetite for their Marine exposure so, therefore, also slightly reduced demand for Marine
reinsurance, particularly, from an appetite of loss point of view. So overall, a very mixed
renewal with strong rate increase but at the same time, a slightly falling volume with minus
7.7%.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the aviation side, we are seeing strong signals that the market on the original side is
stabilizing. In parts, we even see significant rate increases, particularly, in the field of
general aviation. And -- but we all have to remember that the rates are coming from a
relatively low level with the years falling for many, many years. And even decades coming
from the high in 2002 after World Trade Center. So whilst, we are positive that now with
the rates improvement of 1.8%, the market is slightly stronger from a technical point of
view. We do still not see as an opportunity to start building our aviation portfolio in a
meaningful manner again. And that is the reason why the volume is more or less stable
with only EUR 1 million of additional premium yet to report.
Credit, surety and political risk, another area where, in 2018, we have seen a frequency of
loss activity. As you can see here, this was taken into account when pricing the renewals.
So the price development with a positive 3.5% was stronger than on average. This
certainly helped us to renew our existing portfolio, which we have done very successfully,
sometimes even with increased shares with some of our clients. And we have also been
able to develop a few new opportunities so, overall, good repricing and solid underlying
growth with almost 7% to now almost EUR 800 million of premium in this basket.
On the U.K. loan market and direct portfolio, we had a more stable renewal, most lines of
business renewed basically flat or only slight improvements in case of clients having
losses. We saw a little bit of pricing pressure on individual Motor XL of lost programs. You
will remember that this part of our portfolio was significantly repriced at last year's
renewal, following the sharp reduction in the ogden rate in 2017. So therefore, the
pressure on some of the programs was coming from a strong base, from a rateenvironment point of view. Nonetheless, we managed to renew most of the portfolio on
an as before basis, also on the motor side and the pressure created a little bit from the
anticipation that there will be, at least, a limited swing back in the ogden rate table in the
calendar year 2019, where the current assumption is that we will see the ogden rates
table move again, either in Q2 or Q3 in the calendar year 2019. The extent of that,
certainly, is not known by us. But the market consensus is that the ogden rate will be at
least 0% rather than the minus 0.75%. And maybe even swinging a little bit into the
positive territory, which, of course, will mean that we would have a significant reevaluation

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

of our motor XL of loss claims reserves. And we have not taken that into account at yearend because this was only an anticipation, this is not a done deal yet.

FINAL

Otherwise, there was no particular opportunities in the U.K., in loan market portfolio. So
we, basically, renewed our existing book of business. And as you can see, the growth in
the volume is more or less in parallel in the -- with the growth in the pricing of 1.5%. So this
is one of the more stable portfolio.
Worldwide treaty, on the other hand, saw a very significant growth almost 29%. Here, we
have a variety of factors supporting this growth. First and foremost, we see a lot of
positive underlying growth trends in almost all countries in our clients' portfolios, which, of
course, means that even if we only keep our existing shares, our portfolio is growing
organically with our clients. But the bulk of the growth actually came from individual
opportunities we had in a few territories. The most prominent for China, where we could,
again, see more Solvency-driven demand coming out of China. But we've also managed
to improve our positioning with a limited number of selected clients so they were willing
to offer us more significant shares on their existing programs, which by far was the most
prominent driver behind our growth in China.

Bloomberg Transcript

We could, also, see some positive rate increases in some of the territories. For example,
in Australia and New Zealand, despite the fact that the bulk of the renewal in Australia will
-- only happen at 1st of July, some businesses already renewing at 1st of January. And we
had -- certainly had support from rate increases on that side.
We also had selected opportunities in countries like Japan and in Korea, all on the non-cat
driven side. So from that perspective, there was no Jebi effect in the Japanese
opportunities. I'm talking about, they were more coming from the non-cat property or
from the motor side.
And last but not least, I also wanted to mention that our Caribbean business has been
flat, which certainly was a good development following the significant repricing of the
Caribbean business in the 2018 renewals. And the lack of losses in the Caribbean in 2018.
There certainly was pressure from clients to reduce rates. But the market on the
reinsurance side, overall, resisted that pressure and was able to renew the business flat.
Overall, a very pleasing development in our worldwide portfolio. Strong additional
demand and 29%, despite a more or less flat rating environment.
Last but not least, I will talk about our catastrophe XL of loss portfolio. Here, you can see
another area of significant growth with 32%. The price developments was positive with
3% increases. We have seen growth both in the U.S. but also outside of the U.S.. And the
main driver really was our support with those clients where we have seen growth on the
non-catastrophe business over the last couple of years. And with our slightly increased
NatCat risk appetite, some of those non-cat growth opportunities we have realized over
time, now needed support from the catastrophe side as well. As Ulrich said, we are still
significantly underweight on the cat side but, of course, many clients are also in a position
where they want to balance their cat and non-cat sessions with the reinsurer. So we saw
Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

opportunities on that side and in combination with our slightly increased risk appetite, this
lead to a significant growth of 32%.

FINAL

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Sven. And I will continue with the overview, basically summing up what
Sven just said, You can see that on the premium side, most arrows are upwards, none of
them is downwards, there are few sideways. So that calls for an increased premium
income. Also, the profitability overall acceptable. So we expect to generate sufficient
profitability to cover the cost of capital. And maybe even a little bit more, that's of course,
on the basis as the large losses remain in the budget.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can also see that the areas that we are nonreporting on like facultative and structured
reinsurance and ILS, are rather flat, that's particularly, also true from ILS. But of course,
there's always the opportunity to write some more business throughout the year.
Certainly, all major renewals net 1/1 have been renewed. And there's not really a loss in
income from that point of view. Actually ILS is, of course, much smaller than the structured
reinsurance from a premium point of view. But that has actually grown quite significantly in
-- at 1/1. So overall, I mean, rather acceptable picture, I would say.
That leads me to the 2019 guidance. We're expecting single-digit premium growth. I think,
the renewal season at 1/1 is a good basis for that. We also expect some growth on the life
and health side. But that would also be single digit rather than double digit. Of course, we
will lose some of premium income due to the recaptures of some of our U.S. mortality
business. But there's also new business opportunities that will make up for that and a little
bit more.
Return on investment from asset under management, we expect at least 2.8%. Here it
has to be said that due to the increased interest rates in the U.S. dollar territories as well
as some increased spreads on the corporate bonds, certainly on the fixed income sides,
the valuation reserve have decreased. Therefore, realized gains from fixed income are
somewhat less slightly. And therefore, the 2.8% is a little bit less than what I will report to
you on 2018.
But still, I mean, it is in line with the absolute return that we have seen in the last five years.
And is fully supportive of our group net income guidance of -- in the region of EUR 1.1
billion. Here, on the P&C side, we assume rather flat development of the profitability
compared to last year. This higher profit-- significantly higher profitability on the life and
health side that, overall, should allow us to, hopefully, comfortably achieve the EUR 1.1
billion, of course, on the basis that the large losses are not significantly above the large
loss budget and the -- there's no dislocation in the capital market.
Dividend policy will be rather stable. I mean, the solvency ratio is still well above our
limited threshold. Therefore, I mean, all things being equal and, I mean, if the result
actually transpire as guided, we will probably be able to pay a special dividend again. And
I -- that mean that we will be able to support our growth even with dividend somewhat
higher than 45% of the net profit of the group.

Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

We also changed a little bit, the target metrics. I mean, of course, return on investment is
pretty much housekeeping because that's based on a bottom-up plan and, therefore, it
really depends on the capital market environment. I mean, we have reduced our exposure
to credit a little bit. And have gone to better qualities because to some extent, we could
because of high interest rates in the U.S.
The remainder is largely unchanged. We have also changed, which is probably quite
remarkable on the combined ratio, we increased that from equal or better than 96% to
equal or better than 97%. The reason is twofold, certainly, the proportion of the structured
reinsurance, which have higher combined ratios will be more notable, particularly, on an
earned-premium basis in 2019. It takes that into account, also what we call the maximum
tolerable combined ratio, which is a combined ratio where we earn our cost of capital.
And have also increased a bit due to, I mean, increased interest-rates' risk. So-called risk
for interest rates in the U.S. dollars and some other territories. And therefore, also, we
increased the target combined ratio in line with that. I mean, this target combined ratio, all
things being equal, should still allow us to generate, for the entire group, a return on
equity well above our minimum target, say, in the region, say, 11% to 13%.

Bloomberg Transcript

That's for the target metrics. And then I would come to the 2018 year, in line with the
previous two years, we give you some update on the 2018 guidance as well. And that's
based on the current book closing activities, which of course, are still ongoing, particularly
with regards to our auditors that are still looking at the books. And of course, the
supervisory board has not been involved as yet. But nonetheless, these figures are, I
mean, have certainly a higher stability than the figures mentioned, say, at the end of 2017.
So we expect the premium to grow by 11% currency adjusted, 7.7% in real figures due to
currency movements. And that is in line with our previous guidance and even slightly
better than our previous guidance to EUR 19 billion.
Asset under management rather satisfying 3.2%., in particular ordinary investment income
as compared to last year, partly to do with, I mean, continued a very positive returns from
our real estate book as well as our book of alternative investments.
Group net income, we expect around EUR 1.050 billion, which is above EUR 1 billion as you
can, see. And I will also be giving you the split: 38% -- sorry, 83%, property, casualty; 17%,
Life &; Health reinsurance. Of course, if you add the business group numbers, they will be
a little bit higher than EUR 1.050 billion. But then you have a negative number from the
column of consolidation. And that has been distributed to the business groups in the split.
Overall, I mean, a little bit better on the life and health side, maybe, than expected. Yes.
We have the significant burden of recaptures in excess of $300 million. Otherwise, we
had good underlying performance of our life and health business. And we also had some
relief of some expense reserves, which we could no longer hold, they were in respect of
collateral costs for our U.S. XXX business. But following the restructuring and the
aftermath of the U.S. tax reforms, there are simply no collateral cost on the business in
question. And therefore, the reserve on future collateral cost had to be released, which

Page 9 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

means that the overall extraordinary burden on the life and health side was just over USD
200 million.

FINAL

P&C, we had pretty heavy large loss burden in the Fourth Quarter. So overall, the large
losses came in just slightly above the large loss budget of EUR 825 million. And taking that
into account, we are not that unhappy with the overall performance of our large -- of our
property, casualty business.
I mean, large losses, the 2 largest single losses that we have was the typhoon Jibe with
about EUR 135 million. And the campfire is around EUR 130 million, that's all net after a
concession. If you take all the wildfires together in the U.S., that includes then the Woolsey
fire. And we also have the car fire earlier in the year, if you put it all together, it's around
EUR 200 million from wildfires. So quite significant burden from those events.
Dividend payout, at least EUR 5, we will report more in detail, I think on the 7th of March,
where we will give you all the insights and all the figures. This is just the first update of the
guidance for 2018.
With that, we look forward to your questions, ending the presentation. Thank you.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of James Shuck from
Citigroup.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

I had 3 questions from my side, please. Firstly, just on the raised guidance for the
combined ratio from 96% to 97 %, I think you mentioned that the max tolerable combined
ratio is -- has increased due to higher interest rates. There's also a negative impact from
structured and tailored transactions. So I guess, if I look at the guidance you gave last year
that was 96% that was stable year-on-year, I would've thought that both of the -- those
influencing factors would have be much bigger last year. You grew 53% in structured
products and interest rates were actually higher at year-end, year-on-year. And yet you're
able to keep it stable. If you can just shed a bit more light on why you're not able to keep
that stable, despite the 1-point-or-so increase in pricing? Why is it this year that you're
seeing that upward pressure earned through?
Secondly, could you just spent a little bit more time on the retro point, I think you
mentioned that there's reduced availability of retro, had none impact on your pricing, not
too sure why that would be, where in the -- retro pricing is up 20% to 40% or so. So just
keen to know why that has no impact on for you?
Then, finally, the 2018 profit number EUR 1.0 billion, obviously is a number of moving parts
and that, you mentioned the release of the collateralized cost is also the recaptured
Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

charges, large losses, et cetera, what's the normalized level of that EUR 1.0 billion for
2018, please? It's just interesting to see that in a context of what you're expecting for the
EUR 1.1 billion for 2019?

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for those questions. I mean, on the combined ratio, of course, I mean, the
interest rates were increasing throughout 2018. So I mean, there were a little bit lower at
the end of 2017. But I mean, we just tried to align the combined ratio targets really with
the CRE target. And as we could tolerate a higher combined ratio, coupled with the fact
that there's some pressure from the structured reinsurance, we thought we should
increase it. Also, I mean, to give us some flexibility regarding our loss reserving,
considering that even with 97%, we would expect to have a very acceptable -- I mean, a
very acceptable ROE. Of course, I mean, if this business develops more favorable, we
would not hesitate to also show an improved combined ratio to the target of 97%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Retro pricing, yes, you -- lastly, if you -- our main retro vehicles is our K transactions, which
we renewed, already, in October for the most part. So that was really prior to most of the
Fourth Quarter losses. Our vertical hold account still shows a very positive credit balance
to our retrocessionaires. And that means that we could keep the price quite stable. And
of course, I mean, we are not quite as heavily oversubscribed as a year ago, I would say.
But we were able to just to bring it home at more or less the same prices. Then, we have
an aggregate excess of loss that, yes, admittedly, we paid a little bit more for that. But
that had 2 total losses in a row. And of course, I mean, there is a reaction to losses on
that. So that situation on the retro side overall, I mean, it allowed us to manage our cat
losses just in -- our cat exposure within the risk appetite.
I mean, normalized 2018, if you take out the special effect from the life and health, to the
tune of a little bit more than $200 million. Also, take into account that we, definitely, did
not increase the confidence level of our loss reserves in 2018, which we normally like to
do a little bit. I would say, the normalized figure would be, probably, a little bit more than
EUR 1.050 billion, probably, a little bit closer to the EUR 1.1 billion. But not much more than
that so in line with our policy of book closing, I mean, I would say, around EUR 1.1 billion, it
would be something without special effects, we would comfortably expect to achieve
and, hence, that's also the basis for the guidance into 2019.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

That's very helpful. Just a quick one on the retro side of things, again. So you mentioned
you renewed in October so, I mean, when it comes to thinking about the outlook for the
combined ratio, 97%, in 2019, if we were to think about pressures on that going into 2020,
then presumably, your retro costs will be much higher and there'll be a negative margin
impact on 2020, is that right?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well we wouldn't mind if our retro costs are increasing because we would assume that we
would, then, also see increases in our reinsurance business. And that would, of course,
then allow us to keep a larger part of our cat writings on a net basis. So the only thing that

Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

would be a difficulty for us, if you see a dislocation or -- I mean, these retro costs are not
moving in turn with this reinsurance cost. But I mean, we haven't seen it really at 1/1 this
year. And of course, we have sufficient warning, I guess, on the 2020 developments. So
that we can react accordingly.
But we always, of course, can either scale back our writings a bit, or alternatively give a
higher net on the cap should be rate warrant that. So that does not mean that we will not
yet give enough of our continuity to our retro partners, we will always do that.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

But if I may add on the early October renewal Ulrich was talking about. There is no price
pressure going into 2020 because there's collateralized quarter share. So the pricing of
this is following our pricing. And we see it on a quarter-share basis, there's no time delay
in our retrocessionaires as repricing that transaction.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of about Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

So my main question was on the 97%. But just if can follow-up. So the -- I mean, the fact
that the structure business is growing -- is not new. And we've discussed about the 60
bps to 1 point of effect on the combined ratio. So how should we interpret this 97%?
Should we interpret that the structured book is going to stay longer in your portfolio? And
keep growing more than you imagined in the past? Or how would you -- how should we
interpret this guidance in the light of that? And I ask because the premium guidance, sort
of, for 2019 is not really changed on that basis. So that is really my main question. I mean,
also, I would like to understand this guidance being conservative also on combined ratio.
Is it that we are building in a lot of conservatism now in that 2019? Because it was -- EUR 1.1
billion already could have had some upside, consensus as looking EUR 1.2 billion. But now
even the 97%, you said, you wouldn't hesitate to deliver better than that. So if you could
just comment a bit more about the conservative nature of the guidance, it will be very
helpful for us.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

You -- thank you, Vinat, for that. Of course, I mean, the 97% on the overall book including
structures means still below 96% on the traditional P&C reinsurance. And of course, we
could have already increased the combined ratio guidance last year when structured was
actually growing quite remarkable. But we only did it this year. We looked at it really. And
really were asking ourselves, do we really need 96% in order to achieve our other profit
targets? And the answer to that was, not really. I mean, 97% would be more than sufficient
to do that. Also, takes into account that we are expecting, of course, a more -significantly, improved results from our life and health business, which we said, of course,
then would mean that there was a pressure on the technical result on the P&C business
would, of course, be not quite as high. And taking all that into account, we thought that we
should do the adjustment on the combined ratio now, that is not saying that we are
compromising on our Re target. So I mean, we are little bit -- I would say, overall situation
Page 12 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

for 2019 is a little bit more comfortable, I would say, than 2018 because 2018 we had, of
course, all the recaptured charges. We were quite fortunate that we had a better-thanexpected loss experience from our U.S. life and health business, which alleviated the
problem. And for the future years, we are of course, quite fortunate that the problem is a
lot smaller anyhow because of all the recapture. So there's less pressure in 2019 than
there is in 2017. But the guidance basically takes into account that we would like to deliver
the message that 2019 may be better than 2018. And that we expect for 2019 to achieve
our targets particularly when it comes to the Re.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Paris Hadjiantonis from CrÃ©dit Suisse.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two questions. The first one would be on the reserve buffers. I think, earlier you have
alluded to the fact that you have not really increased the redundant reserves this year or
the past year in 2018. Did you actually reduce them? So given the level of large losses,
given the recaptures that you've seen on the Life Re side, where you required to, actually,
release some of the EUR 1.8 billion of reserves that you had?
Then, on the specialty lines, since Sven's on the call, pricing seems to be quite good,
probably better than the rest of your portfolio. But volume doesn't seem to follow
through. You have explained the loyalty impact. But is there anything more than that? Is -- I
think you were discussing M&A as well. So if you could actually give us some better
guidance of what exactly you are seeing in the specialty market? It would be, certainly,
very useful.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. I'll leave the second question to Sven because he knows much better than me. On
the reserve buffers, I mean, I would say the calculations haven't been finished as yet. We
will, of course, advise that on our Investor Day again. But the way it looks now, I would say
that the redundancies would have gone down to some extent in 2018. They are from the
basis of the recapture that's also on the basis of the large losses just slightly above the
large-loss budget. That's also why I said, I mean, the underlying, kind of, normalized result,
I mean, is more like EUR 1.1 billion in 2018. And not, say, EUR 1.25 billion, which you would
end up if you just add, I mean, the one-off effect from the life and health side to the
current results or maybe EUR 1.2 billion you run there. So a difference, you would probably
have to say. But most likely have come out of the reserves buffers. They, however,
continue to be quite comfortable, I would say. But also that it's a little bit of the basis for
giving a guidance for next year, which some of you might think is a little bit conservative.
On specialities, Sven, I will hand over to you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes, I mean, I tried to explain on the marine side that this was a very mixed renewal. We
were relatively pleased with the increase in the pricing that we could achieve overall. And
this is the area where, at the same time, we have reduced our volumes. This -- the
reduction in volume really is to do with the lesser demand, either from existing clients
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

because they had to re-underwrite their own portfolios. And at times, they are very
significantly re-underwriting those portfolios and at least one significant M&A transaction,
where after the restructuring of the combined entity from that development alone, we
lost a low 2 double-digit premium figure from this M&A situation.
So I would not be negative about the medium to long-term trend on the marine side. I
think after the re-underwriting efforts, the client portfolio would turn into stronger
portfolios again. And they will eventually grow again. So maybe, we only talk about the
time lag when our volume is responding positively again on the marine side. And so from
that point of view, I wouldn't read too much into the dip at 1/1.
And there is positive development already on the horizon. You may have read in the trade
press that we were able to continue or even increase our private placement on the
reinsurance for the International Group of P&I Associations. That is in the public domain so
that I can talk about that. This is not included into the numbers here because we're talking
about 1/1 business. And that development will happen a little later in the year because the
renewal date is later than 1st of January.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think on the aviation side, I talk about, yes, positive rate development but from a very,
very low base. So this would be a line of business where, with a little more positive rate
development, we can certainly grow our portfolio again. I mean, some of you may
remember that at its peak, we almost had EUR 1 billion of aviation income. This is now
down to a much, much lower number. I'm not saying it will ever be EUR 1 billion again. But
there's certainly significant scope to continue or to rebuild our aviation portfolio. But we
need a certain level of technical pricing for that.
And last but not least, the credit and surety and political risk portfolio, I mean, this is one
area, which has a, I guess, reacted like you could expect, good underlying rate
development but also good underlying growth. This portfolio has grown consistently in
the medium to high single-digit figures for the last 7 or eight years. So from that
perspective, I think you were more interested in the mixed message on the marine side
then this more stable development on the credit and surety side.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Morris from JPMorgan.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Three questions from me, please. Firstly, just coming back to this premium guidance for
FY '19, single digit. Just trying to understand if there's one area where you're expecting
slower growth. Because obviously, the P&C premium growth appears pretty strong so far
this year. You seem to be talking about further growth in structured and also on life and
health. Can you just help us as to why we get back to single-digit growth overall? The
second is on your comments on pricing as we go through the year. Obviously, we have 1/4
and 1/6, 1/7 renewals to come, which probably have a higher proportion of loss-affected
contracts. Can you just tell us what your assumptions are for pricing going forward? Then
lastly on the cat budget, you made an interesting comment about, there appears to be -Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

have been no change in the market for changes relating to global warming, whether the
exposure has changed. Now I'm just wondering if your own increase in the NatCat budget
takes into account that. You seem to be suggesting it's actually just due to business
growth. So I wonder if you can just comment whether you think the exposure is changing.

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If I start with the last question, of course, with after two years of alleviated NatCat losses,
there's a tendency that you think, well, that might be a trend and you will see more in
future of that. We were in a similar situation at the beginning of 2006, then we had the
hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. And certainly talking about the near-term probability as
opposed to the long-term probability. I mean, I think, there is certainly clear possibility that
you would see a continued gradual growth of the cat losses due to global warming,
particularly when it comes to flood losses and there may be drought losses. That has not
taken into account -- that has only taken into account our increased large loss budget to
the extent it's included in the NatCat model. Because I mean, the budget on the NatCat
side is really the result of the expected losses calculated in accordance with this model
that we use. And so to the extent that we have take into account higher potential for
losses then than, let's say, in otherwise, it's not I would say -- overall, it's based on the
status quo. And so it's really driven by more business.

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean, that's one of the reasons why we are still reasonably cautious on our cat writings
because we think it has suited us fine to be underweight on cat loss 10 years because it
reduce the volatility of our results. And we're currently not really enthusiastic on the cat
business to increase our net exposure significantly.
Premium guidance, single digit, well, I mean, we probably, as I said, expect some slower
growth on our life and health business as a major part of our business. It has to do with
the premium that we will not be having as a result of the recaptures. Then the life and
health growth will also depend on a few of the larger transactions that we're currently
working on that are coming to fruition or not. Overall, I would say, we have nice growth on
the U.S. financial solutions business on the life and health side. But that will not be visible in
the top line, only in the bottom line. And to grow in China on life and health. But if you take
it all together, we think life and health will probably be lower single digits. Then if you put it
all together, we think we will be in the single-digit bracket. If it ends up to be double digit, I
mean, we will not stop writing in order to keep it in the single-digit range. And on the
midterm pricing, would hand over to Sven, again.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well our base assumption on the midterm pricing was that we have to expect a stable
market environment. So basically flat on the business that has not seen any losses. On the
business with losses. And I mentioned a few of the territories, we certainly expect that
things will be different. And that we will see strong rate increase, depending on the
individual client, depending on the individual size of the loss. At times, we will talk on
those programs, with those losses at high single-digit rate increases or meaningful
double-digit rate increases if programs were more or less totaled or at least significantly
impacted. But the base assumption for the remainder of underwriting year 2019 is very

Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

much like we have shown you today, that it's going to stay a flat environment for those
territories that have not seen any losses, which of course, is the bulk of the business.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous Research.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Just a few quick questions. First of all, could you just clarify how you talk -- when you think
about price on quota share as a proportional business, how are you calculating the price?
Is that purely a movement in ceding commission? Or is that also reflecting the original
underlying market? And is there any risk there on the -- an offset between the original
underlying market pricing and some claims trends? Just clarify how you calculate the price
effect on proportional business. Second question, just on the retro -- your retro
arrangements. I think the implication is that you renewed them with the same structure as
in the K-quota share on the cat exposure business, the whole account protection in the
aggregate. Is that true? Or is there any slight change in terms of your own retentions?
And I guess, finally, I suppose -- I'm not sure, maybe you sort thought you have answered
this already. What is the risk we get disappointed again with the renewals over the rest of
the year? I suppose on driving that, do you see scope for the ILS market in particular to
get its act back together once you've got over the trauma of ILS losses we suffered in the
'17 and '18 underwriting years? Do you see some risk as that gets back together,
particularly by the midyear?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I mean, as far as the last question on the ILS market, it of course, will depend on the
loss development this year. But I think midyear is probably a bit early. I mean, I think if you
suddenly are talking, say, 20% to 30% cat price rise at midyear, then it's very likely that
you will see the ILS market coming back in order to make sure that the rate increases are
not quite so high. But outside that, I think for remainder of the year, I would assume that
the ILS market will be relatively stable and will probably be looking for some higher prices.
Price on the pro rata business is calculated from our rating models. Out of the rating
models, we calculate -- we expect the profitability based on commissions, profit
commissions, original price movement, market movement relative to the cost of capital.
And that's the basis for calculating the price changes there. You can see the precision of
our statement there as good as our pricing model. It's not worse. It's not better. It's the
best that we have. So that's where we go about. Changes on the retro structure, again, I
would like to put that to Sven.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes, Andrew, I mean, there were a few changes, no significant changes when it comes to
the structure of those placements. So on the K side, we placed a little more capacity. On
the whole account retro, we also placed a little more capacity compared to previous
years. Where we have placed a little less was on the large loss -- excess of loss was
always -- already highlighted. This is the area where we have seen price increase so,
therefore, in order to keep that under control, we placed a little less and then changed
Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

the structure a little bit. And in order to stay in line with our risk appetite, we placed more
of those protections where there was no movement in pricing. I hope this answers your
question.

FINAL

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So I'm just trying to work out that in a sort of -- I mean, I appreciate you're targeting your
overall cat budget. But I suppose you've got a little less protection in a frequency year
than you would have had?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

That's, I mean, in years, there were -- of course, the K transaction covers frequency quite
well. Of course, I mean, in years like in 2018, where the losses are not sufficient to hit the
load account. Of course, the aggregate cover is extremely helpful. And there we place a
little bit less. So I mean, if you weigh it all up in a year like 2018, probably we would have
collected slightly less than we actually collected in 2018.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. And just to clarify, how -- what's the capacity of the K vehicle for 2019?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well on the K portfolio in question, we are placing 44% into the -- with our collateralized
reinsurance. So just under 50%.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sorry, what was the total risk-bearing capacity of K this year? How much capital did you
raise? What's the K vehicle capitalized at? Then, I can -- obviously, I'd put in the premium
as well.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Andrew, I have not memorized that. It was slightly up. But we would have to come back to
you.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

No worries. I will follow up. Cool.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) And our next session comes from the line of Frank Kopfinger from
Deutsche Bank.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

I have also 2 questions. One is a follow-up to Ed's question on the top line growth. I think
you pointed in life and -- or you gave the explanation for life. However, I would also like to
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

have your view on how we should bridge your 15% volume growth now on the treaty
business with your 3% to 5% premium growth from the P&C overall. Then secondly, can
you give some indications on what we should expect in respect to remaining charges or
negative effects from your Life Re business in 2019? And I think there is still some
arbitration going on.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well I mean, if you look at the premium, of course, the 15% is on just under 50% of our
P&C business overall. So I mean, the 15% at 1/1 really accounts for 7.5% for the entire year.
Of course, I mean, there will be some further growth, most likely on the midterm
renewals. But as I pointed out, the structured reinsurance and facultative for the time
being is assumed broadly flattish. So that makes it probably, if you put it all together,
maybe reaching on the P&C side 10% or just a little bit above that. Then if you take, say,
3% to 5% on the life and health side, that creates a double-digit overall growth.
Then further charges on the Life Re, we would still assume that the majority of those are
really done. Of course. So I mean, if we have charges next year, they will certainly be not
be higher than mid-single-digit millions in U.S. dollars. So our overall U.S. life and health
business is expected to be very profitable because we expect very good profitability
from our financial solution business that should be at or even more than $300 million. And
we also expect, I mean, continued solid profitability from our health and special risk
business in the U.S. Non-U. S., we expect an EBIT of north of EUR 200 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Haid from Commerzbank.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Michael Haid, Commerzbank. Two questions. Also, when you look at the renewals, you
grew strongly North America, you grew strongly in Continental Europe. And you also grew
in Asia. Can you give us some idea how -- where are you particularly happy growing? What
was -- where were more aggressive? Or what made you particularly happy there? Second
question, you mentioned that the InsurTech market newly arrived into reinsurance. Can
you say what role it played, I assume, from the client side?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes, okay, if I start with the first question on the growth. I mean, the growth is really with
individual clients. And I would say it's the -- with the largest premium volume, it's really
kind of -- I mean, I hate that word. But you might call it private, private placement, where
we have secured lines at our terms. And that's why we like the business. And I mean, it
happened to be pretty much around the world, I would say. Sven, you want to add
something to that.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well it's just -- I mean, it's really a selected amount of clients. It's very much driven out of
additional demand from those clients. The pricing is acceptable. So we have not changed
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

our pricing assumptions in that respect. We do make our cost of capital on those
transactions. And the bulk of the growth areas is coming from the short-tail classes. So
mainly property, which certainly we also like because there was a lesser chance mispricing
on the shorter-tail classes. But the main driver was really additional demand from a
selected number of clients. It was certainly not a growth across the entire portfolio in
those territories.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

So is it -- go ahead.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Sorry, I was said, if you have another question on the growth, then I would come the
InsurTech after that.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Yes. Is it fair to assume that price differentiation becomes even more important nowadays
than, say, 1 or two years ago?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Well it certainly helps if you have, across your entire portfolio, the capability to price the
risk and be a lead market. Do we see more price differentiation? It's still only in isolated
circumstances. I mean, the bulk of the business is still placed with the same terms and
conditions with all the participating reinsurers. We see it a little more often than in the
past. But it's still the exception. It is certainly nowhere near the norm yet.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

And of course, if you write the business 100%, you're not quite sure what the price of the
rest of the market would have been. If it would have been a composite placement.
Therefore, we're always a little bit cautious when we talk about pricing on private deals. I
mean, we get the price that we need -- that we think we need to earn the cost of capital.
But of course, if you have at all, I mean, it might have been more expensive than it would
have been in the -- on a core reinsurance basis. You just don't know.
On the InsurTech, I mean, here we have a partner model. I mean, we're not developing a
lot of InsurTech capabilities ourselves. But we work with partners that have an interest to
partner with us. And that has resulted in reinsurance business to some extent where the
InsurTech has a license to be an insurance company. So then we provide them with this
reinsurance capacity and some support regarding products and original pricing.
Sometimes they are just tools providers, like on the life side. I mean, on our Vitality
business. But we also have other areas where, I mean, we have InsurTech that provide
medical, I mean, screening based on wearable devices where they have the technique.
And we help them to create an insurance revenue stream that they, of course, are
reinsuring it. That's pretty much what we have.

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

FINAL

We have as I said, created an underwriting department so that, I mean, brokers but also
the InsurTech themselves, have somewhere that takes care of them within Hannover Re.
And as I said that has been quite -- I mean, they were more successful than we expected
it, I must say. I mean, we have more opportunities and created more business than we
actually thought. At the same time, it's still, I mean, it's more a minority of our overall
business, I would say.

Operator
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Paris Hadjiantonis from CrÃ©dit
Suisse.

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Couple of follow-ups from me. Firstly, on the cost of capital, I was just wondering if you
could give us an idea of where, for the overall P&C portfolio, this now stands. And how it
has changed year-on-year? Then a clarification on what you've done on the life
reinsurance side with the release of the collateral. Why did you have to do it in the Fourth
Quarter, given that the restructuring of your U.S. business actually happened earlier in the
year? Was it related to close of books at the year-end? Or was it something else?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well the cost of capital that we take into account is, of course, the cost of capital on the
economic capital. But we then also look at the ROE target. And so the cost of capital
definitely has to fulfill the ROE target based on interest -- on risk-free interest rate. So this
is the 900 basis points over and above risk free. That's the basis for the calculation.
Then on the cost, I mean, what that really is, I mean, on the XXX and AXXX business that
you write from the U.S., historically, you have to put up a collateral for the so-called
noneconomic reserves, which was the reserves over and above the calculation of the
actuaries. And that's normally done in -- by letter of credit. And that means that, of course,
when you calculate the future expected cash flows, these collateral costs are taken into
account. Through various measures, we have reduced these collateral costs through
captive structure and other things to virtually 0. However, we still kept the reserve for
collateral cost because some of these structures are subject to change. For example, I
mean, the reduced collateral following the convent order that we have for the some of
the U.S. authorities, are subject to our -- for our credit ratings. So if our credit rating would
deteriorate, we would have to put up higher collateral again. Then we would also, of
course, have to take care of that in reserving.
Now with the change in the business, some of the business is now structured through a
captive that we have set up by the name of Sand Lake Re. And with that, there is no need
to put up collateral under any reasonable circumstances. And therefore, we reduced the
reserves that are in relation to that. I mean, why -- I mean, we would have probably done
it early on. But of course, I mean, this was work in progress. I mean, there was a significant
restructure. And of course, there was then a lot of discussions with our auditors as well.
And that was just finalized in time for year-end. And therefore, this release came at year-

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

end. But it's only a smaller part of the overall cost reserves that we are having obviously. I
mean, it's not the entire cost reserve.

Operator

FINAL

Our next question is another follow-up question from the line of Vinit Malhotra from
Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

Just very quickly, please. You mentioned a comment of the -- some business being
brought forward in some of the later renewals to January. And I understand that this is not
the NatCat-exposed business. Could you just comment on why that could be happening?
Or is that -- is that you have been expected? Or -- and did that affect your pricing data as
well? And just one very, very quick follow-up, please. When you said that the loss reserve
flexibility is one of the reasons why you -- that combined ratio went to 97% target. Can we
interpret that to mean that you want the option not to release -- not to have to release
too many reserves in '19?

A - Ulrich Wallin

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

The answer to the last question is yes. The answer to the first question is, well, it happens
quite often that you either have treaty periods that are prolonged, say, for 18 months or
where you have to cancel and rewrite earlier on for many reasons. It just happened that
on some of the business that we have, that had an effect on the 1/1 renewal. If you look at
the renewal for the entire year, that will not be visible. We just thought we mentioned it
because it had an effect particular on our property catastrophe. That 32% increase is not
what we're expecting for the entire year.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sure. But does this mean that some of the pricing uptick that we had in April or July is
already coming in January, is what I am trying to get at?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

No. That's not what we are seeing. I mean, it was on not loss-impacted programs.
Unfortunately, most clients do not volunteer loss-impacted programs to renew those
early. They rather wait a little.
And if I may add, I mean, Andrew, if you are still in the line, we now have your answer on
the K. We have increased -- and I'm talking dollars now. The capital placed on K by just shy
of $40 million to now an overall capital placement of a little higher than $640 million.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Then, of course, in addition, you have the net premium to cover the losses yourself.

Operator
Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2019-02-05

And as there are no more questions registered. And I hand back to our speakers for any
closing comments.

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you, all for listening in to our call. Thanks for all your
questions. Hopefully, we could clarify most of them in a reasonable manner. And with that,
I wish you all a very nice day. And all the best. And goodbye.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This now concludes our conference call. Thank you, all for attending, you may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

