Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

Q1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jean-Jacques Henchoz , Chairman of the Executive Board
Roland Vogel, Member of the Executive Board - CFO
Sven Althoff , Member of the Executive Board - Property & Casualty

Other Participants
Andreas Schafer, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you to today's Hannover Re International
Conference Call on Q1 2020 Financial Results. For your information, this conference is
being recorded. At this time, I would like to hand the call over to your host today, Mr. JeanJacques Henchoz, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to our conference call
presenting our results for the first quarter of 2020. First of all, I need to apologize for the
specific timing of this call and the overlap with Axel's [ph] Q1 call. But today is our AGM
and there was unfortunately no flexibility for rescheduling. We will also have to end our call
by 10:30 this morning as we need to go to the AGM thereafter.
As usual, I will start with an overview before our CFO, Roland Vogel, will go over the
financials in more detail. I'll then comment on the outlook for the year and for the Q&A, as
usual, I'm additionally joined by my board colleagues, Klaus Miller and Sven Althoff.
In the first quarter of 2020, Hannover Re was able to grow both its top and bottom line
with a net income of EUR301 million, fully in line with our initial profit guidance for the year
of EUR1.2 billion.
However, you all know that we withdrew our full-year guidance just 2 weeks ago due to
the prevailing uncertainty surrounding both the claims development and the capital
market environment. Therefore, the results for the first quarter cannot be used to draw

Page 1 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

conclusions about the full year. But purely looking at the underlying business
development, I'd still say that we had a good start to the year. This is also confirmed by
the return on equity of 11.5%, which is well above our minimum target.
In P&C reinsurance, we saw double-digit premium growth due to increased demand for
reinsurance. The combined ratio of 99.8% was above our target of 97%, and this can
entirely be explained by the decision to reserve for anticipated Coronavirus related
losses, mainly in the area of business interruption, event cancellation, as well as credit and
surety. In total, we reserved EUR220 million, implying that our large loss budget was
exceeded by around EUR100 million.
The results of our Life & Health Reinsurance business group was not impacted by the
Coronavirus pandemic to-date. The EBIT of EUR124 million is quite favorable. The US
mortality experience was in line with expectations. And also in general, the good result did
not include any material extraordinary effects.
At 3.2%, the return on investment is similarly pleasing. And finally, based on preliminary
calculations, the solvency ratio should be within the range of 220% to 230% at the end of
the first quarter, well above our threshold of 200%, despite the considerable volatility in
interest rates and credit spreads.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operating cash flow in the first quarter was particularly strong, driven by attractive
reinsurance growth as well as very solid results on the investment side. However, total
assets under own management only increased very slightly to EUR47.9 billion Q2 due to
mitigating effect from decreasing valuation reserves and currency translation.
Looking at our capital position, shareholders' equity was almost stable. Market
movements had a strong impact in the first quarter and the negative change in unrealized
gains due to significantly increased credit spreads was the -- stronger than the positive
impact from the decrease in interest rates. Therefore on balance, the unrealized gains
within the OCI decreased by EUR379 million, more than offsetting the positive net income
for the first quarter. The composition of the total capital on the left side of the slide is
unchanged, with a high degree of flexibility around the hybrid bucket.
On that note, I'd like to hand over to Roland, our CFO, who will explain the figures in more
detail.

Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Good morning, and thank you, Jean-Jacques. Moving directly onto the segmental
reporting, I will start with the development of our P&C business group. Gross written
premium grew by 12%. Adjusted for currency effects, this growth came in well diversified
by region and line of business and more pronounced in property than in casualty. The
Americas and the APAC region contributed particularly to this growth, while structured
reinsurance remained on the high level of the previous year.

Page 2 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

The large loss situation in the first quarter was two-fold. On the one hand, the -- I would
call it normal, large loss experience was rather benign; on the other hand, we had to deal
with a high degree of uncertainty around the impact from the Coronavirus pandemic with
almost no claims notifications received for our clients. However, based on our own
assessment of potential impacts from the Coronavirus pandemic, we set aside around
EUR220 million in IBNR reserves for expected losses from the pandemic.
These reserves are really across our book, mainly for expected losses from business
interruption, event cancellation cases as well as credit and surety reinsurance. As a result
of this reserving for Corona related claims expectations, the large loss budget for the first
quarter was exceeded by EUR96 million, which accounts for roughly 3 combined ratio
points. And adjusting the 99.8%, reported combined ratio for this budget over-run, the
figure would have been in line with our 97% combined ratio target.

Bloomberg Transcript

Based on the development of a variety of single [ph] cases, the run-off of reserves was
slightly negative in the first quarter. Overall, we have to assume that the balance of our
reserve developments, including conservative initial underwriting year combined ratios,
led to a confidence level rather in line with the year-end 2019, but we also did not have
the chance to increase it after the year-end reduction.
The net investment income increased strongly, driven by higher realized gains, we will
come to that, in addition to the favorable ordinary investment income. Other income
expenses were positive by EUR11 million, mainly driven by positive currency effects. And
altogether, the EBIT margin is slightly below our 10% target to -- due to the decreased
underwriting results. Finally, the tax ratio is slightly above the normal level but this is within
the normal quarterly volatility.
Total large -- net large losses including Corona related claims accounted for EUR284
million in the first quarter, exceeding the budget by the already mentioned EUR96 million.
The EUR220 million provisions for the Coronavirus complex is included in both the gross
and the net numbers, as we have exceeded our estimates cost [ph] for net.
Our large loss list includes four events in the area of natural catastrophes, namely three
weather related events in Australia and Storm Sabine, also known as Ciara in Europe. We
did not actually record any large manmade losses exceeding our EUR10 million threshold
in the first quarter. The net CAT losses added up to EUR63.6 million, which would have
been very benign in comparison to our Q1 budget of EUR188 million. However, in the end
the budget was exceeded by the approximately EUR100 million mentioned various times
already.
The next slide shows the profitability of our P&C portfolio by line of business according to
our new reporting lines. Here the regional split is a little bit more condensed and including
the network -- catastrophe components of such reasons to no longer artificially take that
out. The various lines of business are shown on a worldwide basis, albeit [ph] more
consequently.

Page 3 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

Looking at the numbers for the first quarter, the impact from the large losses and the
additional reserving for the Coronavirus led to an increase in the combined ratios in all
regional markets. Not surprisingly, the most visible effect is on our credit and surety
business where we expect to see increased loss activity due to the impact of the
economic downturn. The agricultural business was affected by the bush fires in Australia.
And overall, as already mentioned, the ratio -- combined ratio stands at a rather high
99.8%.
Let's move on to Life & Health. Growth was mainly driven by large -- by a large financing
treaty in Australia, which we wrote in the fourth quarter of 2019. However, this was
mitigated by the expected -- already expected reduction in premium volume due to the
effect from recaptures in our US mortality portfolio as a result of our management action
in the previous year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Altogether, gross written premium increased by 0.5% adjusted for currency effect in
contrast to our P&C business group. The Life & Health results for the first quarter does
not include any impacts from the Coronavirus pandemic. On the other hand, our US
mortality portfolio performed in line with expectations compared to a very favorable
experience in the first quarter of the previous year. On the other hand, the technical result
is not impacted by negative effects from Australian disability business in the way it was in
the previous year's first quarter.
Therefore, the underwriting result including funds withheld is on a comparable level to last
year. Ordinary investment income was favorable and also in Life & Health the contribution
from -- realized gains has contributed. The credit spread widening impacted the value of
our ModCo derivative. The effect was around minus EUR27 million. However, other
derivatives contributed very positively to the change in fair value through P&L and thereby
compensating for the ModCo impact.
Other income and expense is mainly driven by a further increase in the contribution from
financial solutions business, for which a large portion is recognized according to the deficit
[ph] -- the accounting deficit. Currency effects in this quarter, slightly negative, although -altogether, the EBIT of EUR124 million does not include any material extraordinary effects
and demonstrates a good underlying profitability of the Life & Health business group. At
10.5%, the tax ratio is below the normal level, mainly due to very good results from
subsidiaries and jurisdictions with a low tax rate.
On the next slide, the development of our investments in the first quarter of 2020 was
very satisfactory. I'm particularly pleased with the strong ordinary investment income,
which was rather stable this -- by the somewhat lower contribution from private equity.
Realized gains of around EUR100 million are coming mainly from our fixed income
portfolio. Apart from the normal portfolio turnover, we sold around EUR0.5 billion in lower
quality credits before the crisis actually started. And at the time, almost all sales within our
fixed income portfolio were associated with realized gains. Impairments and
depreciations were above last year, but still on a very low level.

Page 4 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

As I already explained, the main effect within the change in fair value of financial
instruments, here the negative effect from ModCo was more than offset by other
derivatives. Altogether the ROI was very strong at 3.2%. Realized gains decreased
significantly to EUR1.8 billion, mainly driven by higher corporate spreads.
On the next slide, you can see that on the other hand we have slightly reduced -- on the
one hand we have slightly reduced our corporate bond exposure, in particular within our
US SME portfolio, on the other hand the share of government as well as short-term
investments in cash were slightly increased, reflective -- reflecting our passive derisking
approached with new money currently being invested in risk free assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, the price corrections on the stock markets in March was a trigger event for our
investment committee to look at, whether we should re-enter listed equities. Owing to
the current uncertainty, we decided to start with a buy of around EUR250 million, a careful
and moderate step, that portfolio has developed positively after we bought it. The
contribution to ordinary investment income is diversified as usual, this time with a lower
share from private equity. This should not be surprising in the current market environment
and is expected to remain the case in the currently distressed markets.
The next slide, here we have included this one because the Coronavirus and the
economic downturn have put the asset risk and in particular corporate portfolios in the
spotlight. As you can see, our corporate portfolio is highly diversified by sector, within
those sectors additionally by issuer as we have rather strict limit control by issuer
implemented, the exposure to the energy sector which may be impacted by the low oil
price is around EUR700 million. The exposure to other sectors such as retail, travel,
leisure, hotel and Airlines, which may be directly impacted by the current crisis, was
around EUR500 million in total, again on a very well-diversified basis.
Having said that, on the asset side it is similar -- it is similarly too early to make any reliable
estimates as regards where and to what extend we might see defaults or impairments.
We certainly expect some, but the amount is highly dependent on the severity and the
duration of the economic downturn and the effectiveness of potentially mitigating
government measures.
I think this concludes my remarks, and I would like to hand back to you, Jean-Jacques.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you, Roland. As you know, we withdrew our profit guidance on the 21st of April due
to the uncertain impact of the Coronavirus pandemic. However, we're still showing you
our target metrics with the initial targets for 2020 to allow for an assessment of the
results for the first quarter.
On the positive side, the return on investments is very strong at 3.5% adjusted for the
impact from our ModCo derivative, the return on equity and also our capitalization
according to Solvency II are both comfortably above our minimum target. In P&C, the first

Page 5 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

impact from the reserving for Coronavirus related losses is visible and in Life & Health the
overall results and also the earnings growth were favorable in the first quarter.

FINAL

The treaty renewals as at 1st of April, 2020 were successful for Hannover Re, confirming
that the Coronavirus crisis is not materially affecting us from an operational perspective.
On this date, we traditionally renegotiate our business in Japan as well as on a lesser
scale in Australia, New Zealand, some Asian markets and North America.
In the US, we mainly expanded our property business based on increasing primary rates
and improved pricing in non-proportional business. Additionally, the renewals in the
Caribbean and South America were successful. In Japan, we saw rate increases for loss
affected CAT business that were significant, with improvements of plus 40% to plus 60%.
However, after the heavy loss burden in the last 2 years, we still feel that terms and
conditions need to further improve and hence we decided to simply maintain our market
share in that segment.
Positive trend could also be observed in our aviation and marine portfolio and overall, our
premium in the April renewal increased by 25%. The risk adjusted price change was plus
4.4%. And looking only at the non-proportional business, the price increase was 8.3%.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next slide, we have put together our current assumptions for the impact of the
Coronavirus pandemic. Overall, the high degree of uncertainty around the claims
development and the capital market impact do not allow us to quantify the impact on our
financials. Therefore, we can only focus on qualitative comments at this point in time.
In P&C, we expect a direct impact on coverage of event cancellation and business
interruption while second order effects are possible in casualty lines. Also, we're
expecting that the economic downturn will result in insolvencies, Roland mentioned it
already, which would lead to losses in our credit and surety business as well.
In Life & Health, we believe the impact on mortality and morbidity will not be significant, an
assumption that is also supported by our scenario analysis and stress testing. The main
impact on our investments is the risk of impairments, as already mentioned, and reduction
in ordinary investment income. Otherwise, we feel that we have a high quality investment
portfolio, and to complete the picture the market movements and in particular the spread
widening are expected to negatively impact our capitalization but not to an extent that
would bring our solvency ratio below our 200% threshold in the year 2020. Therefore, we
also intend to maintain our general dividend policy.
Based on the favorable renewals at 1/1 and 1/4, we see further growth opportunities in
2020 in most areas of our diversified P&C reinsurance portfolio even though the
Coronavirus prices is expected to moderately impact our growth rate later in the year. On
the positive side, we would expect that the crisis will support further improvements in
reinsurance market conditions. And additionally, we would expect to see some
opportunities for our structured reinsurance business. In general, highly rated reinsurers
with a strong balance sheet like Hannover Re, may see higher demand than the average
market players these days.
Page 6 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

Usually, we also show the indication for the profitability versus cost of capital on this slide.
However, one reason for withdrawing the profit guidance was the uncertainty regarding
the claims development from the Coronavirus pandemic and hence, we're currently not
yet in a position to provide an update on the profitability data.
The same is true for our Life & Health outlook, we did not see any material impact from
the Coronavirus pandemic in the Q1 results. However, we also cannot rule out moderate
negative effect on our mortality and morbidity business, depending on the further
development of the pandemic.
In longevity, some positive effects might be possible, but this is still uncertain. And we also
expect continued strong profitability in Financial Solutions because the business is risk
remote. In Financial Solutions, we might also see additional demand to support clients in
mitigating the impact of the crisis. Apart from this, we see particularly promising growth
potential in the Asian market beyond the crisis.
Overall, I see the Hannover Re Group well positioned to manage and absorb the impact
of the Coronavirus crisis. We're constantly updating our scenario calculations and we will
provide profit guidance again as soon as the underlying probabilities are sufficiently
reliable.

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes my remarks on the outlook, and we would be happy to answer your
questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions). And the first question is from Andrew Ritchie, Autonomous Research. Your
line is now open. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi there, good morning. I hope all are keeping well. I guess my main question was just to
get a sense of your view on market conditions and how market conditions may change,
both from an opportunity to write more business and broad pricing. We've already seen
quite a few primary companies go into the market to buy more reinsurance already. So,
maybe just your perspective on would you expect to see, for example, already some
change in market conditions relative to what you were expecting before as early as the
mid-year renewals?
And the second question, just remind us how you would treat your -- any revaluation of
private equity? Does that -- when would you do that? Is that at your discretion? Just some
sensitivities around the private equity portfolio will be useful. Thank you.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}
Page 7 of 13



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

Thank you, Andrew. I'll take -- start with the first question and Sven might complement if
needed, and Roland will talk about private equity. Generally, we don't -- we didn't really
identify Coronavirus specific changes during the 1/4 renewal although it's very difficult to
assess. But my sense is that based on client feedback, broker feedback, that there is a
flight to quality, there is increased scrutiny from the buyers on capitalization level. And I
can see some opportunities for changes in the sense of increased shares on programs
for a company like ours and possibly also less capacity -- desirable capacity, if you want,
for the 1/7 renewals already and beyond, probably more marked in the 1st of January 2021
renewals, but I believe that the hardening of market conditions, which is already fueled by
NatCat events in the past few years will be strengthened and there'll be momentum in
the reinsurance market.
In terms of opportunities for me, I mentioned it briefly in the introduction, I feel that
structured reinsurance is the one area where we might have a good upside. We don't
have specific demand right now but a lot of questions asked by our customers on options,
on structured, and you can feel very much that all clients are looking at the wide range of
options to derisk and reinsurance comes among the prime options for our speed [ph]. So,
I also see there opportunities for growth. So both pricing and flight [ph] to quality and
structured reinsurance will create momentum in my view in reinsurance.
On private equity?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

I'm happy to take that, Andrew. We -- I think, we've mentioned before that of course the
valuation of the private equities is a little bit less pro cyclical than that of the listed equities
because you have these market values immediately. We are talking to managers and fund
managers to get new values. We should not forget that the private equity portfolio has
also value-wise performed very well. It does contribute significantly to the nearly EUR1.8
billion of reserves and -- valuation reserves that we have today. We will update -- of
course valuation will go down. This will have an impact on the OCI,
I do not foresee really write-offs to a material extent this year. Of course, it depends on
scenarios, but I don't see that. We have seen already -- and this is why we mentioned it
and that is also what we would expect for the running year, that distributions from these
funds and from the managers will decrease, so the usual outperformance of -- or the
contribution of private equity to the ordinary, this is something we do not expect for the
year. But from a valuation perspective, this should have an impact on our OCI to a
digestible extent.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks very much.

Operator
And the next question is from Vinit Malhotra, Mediobanca. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.

Page 8 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Good morning. Just -- thanks and just 2 questions from me please. One is the slide 20,
the Coronavirus, the IBNR has taken of EUR220 million for these 3 lines. Could you just
help us understand the risk on the knock-on a little bit? I mean we've heard of this
enhanced scope in US workers' compensation and I know that you've reduced your
premiums there but that's also non-proportional. And then, just how much of a risk or
uncertainty do you see relative to this EUR220 million from the knock-on effects? That's
really the question.
And second thing is just on the growth, in April -- it's quite a bit far ahead of some of the
renewals seen in the peer group, which are mid single digits really in terms of growth. Is it
mostly your difference is coming from more the US side or more specialty like aviation,
marine? Could you just help us quantify a little bit where you might be different from the
peers in this renewals? Thank you.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you. I'll pass on these two questions to Sven.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Thank you and a very good morning also from my side. When it comes to the knock-on
effects, this has played a limited part in offsetting these EUR220 million of Corona
reserves. On the other hand, of course we have to be conscious that when it comes to
lines of business like the E&O where we have systemic risk out of insolvencies. And in the
end certain insolvency situations may be related to Corona impact, and therefore this is
one of the aspects where the uncertainty is particularly high and where we have we will
have better answers towards the end of the year. But we are watching this very carefully
like we are watching the credit and surety space very carefully. And it's not always easy to
decide whether an insolvency is Corona related or Corona was only one of the
contributors in what would have happened otherwise. So, I would not have a specific
number for you which part of the EUR220 million is taken care of the knock-on effects. But
as Roland has mentioned, this was very much a top-down view of how we see Corona in
general right now, and we have spent less time given the uncertainty on how we are
contributing those numbers across our business.
When it comes to the growth at the 1st of April renewal, quite a bit is driven by Japan.
Jean-Jacques already mentioned the very meaningful rate increases we have achieved on
both a cash and on a risk adjusted basis. Our approach with the Japanese client in general
has been a little different compared to a number of our peers. The focus from the peer
group was very much on the wind towers, but we said from the word go to our Japanese
client that, yes, we need to readjust the pricing on the wind towers but at the same time
we also understand that giving payback will be difficult for the client on the wind towers
only.
So, we had a much broader conversation with our Japanese client and that was very
successful. We received a lot of compliments after the renewal from our clients. And in
terms of payback, we have no not only achieved those cash increases which are very

Page 9 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

FINAL

much in line with the market, but we have also achieved additional non-CAT business from
our Japanese clients and we have also received well -- very well priced earthquakeexposed business from our Japanese client.
So, that was one of the main contributors for the very significant growth at 1/4. And the
other main contributor was the agricultural business where we have very successfully
negotiated one contract in the United States on the MPCI business on a quota share
basis. This is coming from a client that used to buy from us, then the client stopped to buy
from us and now that client is buying again. And that was the main contributor compared
to 1/1 as well.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
And the next question is from Andreas Schafer, Bankhaus Lampe. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas Schaf er

{BIO 21186558 <GO>}

Thank you. So there's just one question from my side left. On the asset side, I mean I was
surprised see that you're unrealized capital gains for non-fixed income assets have risen
quite strongly in Q1. So could you give us, especially on real estate, some sort of overview
about -- on your exposure, especially to retail investments, shopping center and so on?
And what do you expect here for the development of the value of your investments in
real estate?

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Yeah, I'm happy to do that. Overall, if we talk about real estate and the prices, the
portfolio as such has not changed dramatically. We sold one piece of real estate in the
first quarter with a good -- realized gains. So in that regard, the valuation reserves should
have gone down by that gain. Other than that, the portfolio has not changed a lot. So,
these are revaluations, the portfolio -- the real estate portfolio as such, comprises EUR2.6
billion including funds. Retail is really one of the smaller components in our direct holdings.
This is all commercial and within that the most of it is a focus on office buildings and we
have increased logistics, so retail is really a minor component of that.
Still also we have seen that some of our clients here -- and have stopped the payments of
their rents and we have been flexible in this regard. The impact, especially in the first
quarter of course, was limited. We expect a little bit more, but also again the real estate
portfolio is not driven by retail.

Q - Andreas Schaf er

{BIO 21186558 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 10 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

Operator
And the next question is from Vikram Gandhi, Societe Generale. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hello, good morning. This is Vikram, SocGen. Just got one question, how should we think
about the EUR220 million charge on the COVID-related claims with respect to credit and
surety business? Have you already penciled in the more significant part of the claims that
you are -- that are likely to (Technical Difficulty) and likewise even on the event cancellation
claims or is there more to come? And how should we think of this EUR220 million with
regard to the initial EUR200 million potential exposure that you had provided to the
market? Thank you.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Thank you. Sven, I'll let you address this one as well.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, thank you. I mean, as you will appreciate, there is a very high amount of uncertainty
right now in coming up with a robust Corona reserve, for part of the uncertainty of course
comes from the fact that the event is still ongoing and we do not have a final view on
what will happen in the upcoming weeks. So therefore, we have tried to take a balanced
top site [ph] best estimate view.
On the credit and surety side, which was one of the specific parts of your questions, we
have of course 2008 as a reference case where roughly we had 15 to 20 loss ratio points,
more frequency coming during the financial crisis years out of our credit and surety book
of business. At the same time, we have very strong mitigating programs from
government in place or in negotiations right now, which did not happen in 2008.
I mean to take Germany as a specific example, the German Government has decided to
take a very, very significant quota share of the in-force German and export credit business
written by German companies for a less than proportionate part of the premium. And we
are aware that we have various European countries thinking about at least similar
concepts.
At the same time, credit insurers, given the uncertainty, are doing what they are doing.
And these circumstances, as long as the programs from governments are not finally in
place, they are severely de-risking their portfolios. And therefore, we still feel, even
though the dynamics of the recession will be very different compared to -- only [ph] the
financial crisis recession in 2008 compared to a recession which is hitting the non-financial
part of the economy much more severely now in the Corona crisis is giving us comfort at
our initial loss ratio. And Roland mentioned that when he commented on the slide where
we showed the loss ratios by line of business that our initial view on the credit and surety
side is conservative by adding roughly 25 to 30 loss ratio points in the first quarter based

Page 11 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

on this line of business as well. Could you repeat just the second part of your question,
please?

FINAL

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Sure. The second part of the question was pretty much similar to credit and surety. Should
we think that you have also reserved a large (Technical Difficulty) of the event cancellation
claims that you anticipate?

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Yes, even though -- again it was a top-down number we have established, this is taking
care of a very significant part of our event cancellation portfolio. As you know, we are one
of the three participants on the program for the 2020 or now 2021 Olympics. Our line on
the program is relatively small with only $50 million. So this number, even though we only
expect a partial loss on the Olympic program, is sitting comfortably into our overall
reserve.
Outside of the Olympics, we have a contingency in the event cancellation portfolio. But
that is in itself only a double-digit number we are currently associating with Corona
specific cancellations. So, I would say that we have been able in the first quarter to
reserve for most of that particular exposure.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, that's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
There are currently no further questions, so I hand back to the speakers for closing
remarks.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Well, thank you very much for your question and interest. I think we've covered the ground
pretty well. We wanted to convey the message that we have a decent Q1 with material
reserving for these Corona related losses. At the same time, it's still early in the year and
we will follow development very carefully and we will be able to quantify more specifically
how the impact evolves. But generally, we feel confident, we feel well positioned, very
well capitalized to master this challenge, but also beyond that to capture new
opportunities, we mentioned that earlier during the question session. So, a good steady
performance with challenges ahead, but these are nevertheless, in our view, manageable.
We have our AGM, as you know, later today to present the results of 2019 and to
comment on Q1 as well, for today. Thanks again for your interest and see you next time.

Operator

Page 12 of 13



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2020-05-06

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You
may disconnect.

Page 13 of 13

