Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

S1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Aki Hussain, Chief Financial Officer
Benjamin A Walter, Chief Executive Officer, Hiscox Global Retail
Bronek Masojada, Chief Executive Officer
Joanne Musselle , Chief Underwriting Officer
Robert Childs , Chairman

Other Participants
Andreas Van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Robert Childs

{BIO 1776179 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am Robert Childs, the Chairman of Hiscox. It has
been a challenging first half, particularly in the second quarter. It's also been a time to
concentrate on staff and customers. With over 3,000 people working from home, we are
supporting them through the lockdown and beyond. For our customers, we have done
much to alleviate their financial burden. In respect of the business interruption issue, we
are supportive of the FCA process, but being proud of our excellent claims paying
reputation, we have not found this an easy time. We also played our part for society,
generating the support for the ABI COVID Fund with significant donations from the Hiscox
Foundation.
Now turning to Page 2. Our long-held strategy is working. You could say it was built for
times like these. 30 years in the making, our retail business is now over $2 billion in
premium. The future is digital and we are there in the present, $0.5 billion and growing
our direct-to-consumer and partnership business. We are also well positioned in our
Reinsurance and London Market divisions to benefit from the coming hard market. We
have the capital, the people and the reputation.
For more financial details, I will now invite Aki Hussain, our CFO, to present.

Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Page 1 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

FINAL

Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. I am Aki Hussain, Group CFO. As he [ph]
just said, 2020 has been a tough year for our customers, for colleagues, the society in
general, and we're playing our part in helping our employees and customers through this
period.
Now, turning to Slide 4 and our business performance. In a challenging environment, our
business has delivered a resilient performance. Revenues in our Retail and London Market
divisions are up. However, overall Group revenues are down 4%, as we maintained a
disciplined approach in Reinsurance and ILS.
For the first time in a number of years, we're reporting pricing improvements in each of
the three operating divisions. Our first half performance has, of course, been impacted by
COVID-19, and we have set aside reserves totaling $232 million, net of reinsurance,
mostly in our Retail division. This includes $150 million we disclosed early in the year for
claims arising from the event cancellation, travel and entertainment. The additional $82
million is for estimated losses, mostly IDR [ph] for London Market, UK, Europe property,
UK, Europe travel bonds and

Robert Childs

{BIO 1776179 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Robert Childs, the Chairman of Hiscox. It has
been a challenging first half, particularly in the second quarter. It's also been a time to
concentrate on staff and customers, with over 3,000 people working from home, we are
supporting them through the lock down and beyond.
For our customers, we have done much to alleviate as financial burden. In respect of the
business interruption issue we are supportive of the process, but being proud of our
excellent claims paying reputation, we have not found this an easy time. We also played
our part to start (inaudible) support to the -- COVID with significant donations from the
Hiscox foundation.
Now turning to page 2. our long-held strategy is working. You could say it was built for
times like these. 30 years in the making our retail business is now over $2 billion in
premium. The future is digital and we are there in the present $0.5 billion and growing the
direct to consumer and partnership business. We are also well positioned in our
reinsurance and on market divisions to benefit from the coming hot market. We have the
capital for people and the reputation.
For more financial details. I will now invite Aki Hussain, our CFO, to present.

Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Rob and good morning everyone. I'm Aki Hussain, CFO. As you see first 2020
has been a tough year for our customers for colleagues this specifically in general and -(inaudible) and customers through this period.

Page 2 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

I'm turning to slides 4 and our business performance. In assumption (inaudible) Revenues
in our retail among the market visions are up. However, overall group revenues are down
$0.04, as we maintained a disciplined approach in reinsurance and ILS. So the first I mean
a number of years, we're reporting pricing improvements in each of the three operating
divisions. Our first half performance has of course been impacted by COVID-19 and we
have set reserves totaling $232 million net of reinsurance, mostly in our retail division. This
includes $150 million, we disclosed earlier in the year for claims arising from the event
cancellation travel and entertainment. The additional $82 million for -- mostly -- so market
UK your property you can get third-party liability claims in our US allied healthcare
business. So the Group reported a loss -- a bottom line loss of $139 million, after Group
combined ratio of 114.6%. Ex COVID, the Group generated a profit of $93 million at a
combined ratio of 96.5%. Our business remains strongly capitalized and we have
materially increased our reserve for this. And in line with our announcement in April, we
are not proposing an interim dividend. We recognize the importance of the dividend to
our shareholders, and we'll be revisiting the matter early in 2021. Now, turning to Slide 5.
As usual, I'll take you through our divisional performance in a little more detail, beginning
with Retail. The Retail business grew by 4% with four out of our five business units
reporting growth in the first half, with only the UK reporting a small decline of 2%. This is in
part driven by the mix of business written in the UK, such as event cancellation cover,
which has been particularly hard hit by government measures to slow the spread of
COVID-19. We have, as you might expect, experienced a slowdown in GWP in the second
quarter as the lockdowns took effect, with April and May reporting the most acute impact.
And we are happy, because we see a recovery coming into July. As you've heard me say
many times before, our Retail business has over time benefited from secular trends in
society with the growth of the gig economy and a growing customer preference to
transact directly online. So, looking at the Retail performance through a distribution lens,
I'm pleased to report our digital, direct and partnership channel continued to report
strong growth with revenues up 14% in the first half, despite the lockdowns. At the half
year point, our direct and partnership business revenues now account for 24% of total
Retail revenues, and by the end of this year, I expect this to rise to over 25%, and you'll
hear more in this from Ben in a few minutes. Retail has been heavily impacted by COVID19 and we have set aside reserves totaling $175 million in the Retail division. Excluding the
effect of COIVD-19, the underlying business franchise remains robust, generating a profit
in excess of $100 million at a combined ratio of 95.4%. The combined ratio is benefiting
from temporary cost reductions, worth about 1.5 to 2 points. So, on a normalized basis,
our estimate for combined ratio is between 97% to 97.5% and remains on track to be
within the 90% to 95% zone by 2022. Looking forward, in the second half of the year, we
expect to see a $10 million to $15 million negative impact on Retail top line as a result of
moratoriums and premium holidays offered to customers. And, I guess, as I said earlier,
we are seeing the tailwind of positive rate momentum across the Retail division. Turning
to Slide 5 -- sorry, Slide 6. In our London Market division, we are seeing strong growth
momentum with a portfolio average increase of 13%. And we're reporting a GWP growth
of 5% in constant currency. Rates are now increasing in 15 of the 16 lines we are writing,
and we are seeing robust GWP growth where we believe rates are rather [ph] good.
There have been a couple of areas in the property division where further rate
improvement is required, and underwriting action has been taken to right size the
underlying exposures. In the first half of the year, we have experienced above-average
large losses, which are contributing around 7 points to the combined ratio. And excluding
COVID, the London Market combined ratio stands at around -- at 104%. Turning to Slide 7
and our Reinsurance and ILS division. Here we're reporting a 21% reduction in GWP. This is
Page 3 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

a result of a number of factors. Firstly, in the early part of the year, pricing was less
attractive and we remained disciplined in preserving our capital. We've also seen a
reduction in the availability of third-party capital. You'll recall after we reported our full year
results, we have received a notice of redemption from one of our ILS investors. You'll also
recall from our fourth quarter, we mentioned we exited the casualty reinsurance book.
And finally, we are also continuing with underwriting actions on our risk book, which is
largely retained book of business and has been a source of above-expected losses in
recent years. Now the outlook for our Reinsurance division has become much more
optimistic as the year has progressed, as we've seen increasing evidence for material
rate improvements at each (inaudible) renewal period. At the half-year stage, we are now
reporting an average portfolio rate increase of 11% and expect the positive momentum to
continue into next year. We expect this will lead to an increase in our net revenues in 2021.
The bottom line results have been impacted by estimated COVID-19 losses. Excluding
this, we are reporting a combined ratio of 87.5%. We closed the half year with $1.5 billion
of assets under management in the ILS Fund, although the deployable capital is around $1
billion, with the balance either being in run-off or on redemption notice or held as
reserves against prior year losses. Moving on to slide 8 and our investment performance.
We are reporting a first half investment return of $85 million, a significant improvement
from the first quarter deficient, as financial markets recovered. We were cautiously
positioned having -- coming into 2020, and this has served us well and enabled to take
advantage of market uncertainty by topping [ph] of our allocation to risk assets through
March and April. However, as yields continues to decline and spreads narrow, the yield to
maturity on our fixed-income portfolio is now at its lowest point ever, at around 0.7%,
which of course is not great for bond returned over the next couple of years. You also, no
doubt, have noted our allocation to cash at 26% is high at the half-year point. This is the
equity proceeds which was held as cash in money market funds, and it's a cautionary
drawdown on our financial lines. I expect to repay the financial lines in the third quarter
and return the cash allocation to between 10% and 15% by the year end. Turning to slide 9
and our reserves. We are reporting an aggregate favorable reserve development of $63
million. Our 2019 cat reserves are running well and are a key driver for the increase in
positive development. In contrast, we are continuing to see adverse development on
exited lines, in particular, on healthcare and political risk, totaling around $15 million results.
We remain very strongly reserved with a margin above the actuarial estimate of $350
million. This has grown from just under $300 million at the end of 2019. And I now regard
the reserve buffer to be at the upper end of my expectations. Our US casualty claims
continue to progress in line with expectations and increased with the changes and
improvements we've made in our US claims function. I expect a positive effect of
operational changes in US claims, combined with underwriting actions and pricing
improvements in our US Retail business to effect the bottom line -- that's come through
into the bottom line over the next 12 to 18 months. Moving onto slide 10, this is a chart that
you are all, I'm sure, very familiar with and it demonstrates or reflects our capital position,
which as you can see remains very strong, and has been further bolstered by the equity
we raised in May. As you can see, we remain well capitalized in both a ratings and a
regulatory basis and we're reporting an estimated regulatory solvency ratio at the end of
June of 230%, which equates to a capital surplus of $1.7 billion. I will just remind you that
the BSCR continues to be strengthened according to the BMA timetable and we expect a
10 to 15 point reduction by the end of this year, and then into 2021, as (inaudible) 10:54 is
adopted. Moving on to slide 11. This next exhibit demonstrates very clearly the capital
strength and resilience of the Group and its ability to withstand a combination of severe
scenarios. Taking the chart from left to right. In the second quarter, our capital position has
Page 4 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

improved from a strong starting point with a solvency ratio of 202%, increasing up to
230%. And this is the result of a strong organic capital generation in the quarter, the
equity we raised in May, and both partly being offset by additional COVID-19 losses.
Moving along, we can see that the balance sheet is then able to withstand -- is able to
absorb a North American one in 250-year hurricane, costing up to $200 million net of
reinsurance, in addition to the top end of our published UK BI risk scenario. After both of
these hypothetical events, we would expect to have a regulatory capital coverage ratio at
179%, which leaves us with ample regulatory capital and it's consistent with an S&P rating.
And finally, turning to slide 12 and expenses. As part of the equity raise, we had
committed to an expense savings versus our 2020 business plan of between $60 million
and $90 million. At the halfway point, we are on track with savings of $38 million achieved.
These savings are largely tactical in nature and should mostly be regarded as a one-off,
as we have benefited from savings on travel, marketing and recruitment during the
lockdown period. Overall, our ambition for the Retail segment expense ratio remains to
be in the low-40s and we are targeting a reduction of 1 point per annum for the next few
years from 2021 from an normalized Retail expense ratio of around 49% to 50%. The
efficiencies will come from realizing the benefits from the investment in technology that
we've undertaken the last few years and the growing scale of the Retail businesses. Once
again, you'll hear more from Ben on this industry norms [ph]. And now, I like to hand over
to our Chief Underwriting Officer, Joanne Musselle to tell you more about what we're
doing from an underwriting perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Thank you Aki, and good morning all. So I took up the role of Group CUO in January, and
was definitely hoping for a less eventful start. A lot has happened since, so I thought we
could revisit a slide that we presented at the full year, which set out our expectations for
2020 and provide an update, and this can be seen on slide 14.
So (inaudible) actually our expectation for Re and ILS was to reduce our gross bet in
response to what we viewed as inadequate pricing, alongside less deployable third-party
capital at 1/1 [ph]. And we have delivered on that expectation with gross written premium
reducing by 21%, as we did substantially re-underwrite our non-cat portfolio, including
exiting casualty reinsurance and we exercised discipline at the January renewals.
As the second quarter progressed and with the onset of COVID, conditions in reinsurance
began to improve and we have achieved strong rate increases at the major renewals,
with Japanese wind up 38%, or (inaudible) 20%, and recent Florida renewals up 29%. With
the impact of these price increases, our reinsurance gross written premium is now down
just 10% year-to-date. Momentum is expected to continue and we are ready to increase
our net bet in January with material capital available to deploy on our own balance sheet.
Moving onto London Market. We noted at the year-end, the rating position was improving
and this was expected to continue. However, we also noted that not all lines were rate
adequate and we still had part of the portfolio to course-correct. And we have done just
that. The headline growth figure for the London Market segment of 5% does mask some
strong underlying growth in our investment lines as we continue to exit the
underperforming premium during 2020 in our binder portfolio. It has, however, been an
Page 5 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

active half for large claims with above-average large losses and some deterioration
coming from exited lines, such as political risk and healthcare. Large losses do not come
uniformly through the year and the year-end position will give a better view if this is just
timing. More pleasing is the continuing rate momentum, up 13% across the portfolio,
driven by contraction of risk appetite and we expect this to continue for the balance of
2020 and into 2021. And for Retail, our expectation was a COR of 96% to 98% with
growth in the middle of our usual 5% to 15% target range. Clearly COVID has had a
significant impact on our Retail portfolio in the first half, both in terms of claims and
growth, but excluding COVID the underlying Retail COR is 95.4% with claims experienced
in the UK, US and Europe in line or better than expectation, which is pleasing. So overall,
the benefits of the significant portfolio action we have taken and the rate improvement is
beginning to become evident, but this will take time to fully earn through the P&L. Moving
on to slide 15 and COVID. So the impact of COVID-19 is unprecedented with many in the
industry predicting that this will be the biggest insured loss in history. And whilst the range
of industry loss estimates is wide and still speculative at this stage, it is clear that it's
touched many parts of our portfolio. We previously disclosed $150 million net loss
estimates for claim relating to events cancellation, media, entertainment and other
segments, including travel on the basis of six months restrictions. And we are actively
working with our insurers and brokers to manage these claims and settlements are in line
or actually just below our expectation. We have booked an additional $82 million net at the
half year to cover claims from London Market, European and UK property, UK and
European travel bonds, and we've made a provision for third-party claims from our US
allied healthcare portfolio. It's too early to fully estimate the impact (inaudible), although
we are materially underweight in our European exposure and we have a modest net
retention. Recent business interruption has been a source of much media attention,
particularly in the UK, where (inaudible) others in the industry, our standard BI policies do
not respond to the general measures taken to stop the spread of COVID-19. This is being
challenged and we welcome the FCA test case to bring clarity. Notwithstanding this is not
a covered loss, we previously disclosed a risk scenario based on a broad set of
assumptions, which result in a modeled range of losses between GBP10 million and
GBP250 million net of reinsurance. Whilst noting that a different set of assumptions could
give way to a different outcome, we remain confident in this range, even after taking into
account the impact of different closure periods for affected businesses. And then moving
onto the balance of the portfolio. As we move beyond COVID, there is clearly an
increased probability of risk from third-party liability and recessionary impact. We are
actively managing this increased risk through portfolio rate and underwriting changes.
Excluding COVID, our frequency of claim notifications is materially down year-on-year.
We've seen a 10% reduction in big ticket and a 15% reduction in retail. Now some of this
will be timing, but some of this will translate to lower claims if people have just done less
[ph]. At this stage, it's too early to tell what this noise will [ph] signal and we have yet to
take credit for this reducing trends. Slide 16 should be familiar, it shows our portfolio
through the different segments. Small commercial, which you can see on the far left, is our
largest segment and this has doubled since 2015 and have continued to grow despite the
significant economic disruption in our key retail markets. London Market property has
slightly contracted, as we complete the portfolio action necessary in the household and
commercial binders, which have contributed to higher attrition than we would have liked.
But despite exiting 110 [ph] through the full year, the good rate increase we have
achieved on the remainder of the portfolio has resulted in a modest reduction to the top
line. Our largest growth area can be seen on the far right, and is the London Market
casualty. However, its 21% growth is nearly entirely fueled by rate increase with exposure
Page 6 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

decreasing or remaining flat in our general liability and our public D&O. Another familiar
slide is our rating chart on slide 17. So, as a reminder, this chart shows our rates indexed
back to 2012 and on a rolling 12 month basis. The rolling calculation does have the impact
of delay in some of the positive rate momentum. However, the picture is clearly a positive
one. Whilst amounts may be uncertain in some areas, I'm pleased to say that rates are
improving in every segment. Particularly in the London Market where rate is up another
13% overall and this is in addition to the 12%, 11% and 7%, we have seen over the
proceedings three years. And as you can see, rates have reached a point they have not
been for many years. Re, which is the red line, had a slower start to price correction, but
rates are up 11%, but the trajectory of that line has an upward and increasingly steep rate,
we are confident about the prospects for growth heading into next year. Retail, the green
line, which is inherently less cyclical in nature and the flat to downward trend is more a
feature of change in business mix than rate, but the trajectory is only up and we are
seeing rate above plan in all areas of our retail book. US retail is leading the way at 5% in
aggregate and 9% for the excess and surplus lines business. So if we move on to slide 18
and look at the big ticket rates in more detail. So in 2020 -- in London Market, 2020 is the
fourth consecutive year of rate rises, where rates are up 45% on a compound basis, since
the low [ph] of 2016. So this is being driven by withdrawal of capacity as risk appetites
contract globally and a continued benefit from the Lloyd's Decile 10 initiative, which
continued to encourage the much-needed discipline in the market. This discipline doesn't
just extend to pricing, we're also successfully tightened terms and conditions, as well as
reducing commissions. Overall, we are seeing rate improvement in 15 of the 16 lines,
including in US public company D&O where rate is up a further 80% and we see an
attractive opportunity for growth. Looking at the London portfolio -- London Market
portfolio in its entirety, I feel positive about the outlook for the remainder of 2020 and
into 2021 with the majority of our portfolio now priced to generate good returns. In
Reinsurance, which you can see on the blue chart, we were largely underwhelmed with
pricing at the beginning of the year with overcapacity still a feature. And our expectation
was to remain disciplined. However, as 2020 has progressed and the uncertainty caused
by COVID, we have seen strong rate acceleration through the midyear renewals and I'm
confident about the prospects for growth next year. Overall, my focus heading into the
second half can be seen on slide 19. It is proactively managing our losses and exposure
while capturing the opportunity presented. So just to pull out a few areas, we continue to
manage our future exposure and have updated the Hiscox view of risk; the cyber, Japan
and Florida. We have clarified our communicable disease exposure and opportunistically
purchased increased reinsurance protection ahead of the wind season. Our underwriting
has been flexible, providing extensions, suspensions of early renewals to assist our
customers, as well as supporting those that have pivoted their business, like the insured
who have pivoted his British [ph] business to supply alcohol for (inaudible). We've also
updated some of our terms and conditions to reflect the current challenges. Overall, as
we head into the second half, I look at our diverse portfolio and I see opportunities
everywhere. I will now hand over to Ben Walter, who will talk more about our Retail
business.

Benjamin A Walter

{BIO 18021194 <GO>}

Thanks, Jo. Good morning, everyone from a very early New York. I'm Ben Walter, CEO of
our Retail division. Clearly, as Aki described, it's been a tough six months for Retail as we
have borne much of the impact of COVID from a loss perspective. But I'm pleased with

Page 7 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

the resilience of the top line of the underlying performance, and as importantly, the
resilience of our teams. So we have kept our operations running smoothly throughout the
lockdown period. I'm pleased to say that our key operational metrics have stayed within
their target service levels from day one, which is a testament to the robustness of our
systems and the commitment of our people. Years of investment in both have paid off
handsomely this half. And as you can see on slide 21, even as the business grapples with
so much disruption, our Retail businesses have continued to deliver on their long-term
objectives. We grew 4% in the first half and as Aki said, we are reaffirming our
commitment to returning to the 90% to 95% combined ratio range in 2022. Key to that
commitment is underwriting discipline. As we said before, we have cut back materially in
unprofitable and marginal areas. Two examples you will be familiar with are US Private
market D&O and media and between those two lines alone, we have now cut $80 million
of premium. It's worth noting, the private company D&O is very different than the public
company business we write in London, and due to slower price rises and increasing
employment liability exposure, we still do not see rates adequate to grow here. In the UK,
we have discussed before that the private client growth had shrunk modestly as we
needed to seek rate to fund increasing escape of water claims. While those increases
have cycled through, further discipline has been warranted as commission levels have
reached to what we deem to be unsustainable levels. We've seen a number of broker
panels tender with commissions as high as 32.5% and we think these levels -- these are
levels that do not represent good value for the customer. So we have declined to
participate at the expense of the top line. Fortunately, we have more than made up for
those reductions with growth in our core small commercial business even in the face of
the COVID-induced economic slowdown. The smallest risks where we have a unique right
to win and an increasingly efficient operational platform, continue to grow as a share of
the book. On a global basis, we only saw these books shrink slightly in April and May with
a return to growth in June. Our direct and partnerships business, in particular, continues to
be a growth engine and we are on a run rate for over $500 million in 2020, which will be a
full quarter of the Retail business. I'll give some more detail on this in just a moment.
Finally, we made good progress on both our large system replacements and our nearerterm digital initiatives. Again, I will share some detail on this shortly. On page 22, you can
see the 10-year trajectory of our direct and partnerships business, which has delivered a
19% CAGR over that time and still delivered 14% growth in H1, despite being much larger
in scale and of course, despite the pandemic. We started that business in the UK, which
has slowed in growth in the past couple of years, but that masks the aforementioned
underlying dynamic, which sees a modestly shrinking personal lines book more than offset
by a fast growing commercial book. In the US, we have seen tremendous growth to over
$300 million, but in our view, this business is still in its early stages as the entire market is
experiencing a shift to digital distribution and we are ideally positioned to capitalize.
Despite the macro environment and the launch of the first phase of its new IT platform in
May, June was the best month yet for US direct and partnerships. Europe is a bit more
nascent, but growth has picked up in the past couple of years and in time, we expect the
Continent to follow the same global trends we have seen in the UK and the US. And
finally, our motor business in Asia has hit its stride this year and is now growing nicely
towards scale. As you can see, digital insurance is fast becoming the cornerstone of retail
across the world and we will continue to invest behind that opportunity. Slide 23 gives you
a sense of what that investment looks like and how we are starting to reap the benefits. In
addition to our core system replacements in all of our key geographies, we are also
finding ample opportunities to digitize both the front and back end of the insurance value
chain. With $1.3 million retail customers and growing, we expect to eclipse 3 million
Page 8 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

transactions this year, and this shows no signs of slowing down. We have already
automated more than a third of them, but we are targeting much more. Given our scale,
the potential improvements to both cost-efficiency and customer experience is significant.
Our efforts to date have focused on four key technologies, and I'd like to share a couple
of examples. First, APIs, or application program interfaces, are the future of digital
insurance trading. They allow us to seamlessly integrate our partner systems with ours
using both proprietary and industry standard protocols, depending on the market. In the
US alone we have nearly 40 partners trading with us in this way, meaning their employees
can place business with Hiscox without ever leaving their native internal platform. Second,
machine learning has finally come of age for insurance applications with off-the-shelf
solutions now available to integrate directly into our own systems. In the UK, we are using
a solution to read plain language emails in our broker channel and automatically route
them to the right place for one-touch resolution. We are already seeing accuracy rates
well into the 90s and the software automatically learns from its own errors to improve.
Machine learning becomes even more powerful when it is paired with robotics, which can
automate repetitive tasks of ever-increasing complexity. For example, we were planning
to migrate our UK policies from the old system to the new with a large team of people.
Instead, we now have a robot doing it automatically with a smaller team just to oversee
the process and (inaudible). Europe in particular has seen strong success with robotics and
is now processing hundreds of thousands of routine transactions. And finally, self-service,
which is certainly a cost saver as it takes the work out of our hands, but increasingly is a
customer demand. Our customers want control for most basic routine activities. They still
want to talk to someone about sophisticated insurance issues, but the days of calling
someone to update your credit card are unsurprisingly long gone. We have made a lot of
progress, but as you can see on slide 24, there is much more we can do even with the
technology we already have in-house. Natural language processing has countless more
applications in our markets. And as I said, our customers are always demanding more selfservice options. We also see significant opportunity in our claims experience, where digital
submissions and payments are faster, more accurate and often more secure. But we are
also constantly evaluating new technologies as they mature. COVID has certainly taught
society that we can do much more than we ever thought with video chat and the same is
true of text and other forms of communication. Customers want to choose the way we
service them and we will accommodate that. And there are developments on the internal
side as well. For example, we're now looking at software that can diagram and mine our
operational processes and model improvements before any changes are made, lowering
transition risk and speeding up, both the pace of change and the elimination of waste.
Taken together, on slide 25, I hope these things give you a sense of why we remain so
optimistic about the long-term prospects for Retail. The shift to digital is inexorable and it
has only been hastened by COVID. We have been investing in these capabilities for years
and that head-start, particularly in small commercial, puts us in a strong competitive
position to capitalize on the trend. We know that the coming months will be challenging
until life can return fully to normal. Our customers are having a tough time out there right
now, but we know from experience that when economic recovery comes, SMEs are some
of the first to benefit as they can form and respond nimbly. Our market shares remain low
and when firm formation is high, we tend to do disproportionately well. And finally, much
like the diverse choices afforded by our strategy of blending big ticket with retail, we are
fortunate to enjoy a global footprint in the SME space. Some countries will recover faster
than others and we can flex our investments accordingly. Thank you very much. Now, I'll
hand over to Bronek for business performance and outlook.

Page 9 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

FINAL

Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Ben. Turn to Slide 26. You've had a good overview of the business thus far, but
one of the themes, which goes through us is clearly the impact of UK business
interruption. As both Rob and Jo said, we welcome the FCA initiative to have a test case
to try and clarify the impact of wordings. We always felt that this process would have
ramifications for the industry as a whole, and that was really confirmed when two weeks
ago at the beginning of the trial, the FCA said that in their view, the decisions by the
judges would impact 60 insurance companies and almost 400,000 policyholders, of
whom Hiscox have only a small proportion.
Turning to slide 27. As you all know, the hearing concluded last Thursday and at the final
stages the judges said they would be giving a judgment in mid-September. I think that's
clarity less than six months after the lockdown began is of value both to customers who
need certainty and also to ourselves. Clearly there is the opportunity for both either the
FCA or the insurers to appeal and if that was to happen, there is an expectation that the
appeal would be heard during calendar 2020 with a judgment either before the end of
the year or early in 2021. Clearly Hiscox's expectation is that we -- our interpretation will
prevail, but we will have the claims capability to handle claims if that is not the case.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to page 28, I think it's worth taking a step back and reminding ourselves of the
guiding principles of the Hiscox business strategy. We continue to believe in the retail
opportunity. You've seen in the first half that Retail has grown by 4% and over time, we
remain committed to that 5% to 15% range, recognizing though it will get more difficult as
we get bigger.
To build on what Ben said in terms of the digital response, if you think about what we've
gone through in the first six months, in January in both our US and our UK commercial
business, the direct and partnerships division, we saw more business than the prior period
a year ago. In April, it was 60% and it's fair to say we were all worried about the longerterm impact, but in June and July it's bounced back to very similar to January and in some
cases above January, and that shows the underlying strength of that business. For the
bigger ticket business, clearly we are now -- it says we shrink and expand according to the
pricing environment and given the pricing environment at London Market and Re and IL
are enjoying, we are firmly in the expand mode and we feel that, as Aki set out, we have
the capital to do that. So finally on slide 29, we look forward. The company has clearly
been incredibly resilient in a very challenging six months. Our staff have been amazing,
working from home, providing service to brokers and to customers, as well as dealing
with the challenges of COVID-19. The Retail performance was -- ex COVID-19 was a
combined ratio of just over 95%, driving $100 million worth of profit, and has Ben has
outlined, the investment in digital technology has paid off. As we look forward, we see
growth opportunities and profit opportunities across the business. The rates, there is
momentum, clearly the most momentum is in the London Market business, but
Reinsurance is catching up and we are already seeing upticks as Jo highlighted in the
Retail businesses around the world. We have the capital, but more importantly, the risk
appetite to go in the big ticket lines, and as we look into 2021 and beyond, we believe
that the long-term growth story for Retail is undiminished and that we are well placed to
take advantage of that. So with this, we bring our presentation to the end and we will
open up for questions.
Page 10 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the question-answer session. (Operator
Instructions).

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you Johan [ph]. So I will compere in terms of the questions. So I know many of you
want to ask more than one question at a time, and we will then decide who of the
management team will be the right people to answer.

Operator
All right. Thank you. We have first question from Kamran Hossain. Hi, Kamran, your line is
open now. Please go ahead with your question.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, morning, everybody -- morning everyone. So I've got three questions. The first one is
obviously the data on I guess submissions is really encouraging as far as Retail. Could you
maybe talk about any internal net promoter scores that you have, or you've indicated that
you might have to hand about whether there's been any impact on the business -- on the
Retail business generally and more particularly kind of on the US, whether there has been
any read across at all [ph].
The second question is, I think it's really positive that you've got lower claims frequency
elsewhere, but you're not going to begin to recognize it. When will we begin to recognize
this? One year, two years, is this an early 2000 scenario again? And the third question is,
if there is a second wave of lockdowns, kind less local more national, any thoughts about
how we should think about that going forward? Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you. Kamran. I think Ben can answer the question around the Retail impact and how
we are measuring our market position. Aki can handle the claims frequency, when we will
recognize that, and maybe Jo can talk about the second wave.

A - Benjamin A Walter

{BIO 18021194 <GO>}

Sure, thanks, Bronek. Hi, Kamran. In terms of NPS scores and impact on the brand, we
have done a couple of dips across the world. Those are light touch surveys where we take
the pulse on where we are and so far we have seen our NPS scores hold up at the levels
that they were before COVID happened. Clearly that's a concern and something we're
watching very closely. But we haven't seen a significant impact to date and the growth in
the business relative to the economic environment would bear that out.

Page 11 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

FINAL

What we are seeing more broadly, and we've done this -- I happen to be on the Board of
the Trade Association in the States, and what we have seen is a dip in confidence in the
sector overall, I expect that on both sides of the Atlantic, as a lot of these issues have
played out very publicly in light of the pandemic, but that seems to have been broad
based across the industry, and thus far we have not seen a material impact to our NPS
scores or our brand tracking survey.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thanks Ben. Aki?

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Hi, Kamran. I guess regarding the frequency, as you heard from Jo, the frequency has
dropped quite significantly in our Retail business, but it's difficult to tell right now to what
extent that -- differences between noise and signal. So we are reserving works (inaudible),
and in terms of the duration of these policies, they tend to be pretty short duration. So by
this time next year, we will pretty much know whether it is real, and by then, I expect in the
second half of next year to be recognizing that favorable experience.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Thanks Aki.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Hi, Kamran. Just picking up on the question on the second wave. So for events and
contingency, the impact is significantly reduced as exposure just runs out. We previously
disclosed if the restrictions continued for further three months to the end of the year,
then there is a potential $25 million. And once we do have some exposure in 2021, it is
more limited, because events, which have not been scheduled, and we're obviously not
reloading our aggregate yet, the business interruption, we remain of the view that the
intense, and the words into our policies in the UK are clear, but given this has been
disputed, we felt it sensible to provide some clarity to avoid any future disputes. And in
line with others in the market, we're making some changes for new and existing
customers in relation to the communicable disease. So our portfolio is steadily migrating
into the clarified world then [ph]. So in our disclosed risk scenario, we did adopt different
assumptions and we did include some headroom in those assumptions, given the
uncertainty, but ultimately would depend on when the second lockdown occurs, the
length, severity, to be really confident of the ultimate impact.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Thank you, Jo.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thank you. Can we take (inaudible) the next question?

Operator
Page 12 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

We have next question from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Hi, Jonny, please go ahead with your
question.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi guys. Good morning. Just two if I may please. So firstly, I guess on the additional $82
million of COVID losses, I mean there was obviously a lot of focus on that this morning in
the investment community, given I think people just expect the $150 million to be
reiterated for now pending the FCA outcomes. I mean, can you guys give us a bit more
detail on that, how capital investors get comfort that this number doesn't keep rising, ex
the FCA outcome, maybe what's the total IBNR on the (inaudible) that might help.
And then secondly, the reserve, thus, has increased over a stronger best estimate, you're
now saying it's at the top end of the range, the very top end of the range. When we think
about the Retail combined ratio guidance, some of last year's deterioration was driven by
claims experience and some was driven by a deliberate slowdown in the release patterns.
The question is, does this stronger buffer mean that the release profile can perhaps
normalize a bit sooner than we're expecting? Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thank you, Jonny. I think both of those, around the context of $82 million and then
the reserve buffer are for Aki.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Bronek. In terms of the additional $82 million, Jonny, I think, the last one of your
question was (inaudible) we don't tend to disclose the details of that, but what I can say is
that the vast majority of the additional $82 million is IBNR and currently our (inaudible) is
consistent with our reserving style and these are precautionary reserves that we are
setting aside, and they are not reflective of the credit that we've currently received. And,
frankly, as far as we are concerned, any point in time with all this reserve (inaudible) be
sort of expected loss from a basis and that's exactly what we've done with the additional
$82 million.
In terms of the reserves, you're right, we are now at the top end of my expectations at
$347-odd-million [ph] and also then present above the actuarial estimates. The relative
sort of increase in the reserve buffer has been driven by 2019 cats running very well, and I
expect that to continue into the second half of the year and we will take a view at the end
of this year as to what happens there.
With respect to Retail, I think the guidance that we provided last year that we would
expect the Retail business to get back to 90% to 95% zone by 2022 still remains our
position. The business is progressing well, you can see that reflected in the underlying
(inaudible) for the first half of 2020, where part of the reason that we've got to a 95%
combined of course is the expense reductions we've taken, but also the improved
experience we are seeing in the US, but I'd caution against accelerating the expectation
to get back into 90%, 95%.

Page 13 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Shall we take the next question please?

Operator
We have next question coming from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Hi, Andrew. Your
line is open now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thanks. Good morning. First question, I think is for AKI, I want to just explore the
capital scenario a bit more, the slide, which ended the 179 [ph]. I guess the two things to
think about is that you've actually said that you've assumed the UK BI risk scenario of
GBP250 million, but today you've told us that there could be more losses in reinsurance
potentially related to the FCA case. So I'm not sure why you wouldn't allow for that in your
kind of worst case capital. I guess the other thing in that capital slide is it doesn't reflect
the BSCR changes. Do you just assume those are offset by capital generation, which I
guess they hopefully should be. What's your thinking around that? Or maybe just tell us
what the additional capital tools could be to ensure in those worst cases, plus the
reinsurance cost in the UK BI dispute that you could still end up landing around that kind of
level? Few other quick ones. I noticed your one in 200-year exposures at the back of the
presentation for nat cat have gone down significantly for US, I'm guessing that's the
purchase of the additional retro/reinsurance, but you indicated you grew in July. So have
those come back up again as a result of July, is that still a good ballpark? And then the
only final question, it's really hard to understand what London Market profitability is on the
kind of, let's call it the new business, i.e. free of some of those legacy losses, some of
those large losses, which appear to be an older business. I mean, it looks like the
(inaudible) underlying combined is in the mid-90s. I mean, is that a good guide as to
where the kind of new business is being written? Thanks.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. I'll suggest that Aki you take the capital scenarios on the London Market
underlying. And Jo, if you can comment on the -- what's happening to the one in 200 and
how you think that will work through. Aki?

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

So thank you, Bronek. Hi, Andrew. In terms of capital, and the scenario that we set out
there, as you can see in the scenario, we started off with a pretty robust capital position
with the priority actions we've taken in terms of raising equity and then of course the
organic capital generation position is very strong, prior to reflecting those fiscal [ph]
downside scenario. Now you could always ask more or take away from the scenarios, but
the point here is that those two aggregate scenarios added to around $500 million of net
downside and it still raises with the capital position around 180% mark. And do recall from
our equity presentation -- strategy presentation (inaudible) equity raise some months
Page 14 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

ago, that -- note that [ph] capital ratio is around 160, 170 mark, in between that range,
that's consistent with an A rating, and still leaves us with ample capital. So even after
taking this $0.5 billion or (inaudible) the cash position remains very strong. One specific
point regarding Re, I guess we have to think about that is, this is not an isolated situation
that affects today's COGS [ph]. Re -- our reinsurance and ILS division has a -- currently and
historically has had a pretty small market share within -- I guess the term we use is
underweight UK and Europe and that is our historic view on pricing in nat cats [ph]. We
also reinsure a significant amount of the business that we write in Re anywhere between - for our cat business, it can be up to 90% across the portfolio and around 75% in
reinsured. So to the extent that losses will come through our Reinsurance and cat, we
currently don't expect them to be significant and importantly, relative to the market, it will
be a pretty small share. (inaudible) that needs to be factored in this scenario. In terms of
the strengthening of the BSCR, actually we expect that the strengthening will take away
maybe 10 to 15 points from the solvency ratio that's reflected in our starting point for the
first stage of strengthening, we have yet to reflect the full strengthening for 2020, which
we will do on our year-end results. I would expect the bulk of that to be offset by the
organic capital generation. You saw that -- you can see the capital generation in Q2, which
is 9%, that's been partly elevated by the improvement in investment returns. Across the
year in a normalized year, so underlying, excluding COVID-19, I would expect the capital
generation to be somewhere between 18 and 22 points and that should offset any
strengthening required or driven by the BMA. Just moving on to the London Market
profitability, I think your assessment of the current year underlying combined ratio is there
thereabouts. As I said, we had about a 4 point impact from COVID-19 and a further 7 point
impact from above-average large losses. But I guess the important question is what about
the business that we're writing now? The business that we are writing now, given the rate
increases that are coming through that we've seen this year and also towards the back
end of last year, we believe now it is just around 90% or just below in terms of a
combined ratio. Ultimately that will start to feed through into the P&L. You know the way
how these patterns work here. Given the mix of the business, we have some short tail,
some longer tail in terms of the property binders and so on. I expect that a decent profit
performance will start to come through into 2021, certainly into the second half of 2021. So
we're pretty pleased with the business that we're writing now.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Aki. Jo?

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Thanks, Bronek. Yeah. So you're right. So at the beginning of the year, we felt that
reinsurance rates were not sufficiently attractive to grow, and post COVID, in March, we
purchased some reinsurance in the form of industry loss warranties at prices that were
commercially attractive to both protect our capital (inaudible) the upcoming wind and you
will see that on slide 41 where that has reduced the mean modeled loss on the US
windstorm to just shy of $200 million and that was -- if you looked at the -- go back to the
end of the year that was over $300 million. The vast majority of that has been driven by
the additional $100 million of ILWs. You write that with models at the end of April, and we
have written in our June and July renewals, so rather we made them [ph] 20%, we're
down 10% year to date, including the June and July renewals. So whilst that mean model
loss will increase a little bit, the majority of that driver is the purchase of the ILWs.
Page 15 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks.

FINAL

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. Thank you Jo. We have questions Johan [ph] outstanding from Ben
Cohen. (Technical Difficulty) We will take those two questions and then we will draw the
Q&A to close. So if you'd like to choose one of them, then we can go ahead.

Operator
All right. Now we have next question coming from Ben Cohen from Investec. Hi, Ben. Your
line is open now.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Hi, Ben.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two things I wanted to ask about. Firstly, could you just -- you talked a lot about Retail
growth in different context, so just one wondered, we would just tie you down a little bit
more about how much you see the Retail division growing this year and also the outlook
for next year. Maybe just recap in terms of sensitivity to economic growth.
The second thing I wanted to ask about was really just the uncertainty still around COVID
losses from a third-party point of view. You've obviously made some estimates in the first
half of the year. I wondered just where you feel you are in terms of getting ahead of loss
notification. And I suppose a third related, in terms of the potential impact that that might
be to the reinsurance portfolio from the UK BI ruling, I just wondered, is this really just a
very, very small loss that we're looking about? Why was this something that you didn't see
fit to warn about at the time of the Q1 update with the equity raise? Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Okay. I think in terms of regional growth, clearly Ben will be able to comment on that. In
terms of the third-party, Jo, and then the final question Aki.

A - Benjamin A Walter

{BIO 18021194 <GO>}

Hi, Ben. I'm afraid on Retail growth, I'm not going to give you much more certainty on
2020, we withdrew guidance given the uncertainty in the broader environment. And I'm
afraid that uncertainty still remains. So I'm pleased with the growth we had in the first half
contextually. And clearly if the economic environment continues to heal, that will be a fair
tailwind for us, but we just can't be sure at this point, given the fact that this is still going
on, the pandemic is still live, different countries are responding in different ways, we don't
know what the next phase looks like and we are loath [ph] to commit to a growth level
while we find ourselves in this situation. Clearly once the situation stabilizes and the

Page 16 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

pandemic starts to either be a normalized way of life or more hopefully starts to be
behind us, we will look to return the business to the 5% to 15% target growth range.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Ben. Thank you.

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Yeah. So with regard to third-party losses, in the way that we're thinking about COVID, we
have reserved losses, which are more directly impacted by the pandemic. So that's things
like events cancellation et cetera. We've now moved into things which are more affected
by the economic interruption and the economic shocks, so that's the potential business
interruption and travel.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then you're right, as this pandemic moves then we're looking into this third-party
liability. We think about it in a couple of ways. We think about third-party almost direct
liability COVID-related, and that would be what we reserved at half year. So that would be
the allied healthcare impact where we see a direct COVID-related potential third-party.
I suppose indirect COVID, we have seen some notifications on our portfolio, so I'll give
you an example. Accountants [ph] BI in the UK, we've had some claims, which are for filing
of furlough -- late filing of furlough, and whilst these are indirectly related to COVID, they
are just part of the normal claims frequency that we see within accountants and whilst
they're not doing some of the things like filing tax et cetera. So we're dealing with those
as part of the loss ratio, and any of those will be taken care of in the Q2 reserve Ben. And
then as we move forward and we forecast what is the impact with regard to any
increased view of risk, so whether that be through recessionary loss or through are there
any third-party litigation as we move into 2020 and 2021, whilst of course it is quite
speculative at this stage, it's really important for us to understand, because we've taken
all of that into our underwriting and we would look to see if there is an increased view of
risk, regardless of where that's coming from and make sure that our underwriting action,
whether that be portfolio action or the rates, indeed that we're getting mitigates the
impact of any sort of increase that we see with regard to view of risk.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Right. Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Aki?

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

And then on the final point regarding the reinsurance accounts, I think at the time -- well, I
know on the time of the equity raise, we were quite clear in explaining that exposure to
losses in the reinsurance account was uncertain, but also to remind you, today [ph], that
the Hiscox Re, now that's underweight in Europe and with only modest net premium
retentions. So frankly the disclosure that we have today is simply reiterating that and
Page 17 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

providing a little bit of caution, there could be something. But frankly, I'll focus on the fact
that we are underweight in Europe, this is something that's not unique to Hiscox, but we
are underweight Europe with modest retentions and if anything (inaudible) expected to
be for most [ph].

FINAL

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Thank you Bronek. Johan, I think there's one more from Mr. Van Embden.

Operator
That's right. We have next question from Andreas Van from Peel Hunt. Hi, Andreas. Your
line is open. Please go ahead with your question.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Good morning, Andreas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Hi, hello, everyone. Good morning, Bronek. And good morning all. Thank you very much
for taking my questions. I just have two focus points. One is on Hiscox Re, and looking
forward at the 1/1 renewals, I just wanted to -- in terms of your plans for next year, with the
R & ILS [ph] capital retrenching and you're alluding that could retrench even further in
second half of the year ahead of the renewals, could you maybe comment on how much
net risk you are planning to retain at 1/1, just describe perhaps the move from the gross to
net, there is going to be a significant change going into next year and perhaps how much
capital that that could potentially consume.
And my second question is around the UK Retail and business interruption exposures.
Could you maybe discuss your reinsurance protection program within UK Retail? What
assumptions have you made for reinsurance retentions within your stress test of GBP10
million to GBP250 million and perhaps discuss how much room do you have in your UK
Retail reinsurance program to absorb for the losses or pass on for the losses to your
reinsurers. Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Okay. I think in terms of the 1/1 plans for Hiscox Re, Jo, I think that's probably one for you
to talk about. And in terms of the reinsurance, Aki, do you want to respond to that?

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks Bronek. Yeah. So as we look forward to 1/1, I mean, as I said, the rates are
accelerating where 11 [ph] inclusions of the mid-year and we do see that accelerating, so
we do think it will be an interesting market for us at 1/1. We do have the capital and we are
looking to deploy that on our own balance sheet. I mean with regard to what that exactly
looks like, we're looking through that at the moment and as we always do with our
business planning, we make a judgment about the inflection points around rates and the
makeup of our portfolio in terms of gross to net. But with the market we do foresee, we
Page 18 of 19



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2020-08-03

are confident that the rate acceleration that we are seeing, we'll look forward to 1/1, so we
are excited.

FINAL

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

I mean I think, if I can expand on Jo's. At the moment, Andreas there is a slightly balancing
act that Jo and the team are performing between third-party capital, ILS, and our net
retained appetite. Thanks to the capital raise and we clearly have more net appetite to
deploy both in London Market and Re and we'll be making the precise decision as the
year progresses. I mean on the one hand, it is, as I say, because of the cat cuts on ILS, we
may write less gross written premium. But certainly our expectation is that net written
premium will grow. And it's a fact, the very existence of that cat capital, which is driving the
rating increase across the market as a whole, so it's one of those balancing acts, but very
clearly, as Jo says, it's the balancing act, is driving price increases.
So Aki, do you want to just talk briefly about the UK reinsurance program.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Of course. I mean, I guess the answer is pretty short. We don't intend to disclose the
details of the reinsurance program. I would reiterate the previous messages that we put
out there, we do have a comprehensive reinsurance program, supported by high quality
top-tier reinsurance panel and we're pretty confident to recover that we have.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Okay, alright, thanks, Aki. And with that I believe there are no -- there is no other
questions in the queue. So thank you all for your time. Just to reiterate, I mean I think it's
clearly been a challenging first half, but the business has been very resilient, both
operationally and its ability to respond to customers. And as we look forward, clearly there
is a market opportunity, particularly in the big ticket area that has been explained. We're
not going to lose sight of the ability to keep on growing Retail and we are positive about
the profit and growth opportunities that we see this year and clearly into 2021. Thank you
all for your time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

