Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andre Keller, Chief Investment Officer
Paul Norton, Group Chief Financial Officer
Philipp Gmur, Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Dieter Hein, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Rene Locher, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Full Year 2019 Results Conference Call and Live Webcast. I
am Sandra, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all participants will be in listenonly mode and the conference is being recorded. The presentation will be followed by a Q&A
session. (Operator Instructions) The conference must not be recorded for publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmur, Group CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Philipp Gmur
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our analyst conference call on the results of the
2019 financial year. Within the next 45 minutes or so, we would like to give you detailed information
on our business development and the key financials of the reporting period.
Please turn to Slide 2. Following my introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will go through the financial
figures. Then I would like to give you an update on the implementation of our strategy Helvetia
2020. After my presentation, Paul Norton and I, as well as our Chief Investment Officer, Andre
Keller will be pleased to answer your questions as always.
On Slide 3, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main performance indicators. Paul
will give you detailed information on the developments of these figures later on. In 2019, we
achieved a business volume at Group level of approximately CHF9.5 billion. On a currency-adjusted
basis this represents an increase of 5.6%. The main growth driver was non-life business, which
achieved 8.3% higher premiums in original currency year-on-year. The European units as well as
specialty markets significantly contributed to this pleasing growth. In non-life [ph] business, the
most important growth drivers were property business on the one hand, which also benefited
from the expansion of the B2B2C channel in Switzerland and engineering and active reinsurance on
the other hand.
In life business, business volume increased by 3% in original currency. This was mainly driven by
higher volumes in investment linked products in Switzerland, Germany and Italy and by the Swiss
Group's life business. Here, particularly noteworthy is the strong development of new business
with capital efficient insurance solutions, such as Swisscanto and BVG Invest.



FINAL

Helvetia generated an IFRS profit after tax of CHF538 million in 2019, which was significantly higher
than the net profit of CHF431 million in 2018. In addition to solid underwriting results in both life and
non-life business, strong Investment results due to the favorable development of the stock
markets were the drivers of the good results. Finally, Helvetia benefited from a one-off positive tax
effect. This was mainly due to the revaluation of deferred tax provisions in the course of the
federal tax reform and related cantonal tax reductions in Switzerland. The net combined ratio at
Group level was 92.3%, somewhat higher than in the previous year. However, the ratio remains at a
very good level within the strategic target of below 93%. Paul will give you more details on the
development of claims and the cost ratio in a few minute.
I am also pleased with the development of new business in life. The new business margin rose to
2.9% and it's just above the strategic target of Helvetia 2020. The improvement was driven by the
Swiss group life business. The new business margin was positively affected by a model
adjustment, which resulted in lower capital requirements on the one hand and a more favorable
business mix on the other hand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our strong positioning in combination with our profitable growth strategy creates added value for
our shareholders. Helvetia again generated a strong operating cash production of CHF279 million.
Thus, the Board of Directors will propose to this year's shareholders' meeting to increase the
dividend by CHF0.20 to CHF5, which gives an attractive dividend yield of 3.7%. Aside from
Switzerland, the European entities (inaudible) specialty markets also contributes to the Group
dividend. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the home stretch on implementing our
strategy. I will come back to this later in the second part of my presentation.
With that, I would like to hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now provide you with the
most important information about the financial figures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to our conference call today.
Within the next approximately 25 minutes, I'll give you more detailed information on our financial
performance in the 2019 financial year. I'd like to start with Slide 5.
Net income increased by 2.9%, thanks to strong capital markets and tax effects for the solid
technical result. We achieved a solid IFRS result of CHF538 million against CHF431 million in 2018.
Based on continuing solid technical results in life and non-life, a significantly stronger performance
on investments was the main driver of the increased results. Finally Helvetia benefited from a oneoff positive tax effect of CHF93 million. This resulted mainly from the revaluation of deferred tax
provisions as a result of federal tax reform and the associated cantonal tax reductions in
Switzerland.
In terms of business areas, we increased earnings in the life and non-life business compared to
2018. First, the life and non-life business benefited from gains on investments and the positive tax
that I mentioned. In the life business, the margin after costs increased, important drivers of the
improvement were positive valuation effects on investment linked products and a better
development of the cost result. These effects were largely offset as we strengthened reserves,
mainly relating to continuing low interest rate environment and the result of an increase in
expenses for policyholder participation.
The non-life technical result on the other hand declined because of an improved claims ratio from
the current year business, was unable to fully compensate for higher acquisition and project costs
and lower run-off profits from reserves for losses from previous years. However, the good
development of the current year claims ratio underpins sound quality of our portfolio.



FINAL

Results in other activities was lower than in the previous year due to the usual effects from the
consolidation of our own internal funds, recession [ph] and weather-related claims in Europe and
large losses in the specialty lines, Swiss International to Group reinsurance, as well as higher
project costs. We'll have a more detailed look on the profit sources of the non-life, the life
business and other activities in a moment.
If you turn to Slide 6, on the earnings improvement in all the main segments. Helvetia improved its
results in all segments with the exception of Corporate. In Switzerland, Helvetia recorded
significantly higher profits in life and non-life business compared to 2018. Based on ongoing solid
technical results, the increase is mainly due to better investment results and the positive tax effect
on the national and various cantonal tax reforms.
In non-life, technical results were below the previous year, as a lower current year claims burden
could not compensate for higher costs and run-off effects from reserves for losses from previous
year. In the life business, a better margin after costs and higher gains on investments were partly
offset by significantly higher interest-related reserve strengthening and an increase in expenses
for policyholder participation.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Europe, now that's generated a better result in the non-life business which resulted on the one
hand from a growth related to high technical results and on the other hand from capital gains. The
life results in Europe remained at the level of the previous year. High capital gains were
outweighed by increased expenses for reserve strengthening, notably in Germany, so called ZZR
and higher expenses for policyholder participation.
Specialty Markets segment increased its result, thanks to higher investment income and a higher
technical income, driven by increased volumes. Result of the Corporate segment declined year-onyear. The reasons were the usual consolidation effects of the Group's own funds and losses from
weather-related claims in Europe and large losses in Specialty Lines Switzerland and international
were ceded to Group reinsurance. Additionally, Helvetia had higher project costs.
And I'd like to now continue with our growth in business volume on Slide 7. In 2019, Helvetia Group
achieved a business volume of roughly CHF9.5 billion, this equates to a currency adjusted increase
of 5.6% over the previous year. In the non-life business, we achieved an increase in premium
volume of 8.3% in original currency. The growth was mainly driven by Europe and Specialty Markets
where premiums increased by 5.8% and 23.7% respectively. Viewed by [ph] line of business growth
was particularly supported by the property business, engineering and active reinsurance.
In our Swiss home market, we were able to increase premiums by just under 1%. Property business,
which benefited from the expansion of the partner business, B2B2C, showed 3.4% higher
premiums. This growth was partly offset by a decline in the motor business.
In the life business, volume on a Group level rose by 3% in original currency. I'd like to emphasize
the very good development of investment linked products in individual life in Switzerland,
Germany, Italy and of the Group life business in Switzerland. Here particularly noteworthy was the
good development of our model capital efficient insurance solutions Swisscanto and BVG Invest.
Now I'd like to look at the profit by sources of the non-life business on Slide 8. In 2019, IFRS
earnings in the non-life segment increased by 20% to CHF398 million. Main driver of the
investment result, thanks to favorable performance of the capital markets, particularly the equity
market. The non-life technical result on the other hand declined because of favorable claims
experienced in the current year, unable to fully compensate for higher acquisition and project costs
and lower run-off profits from reserves for losses from previous year. I'll provide you with more
details on the next slide. Finally, the non-life business benefited from the already mentioned
onetime positive effect from the revaluation of deferred tax provisions.



FINAL

I'd now like to move to the net combined ratio on Slide 9. The Group net combined ratio was
92.3% against 91% a year ago. Still at a very good level, and once again underpins the good quality
of our portfolio. The claims ratio increased by 0.6 percentage points to 61.7%. We had a very
pleasing decrease in the current year claims ratio which emphasizes the quality of our current
business. However, this was not able to compensate for an expected decline in run-off profits as
old portfolios run off. I would like to emphasize, particularly the prior-year developments
additionally impacted by the strong growth in active reinsurance and also in the French market due
to its underwriting year accounting logic, which leads to a gradual shift of claims from current year
ratio to prior year development. In the annexe on the Slide 31, the mechanism of the underwriting
year accounting logic is explained in detail.
Looking at the cost ratio, the administration cost ratio was almost stable year-on-year as the
growth rates -- improvement in Europe was offset by an increase of project costs in Switzerland.
The acquisition cost ratio increased. The reasons were shifts in the distribution channel and
product mix in Switzerland and Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

On a segment level, in Switzerland, the net combined ratio was higher than in the previous year.
The claims ratio increased due to a decrease in run-off gains from reserves for claims from prior
years. As a result, expected gradual run-off of whiplash loss reserves, the reserves for the
portfolios acquired from Alba and Phenix in 2010. At 94.8%, Europe recorded a better net
combined ratio compared to 2018, while the claims ratio remained more or less at the previous
year's level, cost ratios slightly improved mainly as a consequence of our volumes. All the
European market units achieved combined ratios below 100%.
In the Specialty Markets segment, the net combined ratio increased slightly to 96.4%, the cost ratio
improved due to growth rate economies of scale. However, specialty markets recorded a higher
claims ratio, mainly resulting from a less favorable development of a few major claims from
previous years in France and Specialty Lines International/Switzerland and a one-off effect from the
commutation of a retrocession agreement in active reinsurance.
On Slide 10, we'll have a closer look at the life business. In 2019, net income for the life business
was 52% above the prior year's figure. If we look at the profit by sources, the margin after costs
increased significantly, thanks to positive fluctuations in the valuation of options for investment
linked products and a better development of the cost result. Savings, though, however, declined,
mainly due to declining investment returns, while interest expenses for retirement assets in Swiss
group life remained unchanged. The lower risk result also mainly resulting from a weaker disability
result in Swiss group life business.
Gains and losses on investments significantly increased due to good equity market performance.
Extraordinary result was lower compared to the previous year. A high interest-related reserve
strengthening in Switzerland, Europe and the absence of positive one-off effect of previous year in
Switzerland, the release of the so-called cost living adjustment fund were partially offset by lower
future conversion rate losses due to the new tariff in the Swiss group life business. It's a one-off
effect. The better margin after costs on our capital gains and the contribution to earnings from tax
reduction in Switzerland led to material increase in expenses for policyholder participation. Finally,
as I already mentioned, we benefited from a one-time positive tax effect.
And now I'd like to switch to the new business, which has developed very positively, as you can see
from Slide 11.The new business also developed positively in 2019. The margin rose by 1.2
percentage points year-on-year to 2.9 percentage -- percent -- 1.7% in 2018. This improvement was
driven by the Swiss group life business. On the one hand, model changes that led to more capital
requirements had a positive effect, on the other hand, the new business margin also benefited
from a more advantageous business mix in Swiss group life to higher new business growth with
more profitable capital efficient insurance solutions.



FINAL

I'd now like to continue with the development of the interest margin on Slide 12. The direct yield
declined in both Switzerland and Europe segment compared to last year. In Switzerland, the
interest margin went up when comparing 2019 against the previous year. This is attributable to the
following reasons. The direct yield decreased due to the ongoing low interest rate environment,
the average technical rate, i.e. the rate that we meet also declined, probably more sharply than the
direct yield. The main drivers here were the successful revision of our traditional product portfolio
and the focused sales of modern capital-light products replacing maturing insurance contracts with
high-guaranteed rates and additional reserve strengthening.
In Europe, the interest margin remained stable compared to 2018. Here we see a drop in the
average interest rate Helvetia has to generate to meet its obligations, due to additional reserve
strengthening and new contracts with lower guarantees replacing old ones with higher guarantees.
However, yields are also declining due to the low interest rate environment. And therefore, the
margin remained at the previous year's level. In total, the interest margin for the Group as a whole
increased.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the following slide, I want to provide you with details on the profit for other activities. Looking at
the profit by source, the net technical result in Group reinsurance declined resulting from weather
related claims in Europe and large losses in Specialty Lines Switzerland International which were to
a large extent ceded to in Group reinsurance. The investment FX result was lower year-on-year
due to the usual consolidation effect from our own investment funds. Here the positive impact of
capital market development shown in the individual market units is balanced out in the other
activities business area. The costs/other result decreased. This can be attributed to higher project
costs. And financing costs remained at the prior year level.
The next slide, Slide 14, shows the development of our investment result. The current investment
income of CHF947 million has been almost has been pained [ph] on the previous year's level,
despite the continuing low interest rate environment. Direct yield is at 1.9% compared to 2% in
2018. Thanks to positive performance of the equity markets, Helvetia generated capital gains on
investments of CHF456 million. The investment result recognized in profit and loss amounted to
CHF1.4 billion, giving Helvetia return of 2.9%. Level of unrealized gains and losses in equity
increased by CHF1.4 billion, both on the AFS classified shares and due to lower interest rates on
the bonds, resulting in an overall performance of 5.9%. Investments in market risk for the
policyholder increased by CHF469 million, driven by the growth of units in the index-linked
insurance solutions and rising share prices.
On Slide 15, you can see the investment result broken down by asset class. The first table shows
the performance of the total investment portfolio. About 60% of the current income of CHF947
million came from bonds and mortgages, which contributed CHF498 million and CHF82 million
respectively in absolute terms. Dividends accounted for over CHF60 million, CHF75 million [ph]
and investment property for CHF252 million. Realized and booked gains on investments amounted
to CHF456 million, reflecting the strong equity market.
As we mentioned, unrealized gains and losses increased by CHF1.4 billion. The lower half of the
slide shows return on new and reinvestment. 2019, the total new or reinvestments amounted to
CHF2.7 billion. 77% of the funds are allocated in euro and Swiss franc bonds, remainder in
mortgages, equities and real estate. Due to the interest rate-induced rise in hedging costs for the
US dollar, the portfolio was partly restructured in order to reduce the weight of the American
currency. The new investments achieved an average return of 1.5%, overall return.
On Slide 16, we will go and look at the dividend. Regarding the dividend, our strategy is to increase
dividend year-on-year. The Board of Directors will therefore propose to the Shareholders' Meeting
to raise the dividend to CHF5 per share. This corresponds to a dividend payout ratio of 58% based
on the IFRS result, adjusted for the one-off tax effect, and this is above our target range of 40% to
50%. The dividend yield is what we believe an attractive (Technical Difficulty). On the next slide,



FINAL

you see the dividend is fully covered by our strong cash production, which means (inaudible) out of
the operating businesses.
I'll now turn to slide 17. Helvetia captures [ph] virtually all operating cash production that it
generates right through to its shareholders. We have the advantage that many of our foreign
operations or branches cover insurance companies (inaudible) which makes capital very fungible.
All operating companies or subsidiary of Helvetia insurance company, it receives cash submitted by
them (inaudible) dividends for our external shareholders that we are holding paid [ph] dividends
out. You can see that on IFRS basis, individual market units remit substantial proportion of their IFRS
(inaudible). Compared to the previous year, Specialty Markets operating cash growth was lower,
the reason for this is Group reinsurance, which is included here in the remissions figures as
Specialty Markets. Group reinsurance provided a lower dividend contribution, because it's
impacted by claims from the nat cat events in Europe and the large losses from specialty lines. And
I'd like to emphasize Group reinsurance mandates to provide Group-wide internal interest [ph]
coverage and these are subject to profit volatility.
And on that I will now hand back over to Philipp Gmur.

Bloomberg Transcript

Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Paul, for all the details of our financial performance in 2019 financial year. In the last part
of the presentation, I would now like to briefly show you an update on strategy implementation.
Please turn to slide 21. The implementation of our strategy Helvetia 2020 is proceeding as
planned. If you have followed us through the last periods you might know that our strategy is built
on three pillars. We aim, first, to strengthen our core business. Second, to explore new business
models, and third, to promote targeted innovation. The relevant projects and measures are on
track. In addition, we are well on our way to exceeding the financial target set for the end of 2020,
thereby laying a solid foundation for further successful development.
With Helvetia 2020, we are creating added value for our key stakeholder groups; customers,
employees and shareholders. A milestone to strengthen the core business was reached at the
beginning of 2020 with the acquisition of the Spanish insurer Caser. I will go into details on the next
slide.
The acquisition of Caser is an important but not the only step Helvetia has taken. In order to meet
the changing needs of customers even better, Helvetia has launched new products such as cyber
coverage on its own fund insurance policies, opened up new business lines, such as aviation and
revised existing offers. For example, the property insurance in Switzerland.
The new products are very well received by customers. Helvetia has also introduced the new tariff
in the Swiss group life business. I will provide you with more details in a minute.
With regard to distribution channels, Helvetia significantly expanded its bank distribution in Italy and
Spain, as well as its brokerage business in Spain. Via the B2B2C channel, Helvetia also enables its
customers to purchase insurance coverage directly at the point of sale, thus taking into account the
need of insure specific items individually.
Another focus in strengthening the core business was increasing the level of automation,
especially in claims processing. In Spain for example, Helvetia customers can report household
insurance claims directly in the new customer portal or via smartphone. In Switzerland, Austria and
Italy, in particular, claims processing for motor vehicle claims has been simplified and automated.
This with the aim of offering the customer more comfort.
We have always known that strengthening the core will not be sufficient to meet the challenges
that the future brings. Thus, Helvetia is opening up new business models, among other things, by



FINAL

setting up ecosystems in Switzerland, in particular with the ecosystem home, with MoneyPark as a
strong anchor.
The new app from Smile, the leading Swiss online insurer, gave Helvetia access to the mobile
world. In 2019, Smile received the Swiss Insurance Industries Innovation Award for its customer
experience revolution project by introducing numerous innovations such as the flexible monthly
subscription with a monthly cancellation period, a monthly payment option by credit card, the
change over to a so-called You Culture and its own app. The jury was impressed by the holistic
approach which consistently puts the customer at the center.
Helvetia is also taking another important step with the launch of offers in the asset management
segment. Helvetia asset management incorporate company was founded for this purpose. In
future, this company will make Helvetia's investment expertise in the real estate sector available to
third parties. The first property fund will be launched in April 2020. Helvetia is thus broadening its
product range and diversifying its sources of income in the form of EBIT.
Finally, Helvetia is making targeted use of innovations in customer interaction. We are increasingly
using chatbots to handle customer concerns. For example, 20% of all bicycle thefts in Germanspeaking Switzerland are processed via our chatbots, but also in other areas such as the extension
of contracts. For us, chatbots are becoming more popular.

Bloomberg Transcript

Furthermore, Helvetia has important access to innovation with its own venture fund, which is in
contact with -- between 600 to 700 startups every year. In 2019, the venture fund invested among
others in two companies with a strong focus on the B2B2C business.
Let's move on to slide 21, as I have already mentioned, we have also made a major step to
strengthen our core business by the acquisition of Caser. Helvetia's European businesses have
developed very well in recent years. We have been increasing profitability and the net combined
ratio in the non-life business improved significantly, reflecting our efforts to increase portfolio
quality. The acquisition of Pallas Austria helped us to substantially improve our market position in
the non-life business in Austria.
In the life business, we continuously improved our business mix by increasing the share of modern
products and new businesses to over 80% for products with (technical difficulty) Spain would be
very interesting. And now we have been seizing the opportunity offered to us.
The acquisition of Caser in Spain considerably reinforced the European business as a second pillar
of the group. We will be gaining substantial market share in Spain and, together with Caser, we will
improve our positioning to a meaningful number seven in non-life. Moreover, we will also improve
the business mix for the group throughout higher share of non-life and a more balanced
geographical mix.
Helvetia is also significantly improving its distribution channel mix by increasing its presence in the
area of bank distribution. Caser operates very successfully in Spain. For our shareholders, the good
news is that Caser will also immediately make a significant profit contribution and the acquisition is
EPS accretive. Furthermore, Helvetia will be preserving its strong capital position.
The Annual General Meeting will decide on the creation of new shares by way of an authorized
capital of 10% of the outstanding share capital. Around half of this authorized capital is to be used
to partially refinance the acquisition of Caser. It is planned that one-third of the financing will be
equity and two-third is debt. The newly created authorized share capital is intended to give the
Board of Directors the greatest possible flexibility to implement this equity financing in the best
interests of the company, taking into account the relevant market conditions.



FINAL

Patria Genossenschaft, as anchor shareholder, supports the acquisition and the proposed creation
of authorized capital.
Let's move to Slide 22. Another measure to strengthen the core business was the introduction of a
new tariffs in Swiss Group Life business as -- from January 1, 2020. In addition to selective
premium, a key element of the new tariffs is the gradual reduction of the conversion rate for the
mandatory pensions up to 2023, 6%, while the conversion rate for non-mandatory pensions will be
cut on a step-by-step basis to 4.4%.
Helvetia is introducing the so-called crediting principle for the pension conversion rate and is thus
following a path that many pension funds have already successfully embarked upon. Helvetia is
now the first insurance company that has decided to take this step in order to enable it to still offer
its customers the full range of products.
At the same time, the new tariffs will improve the profitability on the life business -- of the life
business as it has a positive impact on future conversion rate losses. We also expect a balance
sheet shortening and the positive effect on the Swiss Solvency Test ratio in the single-digit
percentage points range. Due to the premium adjustments, customers, however, had an
extraordinary right of contract termination, which is why there will be a premium decline in full
insurance solutions in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

With the modern capital-efficient products of Swisscanto and BVG Invest, Helvetia offers attractive
alternatives for customers and the large number of customers has already made use of these
alternative. We have thus succeeded in mitigating the decline in premiums and significantly
strengthening the modern capital efficient insurance solutions of Swisscanto and BVG Invest.
Finally, slide 23 shows that we are well on track to reach our financial target. We are pleased with
the development of the individual financial figures so far. The acquisition of Caser support
Helvetia's growth ambition without compromising its financial target. It is very important for me to
emphasize that together with Caser, Helvetia will reach its volume ambition of CHF10 billion by
2020, but without jeopardizing profitability.
To the contrary, the transaction supports our strategy of profitable growth. Overall, we are happy
with what we have achieved so far and we are confident that we are well prepared to remain fit for
the future.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. My colleagues and I would now be pleased to
answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The first question
comes from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I have three questions, please. The first one comes from the reinsurance
effects that you explained on slide 31 about claims cost basically get transferred from current year
to prior year development. And I just wondering if you could quantify the size of that impact, i.e.
what might the current year and PYD have been without that, just so we can get a feel for the sort
of the year-on-year development? Yeah, it would be great.



And second question was on the SST. I see that fell by 7 percentage points across H1. I was just
wondering if you could explain what drove that? And also what the timing would be of the benefit
from this new product, the new tariff that you were describing?

FINAL

And then the third question was, I guess, just coming back to Caser. I'm just wondering if you've
got any more sort of information in terms of the likely contribution to earnings, cash flows,
solvency, et cetera. Yeah. That would be great. Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Peter.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Philipp Gmur
I'd like to hand over to Paul in order to answer those three questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

The impact of the group reinsurance is quite significant, but and also France to some extent. So
France is growing and France as a transport business that is typical in the transport business that
use the underwriting aerologic. If you exclude France and group reinsurance, we're talking about a
run-off result that would be this year round about 4.5%. You obviously have to compare that with
the prior year, which would be also have been higher, because -- they were netted then. So, it was
still a healthy one-off result without the group reinsurance.
There is definitely a reduction in the run-off results, no doubt about that, in absolute terms. And, as
we said -- and we mentioned that in the past, the old whiplash claims, we reserve them pretty
strongly and a lot of companies released them in one large lumpsum when the first court cases in
favor of the insurance came out. We said, no, we're going to run those off slightly and that's what's
happening.
And the same with the Alba and Phoenix book we bought in 2010. So you're seeing a run-off for
those, a run-off results will decline. But -- so the run-off result would have been round about 4.5%
and -- which is about just over 7% last year without the group -- without the reinsurance in that.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Can I very quickly, Paul, just ask, do you have any sort of feel for what we should expect in the
future? I mean I know you don't give official guidance, but just the front change.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Run-off results, if you take out the reinsurance upfront, the run-off results will tend to decline, I said,
because of -- and we mentioned before, because of the run-off of the old book and the pricing is
much sharper in the Swiss market because most reserves are there. But we still expect a
reasonably healthy run-off profit. We tend to reserve more carefully, but the extremely good runoff from the past is probably less likely in the future.

A - Philipp Gmur
Then you had the question on SST. SST is provisional at the moment, very provisional. One of the
biggest driver seems to be -- in the early results, seems to be the impact of currencies weakening.
And, also, you got to kind of paradox effect that although the nominal equity base has increased
because of unrealized gains from particularly equities that increases your risk exposure as we have
seen in the last couple of weeks. And, therefore, the risk charges increase. But to be honest with



you, there's nothing that worries me or concerns, because all the, should we say, complex
interactions in there but I don't see anything fundamental in the SST. In terms of Caser, no, we
haven't got anything new. We've just started our kick off with them and I cannot really give you any
figures on that.

FINAL

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. That's great. So I'd just follow up quickly on the sort of second half, my SST question, the
new tariffs, you said a single-digit percentage point increase. I'm just wondering on the timing of
that coming through?

A - Philipp Gmur
That should start to come through by the middle of this year.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Well, thanks. So just two for me, please, actually three, why not. And so, firstly on going back to
that current year loss ratio. I mean with that reinsurance impact, it looks like the current year got a
little bit better year-on-year on a pure kind of underlying view? Is that right.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

That's right.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

That's right. Okay. That's quick.
And then secondly, just thinking about (inaudible), so I think for a while companies have been
talking about pricing, getting a bit tough, claims inflation rising a little bit, I think last year the
message from everyone was, kind of, that the scope to cut costs to offset that. But I guess is that
still the case or should we expect the Swiss major combined ratios to creep up a little bit,
especially as whiplash releases slow?
And then, finally, just on the acquisition cost in non-life. So that was a bit high. It sounds like kind of
mix and channel shift that sounds sustainable. Is that right? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Let me -- okay. Your first question -- if there are actually three questions have been answered by
Paul. I would like to say some words on the costs and then ask Paul maybe to add some thoughts. I
mean the margins, of course, there are under pressure. There are new players coming in and
that's not given by whoever that the margins remain stable. They used to be during the last
decade. However, we are still prudent in our pricing and underwriting policy. Pricing is one thing,
underwriting risks is the other one. And at the same time, of course, costs are an issue, used to be
and will be an issue in the future.
Talking about the acquisition costs, especially the B2B2C business and the bancassurance business
has specifically higher costs, but usually lower claims ratio. So as you probably saw in Italy, for



instance, we might have higher cost with the bank distribution network, but lower claims ratio. So
the combined ratio is even better than with the agents network.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. I think that covers a fair point. As Philipp said, we see and we're expecting further
competition in the motor business and that will have an impact on the -- particularly the non-liability
side of it where we see the combined ratios definitely creeping up. And in terms of the cost base,
now truly motor has a lower commission basis than the other, so sort of the opposite to what
Philipp is saying as businesses we have and particularly in the new business we're developing
where the combined ratio mix is different. We have relatively high commission ratios, but very
good claims ratios and here mostly of the volatility being paid less than the commission ratio.
There's always a scope to cut costs and that will be part of the strategy period 2025. We will start
looking at our processes in much greater detail.
One of the issues we have here is that we have started already with that in non-life. We are
undergoing, and we mentioned that last year, a major renewal of our non-life IP systems. We just
went live actually last week with one module and that's clearly an expensive exercise, but it's
necessary to improve the non-life processes for the future, like digital and Internet capable. And
those costs, we booked directly through the cost ratio. I'm not sure that every one of our peers
actually book that since IT development costs through their cost ratios.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you very much. And then just on the underlying points, it got a bit better, can you tell us how
much on your view? Thank you.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

On the underlying, at the moment, I'd probably rather not say how much we're talking about, not
substantial, but a slight improvement on the underlying.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Rene Locher from MainFirst. Please go
ahead.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, all. Thank you very much. So, perhaps, could you comment from your side on
your new real estate fund. So is this -- are you going to be an active buyer in the Swiss real estate
market? This is the first question.
And then just as an add-on, when I look on Page 15 or Slide 15, I can see that the direct yield in
investment property on the new and reinvestment of maturing funds decreased from 4.8% to
3.7%. So I was just wondering what is the key driver here?
And then another question on the operating cash production on Slide 17. Yes. What's the reason
why specialty markets via cash generation decreased from CHF32 million to CHF17 million? And
then, yes, I mean I don't want to challenge you too much, but just to make sure, I guess, Philipp
mentioned before that Caser will be EPS accretive from year one, right? Thank you.



A - Philipp Gmur
Okay, Rene. I suggest that your three questions are answered as follows. Paul will answer question
number three, regarding the cash production, and Andre then will turn to the answers of real
estate and direct yield on the two slides you just mentioned. Paul, would you please go ahead?

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. I think that we mentioned in my speech that within the specialty markets, for this purpose of
cash remittance, we've included group reinsurance. And we know we make a profit out a group
reinsurance and that has -- obviously it's not there, so they didn't pay dividend. To be open, I
mean, group insurance is not a legal entity, it's internal subdivision, if you like, so it's just a left
pocket, right pocket. At the end of the day, we have sufficient dividends within, what we call, the
Steinhauserberg [ph] Insurance Company in Switzerland whether we take it out of the group
reinsurance when we take it out of the Swiss market unit is almost a midpoint. That's why you see it
in the underlying specialty markets themselves are producing almost as much dividend as they did
last year and have met their dividend targets. We said dividend targets for each of these units and
they met them.

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Andre?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Yes, Rene. This is Andre Keller speaking. So on the first question about being an active buyer and
the answer is, no. As we know, we are a large investor on our balance sheet with more than CHF7
billion of real estate, Swiss real estate on our balance sheet and now with launching this Swiss
Property Fund, we are capitalizing on our capabilities in that area and also by doing so we actually
will transfer and sell-out of our life insurance book into this new fund and this transaction will be at
market conditions. And so, we are not an active buyer. It's -- obviously we are an active investor
and by managing our investment portfolio in real estate, we are also there active, but we are not
kind of sourcing that funds by buying real estate on the market. So this is to the first one.
The second question on the yield, on Page 15, this is always an instant snapshot of a collection of
real estate, which we either acquire or develop ourselves. So, the 3.7% that you see there is
broadly reflective of our investment portfolio, which you see. On the top line, you see the current
income of our investment property, overall portfolio is around 3.4%. So the 3.7% is largely in line. I
cannot exactly tell you the kind of attribution to what has been the differences between the 4.9%
and 3.7%, but the 3.7% is largely in line and representative for our portfolio.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
Your next question is a follow-up question from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go
ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks for the option to come back. Just a couple of numbers questions, please. The first one
was, I guess, we've had a few more cantonal decisions in the second half of the year and obviously
the tax one-off went up. Just wanted to check whether that, I assume the answer is no, but
whether there is any change to your guidance on the tax rate going forward?
And then second question was, I guess just returning to Slide 13 on your life profit by sources, we
had a, I guess, a few deviations just from the sort of the normal level. I was just wondering if you



could just very quickly remind us of what you expect or what your sort of guidance is for the various
sources on an ongoing basis? Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

I ask Paul, please, to answer those questions.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

At the moment, I don't think there is any adjustment to ask tax guidance. We sort of expect just
between 18% and 19% as opposed to previously 20% ongoing tax rate. There may be some
adjustments coming through, but I wouldn't say substantial. Most of the major cantons have
already decided. In terms of the underlying activities in the life business, yes, we've had a couple
of lifts on the risk result. I mean, the savings result is likely to decline slightly. We have stabilized it,
but it should -- because of the low interest rates. One thing which we will -- we're looking at it,
definitely the risk result, because most of those blips came out of the two areas. One is the
invalidity in the Swiss BVG business and we discussed at length with our actuaries, but they think it's
definitely a blip and should come back. Obviously, we don't know we're with corona and so on, but
that should be okay. I've have been very conservative and they're reserving for the cases.
The other is just in Spain that we noticed really a blip in the number of mortality cases. Again, which
is not ordinary, not expected to continue. Certainly, what you should see clearly is with the
reduction and shortening of our balance sheet as a result of the changes in the tariffs for the
business. The BVG business in Switzerland, we should hope to see an improvement, particularly an
extraordinary result, which is the reserving, because we are going to be reserving, hopefully, much
less for the losses that come out of the retirements out of those the BVG. And so that should be,
obviously, a positive benefit longer term.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is also a follow-up question from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thanks. Just one more, please. Just thinking about some of the growth coming through, for
instance, specialty lines, so property engineering and also the active reinsurance. I mean how do
you think about the potential extra volatility that could bring to book? And how are you controlling
for that? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Of course, the specialty line business has a little bit more volatility in its books than, for instance,
Swiss household insurance. However, we are still prudent in underwriting. We are very prudent in
reserving. And, also, as Paul mentioned before, prudent with our group-wide own reinsurance
strategy and a concession within our group in order to mitigate the risks and the volatility. So we
are -- we do not have any concerns that there is a volatility would be higher than we expect, of
course.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

If you remember, Peter (sic - Jonny), when the -- at this question when the hurricanes HIM hit in
2017, you've been growing rapidly in this business. So when you going to be a big problem for you.
When you remember our combined ratio and I think group insurance around about 103 or
something like that. And when you compare that with the sort of the Swiss Res and Munichs and
the lease people, I think you can see that our growth has been handled pretty conservatively.



A - Philipp Gmur
Even if you have a look at the last decade or so, if you have a look at our combined ratios in the
Specialty Lines business and compare it to Caser [ph] business, for instance, of other companies,
it's a pretty solid book.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thanks, guys.

Operator
The next question comes from Dieter Hein from AlphaValue. Sorry. Please go ahead.

Q - Dieter Hein

{BIO 1557192 <GO>}

So. Hi. It's Dieter. Hi. I have a question of what your Chief Investment Officer said regarding your
strategy of that third-party can participate on your investment expertise in the real estate sector in
Switzerland. So did I understand you right that you don't want to buy real estate for this third-party
fund over the market, but you want to buy it on market prices from your life real estate portfolio.
So I do not really -- if that it's right, understand the business logic behind such steps, so are you
know the weakness in your life real estate portfolio. So why not buying over of the market.

A - Philipp Gmur

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like to hand over to Andre Keller.

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for this question. So, I think it's important to understand that you've seen our
growth figures that we are actually in a strategy to not substantially grow or not grow our life,
traditional life business at all. Our strategy is actually to grow also capital-light products. And, as
you can imagine, as our traditional life portfolio as the balance sheet declines or is stable over
time. And while we on the other hand have the substantial pipeline of owned real estate, because
we have like a multi-decade portfolio. And this is actually putting us at the benefit to actually
capitalize on these real estates by generating a fee over time by managing these real estate in
the real estate funds and as we have to kind of transition the portfolio and obviously at these
transactions need to be at market prices. So they will be valued by independent parties appraisal
values and this will kind of benefit us by catering to the situation that our balance sheet on the life
side is actually declining or are not growing. And, on the other hand, we can generate the fee by
managing these real estates going forward.
And, as you can imagine, as we continue to manage a substantial book of real estate, the kind of
marginal cost to manage these assets for third-party is really very low, so they generate very
quickly a contribution to earnings, because we, anyway, do these activities for ourselves. So it's not
a standalone kind of organization that need to set up everything from scratch. So I think that's
important to understand what's the overall strategic rationale, how to capitalize on fee generation,
which is also consistent with our strategy and the marginal cost that we incurred, which is very low,
because we do it anyway.

Q - Dieter Hein

{BIO 1557192 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I have understood that. So but this mean in the future, if there are
bigger demand forces third-party fund, you would as well by over the market.

A - Andre Keller
Yes we --

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}



Q - Dieter Hein

{BIO 1557192 <GO>}

Is it right?

FINAL

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Exactly. So we will do that and we assess obviously investment opportunities as we do for our own
portfolio. We will have the same expertise and do that also for third parties. So it's the sweet spot
of kind of catering additional customers and just our balance sheets as well.

Q - Dieter Hein

{BIO 1557192 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that was the last question. I would like now to turn the conference back to
Philipp Gmur for any closing remarks.

A - Philipp Gmur

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. I would like to thank you all for the participation in this conference for your interest in
Helvetia. And if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us, be it our Media
Relations people or our Investor Relations personnel represented by the Head of IR, Susanne
Tengler. Thank you, and goodbye.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call, and thank
you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines. Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

