Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-05-20

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Taizou Ishiguro, Group Leader of Corporate Communications & IR Group

Presentation
Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your attendance today. I am Ishiguro from IR group.
Let us now begin the Conference Call on Tokio Marine Holdings' FY 2019 Financial Results
that we Announced Today. Now with that, I would like to walk you through the highlights of
our financial results. Please turn to Page 3.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start with the top line result in FY '19. After deducting the impact of the sales of
TMR reinsurance business, our underlying net premiums written increased by 4.1% yearon-year.
To break this down: The domestic non-life business grew across all the lines of business,
especially in the fire line of business. And the top line grew by 3.7% over the year outside
Japan. Despite a decline caused by the underwriting practice focused on profitability,
each business offset the decline through underwriting expansion and rate increases. And
because Safety in Thailand was newly consolidated to our book, international top line
grew by 4.8%. As for life insurance, due to the impacts of sales suspension of some
corporate products at TMNL as well as tighter underwriting discipline in the medical loss
business at TMHCC, the premiums declined by 6.8% from a year ago.
Next, statutory bottom line or consolidated net income. In FY '19, mainly due to the
decline in profit in the domestic non-life business, our consolidated net income declined
by JPY14.8 billion from a year ago to JPY259.7 billion.
Let me now share with you the highlight of the performance by the three core business
segments. In the domestic non-life business, while the top line continued to grow, we
were affected by large-scale natural catastrophes two years in a row. Compared to the
previous year, the nat cat losses were smaller, but in the meantime, provisioning to cat
loss reserve increased. Also, claim payment related to COVID-19 and valuation losses of
securities were also booked. As a result, the profit declined by JPY28.3 billion year-onyear.
Next, in the Domestic life insurance business, mainly due to the decline of provision to the
policy reserves in conjunction with the sales suspension of some corporate products, net
income increased by JPY7 billion over the year.

Page 1 of 5



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-05-20

FINAL

In the international insurance business, while reserve provision was increased, where
social inflation at Philadelphia and for crop and medical stop-loss business at TMHCC,
respectively -- the impact was offset by a decrease in nat cat as well as favorable
investment performance in North America. As a result, net income increased by JPY2.2
billion over the year.
As for adjusted net income, which is the source of our shareholder return, after deducting
the impact of cat loss reserves as well as goodwill from the statutory net income, net
income increased by JPY5.7 billion year-on-year.
Now turning to Page 4. As we announced already, FY '20 financial results were not
available at this point. It is uncertain as to when COVID-19 situation is going to settle
down, through what avenue economic activities will recover and how significant the
impacts could be. Furthermore, in terms of regulatory and political development in
Western countries, there is so much uncertainty and lack of clarity at this point. Under
these circumstances, we judge that it is difficult for us to make a reasonable calculation on
the impact of COVID-19 to our company's performance, so we will promptly disclose our
reasonable estimate once it becomes available.

Bloomberg Transcript

So for now, I would like to share with you underlying performance that we are now
expecting without factoring in the impact of COVID-19 and our view from on the impact of
the virus.
First, without taking into account the impact of coronavirus, we project our statutory
consolidated net income to grow by JPY30 billion year-on-year to approximately JPY290
billion. To break this down by three core business segment: In domestic non-life business,
in addition to the continued top line growth and measures to improve loss ratio, we also
expect the nat cat losses to be on a normal level. And because valuation losses and
securities in the previous fiscal year is not expected to be repeated, we expect the profit
to grow significantly.
In the domestic life business, due to the absence of the increase in debt benefit in the
previous year as well as decline in the non-personnel costs, the profit is expected to
increase.
Now internationally, amortization of intangible fixed asset of Pure is heavy in the year 1.
Because of this special factor, the profit is expected to decline, but underlying trends are
expected to be positive in terms of underwriting in North America and profitability
improvement in the Lloyd's business on top of the new consolidation of Pure Group.
As for adjusted net income, which shows our underlying performance, deducting the
impact of cat loss reserves and amortization of intangible fixed asset of Pure Group, again
without factoring in the impact of the virus, we are expecting a positive growth by JPY120
billion year-on-year to approximately JPY410 billion.
Toward the adjusted net income target of approximately JPY400 billion and JPY450
billion under our midterm plan, we believe we are steadily enhancing our capability as it
Page 2 of 5



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-05-20

has been planned.
On Page 5, we've included nat cat budget for FY '20 for your later reference.

FINAL

Please turn to Page 6, impacts of COVID-19. We are already seeing JPY37 billion in our
international business and JPY24 billion in Japan in the January-to-March quarter this year.
The breakdown is as follows. Impact in underwriting in overseas business consists
primarily of payments for event cancellation. In investment, valuation losses and
impairment of stocks are incurred in the United States. This is due to fluctuations in markto-market [ph] prices of trading securities. Therefore, this will fluctuate up and down in the
future as well. This will -- these impacts will be reflected in our fiscal year 2020 first
quarter results.
In domestic business, impact in underwriting were mainly payments for special products,
and stock impairments led to investments impact. As a whole, total negative impact of
JPY24 billion is incurred in fiscal year 2019 fourth quarter results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Impacts of COVID-19 on the company and our responses and policies are shown on Page
7. For underwriting in Japan, limited mobility of people and goods is expected to lead to
decline in travelers, distribution volume and new car sales, which will impact our top line.
Drop in car accidents due to decrease in traffic and claims paid for business bankruptcy
will impact our bottom line.
In overseas business, impact is primarily expected in event cancellation. Apart from that,
business interruption, credit and/or surety are expected to see increase in losses.
Estimating the impact of COVID-19 is, as I said, very difficult. If, however, we are to
surmise based on a scenario such as, for example, if the current situation continues until
the end of June, with economic activities recovering in a phased manner towards the end
of the year, we expect the impact in underwriting to be about JPY30 billion to JPY40
billion, mainly around event cancellation overseas.
Having said that, however, the impacts of COVID-19 are uncertain and unclear. These
numbers can go up or down, and the scenario itself may be completely different.
COVID-19 will impact our investment, in particular credit risk investment. Our investment
entity is Delphi, investing 16% or approximately JPY4 trillion of our total assets. Delphi
conducts long-term and stable investments backed by insurance liabilities with high cash
flow predictability without being affected by short-term market fluctuations, this, I am
sure, you're all aware of. Delphi has been generating stable income during normal times
at around 5% every year.
Returns dropped to around 2% after the global financial crisis or Lehman shock. How does
the impact of COVID-19 compare with Lehman shock? Is it greater? There are references
that we can look at such as central bank's responses and the credit spread levels. The
Page 3 of 5



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-05-20

FINAL

investment-grade credit spread after Lehman shock was about 600 basis points, as
opposed to 200 basis points now, 1/3 that of the global financial crisis, but these are
references and the way of looking at the situation differ by person.
As I explained, estimating the impacts of COVID-19 is difficult. Therefore, we have not
made our forecasts for fiscal 2020 available. What I can say based on that is, since we are
an insurance company with global footprint, we will unmistakably be affected by the virus.
Even so, it is not an event that will impact our capital.
Lastly, before closing, let me take you through shareholder return and ESR.
First of all, regarding ordinary dividends, as announced today, fiscal 2019 dividend will be
JPY119 (sic) (JPY190) per share as planned. Fiscal 2020 dividend will be increased by JPY10
to JPY200 per share, achieving increase in dividend for 9 years in a row.
As explained, fiscal 2020 forecasts are not available. At present, our business
performance excluding the impact of COVID-19 is, however, improving steadily. Our
shareholder return policy is to achieve sustainable profit growth and increased total
dividend. Our decision to increase dividend by JPY10 is in line with this policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next is ESR. Please jump to Page 29 of the handout. ESR as of end of March 2020 was
153%, with the deterioration in market environment due to the spread of COVID-19. As
this level is within our target range, our capital return policy remains unchanged.
However, as the market environment outlook remains unclear due to COVID-19 and in
order to secure capital for future investments for growth, we have decided to have a pass
on capital level adjustment for now. Shareholder return will be explained in detail at our
first half IR briefing next week.
Lastly, I'd like to end my remarks by saying that, while the current business environment is
challenging with major natural catastrophes 2 years in a row and social inflation in North
America and now COVID-19, what we must do in spite of all this is to increase the
capability of the group to earn in a stable manner.
We intend to squarely address these challenges and not only find our way out of the
impact of COVID-19 but also seek sustainable profit growth. This is how we will respond
to your expectations.
This is all from me.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
Page 4 of 5



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-05-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 5 of 5

