Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alistair Hargreaves, Chief Operating Oﬃcer - UK Insurance
Cristina Nestares, Chief Executive Oﬃcer - UK Insurance
David Stevens, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Geraint Jones, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Milena Mondini, Chief Executive Oﬃcer - Europe Insurance

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Dom O'Mahony, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Freya Kong, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

James Shuck, Analyst
Jon Denham, Analyst

Presentation
David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We're at 11'o clock. So we'll kick oﬀ. Good morning. Thank you for coming to Admiral's
2019 Full Year Presentation. Sorry about the late change of timing, it was to accommodate
the Aviva results presentation, and thank you to the ABI for hosting.
This morning, Admiral announced that I have given notice to my intention to step down as
Group CEO in 12 months time. Now, it's not the time for valedictory comments for any
length, but I has -- brieﬂy touch on why now. There are two reasons. One reason, I learned
from my -- my predecessor that it's better to go when people are asking why now and
why not sooner. And the other reason is beside me on the podium here, a senior
management team that deserves the credit for much of the good things that have
happened over the last few years at Admiral, and is more than ready to step up into a
bigger role, led by the very talented Milena Mondini, who will be a brilliant Group CEO,
when she takes over until the 12 months' time.

Page 1 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

So that team is going to talk today. Geraint will pick up the key numbers; Cristina will talk
you through the core UK business, before Alistair does a deeper dive on the claims
situation in the UK car insurance market. Milena will talk about our comparison businesses
and our International Insurance Businesses, before I return for a few words on the
strategy. Over to Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, David. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to talk about the signiﬁcantly higher
2019 proﬁt and give some detail on the very positive UK claims experience, which was the
key driver of the result, and I'll highlight our continued strong solvency position and ﬁnish
up with the increased ﬁnal dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's start with a -- we look at some of the highlights from another strong set of results. On
the top line ﬁrstly, more modest relative growth than in recent years though, a very similar
percentages to the ones that we showed at half year. Strong increases in absolute terms
nearly 0.5 million customers added since the end of 2018. And turnover, up to 3.5 billion.
Proﬁt was up 10% to 526 million, a very strong result boosted mainly by UK motor, but
also by UK household and comparison.
EPS was up 8%. Return on equity, still a pretty positive result despite a small reduction
year-on-year. Dividend, we proposed a ﬁnal payment of 77 pence per share, which takes
the full year to GBP1.40 [ph], which is 11% up on 2018. And post that ﬁnal dividend, we
maintain our usual and very strong capital position with a solvency ratio of 190%, which is
in line with the position at the half year. More details on all that as we go throughout the
presentation.
Moving on to a generally very positive picture of top line progression, and starting with
UK Motor at the top, in line with the message at the half year, core business is marginally
bigger in terms of turnover and customer base and that's because of our rates moving up
throughout 2019 in response to the claims inﬂation that we will talk about shortly. Decent
growth for UK Household moving through the 1 million active customer mark. Household
now makes up 15% of the Group's total customer base. Turnover heading towards 200
million.
Good numbers from our International Insurers. Although, the underlying picture is a bit
split between Europe and the US, our customer numbers, for example in Europe, we grew
by nearly 20%, whereas the US was ﬂat. 20% of the Group's customers are now outside of
the UK. And not to forget, a very nice performance from our comparison businesses with
14% revenue growth and the loans business balances were up 50% year-on-year, more
gradual in H2, and revenue in Admiral Loans more than doubled.
Next up, let me explain what's led to the 10% increase in proﬁt. This table shows the yearon-year movements for each of the main parts of the business. And starting with UK
Insurance, which delivered a proﬁt of almost 600 billion, a touch over GBP40 million
ahead of last year. 30 million of that increase came from the UK Motor business. And it's

Page 2 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

worth remembering here that the changes in the Ogden discount rate over the past few
years have impacted our results for both of these periods.
And as a reminder, 2018 beneﬁted by 66 million, when we assumed the Ogden rate will
be zero and then 2019, was hit by 33 million, and we corrected for that slight optimism
when the actual rate was conﬁrmed mid last year at minus 0.25%. And so the underlying
proﬁt increase for UK Motor is substantially more than 30 million. Although, the changing
Ogden rates make sensible comparison a little bit tricky. Thankfully, we'd expect stability
at least from the Ogden rate in the coming years.
What's led to that material improvement is some really strong back year ultimate loss ratio
development, and those moves have in turn led us to some [ph] big reductions in the
book loss ratios. A similar picture to the half year. but even more positive in H2. But I'll talk
more about loss ratios and releases shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also within the UK Insurance total, our household proﬁt was 8, around 11 million of
turnaround since 2018, which you will probably remember was quite badly weather
impacted. Moving down, the International Insurance result was ﬂat year-on-year, just a tad
under break-even. And as at the half year, there are two parts to that with the European
Insurers improving their overall result was growing strongly, although a deterioration in
loss ratio in the US and the Elephant resulted to be somewhat worse in 2019.
Our comparison proﬁt doubled to 18 million, which is a very pleasing result.
Confused.com led the way there with a more than 40% increase in proﬁt. Higher proﬁts in
Europe and a lower loss in the US also helped. Admiral Loans made a loss of 8 million,
which is as guided. And the other costs at the bottom up 8 million year-on-year, and 6
million of that increase relates to one-oﬀ cash bonus that we're paying to all our staﬀ on
the back of a very strong 2019 results.
Let's look in more detail now at the UK Motor reserve position. This chart shows a number
of things. Firstly, the solid line is the usual current projection of the accident year loss
ratios. And as you know, these numbers will tend to be prudent and especially so for the
more recent years. The numbers in the bracket show the change in that projection over
the last six months, and the points above the line show the ﬁrst pick, that's the projection
of month 12 for each accident year.
What do we conclude. Well, a few things. Firstly, you can see from the numbers in the
brackets that we saw another very positive six months in terms of how these projections
have moved. Most years saw similar moves in the ﬁrst half of the year as well. And so for
the year in aggregate, that's much more positive development than we would normally
expect to see. More from Alistair later on some of the underlying causes.
You'll also see that 2014 as stabilized and we wouldn't expect that to move too much from
70%. 2018, which 12 months ago looked like a pretty challenging year when ﬁrst projected
is now more, more positive and has scope still for further improvement. And 2019 to ﬁnish
reasonably similar to 2018, in some ways started quite high as we suggested at the half
year and in our trading update, a couple of weeks back.
Page 3 of 25



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

And this bottom chart reconciles 2018, where it stands now to 2019 accident year at this
ﬁrst projection shows the drivers of the increase. As you can see, there are two notable
impacts, ﬁrstly, damage and secondly, large injury claims. Alistair will cover these in more
detail shortly. So I'll just say at this point it's worth remembering that we tend to project
injury claims and especially the big ones cautiously earlier on. But it's also important to
note the damage claims make up a higher percentage of 2019's claims costs than they did
a few years back. And of course, our projections of damage claims will develop less over
time than our projections of injury claims.
Moving on now to look at how those big improvements in back years have impacted the
2019 results. Well. they clearly led to large reductions -- reductions in book loss ratios.
And as you can see, ﬁrstly, on this chart on the left, a very big reserve release. 27% of
premiums, which is the biggest we've seen in percentage and pounds terms. And the
book loss ratio moves also meant that proﬁt commission was signiﬁcantly higher. And this
chart shows the contribution to proﬁt from reserve releases and proﬁt commission, and
you can see 2019 stands out. Don't forget of course, the 2018 ﬁgures were boosted by the
Ogden change that I referred to earlier.

Bloomberg Transcript

If the reserve releases are more in line with the recent average, which is around 20%, 21%
over the past ﬁve years, Group proﬁt would have been more in the order of 430 to 450
that's net of the Ogden drag of 460 to 480 compared to the actual Group result of 526.
And ﬁnally, just to note that the level of conservatism in our booked reserves is
unchanged year-on-year.
Turning now to look at our strong solvency position, a very consistent message here with
recent periods. The ratio was 190%, which is exactly in line with the mid year position. And
as you can see both the level of capital and the capital requirement moved up slightly in
the second half. We also show the movement from the half year 190% to the full year
190% in this chart, and the main contributors to the movements are in line with what we'd
expect signiﬁcant capital generation with a larger element from prior years that would be
normal, and then the big reduction for the proposed ﬁnal dividend.
Other changes includes increase in capital requirement, mainly as a result of growth and
the yield curve movements. That position is still quite a bit higher than we would expect
to operate that in the medium to long term. And again, that's because we'll wait until we
have internal model position certainty before we change it materially.
And speaking of the internal model, our work there continues. So as we hinted six months
ago realistically, we are expecting our formal application for model approval to be in next
year, not this year. None of the work that we've done has moved the overall capital
position materially, and I would still say that in our view, the surplus that you see here is a
reasonable guide for what we would expect to see if the model were approved and in use
today. There are no appropriate caveats, so that is not fully in our gift to decide upon.
We'll keep you updated.
The last topic for me is the proposed ﬁnal dividend, another record payout. The number,
as I mentioned earlier is 77 pence per share, which is 17% up on the equivalent from last

Page 4 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

year. And as you can see that the -- the 2018 ﬁgure included an 11% boost due to the
assumed improvement in the Ogden discount rates in the second half of '18. And so
again, the underlying change is pretty substantial.
The payout ratio was 90% of the second half earnings. But even after that payout, which is
just over GBP220 million in total, the solvency position remained strong at 190%, as I've
just talked about. And as usual, no change to our policy or the philosophy, and you've got
the relevant dates there on the slide.
That's all for me. So let me try and give you a few key messages to ﬁnish. Good growth in
a number of areas, European insurance, household, loans, comparison, the more muted
in our core motor business and in the US. Proﬁt was up strongly and especially when
looking through some of the Ogden discount rate changes, and we proposed a big
increase in our ﬁnal dividend and maintained our very strong solvency position.
I'll hand you over to Alistair and ﬁrst to Cristina to give more detail on UK Insurance.
Thank you.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Geraint, and good morning, everybody. It's a pleasure for me to stand today to
talk about the very strong result of the UK business. I'm going to cover the main highlights
except loss ratio and claims, which will be covered by Alistair.
So let me start with the picture that you can see here, it was a big moment in the year
when we passed plus 1 million customer in our household book, so you have here a
picture of the team celebrating. It's been a good year for household growth of 17% in
customers and turnover. And given that the weather in 2019 went back to normal levels,
well, sorry, normal, according to the UK standards, we went back to proﬁtability. So that
was a good year for household.
Also in terms of our UK Motor given where we are in the cycle, we have seen very modest
growth around 1% and these -- and underlying trend behind these numbers is the
increase in the retention due to lot of operational improvement. So what we have in the
book now is a bigger proportion of renewals, which tend to have a lower average
premium.
Now, let's move to pricing, which -- with a lot of things happening in the past few months.
We normally put this slide, so hopefully you're very familiar with the information here. First
is the market indexes that we use, the ABI in blue takes into account, new business and
renewals, so it tends to have a softer changes. The new business confused index in red,
where you can see sooner the trends in the market. So what we can see is that in the past
few periods, prices have gone up in the market at least for new business. The data shows
5% increase year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter. That's for the market.
For Admiral, you have the graph that shows Admiral Times Top, the percentage of cases
that we return, the ﬁrst or best price in price comparison and indicates how our prices
Page 5 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

versus the average of the market, that trades in price comparison. It's indexed to 2017.
Now, I want to highlight a couple of things. The ﬁrst one is that as you can see since 20
months, we have been putting prices up versus the rest of the market. Secondly that we
continue doing so in the second half of 2019.
So as you can see the trend in the second half, we have continued putting prices up, even
though the market has done it, our increases have been overall higher. In the past couple
of months, you see a small uptick. We have continued putting prices up, but we believe
that the market has put prices up slightly more.
Now the question is what is going to happen during the rest of 2020 and is a very diﬃcult
question. So I have put a slide to try to summarize every eﬀect that could happen in the
market. So let's start with whiplash reforms. So it's just been announced a delay on these
reforms. We expect now that they will happen in August that has given us a bit more
certainty about when they will happen. However, there is a lot of uncertainty about what is
going to be the actual reform. This is still being discussed. But also, what is the impact
going to be. So in terms of prices, we don't think there is going to be a big impact at least
in the ﬁrst half of the year and in Admiral, what we're not planning to take any change at
the moment in our prices because of this reform. We're going to be cautious about it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second thing to take into account is the outcome of the FCA market pricing study, very
diﬃcult to predict what is going to happen. But I think overall, we can or something that
could happen is that after the results are announced around June, there could be
pressure to increase prices on new business and maybe reduce renewals and companies
that have large renewals book with high tenure, might be more aﬀected.
In the case of Admiral, in the case of our Motor book, 80% of our customers shop and
they call us every year. So we have quite an active book of shoppers. Therefore, we hope
that the impact is going to be less on us. However, this is a regulatory reform, until we see
exactly what is going to be, we're going to be very cautious about it.
And the other impacts that we're going to see our excess of loss. At the beginning of this
year, the excess of loss costs have gone up. They have put up with the changes in Ogden.
Some external parties are saying that the increases have been around 5% to 10% in the
minimum cases up to 35%. It's important to note that in Admiral versus a lot of
competitors, our excess of loss cover tends to be smaller than the risk, and therefore the
impact of this increase overall is smaller.
And ﬁnally, claims inﬂation, Alistair is going to talk a lot about it, but in general, we'll
continue having claims inﬂation, and I'll put pressure on prices. So with all these
uncertainty and information, we believe we are going to continue to see prices going up
in the market, at least in the ﬁrst half of the year. What is going to happen in the second
half will be also very much inﬂuenced by the FCA market study and the whiplash reform.
We're moving on to expenses. We have seen in 2019, a small uptick. Two main reasons
behind. The ﬁrst one, as you can see in the waterfall graph, it's an increase in levies. The
second one is a continuation of our -- and the spend that we're doing to strengthen our
Page 6 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

business around areas like analytics, technology, cyber and also the implementation of a
lot of regulatory change and strengthening in governance. Now, all these spend in
making our systems stronger and our online capabilities also good, have an impact on
what the customers can do.
So today, Admiral Elephant customers can do most of the changes online. They can take a
policy. And what we're seeing very clear is that customers like that channel. So every time
we put new functionalities online, there is a very increase in take -- in the take-up. I have
put here a graph of Elephant customers, just to show that in one year, the number of
online interactions have doubled, and this deﬁnitely will have an impact on our expenses
going forward. So overall in terms of expenses, we haven't changed our culture. We are
very focused on having a lean operation. Our staﬀ, our shareholders, and they also
understand even better the value of every investment and how it impact. So I believe that
our expenses going forward won't necessarily keep increasing. However, we'll remain
open and ﬂexible, and we'll value the investments that can come and see the value that it
can have for the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So moving on in terms of household, I was talking about good growth behind this, is
growth of Admiral in the price comparison channel, but also is the growth of our multicover proposition. We oﬀer to the customers a convenient policy, you can buy several
products in the same policy, you get discounts and it takes much shorter. We're very
proud that anybody who wants to buy a household insurance with us can get a price in
four questions. In terms of claims in household, we have seen a continuation of inﬂation
especially around escape of water, although the rate of inﬂation has been lower than in
previous years for both the market and for Admiral.
Now, I'll talk about the recent storms, Ciara, Dennis, Jorge, even though they are not
impacting this result, I think it's interesting to see the impact so far what we know is that
the incurred that we have seen so far has been 14 million gross. So when you take into
account, the ﬂood rig eﬀect, we are around 5 million.
So let me, just summarize the key message. Strong UK Motor proﬁt. Market prices up, and
we expect this trend to continue in the ﬁrst half of the year. Uncertainties in the second
half. Our expense ratio increased due to levies. but also due to investment for the long
term. And ﬁnally, our continued growth in household.
Now before I pass you to Alistair, I just want to talk about an award that we got a few
weeks ago. We have been given a lifetime award for being the only company that has
been part of The Best Companies to Work for, according to the Sunday Times since the
beginning 20 years ago. And for me, I think it's a very clear reﬂection of the strong culture
that we have, but also of how continues and how consistent that culture has been for the
past 20 years. I think it puts us in a very good place for the future, and it's a great
testament of the work that we do.
So that's it for me. And now to ﬁnd much more about claims, and loss ratio, I leave you
with Alistair.

Page 7 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Cristina. Cristina just touched on our strong culture, here is a picture of our
Employee Consultation Group. It's a group of staﬀ representatives, who ensure strong two
way communication between the Admiral Group Board and UK employees. I've been
there to present, they ask great questions.
Now, before I go into the details of UK motor claims, let me just give you the headlines.
We've seen larger than normal reserve releases on '15, '16, '17 and '18. We've seen an
increase in our 2019 loss ratio driven by two factors. First, more large BI claims. It's the ﬁrst
view, so it will take time to see how these develop. And secondly, market wide damage
inﬂation. Finally, the whiplash reforms will have a positive impact on claims costs, but it
will take time to see exactly how much.
So let me ﬁrst explain, the higher reserve releases. As you know, we take conservative
approach to reserving. Our largest claims typically take three or more years to settle.
When claims settled, that's when we know their cost for sure, and it results in positive
developments on our loss ratio and reserve releases. We proactively manage large losses
to settle them quickly, but in recent years, this has been hampered by changes to the
Ogden rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

This graph shows large BI claims settled, as a proportion of open large BI claims and it
demonstrates the change in settlement patterns for large BI, is indexed to 100 in H2, 2016
pre-announcement of Ogden rate changes. Through 2017 and '18, there were less BI
settlements due to uncertainty around the Ogden rate.
The higher bar in '19 reﬂects more large BI claims being settled again due to the Ogden
rate being conﬁrmed. In addition, we saw some unusually positive claims cost
development on a few large claims. This faster settlement and the positive claims
development combined to result in a larger than normal reserve releases.
Now, let's move on to the 2019 loss ratio, where the drivers are large BI and market wide
damage inﬂation. There are two points to note here. First in both '16 and '19, bodily injury
costs are over half of our claims costs. For the market, bodily injury costs are around 40%.
So large bodily injury cost is more signiﬁcant for us, and we also saw an increase in the
number of these claims in '19 versus '18. This of course is the ﬁrst pick for '19 and we'll wait
and see how these claims will develop.
Secondly, you can see that despite this adverse large BI experience, the proportion of
damage cost has increased from '16 to '19. There has been market wide damage inﬂation.
This is being driven by sharp increases in severity that are -- more than oﬀset the
moderate declines in frequency. So what's driving this. First, when I say damage, I'm
referring to all types of vehicle claims costs including repair, vehicle total losses and theft
across both policyholder vehicles and third party vehicles. 2019 damage cost had a
starting point driven by the high inﬂation we saw through preceding years. This high rates
of inﬂation slowed through 2019.

Page 8 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

To illustrate this, we can take a closer look at one element of damage, repair cost inﬂation
between '16 and '18, it was a lot higher than normal, a key driver was higher parts cost due
to weaker sterling and more technology and vehicles, things like LED headlights, parking
sensors, which were at the front of the vehicle and more likely to be in an incident even
minor ones.
The graph also demonstrates that we've started to see the faster, the normal repair
inﬂation slow in '19. This is positive, but risk will remain notably the potential impact on
Brexit -- of Brexit on exchange rates. We've been taking action to address higher damage
costs. We've used our buying power to purchase parts direct on behalf of our network.
We've increased network capacity and use technology to identify total losses both enable
faster settlement, reducing the extra costs such as higher vehicles. We have a marketleading third party damage costs through basically looking after those third-party
claimants directly.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right hand side, you can see market theft cost per vehicle year. The theft is less
than 5% of total claims costs. However, you can see it's increased very quickly, driven in
part by the theft of high-end vehicles using high-tech methods. There has also been an
increase in theft from vehicles, such as the increased theft of catalytic converters, which
contain precious metals that have increased a lot in price. Overall in 2019, we've seen a
positive slowing of damage inﬂation through the year, but as mentioned risks remain.
Next, the ﬁnal contributor to overall claims costs, small bodily injury or whiplash claims.
On the left, small BI claims notiﬁcations, a good proxy for market claims frequency. After
same frequency decline following the 2013 last pay reforms, It's remained ﬂat in '18 and
'19. Severity inﬂation has also been modest.
Key to the outlook for small BI are the whiplash reforms. These reforms remove third party
legal costs and set compensation tariﬀs for whiplash claims under GBP5,000. The MIB is
implementing a portal to facilitate the new process for claimants ready for accidents from
1st of August. The reforms will have signiﬁcant beneﬁt. However, the size of the beneﬁt
remains uncertain. I think there are two questions that will only be answered with time.
Firstly, how many injuries will fall outside of the whiplash deﬁnition. And secondly, will the
reforms reduce frequency. Due to this uncertainty, we are estimating a wide range of
GBP10 to GBP25 reduction in claims costs, as a result of the reforms.
Finally, a reminder of the key elements of Admiral's claims cost advantage. We have a
great claims team. They are experienced, passionate about customer outcomes and keen
to continuously improve. Recent improvements have included analytics and automation.
I'll give one example, we recently introduced a claims notiﬁcation model to help routes,
repairs and total losses correctly. This improved settlements within seven days by over
20%. Customer experience is key. The point of claim is the moment of truth for our
customers.
Good customer outcomes and lower claims costs are not mutually exclusive. We settle
claims faster than our peers, which is what our customers want and faster settlement

Page 9 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

speeds also reduce claims costs. Here we show that we have lower claims complaints than
our peers i.e., we deliver great service for our customers.
So in summary, Admiral's market leading claims capability continues to drive strong
results. We saw larger reserve releases due to positive settlements on large BI. Our 2019
loss ratio was driven by large BI, a market wide damage inﬂation, but we saw positive
signs that damage inﬂation slowed in 2019. Looking forward, the whiplash reforms will
have positive impact on claims costs.
That's all for me and I'll pass over to Milena.

Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, Alistair. Good morning, everybody. First of all, let me share with you how
honored and excited I am to succeed David as next Group CEO. And together with
Cristina, Geraint and the rest of Admiral management team continue to build on the
foundation laid by David and Henry before, but there is still one years to go. So today, I'm
going to talk to you about comparison site and international insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

So overall 2019 has been a positive year. We've continued growth, some progress in the
US, despite a more challenging market for our price comparison site and insurance, and
very strong performance of European insurance and comparison. Picture on cover is from
Penguin portal, new umbrella company that aim at increasing synergy and sharing
expertise in our price comparison site in Europe.
So going now a bit more in detail, starting with comparison, and then moving to
insurance. Another outstanding year for Confused that grew in turnover by 19% and in
proﬁt by more than 40%, reaching GBP20 million that is double what it was two years
ago. So what are the reason of this success? Not a single silver bullet, but a mix of
improvement on user experience, more focus on contribution from other verticals, as well
as more eﬀective marketing acquisition.
So we move now South overseas. Solid performance also in Europe for Rastreator and
LeLynx, with a 10% increase in turnover and improvement in proﬁtability, mainly driven by
the LeLynx in France. Rastreator continued to focus on improving our customer
experience, mainly through price accuracy in car and now also in bikes. We also made
progress on our product diversiﬁcation strategy, for example by internalizing fully the
energy vertical in France. We decided to not proceed with the proposed joint venture
with Oakley Capital, and Acierto due to the challenge to complete this transaction in a
reasonable timeframe.
So moving now across the Atlantic to Compare. I mentioned six months ago that we were
downsizing the business to focus on marketing eﬃciency and agility. So we reduced
expenses signiﬁcantly, and this is starting to produce some beneﬁt, so we reduce our run
rate from 2018 to 2019 and then from H1 to H2, and we continue this trend -- we expect
this trend to continue in 2020. We remain very focused on improving our position to
customer both by announcing our product, but also by enlarging the panel of insurers.
Page 10 of 25



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

So staying in US now, but moving to insurance. In Elephant, we experienced some
pressure on the loss ratio. It was only partially compensated by an improvement in
expense ratio, leading to an increase in combined ratio by two to three points and two
million of additional losses overall. We took actions by increasing pricing, reducing
growth with ﬂat vehicle on cover and 4% increase in turnover. And we remain very
focused on our fundamental of claims, pricing and underwriting. You will see that we
reduced carrying value of Elephant by further 66 million. So as a consequence of the
deterioration in loss ratio, we changed to using shorter term projection in the calculation,
and this resulted in a lower net present value. And just to clarify, this is not a reﬂection of
our belief in Elephant's future prospect for success over time.
And indeed, we have seen a lot of improvement on the operational fronts in several areas.
And just to give you few example, slightly better mix of customer, increased persistency,
increased number of vehicle per policy, and also marketing acquisition eﬀectiveness, and
also a lot of progress on our digital oﬀering to the customer and namely a release of new
claims portal that allow our customer and our adjusters to track and manage claims
entirely online.

Bloomberg Transcript

So now back across the Atlantic to Europe. Another very strong set of results for our
European operation that are growing by 20% both in turnover and customers. And this is
a contribution from all the three countries is really the results of a team eﬀort, but a special
mention to L'olivier that is today four time bigger than it was in 2015.
So the growth in Europe was mainly driven by an increase in conversion, and increase in
conversion is -- is in eﬀect is driven by level of competitiveness on price comparison site,
improvement in the sales and the customer journey, but also an increase of the share of
the direct sales that come directly through us not by via price comparison site, and these
are supported by increasing brand awareness in each single country in which we operate.
So prior year -- improvement in the previous year loss ratio has been a very relevant driver
of European insurance results doubling proﬁt compared to last year, and putting us in a
very good trajectory to deliver 30 to 60 million gross proﬁt by 2022. So this set of results
is a reﬂection that we are delivering on our strategy that remain unchanged and is mainly
about building scale, while leveraging on very strong underwriting conﬁdences.
So as you can see in this side from the diﬀerent chart, we are indeed building economy of
scale. You can see there is a decrease of 10 points of expense ratio across the last four
years, as steady improvement in all the eﬃciency metrics. We are also looking for further
opportunities for product and channel diversiﬁcation. So we just launched very, very
recently, a new fully ﬂedged household insurance product in France under L'olivier brand,
and we're also testing distribution through brokers both in Spain and in Italy.
So to conclude highlight of 2019, improved results in comparison with the outstanding
performance of confused.com, a more challenging year for Elephant with the loss ratio
deterioration, only partially compensated by expense ratio improvement, and then
another set of strong results for our European business.

Page 11 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Thank you very much. And now back to David on Group's strategy.

FINAL

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Milena. So as is appropriate for a strategy update, I'm taking the long view. I
joined Admiral in 1991, and here's is a picture of me involved in, early management team
building exercise. First of all, a reminder of the strategy. There are three prongs to it,
maintain our position as one of the best insurers in the UK, prove that we can be a great
insurer beyond the UK and prove that we can build businesses beyond insurance. And
what I'm going to do is just focus on some examples of the progress we've made on
those three pillars, over the last year and the last few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So ﬁrstly, I'm going to pick up beyond insurance and I'm going to pick up the rapid
growth of loans, but in a sense more importantly, the reaching of a milestone in that
growth, namely the delivery of a second generation pricing structure in the loans
operation. So the business is bigger 50% up in balances. It's -- grown its revenue over
100%, its costs by about 50 and the proﬁts -- the losses sorry have shrunk by about 25%.
That's all interesting.
But what to me is more interesting is the bottom half of the exhibit when we talked about
the loans business in more depth, I was talking about the analogies for the car insurance
business, where we sought to take a diﬃcult and commoditized market and create
diﬀerentiation and superior performance, but that takes time, and it takes learnings. And
one of the learnings is required is claims data to do excellent pricing, and the analogy to
the loans market is, you need some credit event data to give you the basis of doing
diﬀerentiated pricing.
On the left hand side, you can see the growth of our credit event data. Don't interpret this
as, meaning that we're ﬁnding, we're having lots and lots more defaults, that's a
proportion of loans out there. It actually has been the opposite. The rate of default as a
proportion of loans out there has been -- has been falling. But it does show you the
cumulative experience and it -- versus 18 months ago, we've got 10 times more credit risk
experience on which to base our rating. And in January of this year, we introduced a rate
structure, which was in a sense, our ﬁrst somewhat diﬀerentiated rate structure.
When we started the business, we brought in some great loan professionals, who had
obviously their own knowledge of their loan business and that was built into the rate
structure. But we've gone now to a structure, which is beginning to provide some
diﬀerentiation, I'm expecting the third generation rate structure to arrive sometime in
quarter -- quarter three. And we are conﬁdent that, that rate structure will give us the -- the
option of improved margin and/or volume.
What about International Insurance. Well, it's fairly obvious, what I'm going to talk about.
I'm going to talk about the European businesses, obviously the US. There is still work in
progress. But the points I'd make on the European businesses is they have established
themselves as healthy, stable, fast growing proﬁtable businesses.

Page 12 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

And if you take the long view, you see the -- versus ﬁve years ago, we're more than twice
as big. We've gone from what was already a relatively trivial loss at the gross level of EUR6
million in 2015, and we're up to just over EUR20 million at the gross level. Now that
businesses in the sense, a virtuous circle. Milena talked about things like brand awareness
and investing in that, talked about scale, feeding through into expenses. I'm very
conﬁdent that these businesses will prove to be very valuable for the long term.
Lastly and by no means least, in fact the opposite, and the reason why I'm ﬁnishing on it -is the centrality of maintaining our performance, as one of the best insurers in the UK. And
on this context, I'm going to particularly focused on the single most important
performance measure, when you're looking at car insurance in the UK and that is the loss
ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

There's been a fair amount of noise over the last few years. There has been the
emergence of apparently Admiral like competitors, has that eroded our competitive
advantage. There's been the noise from Ogden. There's always the complication that our
early year picks tends to be very conservative and that can visually create the impression
that maybe things are going downhill.
But if you actually take the longer view and look at how our loss ratios evolved, I think
particularly on the basis of 2019, you see a lot of reassurance that we're one of the best in
the market on this key measure. So just to explain in the exhibit. This is the evolution of
the accident year loss ratio, the projected ultimate. And if you look at the blue line, the
longest line with the squares that's 2014 and it's plotting its evolution from 83% at the end
of year one 2014 to just under 70 at the end of the year six, 2019. And in contrast the far
left, you have the ﬁrst reading for 2019 itself with the -- I think green square also -- sorry,
orange, the orange square color has not been my specialty. It was either insurance or
graphic design. It's like.
And one other thing, you'll see in this exhibit is a reminder that ultimately our loss ratios
ﬁnished in a very satisfactory place '14, '15, '16, and '17 all below 70%. Some of them
signiﬁcantly below 70%. '18 already knocking on the door of 70% and that's where so
much the value of this business resides, and so much of the achievements over the last
few years has been.
So I think that's a good note on which to ﬁnish and open up for Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Q - Greig Paterson
Good morning. Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions. One is you do have it -- you've
grown -- you've recently grown your travel book. I just want to make some comments on
COVID-19 in that regard. And if you had any reinsurance protection?
Second thing is, if I remember correctly, you had a spike in large BI in 2017, you had a -- in
terms of frequency and you had a large spike in 2019 as well both of those have bucked
Page 13 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

the market trend. Wondering if there has been some issue with your underwriting
machine or whatever, so I had to think about this resulted in getting this -- that's sort of
business with a poor experience?
And the third thing is, I mean just looking at the US, PCW and the underwriting operations
have been there for while, they're still loss making. If anything the situation appears to be
deteriorating, the original plan if I remember was to build scale et cetera and take losses
et cetera. I mean, why don't you just exit these businesses and -- is the question?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Travel from Cristina. I might pick up the big claims, as an indulgence, and America.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Okay. In terms of travel, your question was whether we have reinsurance in place, which
we do. Let me also say that we have -- I would, at least a small travel book less than 1% of
the market, and we have also limit our exposure going forward. So we believe the overall
impact will be limited.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the spike in BI claims, what I would say is, we may well have talked about a spike in '17.
We talked about a spike in '19. I think we've talked about a spike in '14 as well. Today's
spike is tomorrow releases in many respects. And I would point you towards where the
loss ratios now stand. Would you add anything Alistair on that.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

No, I was going to say the same thing.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yeah. There is a lot of randomness. I don't (inaudible). We don't like create artiﬁcial spike - spikes. It's just that big bodily injuries. They come in with a degree of randomness.

Q - Greig Paterson
I mean, I appreciate that. Is that the nature of your book because I just hadn't picked it up
--

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, it's mainly the nature of our level of excess of loss cover because where most of our
competitors are at 1 million and that's sort of volatility gets hidden from investors and from
the numbers. We're substantially higher than that. And that means we -- if you have two or
three big claims, it shows. America.

A - Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Page 14 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

Yeah. So we always took -- took a long-term approach to our international expansions and
with the idea of building, growing sustainable business and ultimately proﬁtable growing
sustainable business over time. And creating, developing price comparison site in
America is a bigger task, it's challenging, it's taking time. We've been disappointed by
loss ratio this year in America as well in Elephant
Having said that we took action on price comparison site. We are running now with very
small losses, and we are seeing a lot of operational improvement. And in Elephant, as I
mentioned, there are a lot of signs that we're building more value in the book, and we're
building a lot of valuable -- valuable operation there. And we do see progress on several
metrics despite the deterioration of loss ratio for the years. We think we're addressing the
loss ratio deterioration, but we'll continue to monitor progress over time, and we'll assess
option, as they come. For now, we stay committed to make both of them success.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. (inaudible).

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. It's James Shuck from Citi. I'd just like to return to the walk from the ultimate
year the 73% loss pick to the 83% loss pick, I think it's on slide six. You're showing the
damage in the large bodily injury, the other is also a negative contribution of two points. I
think the comments through the year have been -- you've been pricing ahead of claims
inﬂation. I appreciate small bodily injuries included within that. I'm just surprised to see
that there is no more positive pricing impacts reﬂected in that 2019 loss pick.
And then kind of connected with that if I look in the actual report and accounts, the
accounting loss here [ph], so on an attritional basis, the loss ratio actually improved by 1.1
points, so I'm just struggling to see, I think there is a comment that you relaxed the front
end conservatism on that. Can you just clarify that for me?
And the ﬁnal question, is just around, I mean, up to now, Admiral has been very much
focused as a retail car insurer. I guess over the next few years, we're going to see much
more growth in partnerships. I know you're doing some things with the OEMs, I'm just
interested about your comment around the expense ratio remaining ﬂat and what you
need to do in order to be able to onboard people more eﬀectively and how the systems
can cope with that? Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So you want to do the ﬁrst two, Geraint.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I'll do certainly the relaxation of the conservatism in the early year is true that's eﬀectively
what we've done. So the attritional loss ratio booked in this year is a point or so, 2018 this
year -- this year being '19, 2018 and that's really about the margin, which remains ﬂat
overall, being more distributed over a number of years rather than concentrated in the
Page 15 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

most recent year. No, particular reason for that. We think there is an appropriate approach
to have margin over a number of years rather than almost all of it in the current year. So
nothing particularly substantial to talk about there.

FINAL

The other bit in the waterfall on slide six is, as you say, it's made up of small injury claims
and small movements [ph] in premiums, and they are both very small contributors, both
going the wrong way slightly. What was the question on that bit?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think, it may have been about (Multiple Speakers).

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The -- in terms of pricing. What we did with prices over the course of the year is mid
single digit increase. The portfolio is more made up of renewals, which have a lower
average premium, and the contribution of renewables to the overall number meant that
the premiums were largely ﬂat. So there is not much movement to contribution to loss
ratio either way from premiums. So the base rate went up, but it didn't necessarily
translate into written business during the course of '19.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And the third one is about partnerships.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. I think it's -- we're talking slightly about distribution. So Admiral has traditionally used
price comparison, and we also distribute towards or using multi-car and multi-cover. And
certainly, we have -- look at partnerships in the past, and we have sign a deal with four.
They allow us to understand a bit more about OEMs, but in particular about potential uses
of telematics going forward, and also the -- what are the beneﬁts of using an OEM in
terms of repairing cars using approved repairs. In terms of the future, we remain open.
We'll continue exploring opportunities and whenever if something comes up that is
interesting, we'll take it.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Lady in the second row.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, thanks. Freya Kong [ph] from Bank of America. Three questions from me, please. There
was no mention of price comparison in the three pillars that you mentioned at the end
and you factored the businesses up into Penguin portals, what is your long-term view -long-term view for price comparison?
Second question, can you walk us through the eight point improvement in the ultimate
loss ratio for 2018. And do you expect something similar to develop in 2019?

Page 16 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

And then last question, what is your outlook for the original shares, net reserve releases. Is
it still 20%?

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Price comparison we've gathered the price comparison operations in the Penguin portals
sort of corporate identity, but that is really a reﬂection of the way, we're running the
business as a much more combined business trying to maximize the transfer of
intellectual property and to an extent technology. And that's been in place for, actually for
about 18 months or 2 years, and we feel it, it's already showing through in the
improvements, we are seeing across the price comparison businesses. So we're very
encouraged. It's the right way to go.
In terms of like part of the three pillars, at the end of the day, it's sort of less than 5% of
our proﬁts, and there's a limit to how many pillars, you can have. It's a valuable part of the
business that is growing. It's probably in a sense, less material and less strategic than it
used to be in the sense that in the early days of price comparison in number of markets,
we were using it to pioneer price comparison and open the door for our insurers and in a
number of those markets, price comparison has somewhat matured and that job has been
done. But it still contributes, and that's -- that's interesting for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(Technical Diﬃculty) The improvement on the 2018 loss ratio is three factors really.
Typically we do see that our ﬁrst picks improve. As I talk through on the large BI releases
slide, we saw that being larger, larger improvements than normal because of the faster
settlement, and the settlement is the point of reserve releases. And then we also had
some unusually positive developments. (Multiple Speakers) yeah. The 20 to 21 is that
guidance for the future? Or is that just a comment on the past.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

It eﬀectively serves two purposes. I think obviously a mathematical average over the last
ﬁve years is 20% to 21% even if you include or exclude the -- the Ogden impact it's been
basically at that level for a number of years. We'll always be a conservative reserver. You
should expect to see substantial reserve releases in the future. The extent will obviously
vary from time to time depending what's going on in the portfolio. I wouldn't be surprised
if 2020 was pretty big release. I would be very positively surprised if it was as big as 2019.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

At the back. Thank you.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean form Autonomous. Couple of questions. (Technical Diﬃculty) on from
that, I think now that we have certainty over the Ogden rate, the number of your large BI
claims, which are capable of settling and settling certainly more quickly and that's part of
the reason for the growth in proﬁts in the second half, is that -- is that likely to continue.

Page 17 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

Can you give us some quantiﬁcation for what -- what that impact was in 2019 and whether
it continue into 2020?
Then secondly, the 30 million to 60 million target, whole account target for Europe by
2022. I think from what I remember is on an ultimate -- ultimate developed basis as
opposed to what you're likely to report. Could you give us a sense of -- for your own
account, what you likely or what 30 to 60 actually means in terms of what the
shareholders sees?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

So I take the ﬁrst one. So Andrew, I think mathematically, you're right. We've seen a faster
increase than we've had a couple of years, where we've been settling less. So there is a
chance that we'll see faster settlements going forward and that could be positive for
reserve releases. But it's probably worth mentioning two other points as well. The reserve
releases that we saw this time were also because of positive development. And so that
can't be seen as a guide for the future. That was unusually positive development. And
then I also showed the exhibit, where I showed that damage is a larger proportion of cost
than it was a few years ago. So that would actually have a negative pull on reserve
releases.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Sorry, this is what.

A - Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

European. So -- so the reason why we gave the guidelines on the gross base is because
we believe is a better reﬂection of the underlying value of the business and what that
deliver [ph] translate from the gross base to the Admiral base, there is a reinsurance that
have an impact. And there are a couple of elements. One is that some element of our
insurance contract are diﬀerent by country, and there are some non-linear elements linked
to cap for [ph] other conditions that we don't disclose it in detail. But also those contract
may change and are changed over time.
So it's very diﬃcult to make a very strong assumption about what is going to mean in a
few years. But I would say that as a general trend, you may expect over time slight
improvement in the condition of reinsurance contract. And therefore in the medium long
run, slightly higher percentage of proﬁt on Admiral base in comparison to the gross.
Having said that, there are some non-linear element, as I mentioned before that have an
impact.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Lovely. Anyone on the -- coming on the phones at all, no. Gentlemen here at the front,
almost at the front.
Page 18 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Q - Dom O'Mahony

FINAL

Thank you. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Just three questions, if that's right. One
on just on the reserve releases, is there any sense in which the sort of the surge in
settlements, which then created some of the PYD in '19 but that might have been -settlements that might have otherwise happened in 2020 and beyond. So is there any
potential for that essentially you front loaded some of the reserve release or is it really just
delay that's now settled?
Second question, next two questions on solvency. You create a solvency ratio, I think for
right now. Could you tell us what the solvency ratio was for the full year. And then a
slightly longer question about capital generation. So I'm glad, I think you very, very
helpfully explained this on last year that current year proﬁtability is a more important
driver for capital generation. I totally understand that in 2019, so much of the PYD came
from the ultimate, but actually the PYD would have been very capital generative and you
showed as much on the slide. But if currently proﬁtability were to stabilize, where we are,
and you were to go back -- more balance of ultimate and non-ultimate reserve release as
it were. What will that mean in terms of capital generation, so your conversion of earnings
into capital will capital generation be lagging the IFRS proﬁt? Thank you.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

The ﬁrst one, no. It's not that we haven't sort of front loaded the settlement. It's catch-up
that we seen in '19.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The second question is quite a bit trickier, I think probably, quite a long time to answer. I
think you're quite right to say that the IFRS earnings diﬀer in pattern than the Solvency II
capital basis, which is where the 190 comes from, and over time, they end up at the same
place. I think we'll always be a conservative reserver. So I think there will be conservatism
in the Solvency II numbers as well, as the IFRS numbers. It's just dramatically more of
conservatism in the IFRS numbers. I think we're going to give guidance on how that
conversion might work over time. And the solvency ratio as at the end of the year was
probably something in the 170s, I think the currently [ph] exact number we get that [ph] to
you. Is a requisite when the SFCR comes out, they will be in there.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We've got a call from an external party, I believe, the question.

Operator
Your ﬁrst telecom question today is from Ivan Bokhmat of Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Thank you. I've got two questions on reinsurance, please. One of them
would be on the excess of loss. Could you please update us, what's the eﬀective level of

Page 19 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

retention you have right now. I think last time you adjusted, it was somewhere between
GBP8 million to GBP9 million. Was there any change after the 1.1 [ph] renewals?
And second question would be around the quota shares. I think you're -- you mentioned
in the statements that there are discussions ongoing in the ﬁrst half of the year on the
future of the longer-term co-insurance and quota share relationship. Could you elaborate
perhaps a bit as to what changes you may be looking for and what could be the strategy
going forward? Thank you.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

In terms of excess of loss, just a small change, but it continues between 8 and 9.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

On the quota share, we've started the discussions with our usual partners and also one or
two additional players. I largely expect that these arrangements will continue to roll
forward in largely similar fold. The renewals are slightly later than they would normally be
partly because of our work on the internal model and us trying to work out whether we
should be buying slight diﬀerent types of reinsurance, and/or slightly diﬀerent mixes of
co-insurance quota share, reserve cover and so on. But for the time being, I would expect
us to continue with this sort of arrangements that we currently got in place at largely
similar terms, I would expect.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks. Edward Morris, JPMorgan. Three questions, please. First is on the internal model.
Can you just remind us of the -- the sort of main objective that you're aiming for is
because we're already extremely capital eﬃcient, a lot of your sensitivities on the SCR
seem to have reduced quite a lot now. So it's probably quite an expensive project. What
are you actually aiming to achieve by completing it?
The second question is around leverage. One of the outcomes of the growth in loans
means that your IFRS leverage is increasing quite quickly, is this something that you -- is
relevant to you or do you really think of that growth is being separate from the traditional
debt that you have?
And third question just on commutation, the decision to commute 2018, is that likely to be
done in the ﬁrst half? And do you think it will be positive or negative? Thank you.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

In order, the internal model on the expense of the project, I think we feel the same thing
when the bills come in, everyone. And there are two reasons, I think why we proceed with
it. Firstly, it's not fully in our gifted eﬀectively can it [ph] because the rule says if (inaudible)

Page 20 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

FINAL

doesn't work for you as a ﬁrm, then you should develop a model to calculate your capital
requirement. And I think given our size and scale, the regulator fully expect us to have an
internal model. There are beneﬁts to having an internal model. It helps -- clearly helps risk
management, understanding the risk proﬁle.
It will allow us, I think to think more carefully about the types of reinsurance that we buy
over time, and it will become even more important, as our Group becomes more diverse
with diﬀerent risk drivers contributing more and more to the overall capital requirements.
So there are business beneﬁts to it. It's not fully in our gift. I think our program is -- it's not
the cheaper program, but it's, I would imagine, cheaper than a lot of internal model
programs that have been delivered over time. We'll keep going.
Leverage, it's a good question. I think we do tend to separate our thoughts in terms of the
long-term -- long-term Tier 2 capital that support the business and the -- the loan, the
funding that supports the loan business. We're conscious of leverage ratios. We obviously
-- an external rating, which has leverage constraints. We won't just continue to build it
forever. So we're conscious that is changing the way the balance sheet looks over time.
But I suspect that over time that some of that will be -- so it won't continue to grow for
ever, and we'll update you on that in time.
And the ﬁnal point, commutation of '18, I'd expect us to carry on with that, and we're
probably in the middle of doing that right now for '18.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(inaudible).

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

'18 looks like a positive year. It depends on the -- the sums. I think '17 was -- is it -- it looks
like a very good year. So the impact of commuting '17 and '19 was very slow. I think '18
looks like, it will be slightly worse than '17. So maybe slightly high, but not vice versa [ph].

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. Should we go here and then behind gentlemen with the blue tie or is it
orange.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Dhruv Gahlaut [ph] from HSBC. Just a follow-up on commutation question. Clearly, is a
positive accounting for the commutation last year, is that just because 2017 such a great
year or is it a case that you're not going to see quite the same level of reserve releases
going forward in that year speciﬁcally?
Secondly, I know you said that the overall conservatism in the results are about the same,
but less front -- front end loaded. So I mean the mix between commuted reserves and sort
of net reserves will change over time?

Page 21 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

And thirdly, on the expense ratio, I know, it's gone up because of the IT expenses about
0.3%. How much of that will come out as you made investments now or will this be a
continuous drag on expense ratio going forward? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The ﬁrst question is about the commutation of the impact in the current year versus
previous year, the change in that in '19, that's really a reﬂection of I think positive 2017
looks rather than anything else. So '17 looks like a -- as you can see from the -- the charts, a
very, very proﬁtable year compared to '16 and '18 on the side of it [ph], which are also very
proﬁtable to a lesser percent.
The second question is about the pattern and the mix of reserve releases between
commuted and -- next year. We don't have to think of it that way. The releases are
released to me and it comes into the P&L, and it doesn't really matter, which line it goes
into. But I wouldn't expect them to change that substantially anyway.
And I think --

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. In terms of the expense ratio, we don't expect it to continue increasing. But we
don't have a speciﬁc target in the sense that if we ﬁnd that our investments that are worth
doing, we'll choose to do so.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

In terms of 0.3, how much of that was IT speciﬁc and -- or cyber and governance? I mean,
how much (inaudible) 0.3%.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

So the increase in our expense ratio was 1% in '19, but we have also increased our expense
ratio in the past few years. So there has been any spend that has been going on for a
number of years, not just this year. We don't give so much speciﬁc details. But in general,
it's been IT, but also things impacting like data and digital, and cyber, it's been a big
impact.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. Gentlemen, just behind.

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Thanks. Jon Denham, Morgan Stanley. Your sensitivity to half percentage point increase in
your long-term assumption for inﬂation in hours earned fell from about 10 percentage
points to 3, is that largely a consequence of your large BI settlement or is it change in
propensity to (inaudible) or both?

Page 22 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Secondly, I think in the EU insurance section, you mentioned that the comparison market
shrunk in France and Spain, is that something, which is structural. I noticed that your US
retention changed, while your quota sure changed, was that your choice or the
reinsurers? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So brilliant observation on the -- on the ﬁrst one. It's almost entirely down to propensity
changes, following the Ogden rate changes over the past couple of years. Second one --

A - Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Yes. On the price comparison market, I would say, Spain we've seen a trend of not
growing direct share of the market not growing for a few years. Last year, it was readily
challenging, but not major change compared to the year before. France was a bit
diﬀerent. I think 2019 was a bit tougher than in the past, but we've seen already some sign
of recovery. So yeah already put -- very end of the year and beginning of 2020 is already
going a bit better. I don't think we have reason to expect that price comparison site and
direct -- of course, will increase massively in the next few years. But we do expect anyhow
a steadily increase in the medium, long term, as generation of customer becomes
younger and more digital savvy, so (inaudible).

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Reinsurance contracts in the US.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

What was the question, I'm sorry.

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Your quota share proportion well, was that your choice or --

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

That's a combination of both, I think. Yeah, combination of both. We've just moved the
other -- we move part of that to our Gibraltar insurer. So we've eﬀectively retained the risk,
but we just moved it out of the US into Gibraltar. So partly us, partly this.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So we may have come to an end do we -- or one more -- or one more, all right. Let's -- I'm
sorry that (inaudible) had a go and James, sorry, you had one. Go ahead, sorry James.
Happy to do it afterwards.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Thank you. Andreas Embden [ph], Peel Hunt. I just want to compare the accident years
2014 to 2019, 2014 you opened at 83% and I recall correctly that was a soft market with
declining claims inﬂation post last call [ph], now you're opening at 83, your initial loss pick
Page 23 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

in a market that is solid with rising claims inﬂation. Would it be fair to think that, that 83
that it will continue to tick up a bit in the current environment, what do you think that 83
has now peaked in line with 2014 and it will be sort of ﬂattening out from here? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

I think it's -- I think it's diﬃcult to tell. What I think the trends tell us is typically over time,
we see releases on the ﬁrst pick at 12 months. And I don't see anything material that
would tell us that, that won't be the case for '19.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

(Technical Diﬃculty).

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

I think we're very disappointed if 2020's loss ratios worse than 2019's loss ratio. But given
that we're sort of two months into the year -- into the year -- the year is a little early to
comment.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think what we're doing in 2020, as we -- so far in 2020, we put through price increases to
match the level of claims inﬂation that we've been seeing. And we put through price
increases through '19 that you can't -- you can't tell this early what the claims inﬂation is on
large BI, but for the other claims inﬂation that we're seeing -- we are seeing [ph] our price
increases match that.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. And I hope some of us might be able to stay around longer for some followup questions, but I think we've been (inaudible) people, who need to be moving on. See
you in August, if not before.

Operator
This presentation has now ended.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 24 of 25



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2020-03-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 25 of 25

