Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Intact Financial Corporation and Tryg, to Acquire RSA
Insurance Group Plc

FINAL

Company Participants
Charles Brindamour, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Ken Anderson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development
Louis Marcotte, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Intact Financial
Corporations Conference Call. At this time, all participants lines are in a listen-only mode.
Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions). I
would now like to turn the call over to Ken Anderson, Senior Vice President, Investor
Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thank you, Carol. Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you for joining the call today. A
link to our live webcast and published information for this call is posted on our website at
intactfc.com under the Investors tab.
For purposes of inclusion and completeness, please refer to Slide 21 for cautionary
language regarding the use of forward-looking statements, which form part of this
afternoon's remarks. On Slide 22, for a note on the use of non-IFRS ﬁnancial measures,
and important notes on adjustments, terms and deﬁnitions used in this presentation.
Starting on Slide 23, you'll also ﬁnd the U.K. take over code disclaimers followed by the
risk factors related to the acquisition.
Joining the call from Intact today are Charles Brindamour, our CEO; and Louis Marcotte,
our CFO. Given the ongoing securities oﬀering, which was announced on November 12,
there will be no live Q&A period today. We'll ﬁrst provide the prepared remarks and we
will then cover some of the questions that have been submitted to us prior to the call.
With that, I'll turn it over to Charles -- in with his remarks.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, thanks a lot, Ken. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we announced a signiﬁcant step
to accelerate our strategy and leadership, which will deliver signiﬁcant value to our
shoulders. Together with the Scandinavian PNC leader Tryg, we've reached an agreement
Page 1 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

to acquire RSA Insurance Group in a transaction valued at CAD12.3 billion. We will acquire
RSA's Canadian and U.K. and international businesses, Tryg will assume the Norwegian
and Swedish operations, and Intact and Tryg will co-own the Denmark operation.
We are paying CAD5.1 billion or 90% of book value for our parameter. This is a
compelling valuation considering the scale and capabilities we will gain in our Canadian
and specialty lines businesses. As well RSA brings with it an impressive heritage, leading
brands and a strong team. Let me provide some color on how this came together.
So we've known Tryg for a long time, as leading operators in our respective markets.
We've compared best practices over the years. As well, we've both closely followed RSA's
progress and have strategized on how we could work together. In October, we were able
to put together a compelling oﬀer that will result in a signiﬁcant amount of value creation
for all stakeholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a highly strategic acquisition for Intact. And the opportunities it creates fall into
three buckets. First and foremost, this clearly expands our leadership position in Canada.
Integrating RSA with Intact will drive 75% of the value creation. Second, it strengthens or
specialty lines platform and adds international expertise and reach. And third, it gives us
an entry point into the U.K. and Ireland markets with scale, and leading brands and a
strong team. Not only that, but it also adds to our ability to invest in data, AI, risk selection,
claims and supply chain management. And for all these reasons, this transaction is very
attractive from a strategic point of view.
We're very comfortable with the risk reward proﬁle of the U.K. and international business,
considering we paid 90% of book value for our entire parameter, including an attractive
Canadian and specialty business. This acquisition is ﬁnancially compelling for our
shareholders.
The IRR is expected to be north of 15% and book value per share is expected to increase
over 25% on closing. Net operating income per share accretion is expected to be in the
high single-digit range in the ﬁrst year, increasing to the upper teens within three years,
and we expect to maintain a mid-teens operating ROE. And lastly, following the
acquisition, we will continue to have a strong balance sheet with a more diversiﬁed and
resilient business. All told, the numbers are compelling and we have a strong game plan
to ensure that they're achieved.
If we look at Slide 3, and Canada per se, this acquisition will build on our existing
leadership position in our home market. RSA Canada is one of the most attractive
opportunities and a highly strategic ﬁt for Intact. First, it increases our Canadian business
by 30%. Second, it diversiﬁes our commercial lines business and positions us to better
serve customers from coast to coast. And third, it will signiﬁcantly strengthen our direct
distribution platform, adding scale to what we already have built in belairdirect. RSA has a
very strong aﬃnity business with Johnson, a channel where we are underrepresented, and
one where we can capture a further opportunities to become a leader.

Page 2 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Slide 4 looks at specialty lines businesses. So in addition to expanding our Canadian
business, the transaction also presents us with an opportunity to Bolster our North
American specialty lines business, while adding international expertise and reach. On a
combined basis, this business should generate north of $4 billion in premiums from
abroad and diversiﬁed lineup of specialty products. Similar to our recent OneBeacon
acquisition.
RSA specialty business brings with it a range of complementary product lines. The
combined platform will feature world-class global franchisees or franchises in attractive
line such as marine, specialty property E&O and D&O. There's also an opportunity to
enhance the distribution of these products, connecting our existing North American
platform with our RSA's, which will provide both with access to a global distribution
platform, which will open up meaningful growth opportunities across many product lines.
We had a performance improvement framework that we have eﬀectively deployed in the
U.S. We will bring a similar operational approach to the enlarged specialty franchise to
deliver sustainable low 90s performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

We move to Slide 5, which talks about an entry into the U.K. and Ireland at scale. So we
have a compelling opportunity to share our core competencies in the U.K. and Ireland,
where RSA has leadership positions through scale, through brand and with strong teams.
In the U.K., in fact, over 50% of premiums are in the commercial line space, where RSA
holds a top ﬁve position and is focused on the SME space, a space we know really well.
In personal property, which is close to 30% of the portfolio, RSA is ranked second in the in
the U.K. As well, it's important to note that personal auto which has historically been a
challenging market in the U.K., represents only 10% of the U.K. portfolio. So the U.K. and
international businesses has approximately 5 billion of premiums and with a conservative
valuation entry point oﬀers an attractive opportunity to generate best-in-class
underwriting performance.
Moving on to Slide 6 for an overall picture. Clearly this acquisition builds a diversiﬁed
platform to create value. Upon completion of the acquisition, the acquisition we aim to be
uniquely positioned in a few large markets to pursue our objective of outperformance.
With a market opportunity of 400 billion, we see no reason to expand our footprint
further.
We will have a scale presence in the U.K. and Ireland, modest exposure to Europe, but
our Canadian and expanded specialty lines business will represent 80% of the pro forma
premiums and will remain core to our strategy. We have a proven best-in-class operating
model, and this transaction provides a much larger platform upon which to further drive
shareholder value and continue to generate 10% net operating income per share growth
and ROE outperformance.
I'll pass it over to Lee Musket, our CFO to discuss the ﬁnancial aspects of the transaction.

Page 3 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Charles. And I will move to Slide 7 and start by deﬁning the value creation
opportunity in more detail. We expect to generate approximately $250 million of pre-tax
synergies within 36 months. And this is before we take into account the beneﬁts from risk
selection improvement, our core competency.
In the ﬁrst year of the transaction, our high single-digit accretion will be driven by adding
RSA's existing earnings as well as ﬁrst-year synergies. As synergies are progressively
captured, we expect accretion to increase to upper teens within 36 months. We expect
75% of value to come from our expanded Canadian operations, 20% from RSA's U.K. and
international operations, and 5% from the specialty lines platform. In Canada, we have a
plan to rapidly transition RSA's business to our platforms.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our recipe for synergies is well established and we will use the same approach. We
expect beneﬁts to come from shared services, technology, marketing, operations and
claims management. Within a few months of closing, we expect to begin converting our
RSA's Canadian business on our systems and to be completed within 18 to 24 months. We
have not factored in much loss ratio improvements in our model for the Canadian
operations.
Turning to the U.K. and international segments. We expect to drive value by deploying
our data, analytics, risk selection and performance improvement models to our RSA's
personal and business line operations. However, in the short-term, our synergies are
expected mainly from cost savings related to the delisting of the company and the
elimination of public company related costs. Additionally, we expect to drive incremental
value through capital, tax and reinsurance opportunities.
Finally, with the specialty business, we expect some upside through expense ratio
improvements as well as the application of our proven governance and performance
improvement methodology to the platform. We've completed 17 M&A transactions over
the past 15 years and we have proven -- a proven track record, a successful integration
and synergy realization. We are determined to bring the same level of discipline and
focus to this acquisition.
Moving on to Slide 8. Having a strong balance sheet is important to us, as you know, and
we are pleased to be able to maintain our balance sheet strength throughout the
acquisition period. On closing, we expect to have a robust capital position at all of our
regulated operating entities, with a capital margin which is expected to be over $1.5
billion.
At close of the transaction, our debt to total capital ratio will increase to 26% and we
intend to bring it back down to 20% within 36 months. We expect to maintain our current
credit ratings, both in Canada and in the U.K. Our investment portfolio will grow by 80%
to $35 billion with the addition of our RSA's invested assets, which are unbalanced more
conservatively invested than ours. Transitioning their portfolio to our mix may create
incremental value not captured in our accretion expectations. Overall, after reﬂecting the

Page 4 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

impact of this transaction, we continue to maintain a strong and resilient balance sheet
that will be underpinned by a book value of approximately $13 billion.
Moving on to pensions, on Slide 9. As a result of the transaction, we will also be assuming
the obligations related to RSA's pension schemes. The pension schemes were a
signiﬁcant focus for us in our due diligence process, and we believe the impact and risks
are contained. They are well managed, with signiﬁcant steps already taken to lower the
exposure to market and demographic risks. The plans funding ratio is high at 95%.
An important device can measure for us was reaching an agreement with the pension
scheme trustees. We have agreed to maintain RSA's annual contributions of GBP75
million pre-tax per year until the plans are fully funded. And to make a one-time
contribution of GBP75 million to the schemes at close. These contributions are fully
reﬂected in our IRR expectations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to ﬁnancing on Slide 10. The total cost of the acquisition for our perimeter is
$5.8 billion, including approximately $700 million of costs, including transaction related
costs, ﬁnancing and risk and capital management costs. We will ﬁnance the total cost
through a mix of equity, debt and preferred shares. Last week, we secured $4.45 billion of
equity to ﬁnance a signiﬁcant portion of the transaction.
Approximately, $1.4 billion of debt and preferred ﬁnancing will be issued to ﬁnance the
remainder of the total cost. The ﬁnance -- the ﬁnancing is being underwritten by a bridge
facility to help us meet our certain funds obligation under the U.K. takeover code. As part
of the acquisition, Intact also tends to assume the full amount of RSA's outstanding issued
debt and hybrid securities, which totaled $1.3 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively.
This is clearly a unique and transformative acquisition for Intact. We believe it is well
aligned with our strategy and the ﬁnancial metrics are extremely compelling for our
shareholders. The IRR and accretion expectations are based on conservative assumptions.
The price paid for the asset is attractive. The expected synergies are reasonable, and the
pension plan is ring-fenced.
I am pleased with our progress so far on ﬁnancing, as we have secured approximately
75% of the funds needed already. As a result of our ﬁnancing, our book value per share
will grow north of 25% at close. I look forward to the close, as we will work with our new
colleagues and build a business that strives to outperform and continues to deliver midteens operating ROE to our shareholders.
With that, I'll give it back to Charles.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, thanks, Lui. Moving on to Slide 11, "Our involves strategic roadmap: The next decade
of growth". Well, clearly, this acquisition accelerates our strategic roadmap. It expands our
leadership position in Canada meaningfully and adds scale and capabilities to our
specialty lines business.
Page 5 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

We've incorporated a new pillar in our strategy which is strengthening RSA's U.K. and
Ireland operations. We'll be entering this large fragmented market at scale against
competitors, most of whom we have successfully been competing with in Canada for the
last 20 years. Our focus will be to deliver a second to none customer experience, and to
improve underwriting performance by focusing the footprint and overlaying performance
improvement initiatives. We're looking forward to engage with the team.
Adding RSA's scale to our business will also enable us to invest more in our core
capabilities, data, risk selection, claims and supply chain management to further
strengthen our outperformance. This transaction will also bring a large talented team with
broad expertise to Intact. Our commitment to invest in our people as a central element, to
driving a strong value driven and engaged workforce that has a mindset of
outperformance. Our company was built to organic and inorganic growth. And in fact,
many of our leadership positions are occupied by people who have joined through
acquisitions.

Bloomberg Transcript

In conclusion, this is a compelling acquisition for our shareholders as well as our broader
stakeholders, namely customers, brokers, employees as well as the community more
broadly. For shareholders, it'll drive upper teens NOIPS accretion, over 15% IRR, and a
more resilient business. For customers, it will strengthen our oﬀering and distribution
capabilities, allowing us to continue to deliver second to none experience. And for
employees, it'll create a much larger company for them to excel within, and a much
broader range of opportunities for them to develop their career.
Well, people, thank you for all your hard work over these many months, and in some
cases years. We all know with transactions of this nature, the real work is just beginning.
And to the RSA team who will be joining us, I want to extend a very warm welcome on
behalf of the entire Intact team. We look forward to welcoming you into the Intact family.
Your organization has an impressive heritage and shares our drive for excellence. And
together, we're building a leading customer-driven PNC insurer, with the values of
excellence, respect, integrity and customer-driven at its core.
Thank you. And I'll turn the call back to Ken.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. So we'll now cover a few of the questions that have been sent in to us
before the call. So maybe ﬁrstly, Charles, can you maybe brieﬂy help us understand what
you see as the key elements of the strategic rationale for this transaction?

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes. Well, Ken, I sort of talked about that in my remarks, but clearly accelerating the buildup of our leadership position in Canada by strengthening that position by 30% is number
one. And not only do we gain in scale, but we actually gain in competencies, our
distribution footprint is broadened and will bolster our commercial lines presence. I
mean, second, very clearly, big boost to our specialty lines platform by about 30%, and it

Page 6 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

brings international capabilities. And obviously, the added scale will help us invest even
more in data, AI, claims and supply chain management.
The expansion in the U.K. and Ireland is done at scale. And so -- and at attractive price,
great team. So we're looking forward to work with them to help them outperform in these
markets. In aggregate, paying $5.1 billion for our parameter, we think it's a compelling
valuation which fully reﬂects the risks that we're assuming and has a fair bit of upside. So,
this is really a strategy accelerator and we're looking forward to get going.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks. So secondly, when we look at U.K. and Ireland markets, why is this an attractive
market for IFC? And is the operation there at suﬃcient scale or should we expect more
M&A there going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, the U.K. is the largest P&C market in Europe and we believe that RSA's operations,
history and scale as a top 5 U.K. player provides a good entry point, especially at the
valuation in which we're coming in. It has leading franchises and scale, and as you know,
we -- working with scale to create an advantage is just the business were in. It has a very
strong position and commercial lines, which is half the portfolio. It is a top-ﬁve player in
home insurance, in fact they are second in the industry, and home insurance is clearly a
product line that we have transformed in the past decade, that's been operating in the
upper 80s, low 90s, in good and in bad times. And so I think that we want to work with
the team to see how we can sort of generate that sort of performance on a sustainable
basis.
The other point I would make, Ken, is that, the market dynamic in the U.K. compares to
Canada, I mean, automobile insurance, RSA's fairly small in automobile insurance with just
10% of their portfolio, that is clearly diﬀerent from the Canadian marketplace and has
been an area that's been tougher for many manufacturers to play. But beyond that, the
market dynamics is comparable, competitive, and many of the competitors in that market
compared to those we've competed against.
The ﬁrst order of business for us here is to ensure that we're positioned to perform and
outperform. And I think until we prove to ourselves with the team that we're in a position
to outperform, I think we'll be careful with capital deployment outside the North American
parameter.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe if we look at some of the other elements of the portfolio that we're picking
up, for example, the European business, the Middle Eastern operations of RSA. Will these
be core at IFC moving forward? Or will there be disposals considered for these elements?

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}
Page 7 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Well, it's clear that we'll be very thoughtful and diligent in assessing each regions'
performance and potential. The ﬁrst question for me is, is it specialty lines and does it
strengthen the specialty lines platform? And I think if so, then very clear that we'll be
prepared to invest. And the second key question is, does it have scaled to outperform in
their market? And I think that we'll advance the strategy ahead of closing with those two
lenses.
Canada and specialty lines, obviously, remain absolutely core to the strategy, where our
track record of our outperformance was very well established. And we want to make sure
that the outperformance is present everywhere we operate. And just keep in mind that,
yes, there's an international expansion but Canada and specialty lines will represent 80%
of the direct-written premium and 80% of the value creation to drive to upper teens
NOIPS accretion. So very much in the courtyard where we have strength.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. So when we look at the value creation, we've indicated that 75% driving
the upper teens NOIPS accretion after 3 years will be generated from Canada. RSA
Canada, of course, is a pretty large Canadian business with a distinct brand from our own.
What's the potential risk regarding customer churn as we complete the organizational
changes that will be necessary to achieve those ﬁnancial objectives.

Bloomberg Transcript

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, Ken, we've done many Canadian acquisition, Canadian integration. And
obviously, we have a good sense of what that risk is. I would -- let me make a few points to
put things in perspective. The ﬁrst point I would make is that the synergies and the value
creation from upper single to upper teens is not growth driven. The second point I would
make about Canada per se is that the businesses are highly complementary.
In other words, we're bringing a big direct business, Johnson, which is a great business,
which is focused on the aﬃnity space, we're not really there. And so I don't expect a shot
there or even pressure. They have a great team, they're doing great job and looking
forward to that. And then the other area that's very complimentary is commercial lines
and specialty lines. There is good compliment to what they're oﬀering, what we're
oﬀering. And thirdly, all of this integration will take place in a market that is very tight,
where the industry is far more in a corrective mindset than an acquisitive mindset.
And my experience is that in previous parts of the cycle where we've acquired, in that part
of the cycle, retention has been really, really good. I'm not saying this is what will be
repeated here, but I'm saying that is what I've experienced. And namely the ﬁrst
acquisition I led or was a key leader of was the Zurich acquisition in 2001, a comparable
part of the cycle. And our retention in premium terms was actually in excess of 100%. So, I
think that the timing with which we're doing this transaction is certainly helpful.
The fourth element that I would add here is that we're talking about Canada now, we have
a book, we have a track record, we have an integration plan and we will move fast. And

Page 8 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

that's always important to protect your portfolio. And ﬁnally, the economics are such that
we could absorb a shot if we -- if there was one. We don't think there'll be one, but the
economics are equipped to absorb that shock. So in aggregate, Ken, I would say that the
risk here of the shock is very well managed and provided for.

FINAL

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. Maybe, Louis, this next one is for you. Maybe you could describe in a bit
more detail the sources of the $250 million of synergy run rate, particularly in the context
of job losses.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks Ken, for the question. So I'll refer to Slide 7 and I'll reiterate the idea here
that the value creation is driven primarily from Canada, 75% of it. 20% from the U.K. and
the rest from the specialty lines business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Canadian perimeter, we will use the book that Charles was talking about earlier,
and our usual recipe. And aim for savings in the technology area, in the claims, in the
marketing, some insured services, and that will drive most of the synergies there. Of
course, we believe our ability to leverage core competencies, namely in the artiﬁcial
intelligence, pricing segmentation, even in our distribution capabilities, might drive
further savings. But at this point, we've been not counting on much loss ratio
improvement in the Canadian perimeter, to start with.
In the U.K., of course, the advantages I just mentioned in data analytics and under will
eventually drive proﬁtability. But the ﬁrst estimate that we have given from -- in terms of
savings were really coming from our ability to leverage capital reinsurance and tax
elements, as well as some savings from the public company related cost, that will not
need to be spent for going forward, as well as the cost related to the listing of the
company on the U.K. Stock Exchange. That is what we have banked on for the 20%.
And then lastly, the 5% really comes from the bit of expense ratio savings and specialty
lines. But there too ultimately we expect to optimize the product oﬀering and expertise in
that segment to drive additional beneﬁts later on. So, it's clear that it mostly comes from
Canada, so we think the risk here is not too high as we have a clear track record for
integration and we are very conﬁdent we can realize this -- these.
Now coming back to the point of your question, should be clear here that the synergies
are not predicated on signiﬁcant job losses, that's important. We've indicated a rough 2%
of total IFC on a pro forma basis as being the sort of envelope for our estimate for the
impact on jobs. And I think that's sort of in the ﬁrst 12 months that we see.
And keep in mind, Ken, that we always hire a lot of people in these transactions. We like
to internalize claims. So the -- our ability to replace rotation people or simply internalized
more staﬀ has a positive impact on employment. And that's where we think, overall, this is
not a job loss program that we're sending ahead, it is fairly not too signiﬁcant in my mind.
Page 9 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thanks, Louie. And maybe turning onto transaction cost. They're a little bit higher
than we would typically see. Maybe you can give a bit of a better understanding and color
on the $700 million.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Sure. So we gave the $700 million ﬁgure in terms of the related cost. So ﬁrstly, on being a
bit higher, let's take into context here this is a -- an international transaction, multijurisdiction, and I would say, somewhat more complex than what you would see normally.
So there is some expectation that these costs might be a bit higher.
I would put the cost in three buckets myself here. Firstly, there's a chunk that goes to
ﬁnancing. The cost of ﬁnancing the transaction are there. Then the transaction cost
themselves, which would go to legal, to other advisers as well. And then a third bucket
which I would group here, capital and risk management. And keeping those together,
because that's really an envelope we gave ourselves to cover the cost that might be
needed to cover risk management or capital injection between now and close.

Bloomberg Transcript

And at this point, we think that's a prudent estimate of what those costs might be that
we've established. Closing is probably six months away or so, and we will reﬁne those
estimates over time. But quite comfortable that this envelope is suﬃcient to cover the cost
over this period. And more importantly, all of those costs are fully reﬂected in the
economic metrics we have disclosed for this transaction.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks. Maybe turning to the pension, could you maybe recap on the position of the
pension plans and what commitments have been made to funding the plans over time?

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Sure, Ken. A key question here. So let me reiterate a couple of key points. Firstly, the U.K.
plans are closed with no new members or obligations being added. At the last valuation,
which was taken in March 2018, the plans were funded to 90% -- 95% level. We found
these plans to be very well managed. The investment mix is quite conservative. The
interest rate and inﬂation risks are largely hedged, and the longevity risk is partially
hedged. And that's why we have pretty good visibility on how the pension commitment
should evolve over time.
In reaching our agreement with the trustees, we have indeed agreed to a one-time GBP75
million contribution to be made at closing. And then we will continue on the path that was
already agreed to with the trustees, which is already in place, until the plans get to a fully
funded level. Our best guess at this stage is that the funding GAAP should be bridged
within 10 years. Let's hear again, the economics of the transaction that we've disclosed
fully reﬂect our commitment to fund the plans until we get there.

Page 10 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

FINAL

Very clear. Thanks, Louis. Maybe last question, Charles. Again, there's been a good bit of
comment on where the value will come from and it is indeed the Canadian operations. So
could you maybe walk through what this transaction will mean overall for our Canadian
business?

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, I mean, the Canadian business, Ken, will go from $10 billion of premium to $13 billion
of premium. That will be north of 65% of the business. I think the move really expands our
position in the Canadian context and very strong from both an oﬀensive and defensive
point of view.

Bloomberg Transcript

RSA brings a very strong team here and an attractive business mix. I mean, commercial
lines, we're adding $1.1 billion of premiums in commercial lines, half of which is specialty
line. So we're hitting all the levers, we're teen on from a strategic point of view. Then not
only do we increase the direct channel by 50%, but the space in which we increase the
direct channel is the aﬃnity space with Johnson. Which is 1 an area where we're
completely underrepresented and where these guys excel. So clearly we'll put some of
our strengths to work, to help them grow that business. But that is the jewel. And indeed,
75% of the value does come from Canada. And we have a solid track record of
integrating. The book I've been talking about, the book is ready. And when we get to
closing, the train will leave the station.
But I think this goes beyond Canada. Canada is obvious in my mind and it's very good
thing that the value creation comes from there. But I think the upside in specialty lines is
very signiﬁcant, adding about $1 billion or also 30% and international capabilities in that
space. Following your customers, the same logic to go and buy OneBeacon to really
strengthen our specialty lines business in' 17, we're adding international expertise, a
number of core products that are global in nature, take marine for instance, and that
freely will make a diﬀerence for that platform.
And I think in aggregate, here in Canada and broadly speaking, we've been investing
heavily in areas such as data AI supply chain management. Investors know, Ken, that we're
actually building a home restoration business at the moment with the added scale of the
organization, going from 12 billion of premium to 20 billion of premium, from 16,000
people to 26,000 people. Our ability to invest in our strength and our core competencies,
which are what drive outperformance, our performance are dramatically changed here.
So, when you truly solid team that comes with RSA, I'm really looking forward to put all
this together once we hit closing and really take this in a diﬀerent zone.
So Ken, I want to thank the investors for providing all these questions this morning. We've
done our utmost to tackle the questions that were most popular, comfortable or not. And
hopefully that our answers were clear. But we're out there to answer your question. Ken?

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}
Page 11 of 12



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Yes. Thanks, Charles, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today. Following the call,
there will be a telephone replay available for one week, and the webcast will be archived
on the website for a year. There'll also be a transcript available on the website in the
ﬁnancial reports and ﬁlings archive. So, thanks again, everyone. This concludes the call for
today.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call. Thank you once more
for participating and you may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

