Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Bruno Servant, Head of Group Investment Management Solutions
Cristiano Borean, Group Chief Financial Officer
Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres, Chief Executive Officer Global Business Lines
and International
Lucia Silva, Head of Sustainability and Social Responsibility
Luciano Cirina, Head of Sustainability
Philippe Donnet, Group Chief Executive Officer
Tim Ryan, Group Chief Investment Officer & Chief Executive Officer Asset & Wealth
Management

Other Participants
Alberto Villa, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael Huttner, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, everybody. It is my privilege to welcome you to our 2020 Investor Day on
behalf of the Generali Group management team. Please note that today's presentation
have been pre-recorded. In the first part of the day, we'll start with Generali 2021 strategic
update from our Group CEO, Philippe Donnet; then our General Manager, Frederic De
Courtois, will take you through our strategic transformation. Finally, our Head of
Sustainability, Lucia Silva; and our Group Head of Investment Management Solution, Bruno
Servant, will present our Integrated ESG approach. After that, we will take a short break of
15 minutes. Let's get started.
Let me now hand over to our Group CEO, Philippe Donnet.

Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our 2020 Investor Day. We are here to give you an
update on our Generali 2021 strategy and targets. I wish, I were able to speak to you
Page 1 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

directly in person, as I did when we presented the plan in November 2018. Given the
current environment, we have leverage technology to make our Virtual Meeting as
effective, as informative and as interactive as possible. When we launched Generali 2021,
few would have predicted the global economic and social challenges created by the
COVID-19 pandemic.
However, thanks both to our hard work in previous strategic cycles and the successful
execution of Generali 2021. We've been able to effectively navigate the current context
from a position of strength. Our strategy has proven to be the right one and I'm therefore
pleased to reconfirm our financial targets for 2021. We are able to do this, thanks to three
key factors.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, our resilient financial performance based on the key strength we identified at the
launch of Generali 2021 a clear strategy, a focus on technical excellence, a strong
distribution network and a diversified business model. Second, the proactive in decisive
actions taken since the start of the crisis to protect shareholder value as well as our
customers and our people. Servicing customers with continuity and care will always be our
number one priority in line with our life-time partner ambition. Third, our commitment to
the core convictions underpinning Generali 2021, which are today more relevant than ever
and in many cases allow us to capitalize on emerging opportunities.
Let me talk about each of these three elements in a bit more detail. Generali has
delivered a robust financial performance as demonstrated across a range of key financial
metrics also during the third quarter of this year. Our diversified business model and
optimized risk selection have minimized the COVID-19 claims impact on our business,
we've estimated property-casualty direct claims of around EUR100 million. We have
maintained our top line resilience and excellent technical performance both in propertycasualty and life.
Gross written premiums in property-casualty were up by 3% year-on-year, while life net inflow stood at EUR9.3 billion, thus annualizing at over 3% of reserves with a favorable
business mix. Thanks to the strong alignment of our distribution. Our Property-Casualty
combine ratio at 89.7% is among the best in the industry and the same is true for our life
new business margin, which stands at 4.1%. Our asset management strategy is delivering
greater revenues and earnings, diversification and it is instrumental part of our life
business strategy.
Our goal is to become one of the five most profitable multi boutique asset management
platforms in the world and you will hear more on this from our Chief Investment Officer,
Tim Ryan a bit later.
I also want to underline our strong balance sheet with the highest Solvency II ratio among
our peers at 203% and strong net holding cash flows. The disciplined execution of our
Generali 2021 strategy as well as the actions we implemented in light of the COVID-19
crisis, allow us to fully commit to our financial targets for 2021. This serves us credible
evidence of the strength of our organization in meeting our objectives. For earnings per
share, we confirm a compound annual growth rate increase between 6% and 8%, our

Page 2 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Chief Financial Officer, Cristiano Borean will take you through the key drivers in more
detail. We remain committed to distributing cumulative cash dividends of EUR4.5 billion to
EUR5 billion between 2019 and 2021 subject to regulatory approval.
We also confirm our normal dividend payout range of 55% to 65%, which is a guidance
and not a constraint as our General Manager, Frederic de Courtois will discuss later.
Furthermore, we remain committed to an average return on equity of more than 11.5%
clearly, excluding the impact of COVID-19 and other one-offs in 2020.
As you have already seen, we have not been permitted by regulators to distribute the
second tranche of our dividend for full year 2019 at this time. To be clear, in our view, the
full-year 2019 dividend belongs to the shareholders. For this reason, we are already
accounting for its full distribution in our solvency margin. We will continue in any case, our
active dialog with regulators and for sizing the strength of Generali's financial position and
our intent to resume dividend payments as soon as we are allowed.

Bloomberg Transcript

That being said, in the face of wider economic uncertainty, we took decisive actions to
ensure the delivery of our Generali 2021 strategy. We conducted an extensive review of
our portfolio both to identify and to minimize direct business impact. In addition, we took
effective capital and liquidity management actions to optimize remittances and cash
utilization to ensure we are ahead of plan.
Cristiano and team will tell you more about our outperformance versus the plans 2021
debt prediction target and our asset liability management actions to strengthen further
the balance sheet. We also accelerated our expense reduction plans for 2021 and we will
deliver a further EUR100 million on top of our original target of EUR200 million for major
insurance markets.
I also want to stress again that right from the beginning of the pandemic, we put the
health and safety of our people as our number one priority, while ensuring continued
support for our customers and communities. We remain fully committed to the core
convictions underpinning Generali 2021, which are strengthened in the current
environment and could even create further opportunities.
European market will remain attractive and here we will strengthen our leadership. The
strong ECB response in fiscal stimulus framework cement our view and we expect further
opportunities for consolidation and M&A. The retail and SME market segments will drive
profitable growth. The pandemic has triggered a greater awareness of insurance needs,
particular when it comes to health and protection. We are also seeing increased demand
for integrated protection and investment solutions, as a result of the lower for longer
interest rate scenario. We will therefore capitalize on these two opportunities by
effectively combining our traditional expertise in insurance with our growing asset
management proposition.
Finally, our strong physical distribution network will be further empowered by digital
platforms. This is one of our distinguishing competitive advantages with over 155,000
agents and distributors. Customers are looking for a combination of those words. And this
Page 3 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

has been evident during the lockdown, the phase of the pandemic. We are accelerating
the pace of digital transformation to provide a true omni-channel experience for our
customers.
Generali's objective for almost two centuries has been and will continue to be earning and
maintaining the trust of our customers in every phase of their lives. This is why our lifetime
partner ambition is another vital component of 2021. Two years later, delivering on this
ambition is more important than ever. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown once again that
the human touch is key and that it is fundamental to have a deeper relationship with
customers. This means knowing their needs and expectations and assisting them in
making important informed decisions. We are working hard to deliver on our lifetime
partner ambition in three key areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, using the latest digital and data analytics capabilities to ensure our offer is best in
class. Second, strengthening the connection among us, our agents and our customers.
And third, making the Generali brand, the first choice in our key markets. We are making
good progress on these strategic priorities and you will hear more about this from
Frederic shortly.
Generali 2021 would not be possible without three key enablers. And then powered work
first is key to our current and future success. We continue to invest in our people, with 1/3
of employees already involved in upskilling and reskilling programs. We are establishing a
consistent and distinctive brand experience, leveraging the strength and the values that
make Generali unique. In July, we launched the first global advertising campaign in the 190
years of our group's history. The feedback we received so far has been incredible across
all markets.
We have integrated system ability throughout our group and are fully committed to acting
as a responsible business partner and investor. It is not just the right thing to do, but
makes real business sense. We are committed to leading the way and have established
clear system ability targets, including a detailed climate strategy. And you will hear more
about our system ability strategy and commitments in the dedicated presentation by
Lucia Silva and Bruno Servant.
Generali has provided coordinated support to our stakeholders throughout the COVID-19
crisis, in partnership with our business units across more than 25 different countries. At the
very start of the crisis in March, we committed a total of EUR100 million to an
extraordinary international fund to address the emergency. Generali's business units also
activated additional resources in their own areas of competency, while our employees
and top management also directly contributed.
We provided our agents and distributors, not only with financial support, but also with
digital tools to help them continue the great job they do for our customers. We extended
insurance coverage and assistance for our customers and we promoted more favorable
terms for existing policies. Further in our communities, we provided free life insurance for
those operating in the healthcare care sector.

Page 4 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

In 2018, we define rigorous and disciplined criteria for M&A transactions, taking place over
the course of Generali 2021 and identified three key strategic areas were acquisitions and
partnerships could boost our existing offer. We have been consistent with our strategic
priorities and effective in our integration. We have reinforced our leadership in Europe,
thanks to the acquisitions of Adriatic Slovenica in Slovenia, Concordia in Poland and
Seguradoras Unidas in Portugal, all of which we successfully integrated.
In June, we announced a strategic investment in Cattolica that will allow us to reinforce
further our leadership position in our domestic market across four key areas, Asset
Management, Internet of Things, Health and reinsurance. We also enhance our asset
management capabilities in areas like alternative usages and ESG and integrated
successfully KD Skladi and Union Poland.
In conclusion. Today, Generali is a sound and resilient Group from a financial and operating
standpoint. Our third quarter result which we published last week, are a proof of this. We
have a clear set of priorities that will guide our delivery throughout the rest of this plan
and beyond. We will continue to manage our cash and capital consistently and with
discipline. We will carry on delivering strong results in Life and P&C, leveraging our agility
and best-in-class technical expertise. We will further develop our multi-boutique platform
in Asset Management.

Bloomberg Transcript

And last but not least, we will continue with our relentless focus on efficiency of
paramount importance in an even lower interest rate environment. You are now going to
hear more about them from our team in their presentations and I will then return for some
concluding remarks, before we answer your questions.
I now give the floor to Frederic. Thank you so much.

Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
Thank you, Philippe. Good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to update you on our strategic
transformation from both an industrial and operational perspective. Here we have
highlighted the key drivers of our strategic transformation, our strong technical profitability
underlines the increasing positive gap versus our peers and the reliability of our earnings. I
will outline how we see the future of the life business in a lower for longer environment.
Our focus on the compelling boutique asset management is bearing fruit. I will provide
some details on this before you hear more from Tim. Our customer lifetime partner
ambition powered by improved digital capabilities is driving higher loyalty. While a
powerful combination of agent and direct distribution channels remain a key growth driver.
Our transformation drives increased productivity and reduced costs. I will outline how we
are going further than our current expense reduction targets for 2021. And finally, our
strong and sustainable cash generation is delivering a material increase in net holding
cash flows and I will explain how we intend to use these cash.

Page 5 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Implementing a strategy is all about execution. We are showing once again that we have
the right capabilities and we are focused on the right priorities. Looking first at life and
pensions. The Life business includes savings, protection, health and unit-linked and is
complemented by in-house asset management solutions. The challenge remains lower
for longer interest rates. But they are still underestimated opportunities in this
environment.
Customers worldwide are saving more, thanks to a growing middle class, increased
available liquidity due to accommodating monetary policies and more recently, greater
uncertainty. Savings rate in the Euro area peaked and at all-time high of 24.7% in Q2 2020.
Consumers also want to be more protected all our analysis tell us that clients wants to
buy more insurance, especially life protection products.
Consumers chiefly sourcing Western Europe, are also investing more in unit-linked
products, because competing products have become less attractive, but also because
clients, especially younger clients have a higher risk appetite. Finally, Retirement Solutions
is the big topic of the years to come, as consumers will need to save more for their old
age.

Bloomberg Transcript

Generali has all the assets to leverage these opportunities. Excellent own or exclusive
distribution networks, best in class technical know-how and a complete product range,
including our unit-linked offer with in-house asset management capabilities, also
leveraging our multi-boutique platform. Our client appreciate the strong ESG focus
embedded in our offer.
So how do we guarantee the sustainability of our savings insurance business in a lower for
longer environment? Generali has been a first mover in derisking and we are proud of
this. On this slide, we have outlined the strategic actions taken to achieve this. First it is
about achieving a high proportion of unit linked and protection in our business mix.
We have accomplished this in all our main countries. Thanks to our distribution channels.
As you can see in Germany, where we are number one in unit-linked asset under
management. This is not only about reducing guarantee to zero percent. We have
transformed guarantees, as you have seen in Italy. Where we were the first company
moving to maturity guarantees. We have also reduced the crediting rates, as seen in
France, where Generali has been a market leader on this. We have been proactive in our
ALM approach, lengthening portfolio duration in order to reduce interest rate risk. We
improved our risk-adjusted asset allocation, reallocating capital, while sustaining portfolio
yields.
Finally, we have disposed in force blocks or company's, when we believe we are not the
best owner and if you see what we have done in Germany, Holland and Belgium. We will
remain the first mover on all these matters. Relentlessly seeking new product features
and solutions, while always optimizing capital allocation.
In France the new Euro-Croissance products will be a cornerstone of our strategy, granting
80% of principal guarantee. In Italy, we are moving from maturity guarantees to
Page 6 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

guarantees only in case of death, which allows us to keep our margins under all market
scenarios. We have successfully tested this approach through our subsidiary, Alleanza and
we will extend it to Generali Italia. On the asset side, we are increasing diversification,
both between asset classes and at a geographical level, with a focus on real asset and full
ESG integration.
And we have several in force projects in the pipeline, some smaller and some more
significant.
Our P&C business remains extremely profitable, achieving the best and the most stable
combined ratio compared to our peers. This is due to our positioning top three in the
majority of our markets as well as our retail and SME focus. To our proprietary or exclusive
distribution channels and to our underwriting and pressing sophistication and discipline. It
is also due to prudent reinsurance strategy and hence that analytics approach.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our corporate and commercial business, which represents around 10% of our business
has recently delivered better results than our peers. This is due to a focus on high quality
and diversified mid-sized accounts and to discipline in underwriting. COVID-19 was
another test of our discipline and underwriting excellence with negligible exposure to
even cancellation and limited impact from business interruption. Europ Assistance will
deliver a much better result than initially expected and a much better result than
competition. Europ Assistance is a large travel player, but mostly position on vacation
rental and hence it has been less impacted by this crisis, especially on the claims side.
Finally, we often hear that retail and SME market may be impacted by lower average
premiums. May be too early to say. But we believe that the way we manage motor
discounts over the past month, granting individual and segmented discounts rather than
blanket ones, was the right approach to keep clients satisfied and manage profitability.
Our asset management strategy is contributing strongly to the growth and diversification
of our cash flows. It is complementary to our Life business in terms of commercial offering
and product definition and is instrumental in supporting our shift to unit-linked. Our asset
management business is delivering strong revenue growth and fees in turn is translating
into high earnings growth, thanks to best-in-class operating margins.
In 2020, our asset management business contribute to north of EUR250 million in cash
remittances, with the payout in excess of 90%. It is a very light -- a very capital-light
business with the capital absorption of just over two basis point of asset under
management. I will leave Tim to take you through the business in more detail.
Our goal is to be the lifetime partner of our clients and we have defined four customer
hallmarks or characteristics, as well as four distributor hallmarks to drive an enhanced
customer relationship. Each hallmark is managed as a global project, demonstrating our
commitment to progress. Positive customer experience is essential for the success of
Generali 2021. We measure our success with a number of KPIs, but the two main ones are
NPS, both transactional and relationship and customer retention. On relationship NPAs in

Page 7 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

particular, we aim to become the best amongst our international European peers by the
end of 2021.
This was intentionally challenging objective, but we have made significant progress over
the first 18 months, growing faster than our competitors. The results of our constant focus
on customers is increasing satisfaction and loyalty. The increase in retention also has a
meaningful impact on profitability. Embracing and delivering new technologies is a key
component of customer satisfaction.
Generali is a leader in motor telematics. Thanks to our experience in Italy. We now want to
leverage this experience in combining insurance and IoT in other business lines, like home
and health insurance and in other markets. Germany and Spain, have already adopted this
solution, using our own Jeniot platform. This example illustrates how we work as a group.
Our mantra is convergence. As a Group, we incentivize our business units to develop
tools, such as the Jeniot platform that can be reused by others.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also drive co-development projects involving various business units through cofinancing and support. The scale and diversity of our Group is an asset that we leverage.
This is also the purpose of our international innovation fund, launched one year ago, which
selects and co-finances promising solutions to be shared across the Group. It has already
built powerful momentum, financing 60 ideas in 2020 alone. Sticking with convergence,
mobile hub is our digital interface with clients. It has been co-developed with a different
companies with coordination and co-financing provided at the Group level. It is now used
by 3.8 million clients in 10 countries growing fast. Our focus is to promote active adoption
and we are doing well.
Last year, we also launched the Agent Hub. It has been launched in Spain and Austria and
will soon be adopted in Italy. Our revamped website is like the Jeniot platform, a tool
initially launched in Italy that is now being exported to other countries, in order to facilitate
lead management. We now also have competency centers and CRM and smart
automation and an ambitious data analytics initiative led by our group team. Our
transformation is driven by client needs and these needs drive the transformation of our
distribution, our operating machine and our product offer.
Let's move to distribution. Generali is and will remain an agent company. We believe that
clients need expert advice and want to speak to a trusted partner about the protection of
their family or their pension. The same applies to business owners that want to protect
what they have built. But Generali is also a direct company and is either number one or
two in direct business in Italy, Germany, Central Europe, Portugal, Argentina, Turkey and
France where the business is focused on life.
Our distribution strategy is about focusing on sales channels through which we can own
the customer relationship. In France, we are also growing our non-intermediated life direct
business through the targeted acquisition of fintechs. We believe that well managed
agent have a great future, if given the right tools.

Page 8 of 46



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

The COVID crisis has highlighted the strength of our agents, who have continued to
support their clients throughout the lockdown, resulting in increased sales and higher
market share in most markets. What everybody had underestimated is our agents' ability
to interact with clients and sell without physical contact. 82% of our agents are now
digitally enabled to operate remotely. We will leverage these earning to drive productivity
improvement in our agent channel. These investments, part of the EUR1 billion defined at
the beginning of the plan are measured by their impact on technical results, on costs
and/or on customer satisfaction.
On costs, we now target a 300 million reduction, up 100 million on our Generali 2021
target for mature markets. Thanks to increased discipline and savings from our new way
of working initiative. On this point, we do expect our teams to go back to the office at the
end of the pandemic. But remote work is now fully in grain in how we operate. So we do
expect to achieve long-term cost savings.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the launch of Generali 2021, two years ago, we indicated the cumulative target on the
available cash at the holding company level of more than EUR10 billion for the duration of
the plan. Our delivery on remittances and the successful implementation of our new cash
and capital framework, enabled us to exceed the targeted the EUR10 billion cumulative
available cash at the holding by around EUR1 billion. This is due to strong capital
generation. Thanks to the underwriting of capital-light business, a sound capacity to
upstream cash from our business units and improved interest and holding expenses.
Let's look at how we intend to use these cash. As mentioned by Phillip, subject to
regulatory environment, we confirm our dividend target for this plan. This is equivalent to
a payout range of EUR4.5 billion to EUR5 billion over 3 years. We confirm our long-term
policy of a payout ratio between 55% and 65%, which is a guidance and not to
constrained. And should be seen in tandem with the objective to deliver steadily growing
dividends.
We have reduced our debt by EUR1.9 billion, 2 years ahead of plan. First entering the
COVID-19 crisis with an even stronger balance sheet and a better quality of capital. You
will hear more about this from Cristiano. The over delivery of on-network cash flows
enabled us to fulfill some internal deployment for growth in Asia, as well as the capital
injection required in Switzerland, which Cristiano will explain in more detail, while leaving a
slightly higher buffer for capital redeployment via M&A.
We have up to EUR2.5 billion, not accounting for potential divestitures. But after
accounting for the recent investment in Cattolica, to dedicate to further acquisitions that
are fully aligned to our clear strategic priorities. And as Philippe said, we will continue to
be disciplined.
In conclusion, Generali has been extremely resilient. This is thanks to our business focus
on retail and SMEs, our geographical focus, our proprietary channels and our technical
discipline. Our strategy has been validated and our transformation remains on track. Many
aspects of Generali 2021 ensure and Generali entered the COVID-19 crisis well prepared.

Page 9 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

We have also learned that two experiences made during this crisis will bring further
permanent benefits.

FINAL

First, the new way of working will bring structural cost savings, while increasing employee
satisfaction. And second, our agents' ability to interact remotely will bring strong
productivity gains and customer satisfaction. I am convinced that Generali will exit these
health and economic crisis stronger.
I will now hand over to Lucia to guide you through our sustainability journey. Thank you.

Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you, Frederic and good morning, everyone. My name is Lucia Silva, I am the Head of
sustainability and social responsibility within Generali. At Generali, we strongly believe that
sustainability is the key to our future success. A growing number of stakeholders,
investors, regulators, customers, current and potential employees are paying more and
more attention to ESG factors and the COVID-19 pandemic has only amplified this focus.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today with my colleague Bruno Servant, we will present Generali's sustainable business
transformation journey. We have a clear pathway, purpose and ambition built on strong
foundations. Our ESG strategy is rooted in our solid governance, integrated across all
levels of the business and align to clear targets and metrics. We are making great
progress across a range of strategic areas and playing inactive role in all the communities
where we operate. I will now take you through our ESG priorities and then my colleague
Bruno Servant will outline how Generali is fully integrating ESG in our investment activities.
Generali's path to sustainable business transformation is about putting our purpose into
practice, based on a clear ambition to pursue long-term growth and the integration of
sustainability in our core business. We have already built on solid foundations, our
governance, remuneration, control functions and reporting, guarantee that our day-to-day
decision-making is aligned with ESG, while we engage and listen to our stakeholders.
In terms of achievement, let me mention that we are proud to be sustainable innovator
and in fact we are the first European insurer to have issued a green bond and we have
accelerated on concrete and measurable actions tracked by our D&I index, in particular on
gender, disability and eligibility both with global and local initiatives. We are also part of
powerful sustainability platforms, which enhance both our visibility and our influence in the
international arena and we have gained recognition as a sustainable player, not only from
key external indices, such as DGSI and MSCI, but also our own people who are embracing
the transformation.
Our integrity governance is essential to driving sustainability at all level of the organization.
At Board level, we have a highly independent, gender balanced board and have also
establish a dedicated committee, focus on sustainability Chaired by the Chairman of the
Board of Directors. Our senior management team is highly committed to the strategic
integration of sustainability, our Group CEO is driving this process, supported by a

Page 10 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

sustainability committee made up of executive members, including the Heads of group
functions and our country CEOs.
This integrated approach is reflected at the operational level, where we have a number of
committees and working groups with cross-functional composition and expertise, known
as our task forces. And as the proof is in the pudding, ESG performance is part of
executive remuneration at Generali. We have a clear sustainability strategy as part of
Generali 2021, with the fine goals and firm climate priorities. We are delivering on our
commitments.
First, allocating EUR4.5 billion to green and sustainable investment. And second,
increasing the premiums deriving from Green and social products, while also developing
dedicated solution for responsible consumers. Then launching enterprise and as an
initiative to acknowledge the most sustainable small and medium enterprises. And finally,
expanding the human safety net, our flagship initiative in the community.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have also publicly committed to fighting the climate crisis through our climate strategy.
It defines measures taken all across our core business to ensure a fair and socially just
transition to NetZero economy. Climate change has a pervasive impacts across our entire
organization, as well as society at large. Our action focus on the activities of investment,
insurance, underwriting and customer and stakeholder engagement, where we believe
we can have the biggest impact. We are also continuously improving our non-financial
reporting and have started to report on tax force on climate related financial disclosures
recommendations. We continue to learn and to improve.
Here, you can find some of the key metrics that we monitor and publish every year in our
audited annual integrated report. A structured process for ESG metrics is an essential part
of our approach. These are the key metrics that represent how the group is integrating
sustainability in all main areas of our business, investment, customers, our people, the
community and our operations. These specific metrics ensure that Generali creates value
now and also in the future. Prioritizing diversity and inclusion, engaging with our people,
involving NGO in our communities and focusing on small and medium companies, allows
us to increase our understanding of the context in which we operate. These increases the
resilience of the business model and ensure that our capability to deliver results is future
proof.
Let me now briefly focus on our innovative responsible consumer ecosystem. Generali is
developing a differentiating value proposition for customers looking to have a positive
impact on both the society and on the environment. This distinctive offer will connect
green and social products and Sustainable Investment Solutions. Together with technical
function, we developed an internal classification of green and social products. This
definition of flexible and dynamic and take into account input from relevant sources.
Above all regulators, who are starting to look at what can be defined as sustainable. Our
agreement social product definitions follow the three main drivers.
The first, product with a positive impact on the environment. For example, sustainable
mobility products such as pay as you drive. Second, products promoting responsible

Page 11 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

behavior such as connected insurance products that incentivized health and well-being.
Third, product protecting specific demographics such as the elderly and young families.
Let me give you some examples on how we are applying this approach in our key
markets. In Italy GeneraSviluppo Sostenibile is the first investment insurance solution
based on UN Sustainable Development Goals,, through Banca Generali's innovative
approach..
In France, the Aderne-Base Carbone initiative aims to make the Generali agents network
the first low carbon agency network in France. And in Germany, Austria and France vitality
encourages customer to adopt an healthier lifestyle benefiting themselves and the
welfare system around them.
Now I will hand over to my colleague, Bruno Servant to talk about the integration of ESG
into our investment strategies. Thank you.

Bruno Servant

{BIO 17533817 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Lucia. Generali is delivering on its firm commitments to proactively integrate
ESG consideration and to the investment process across all asset classes, supporting the
Group to deliver long-term financial returns, while reinforcing its risk management
approach. As conviction is underpinned, our commitment to 3 key global initiative, which
inform our responsible investment strategies.
Generali Group signed the UN principles of responsible investing in 2011, sustainability and
transition risk management are among its key goals. The Group is also part of the investor
leadership network, which primarily focuses on climate change, sustainable infrastructure,
diversity and inclusion. And this year, the Group joined the United Nations convened
NetZero asset owner alliance, thus committing to decarbonize its portfolio to reach net
zero emissions by 2015.
As a major asset owner, which delegates management responsibilities to Group asset
managers, our investments create a significant opportunity to deliver on these
commitments. Generali Group as asset owner, is responsible for integrating sustainability
into its long-term investment strategy. And our asset management businesses, our
implementing group policies on responsible investments, while at the same time, offering
sustainable solutions for our growing third-party client business, leveraging on our multiboutique model and dedicated group as managers like Sycomore. This approach is
supported by more than 50 dedicated ESG specialist across the group.
Generali is also ensuring, it meets all upcoming this quarter requirements set by the
European Union as well as local regulators, demonstrating how sustainability factors
impact the business model and the investment result, as well as the delivery against key
sustainability targets. Generali applies an integrated ESG approach to its investments. The
exclusions are the baseline of the permit, because they apply to all our direct listed as
well as real estate investments.

Page 12 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

We believe that some behaviors and activities have no future and must be completely
excluded from our investments, this includes companies that reached the UN Global
Compact, regarding unethical behaviors as well as those companies with an important
part of the revenues coming from polluting activities such as coal and tar sands.
Moving up the pyramid, 80% of our direct listed investments are covered by an
integrated ESG assessments. This number includes EUR35 million of ESG driven mandates
managed by Group asset managers, according to clear ESG integration criteria. The third
level of the pyramid is Thematic Investing, whereby companies are selected according to
their ability to contribute to a specific theme such as green infrastructure, renewables and
energy efficiency solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the current context, sustainable investments are playing a vital role and we're launching
the economy in the sustainable way, making it more resilient in the future. To that end, we
committed to invest EUR1 billion and sustainable investments to contribute to the new
plan for a sustainable recovery from COVID-19 based on three key pillars. Fair and
inclusive recovery, green economy and digitalization. In addition, as mentioned earlier, we
have a target of investing at least EUR4.5 billion in new green and sustainable investments
between 2019 and 2021. As at the end of Q2, we had invested EUR4 billion in the key
areas mentioned already. The target of 4.5 has been reached at the end of Q3.
We are also a strong believer in the role of active ownership as a contributor to long-term
risk mitigation and value creation. In many cases, initiating a dialog with companies on their
ESG journey is more effective than simply excluding them from the portfolio. And through
our expertise can contribute to positive results both of these companies and for us as
investors.
To summarize, Generali is very committed to ESG integration and also cautious to avoid
green washing or exposure to controversies. Finally, I would like to point out that data
quality will be crucial going forward, given the increasing number of variables and
indicators to monitor.

Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you, Bruno. Today, like never before, insurance has a huge responsibility in shaping
the world for future generations. And more sustainable economy is no longer a nice to
have was simply an opportunity, but the must have if you want to guarantee a future for
shareholders, all stakeholders and ultimately our planet. We understand what this means
today, we appreciate the expectations of clients, regulators and investors. We have the
final clear framework and we are fully satisfied with the results achieved. The path we are
on will further and continuously improve our positioning.
Thank you very much.

Operator

Page 13 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Welcome back, we can now start the second part of the event with an update on our
investment and asset management delivery by Tim Ryan, Group Chief Investment Officer
and CEO of Asset and Wealth management. Last but not least, our Group Chief Financial
Officer, Cristiano Borean will unveil the financials underpinning our strategic delivery. Over
to you, Tim.

Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

Thank you again for joining us today. Before I take you through Generali investment asset
management activities, I would like to start by giving the highlights of our investment,
assets and wealth management business on Slide 38. Our business unit covers the three
pillars we presented in November 2018. Starting from the left hand side, our 300
insurance investment professional have been able to secure and maintain a profitable
spread between the asset yield and the cost of liabilities despite difficult headwinds.

Bloomberg Transcript

For asset management in the center, the key measures is that we are on track for our
2021 targets on the three fronts. Earnings, margins and third-party clients. Finally and but
importantly, our Wealth Management business of Banco Generali is again beating the
odds. We have a record level of inflow with more than 4 billions of net flows, which propel
our asset under management to 70 billion for the first time, despite market fluctuations.
With an improvement of our recurring earnings.
As Gian Maria Mossa, our CEO for Banca Generali, has already presented to the market
last week, I will focus my presentation on our progress in investment and asset
management. Let's start on the investment side, where I will share with you how far we've
come during the last three years, highlighting in particular a strong performance over the
last nine month.
Moving to Slide 39, I would like to highlight our asset allocation evolution sees 2016, made
possibly by our transform investment framework, which delivers a greater flexibility while
preserving risk discipline. During the last three years, we have strengthened our asset and
liability discipline and risk management approach from a strong fixed income base with
85% of our asset exposure.
We have effectively diversify into real assets with real estate, private equity, private debt
and infrastructure. On the other hand, we have reduced our exposure to corporate bonds
by 7 percentage point, as it became more challenging to source good assets and yield
against the embedded risk. Our investment framework is not fully linked or owing a 360
degree review of all asset opportunities. Thanks to the investment of substantial time,
money into system and people to better connect the different part of our business unit.
We now use the same ALM tools across the group, while our asset manager are fully
integrated insurance constrained and the evolution, including Solvency II constraints into
their review. We have also strengthened our credit review and liquidity discipline.
Slide 40 highlights the tangible result of the change I just mentioned. Our ability to
increase and maintain attractive spread between the yield of the asset and the cost of
the guarantees as shown on the first row is linked to two main factors in addition to the

Page 14 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

already mentioned. First, the increase of our asset duration by 1.5 years for Life and 0.5
years for P&C since 2016. And second, the methodical deployment of real asset by 10.4
billion, increasing our exposure from 7.5% in 2016 to 10% in 2020. The recent increase in
financial market volatility as naturally being a test for asset liability management and this
slide shows the action taken and the result achieved so far. Asset management team has
done to fantastic job in defending and protecting our credit portfolio, as shown in the
upper left-hand side of the slide.
During the last nine months, the percentage of corporate bond downgrades in our
portfolio from investment grade to high yield has been 0.9%, while the same metric for
Europe & indices was 2.3% downgrade. If we look at the on tower portfolio, our corporate
bond face 9% downgrade versus 15% for indices. I would like to thank our credit analyst,
our portfolio manager for the significant achievement. The lower left chart illustrates the
significant de-risking we carried out on equities. We took the opportunity to lower our
equity exposure and diversify it out of Europe during the rebalance experience in the late
spring and the summer of 2020. With a reduction of more than 30% of our listed
exposure, which translated into EUR4.4 billion in sales.
Now moving to the right side of the screen, my colleagues from Generali real state have
also worked to reposition our real estate exposure over the last three years, well ahead
of the emergence of the current sector challenges. For instance, we decided to reduce
non-core assets, such as logistics as well as exit from non-prime location both on
commercial and residential properties. We have also worked tirelessly with our tenants
during the current crisis to strike a difficult balance of maintaining financial discipline while
also supporting them. Thanks to this effort, the overall impact is a decrease of just 3% on
our rent, the decrease which we expect to be temporary. And last point, our real estate
on the lower-hand side of the slide, our impact between negative, positive price evolution
is neutral for 2020.
As we received several question on our private equity during the result call last week, we
want you to take the opportunity to highlight the quality of our program on Slide 42. It is
important to understand that this activity is a fund of fund activity. Our dedicated PE team
is selecting and monitoring highly qualified specialties to source, manage and rotate the
assets.
When I joined in January 2017, I made two key decisions on private equity. First, we
extended our private equity program to life portfolios to provide additional return for
both our policyholder and our shareholders. The second decision was to start to invest in
secondary transactions to diversify our vintages, our managers and capture attractive
discount from sellers.
This transformation is shown on the upper right-hand side of the screen. Today we have
EUR13.6 billion committed with EUR6.3 billion net asset value that is well diversified across
developed region of the world. Finally, over the last four years, we have been able to
distribute EUR757 million of dividend to our insurance company and register a multiple of
1.37 on our capital invested, net of fees. From this strong base, how are we going to
address the challenge of financial market going forward.

Page 15 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Slide 43 provides our key condition on markets. In broad terms, we expect interest rate
and credit spread to remain low in and outside of Europe. We expect that equity markets
will continue to face substantial dislocation by sectors and geographies as seen in 2020.
Real estate will face challenges outside of prime location and it will take time for the
economies to heal, while the need to finance them, will continue to skyrocket.
On the right side, I'm sharing with you how we plan to navigate this environment. We have
6 main levers to use in addition to our strong ALM discipline. We will use a strong base in
real asset to further source attractive risk-adjusted return. I will come back to this, we'll be
more opportunistic by investing also outside of Europe as more than 85% of our
exposure is in euro denominated assets. ESG and SRI are a key element to capture
sustainable returns and strengthened our resilience, while we have invested in and are
using innovation to make better investment decision and lower cost of sourcing and
managing assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will realize further on the scale of our asset managers, a further driver behind our
effort to build a world-class multi boutique asset management business, at last, but not
least, we will continue to work on the -- of ALM to reduce our liability costs. Over the
course of the next three years. We will deploy at least EUR15 billion into real asset
increasing our asset exposure to 13% from 10% by 2023, we will focus on expanding real
estate investment both geographically and in terms of sectors. We will leverage specialist
including our boutique in areas such as infrastructure debt and equity, private credit and
private equity.
It is important to understand that we are realistic in our deployment program, the pie
chart on the right hand side shows that wise we have and we would invest a sizable
amount into real asset it will represent 20% of our reinvestment program in the next three
years. Slide 45 illustrate the importance of free aspect of our levers for our General
Account Investments, the quality of our private equity fund-of-funds business to increase
investment in Real Assets the importance of our alpha generating capabilities from our
multi-boutique.
And the relevance of ESG investments, if you look back at the premium that our private
equity team was able to deliver versus public market equities, we have a plus 3.3%
performance after fees, which translated into more than EUR200 million value creation
before tax and policy all the participation on our insurance assets.
On general account investment into our boutiques accelerated plus 8.6% Alpha which is
equivalent to EUR250 million of value. Our ESG investment is much more than just nice to
have. As you've heard from Lucia and Bruno, Generali. As a strong conviction that this is
the best way to invest for long-term and our recent outperformance of 7.6% support this
belief in a nutshell to navigate the markets. We will use non-traditional instrument for
insurance companies more asset invest outside of our home market, combined, financial
and non-financial data to make investment decision with ESG. US innovation to extract
greater yields and new skill asset manager to deliver performance to our policyholders
and shareholder however, one thing that we not change is our ALM discipline across the
different part of our group.

Page 16 of 46



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

And this is the same discipline, we used to implement our asset management strategy.
Now, I will share with you, starting on slide 46. In May 2017, we launched a new strategy to
broaden our investment capabilities and product offering and accelerate the
transformation of Group liabilities through a multi-boutique platform approach. Since then,
we have grown our revenue substantially from just under EUR500 million in 2016 up to
EUR900 million this year. About 25% of the increase is through the alignment of group not
account mandate fees to the market standards and another 25% of this growth has been
achieved, thanks to the contribution of acquired companies.
The bulk of the growth more than EUR230 million has been achieved by organic growth
executed through our Generali and boutique distribution channels. This growth of
revenues as translated into a substantial growth in profit as our revenue per assets under
management have increased from 10 basis point in 2016, to 17 basis points in 2020. Our
profit have gone from EUR115 million for financial year 2016 to more than EUR350 million
forecast this year. The key contributing factor for the success. I've been our increased
product offering and strong performance achieve as seen on Slide 47. In the last three
years, we have added five new fixed income strategies, five new multi-asset equity offers
and a remarkable 17 new real asset alternative strategies to our product portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

This increase of quantity is also combined by an increase of quality as illustrated by our
performance numbers. Over the past year, active management firm overperform their
benchmark 80% of our cases and rank in the top Morningstar quartile in 67% of cases far
above where we were in 2016.
This contributed to much improved asset management brand recognition generally has
now reached number 11 in terms of preferred asset management firm among the top 40
players by Europe and funds electors for the very first time in the latest Generali report.
As a result, our base of customers external customer to our group company has
significantly grown to 32% of revenues. The result we have been able to achieving such a
short period of time. I think to our multi-boutique strategy, which will cover on Slide 48. It is
worth reminding you of the underlying characteristic that each party brings to our
collaborative platform. At Generali we want to create value by blending our partner
expertise in Generali's strategic capital scale and distribution capabilities.
This is why we seek out and protect the entrepreneurial spirit of our partners
complementing it with direct support in terms of product structuring day-to-day business
control and access to our powerful global distribution network to reach both Generali and
external clients. Generali global infrastructure opportunity investors axis are three great
examples of our smart up boutique offer inaction.
Reaching breakeven point this year and already delivering very profitable return on
investment. Another way, we have created value and strengthen our capabilities is
through targeted acquisition such as liquid alternative specialist LUMYNA which cover on
slide 49. LUMYNA management has done a fantastic job in terms of increasing asset
under management from external clients. From $7 billion in 2016 up to more than $16
billion today, this has been rewarded by important market recognition while delivering a
significant return on the investment for Generali above 20% since acquisition from Bank of

Page 17 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

America Merrill Lynch. Our strong operating margin is an additional driver of our
performance as seen on slide 50.

FINAL

We achieve an operating margin of 52% in 2019, which is higher than the median of our
insurance asset manager peers as well as other measure multi boutique platforms. We
have achieved this result. Thanks to a strong control of our costs. The key drivers are
economies of scale, achieved, thanks to the size of the Group.
Implementation of a zero base cost discipline in the entire business unit, including wealth
management, centralized procurement services in Prague for middle back office provided
to our boutique and the access to the powerful generic insurance sales network, which is
scales we skills our overall distribution costs.
From day one, we have applied tight control other side to our boutiques maintaining an
autonomous approach to investment management while ensuring close supervision by
Generali with regard to governance, risk management, compliance, finance and audit.
Generali has a majority position on each company Board of Directors and our local Board
representative are well and highly qualified professional with an average experience of
more than 26 years in the industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, Generali extending this policy to all of its boutique from day one and I
appointed local heads for compliance, risk and finance with the dotted reporting line to
the corresponding Business Unit functions. In conclusion, let me remind you that three
years ago Generali started a long-term growth path with the aim of enlarging and
strengthening the Group fee-based business.
At that time, we identified two key priorities to broaden and deepen our capabilities and
product offering and to accelerate our growth through focus distribution. I'm pleased to
say that. Since then, we have made substantial progress in spite of adverse financial
markets. This has translated into a strong growth of our profits. Today we reconfirm all our
target for asset management in 2021, despite the current context, we are increasing our
total net result, as well as the share of our net revenue from external clients and we are
achieving, best-in-class industry margins through an efficient cost control and by scaling
our business. We also confirm that we will meet 2020 European Asset Management
financial target by reaching a net result higher than the EUR300 million we set as a target
three years ago.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank all of those people who work and contributed
to this remarkable success our journey towards becoming a strong player in asset
management market has started well. But we still have much more to do and much more
to give. With this, I'd like to the hand over to Cristiano. Thank you.

Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. And great to talk to you all again I'm pleased to have this
opportunity to follow up on what I presented to you at our Investor Day in November

Page 18 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

2018, as well as during exploring Generali in May, 2019 and in recent results presentation.
Let's get started.
Today you heard from Philippe on our strategic progress to date and from Frederic on
how we are accelerating the delivery of our transformation journey. You have also heard
from Lucia, Bruno and Tim and some fundamental elements of our strategy that our
sustainability investment and asset management. I am going to speak about Generali's
financial strength and resilience illustrating how our operational, capital and liquidity
strengths remain the foundation of our consistent delivery of the Generali 2021 plan. I'm
going to focus on five key areas today. One, we are fully committed to delivering Generali
2021 financial targets. I will outline the key components that underpin the achievement of
our earnings per share growth. I will explain how higher contributions from expense
reductions and depth optimization has passed to remain on track, even considering the
challenging context of the COVID-19 related macro slowdown and the ultra-low interest
rate environment.
Two, our commitment to technical excellence is reaffirmed both in life and P&C.
Furthermore we are accelerating product rebalancing, we continue to proactively manage
our life business for liabilities, both new business and in-force business. Our unmatched
propriety or exclusive distribution networks allow us to continuously adjust our products
depending on market conditions and client needs. In life, we are shifting towards more
profitable and less capital-intensive business, by steering net inflows to our preferred
protection and unit linked lines and increasing the weight of non-guaranteed business in
savings and in P&C, our commitment to further improve technical excellence also
leveraging on our strong competencies in risk selection and reinsurance and our
geographical footprint will continue to drive strong results free.
Three, we outperformed our debt optimization targets and we have further potential
opportunities to improve our cost of debt. We reduced the gross cost of debt by EUR200
million and our outstanding financial debt by EUR1.9 billion. Our proactive approach to
debt optimization is a proof of our commitment to rebalancing our debt maturity profile,
while considering always our Solvency II position will maintain an opportunistic and flexible
approach to debt management, depending on market conditions and the investment
opportunities. And favor where possible sustainability options has seen by our Green
Bond framework. Four, we have a very strong and resilient capital position at both group
and major business units level, even under stress scenarios. The expected impact of the
extension of our internal model to include operational risk, as well as the implemented
capital management actions and our strong capital generation contribute positively to our
solvency position.
And five, the successful implementation of our cash and capital management framework
is fundamental to achieve our targets and also delivers our net holding cash flow ahead of
the Generali 2021 plan.
I will share some additional details on remittance, normalized capital generation and cost
centralization strategy. As Philippe said we have committed to our Generali 2021 financial
targets, even considering the challenging context, we are facing. We are on track to

Page 19 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

deliver the 6% to 8% earnings per share compound annual growth rate for the 2018, 2021
period.

FINAL

In the next slide, I will illustrate in more detail the trend of the different growth drivers. We
remain fully committed to our dividend policy and meet all the requirements in terms of
solvency and liquidity for the distribution of our cumulative 2019-2021 dividend of between
EUR4.5 billion and EUR5 billion.
To remind you, our target is the distribution of our cumulative 2019-2021 dividend of
between EUR4.5 billion and EUR5 billion with a payout ratio of 55% to 65%. These pay out
ratio range is the mid-term guidance. But it is not a constraint particularly in a year like
2020 we're results I've been hit by various one-off effects and by COVID-19. Of course,
we are always depending on regulatory environment for the actual payment. As you know,
we met the return-on-equity target of more than 11.5% in 2019. And we expect in 2021 to
be also above 11.5% sustained by the growth in net result. I remind you, but due to the
negative impact from some non-recurring items in the first nine months of the year as well
as the impact of COVID-19 on financial markets. The net result for 2020 is expected to be
lower than that of 2019. Therefore both the 2020 return-on-equity and the 2019-2021
average return-on-equity are expected to be below 11.5%.

Bloomberg Transcript

On this slide, we show the drivers, but make up our earnings per share growth presented
at Investor Day in 2018, and provide an update for each of them.
Starting from the left with growth and profitability from our insurance business. In property
and casualty, we are delivering sound and disciplined growth driven by technical
excellence and portfolio steering towards non-motor. In life, we benefit from the shift in
business mix and the proactive management of the in-force even in a challenging
environment, characterized by interest rates headwinds and COVID-19. The growth
trajectory is negatively affected mainly by Switzerland with an impact of around 2.5% 2018,
2021 EPS compound annual growth rate. There will be a dedicated slide about the
management of the Swiss unit linked run off portfolio.
On the efficiency side, as already presented by Frederic, we have improved our expense
reduction targeting Insurance Europe by EUR100 million, leveraging on the new way of
working and accelerated digitalization. This will lead us to reach in Insurance Europe about
EUR300 million savings versus the 2018 baseline. We are on track to deliver on our growth
targets for investments and asset management. As already covered by team.
On the debt side. The successful delivery of our debt management strategy brings an
increased contribution. We have achieved EUR200 million of gross interest expense
savings versus 2017 baseline compared to our target of EUR70 million to EUR140 million.
The cumulative effect of all those four levers add up to a 4% to 5% EPS compound annual
growth rate. The increased weight of efficiency in that management in the earnings mix
also implies even higher quality and lower volatility compared to the past.
In addition, the contribution from selective and disciplined capital redeployment is on
track. Among the key growth contributors, I would like to highlight Seguradoras Unidas in
Page 20 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Portugal, the Eastern European acquisitions, the growth of our multi-boutique portfolio
and the expected contribution from our investment in Cattolica that will be accounted with
the equity method.
I would also like to point out, but we still have up to EUR2.5 billion available for disciplined
and selective capital redeployment. Adding all the levers together, we are on track to
reach our 6% to 8% range of EPS compound annual growth rate over 2018 to 2021. Let
me continue by presenting some more details on building blocks which will contribute not
only to the Generali 2021 earnings per share target, but also to the future earnings per
share growth.
Looking first at the insurance business component. We will provide some additional detail
on top of what Frederic already shared starting with Life. Please take a moment to have a
look at this slide, before I guide you through it. Starting from the top of the page. As you
can see we are managing our business by making the liabilities, our primary focus and
continuing the shift towards more profitable and less capital-intensive business. Our goal
is to achieve sound growth in a lower for longer interest rate environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our proprietary or exclusive distribution network, allow us to actively rebalance and
diversify our portfolios. Concentrating net inflows in preferred protection and unit linked
lines, supporting and reshaping reserves growth shifting the weights between
investments and technical results. Protection and unit linked diversify well with marginal
capital consumption. Unit linked capital consumption can be further reduce, thanks to our
management fees hedging strategy.
Moving now to the bottom part and focusing on saving business as you can see we are
selectively reducing our exposure and are continuing to reshape our traditional savings
business with the goal to progressively decrease its capital intensity. How, one, reducing
net inflows and extensively bundling, the traditional savings components of our new
products, with unit linked and protection components. And therefore decreasing the
weight of traditional savings In the portfolio. Two, progressively reducing minimum
guarantees as demonstrated by our capability to bring new business average guarantee
is below zero in the Eurozone. When this is not enough we are going to zero or negative
net inflows. And three, reshaping guarantees as an example, in Italy, we have the
traditional savings business is almost entirely fee-based, the weight of non-guaranteed
business, i.e, business, where the guarantees granted only in case of death is expected
to increase from 2% in 2018% to 14% in our 2023 projections.
As of our nine months 2020 results, Italian saving new business premiums were almost
entirely with zero guarantee at maturity or with guarantee only in case of death. We fund
an even split between the two. These features implicitly reduce the average level of
guarantee. If we for illustrative purposes, associate a conservative zero guarantee to the
14% business. We filed guarantee then the average guarantee in 2023 in Italy would be
0.7%. This is a sharp decrease compared with 1.2% in 2018.
All these actions allow us to sustain investment result even in the current low interest rate
environment and highlight our continuous focus on the capital intensity of our savings

Page 21 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

business. I would like to provide more details regarding the management of the Swiss unit
linked regular premium run off portfolio, that has as of year-end '19 almost 8 billion Swiss
francs reserves and 2.4% average guaranteed benefit at maturity.
This portfolio is partially hedged and has high loadings and fees attached. And profit
stemming from the associated profitable risk coverages. In order to strengthen the
company's SSD ratio and decrease, its volatility, we are continuously implementing capital
management and ALM actions, including lengthening of the total asset duration, derisking
investment and extending the hedging through dynamic hedging on interest rate and
equity risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moreover, in the last quarter of 2020 we will execute our capital increase of CHF400
million to provide an additional cushion for the SSD ratio to absorb stress scenarios as of
nine months 2020, the SSD ratio was in the region of 130%, also due to the measures
already implemented to date and the capital increase will bring this figure to around
150%, you should expect further improvement in the future considering the
implementation of the additional measures to describe above, moreover fully sourcing of
the management of the unit link in France has been completed in the third quarter of
2020, when our topic, but I would like to address is the guarantee reserve, the purpose
of the guarantee reserve is to progressively finance in advance cost of guarantees, but
are due far into the future.
It is therefore dependent on methodology assumptions and financial market
development, I would like to point out that the mutualization between swiss portfolio is
not allowed due to declining interest rates Generali started the contribution to guarantee
reserving 2010 with a methodology agreed with the local regulator.
We remind you but the guarantee reserves as of year-end 2019 amounts to CHF1.3 billion.
In the top right chart we illustrate the two key drivers of the discontinuity in early
guarantee reserve contribution experiencing 2020, the Black arrow represents the
increased amount of the total cumulative contribution to fulfill the future cost of
guarantees, and the Red Arrow represents the acceleration effect of 2020.
I remind you that the financing of the cumulative contribution to IFRS guarantee reserve is
mostly covered by technical profits and fees, as a proof of these the Solvency II present
value of future profit of this portfolio is negative and amounts to minus CHF0.6 billion at
half year 2020, in the chart underneath, you can see the historical pattern of the
contribution to the guarantee reserve under group IFRS accounting and the expectation
until 2021. In 2017 and 2018 around CHF0.2 billion per year were allocated to the
guarantee reserves, in 2019 taking into consideration the scenario of negative swap rates,
a higher amount of around CHF0.4 billion was allocated, to reflect even lower interest
rates, long-term expectations and COVID-19 impact on equity markets in 2020, we use
more prudent assumptions to calculate the cumulative contribution and adopted also in
line with the agreement with the local regulator and accelerated reserving partner this
translates into an expected contribution of around CHF0.6 billion in 2020 according to the
projection based on the actual financial and demographics scenario for 2021 our
contribution of around CHF0.3 billion is expected positive or negative variances will be
allocated to the guarantee reserves linearly in the next seven years.
Page 22 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Moving away from accounting. We would like to remind you that Solvency II already and
beds the full economic view of the portfolio. Solvency II present value of future profits of
the unit linked to run off portfolio moved from breakeven at year-end 2018 to minus
CHF0.6 billion at half year 2020 mainly due to the deteriorated market conditions not
considering the guarantee reserves contribution, but increase the present value future
profit.
The decrease is around CHF1.1 billion. Which is reflected also by the increased contribution
to, the guarantee reserves from 2019 onwards. However, I would like to highlight, but the
Solvency II presence that your future profit for the whole Swiss life company he is a slightly
positive as of healthier year 2020 we remind you that this is the only portfolio this nature
in the entire group. Let us now move to P&C segment where I would like to highlight how
we have delivered and are able to sustain the growth of results. The first message I want
to stress is our leadership position in retail and SMEs with a high quality and diversified
portfolio, both in terms of geography and product offerings the geographical footprint
and business lines are the outcome of strategic choices and drive our robust top line
growth. Higher-growth business, units like Austria, Central, Eastern Europe and Russia
continued to increase their weight in terms of premiums. Moreover, acquisitions like
Adriatic Slovenica and Seguradoras Unidas confirm our potential on high margin markets
and support the growth in terms of business mix. We are growing our portfolio, we find
increasing share of profitable non-motor products. Please consider that excluding Europe
systems whose travel business was materially affected by COVID-19, we would have
registered a growth at nine months, 2020 versus the same period in 2019 of 1.6% on a
like-for-like basis. As you can see on this slide, we have progressively reduced our
combined ratio over the last few years, both at Group and business unit level. The
sustainability of our combined ratio demonstrated by our solid track record is also
confirmed by the reduced COVID-19 impact compared to our peers.
This is due to our portfolio composition and disciplined underwriting approach with
prudent insurance and with relatively limited exposure to business interruption and large
GC&C account and hardly any exposure to event cancellation. To drive farther technical
excellence, we will continue to implement claims management actions aimed at reducing
fraud and streamlining claims centers. This will be added to continuous portfolio
management and technical pricing refinement. Finally, what I want to stress is that the
performance of our combined ratio has been achieved while preserving our historically
high level of prudency in reserving.
Let's move to debt management. In our Generali 2021 strategic plan, we announced an
active debt management approach. Targeting a gross interest expense reduction of
between EUR70 million and EUR140 million with a year end 2017 as the baseline. And
financial debt reduction of between EUR1.5 billion and EUR2 billion compared to the end
of 2018 level. We materially over-achieved the gross interest expense reduction target
one year in advance as we expect to land with EUR200 million lower interest charge in
2021 compared to 2017. Financial debt reduction stands at EUR1.9 billion and is a secured
in the high end of the target range announced. Again one year ahead of plan. We have
been quite active in the last two years and death management gave us also the
opportunity to focus on our sustainability commitment through the issuance of two Green
Bonds. We were the first insurance company in Europe to issue such an instrument a

Page 23 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

testament of how sustainability is at the heart of our strategy. We took a proactive
approach aimed at the rebalancing the debt maturity profile while optimizing our Solvency
II position in terms of quality of capital.
We achieved this through four transaction in these two years. At the beginning of 2019,
we announced the reimbursement of EUR750 million of subordinated debt replacing it by
issuing only EUR500 million of subordinated debt. This led to a reduction of our external
financial debt by EUR250 million in September 2019, we launched the first liability
management transaction followed by a second one in July 2020 to smoothen the 2022
maturity peak resulting in a more balanced debt profile giving ourselves the flexibility on
timing and solutions for refinancing the first liability management in September 2019 led
to a deleveraging of EUR250 million, while the second one was neutral in terms of
outstanding debt, but help to far reduce the refinancing risk and led to additional savings
in interest expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

In January 2020 we repaid our EUR1.25 billion senior debt with internal resources. The
maturity profile is now significantly reshaped avoiding peaks in specific years and with a
longer average maturity. Looking at the coming maturities in the next three years, for a
total amount of around EUR2.7 billion they entail both subordinated and senior bonds with
an average interest cost of 6.4% providing further opportunities for interest cost
reduction in coming years.
Proactive that management is in fact lever where we benefit from the low interest rate
environment. We will continue to manage our total debt in a proactive flexible and
opportunistic way, considering market conditions and the trade-off decisions versus other
investment opportunities.
Let's now move to discuss about solvency position. I would like to present you the
resilience of our Solvency position at both group and major company level even even in
far risk threat scenarios we have carried out scenario based on the nine months 2020
position which already reflects the financial impact of COVID-19. We call this the stress on
top of stress approach. We have considered a farther 125 basis points widening in the
Italian BTP spread against euros swap. This corresponds to around 240 basis points on
the Italian BTP spread against the euro swaps. I would like to highlight, but under such a
scenario there would be no activation of the country specific Italian volatility adjustment.
We added a further drop in interest rates of minus 25 basis points compared to nine
months 2020. I would like to highlight that between year-end 2019 in nine months 2020
there was already a minus 45 bps drop in interest rates on the 10-year euros swap rate.
Additionally, we have more the 20% fall in equity markets and 125 basis points widening of
corporate spreads. Despite the additional stress you can see on this slide, but our
solvency remains at healthy levels well above 150% both at Group and the major company
level. Their resiliency of our solvency is supported by the capital management actions
including asset duration lengthening and equity derisking performed in the last months.
The year-end solvency position will be further supported by the expected impact of
internal model extension to operational risk, accounting for upto 10 percentage points on
a pro forma basis and by our strong and consistent capital generation driven by life new

Page 24 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

business resiliency and the excellent Non-life current year best estimate result. This will
also support the local companies to solvency position.
For France, I would like to remind you, but the movement between year-end '19 and nine
months '20 is also impacted by the regulatory change for the IORP business where our
unrealized gains and losses recognition was decreased from 25% in 2019 to 15% from
2020 onwards. The impact on the Group's solvency ratio was around 2% I would like to
highlight that the Group's solvency ratio presented is the net of the second tranche of the
2019 dividend and the 2020 pro rata dividend both to be paid in 2021. We will continue to
deduct the 2019 second tranche and the 2020 -- dividend as we consider when due to
our shareholders. In conclusion, we have a solid solvency position that can cope with
farther stress both at Group and major company level. These also sustains remittances as
we will see on the next slide. I would like to remind you, but remittances from subsidiaries
are reported on a cash basis instead of on accrual basis. These graph shows but we
derive the biggest part of the remittance from subsidiaries with a very strong solvency
position. As you can see almost all the remittance in 2019 and those expected in 2020
and 2021 derived from subsidiaries with a solvency above 170%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2021, the decrease of the weight of remittances coming from subsidiaries we've
solvency above 250% is also due to the successful implementation of our capital
management framework, but foresees excess capital repatriation from the subsidiaries
with a capitalization and tangible capital in excess of our preferred range. As of today
100% of expected group remittance for 2020 has been secured. Despite the challenging
COVID-19 context, but created both market volatility and regulatory uncertainty.
Despite the impact of lower interest rates, we expect remittances to remain resilient next
year with over 90% originated from subsidiaries with a Solvency II ratio of over 170%. In
this complex environment. We also believe that such strongly capitalized entities, reduce
risk off the regulatory intervention. On this slide, I recap where we stand today. In relation
to the main targets connected with the successful implementation of the capital
management and cash management strategy.
As I have already said 100% of the expected group remittances for 2020 have been
already secured. This puts us in a very good position on our remittance target to
upstream at least EUR9.5 billion from business units. As of today, we are on track and
thanks to the strong local solvency position described in the previous slide future
remittances are based on solid foundations looking at the 2019, 2021 cumulative net
holding cash flow target of over EUR7 billion. We are currently ahead of the Generali 2021
plan. Thanks mainly to the decrease in gross interest expenses on that tax and cost. In
term of normalized capital generation, we are on track for the EUR10.5 billion target
driven by life new business and non-life current year best estimate results. We have been
very consistent in our cash centralization strategy by extending the participation to the
cash internalization platform to newly acquired entities and by enabling new centralization
levers to complete the treasury model this has translated into a greater discipline in cash
management across the group, as reflected in a higher and more stable cash position at
the parent company level.

Page 25 of 46



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

All of these contributes to the strong cash position, even after deduction of dividend and
of the capital increase in Switzerland. To summarize, we are fully committed to Generali
2021 financial targets, even in this challenging context. Generali is commitment to
technical excellence is reaffirm both in live and P&C and we are accelerating product
rebalancing. In Life, we are managing our business with our primary focus on our liabilities
shifting towards more profitable, less capital-intensive products and are reshaping our
traditional saving business our goal is to achieve sound growth in a lower for longer
interest rate environment. In P&C, we maintain our commitment to drive technical
excellence and position ourselves in terms of business mix and geographical footprint to
capture profitable growth opportunities.
We outperformed our debt optimization targets and have Farber potential opportunities
to improve that cost Generali, as a very strong and resilient capital position at group and
major company level, even in far risk stress scenarios and these secures our commitment
towards dividend distribution. Our effective cash and capital management framework is
fundamental for the achievement of our targets and to enhance financial flexibility. For
example, we were among the first to implement the hedging of our unit linked fees with
benefits in terms of decrease of capital intensity and reduction of volatility of both P&L
and own funds. With all this in mind, I am confident, but we will deliver on our Generali
2021 strategic plan commitments. Thank you for your attention.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Cristiano. Before opening the live Q&A. Our Group CEO, Philippe Donnet, will
provide us with some closing remarks. And after that we will show you a short video of our
recently launched advertisement campaign. Over to you, Philippe.

Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

You should now, have a clear picture of our strategic and financial progress against our
generally 2021 plan. While the context has changed significantly since we first presented
this strategy. I am extremely proud of the proactive and this is actions taken by our teams
to face these challenges head on. In the last 10 months we stayed true to our strategy by
seeking out of the box solutions to ensure business continuity anticipating change in order
to innovate our business and pushing forward with our system ability goals and always
acting in the best interest of all our stakeholders.
The current context has made us more mindful that we must always be ready to adapt to
the situation we find ourselves in it has also allowed us to accelerate our digital
transformation at all levels and reminded us that the human touch so deeply grounded in
Generali's DNA is all the more important we have always been close to our customers
and now more than ever, we see the true value of what we offer to them security and
peace of mind in the most challenging moments.
Our ambitions go far beyond the conclusion of the current strategic plan, we want to be a
group that our stakeholders can truly rely upon investors customers employees families
distributors and our communities. None of this could be possible, without our people. Our
72,000 colleagues and our 155,000 agents in 50 markets across the world who
Page 26 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

contribute to the same purpose to enable people to shape a set of future by caring for
the lives and dreams.
It is, thanks to them that we are able to come to you, quarter-after-quarter, year after
year to present you with the fruits of our efforts. Results that are the hallmark of the trust
the people placing us and there are the manifestation of our Group's credibility. We have
proven to be a reliable and resilient time and time again with almost 200 years of
experience in technical expertise. We have the know-how to face the challenges of the
pandemic in the current low interest rate environment. At the heart of everything we do is
and will be our ambition to be the lifetime partner, building trust and allowing our
customers to achieve their dreams caring for them and being but their side in every
phase of their life.
I sincerely expect that our next meeting will be in person. So I can shake your hand. And
thank you personally for your continued support for Generali, because as I have always
said, insurance is a people business, it's about trust, it's about providing security and
protection in a world of growing uncertainty. It's about being a source of hope for the
future. Thank you so much.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We can now start the Q&A section. We will start by taking question coming through the
phone. (Operator Instructions) Your first question, Michael Huttner from Berenberg. Please
go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Well, thank you. Thank you so much. What a great, great invest and it's really nice. I have
really two questions, the first one is on the cash, what free cash position, you alluded
many times, it was bigger and I just wondered what's the figure is, and then you have this,
-- the life spreads, you know the 186 bids in 2019, up from 156 bids and the asset liability
management, you spoke a lot about the investment side and you kind of alluded to the
liability management.
That actually mean transforming it's back book and how much has been done and how
much can still be done. Thank you.

A - Luciano Cirina

{BIO 16706180 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm going to ask our Group CFO. Cristiano Borean to answer the first question.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Hi, Michael. So, let me remind you at 920 the -- position was a higher of EUR4.1 billion cash
and by year-end 2020, we expect to be above the EUR4 billion. Please take this into
account also after the announcement of the second tranche delays.

Page 27 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

A - Luciano Cirina

{BIO 16706180 <GO>}

Thank you. Okay. And then on the second question, I will ask our General Manager to talk
about the mix and the back book transformation. And then, I will ask Tim to give some
comments on the investment margin.

FINAL

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
Thank you, Michael. We've done over the past two years, 5G, which I would call inforce
deals of course Generali Leben. But also Belgium, Holland and the disposal of two smaller
portfolio in the UK. And -- still has a few remains the same. I mean, we are extremely
opportunistic and disciplined on fees and we are permanent at least creating our
portfolios.
And that's why I can tell you that we have other projects in the pipeline. Of course, I
cannot mention specific lease projects, but we have other projects in the pipeline on the
in-force -- there is appetite on the market as you know, but of course, you never know
before closing the deals. So we will close these deals only if the makes sense for our
shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

On the investment margin as you look as asset and liabilities we have done as Fredrik
mentioned as well as what Cristiano mentioned a tremendous work on the cost of
liabilities under the exchange of product mix. If I look forward on 2023, we see that our
margins are going to comprise by roughly 20 basis point, we are going to have said that
by a substantial a different into real assets as you have seen, we have no ambition to be
able to deploy EUR15 billion in real assets by the time we get to 2023. We have said we
represent roughly 50 basis point on the total yield of our portfolio. So it's quite an
important initiative. But we are also very careful on the way we deploy. We're using our
boutique as well as a very thorough risk management framework compliance and liquidity.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

20 bip that you mentioned is this before or after the extra investment in real assets

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

It is after the use of real asset because we need time to be able to deploy those real
assets as you know, the most important part is to source the asset to be able to control
the quality of those asset. And of course to reshuffled if need be, those real assets. So it
is after

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Thank you.

Operator
And your next question comes from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Page 28 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much. Three questions if I may. It's great that you're still confident on
the EPS cargo targets. Such as very well. I mean if I compare your waterfall on Slide 56. My
numbers, then I guess the main difference is the benefit from the deployment of excess
cash. And from the EUR100 million of expense savings. I guess if I'm honest, I'm surprised
that you can get the full run rate of those that quickly. By the end of next year. I mean,
especially given the bulk of the firepower is still waiting to be deployed as I understand it.
So I'm just wondering if you can help me understand those dynamics there.
And then the second question was on Switzerland if I look at the operating profit, then in
2017. This was EUR200 million 2018. It was above that 2019, it would have been above
EUR200 without the reserving actions but you mentioned that you expected negative in
2021. So I guess my question is if the reserving requirement is only EUR100 million up in
2021 then why are we expecting such a big swing in the operating profit. And maybe if
you could give some comments about what you sort of think the long-term run rate might
be once you have sort sort of back to a normal level.
And sorry if I can cheekily cut in the third question, you mentioned 100% of the expected
2020 remittance was secured could you trying to fly if that means you've got all the cash
from all the entities, you're expecting or whether some entities was subsidizing others.
Thank you very much.

A - Luciano Cirina

{BIO 16706180 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Cristiano, over to you.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Yes. Peter. So first, first question related to EPS target the deployment part. Please note
that as I correctly mentioned during the speech the deployment and there is also the
effect of all the investment done so far, including the catalog apart which immediately
start with an equity accounting method. So, you have to imagine that there is a pro rata
benefit also on this one. And going forward, you will see progressively also all the benefits
coming from the synergies progressively even getting higher. In the second question
related to the Switzerland operating profit, I would like to hand over to Frederic.

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
Thank you. Yes, Peter. I'll start explaining to you what we are doing in Switzerland, and
then I give back the word to Christiano. So, in Switzerland first, I think this is important to
remind that they are three different pieces in the business. The first one is the P&C 1,
which is a good business. The second one is the Life New business, which is also a good
one. And then we have an in-force book, which needs attention. We have especially EUR8
billion unit linked with guarantee at maturity and let me just tell you that this is the only unit
link with guarantee that we have -- that we have in the Group.
I think this is also important to remind you that PVFP of our Live business in Switzerland is
slightly positive. So yes, we have high guarantees on some products and you know that
we have a 2.4% average guarantee. But we have also extremely high fees and we have
Page 29 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

extremely profitable riders, protection riders attached to the business and attached to
the savings business. So, what we've done over the past year, is that we've taken decisive
actions to de-risk portfolio and to lower the volatility.
So, one, we have and we are extending the dynamic hedging. Second action is that we
have lengthened the duration of the assets, so that we have a better matching and all of
these allow us to have solid solvency margin in SST. So, according to the Swiss standards,
we are around EUR130 million at the end of September, and we will be around EUR150
million over the EUR400 million capital increase that we are implementing at year-end. So,
our conviction is that we have implemented the right action to de-risk the portfolio in
Switzerland. Now to Christian on the result.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Yes, and to complete the point exactly in line what Frederic was explaining you, Peter, that
is the effect of a kind of stop loss risk management decision in order to increase the
hedging. And the dynamic hedging as you know as a cost and pass through P&L on one
side and the lengthening of duration clearly has an effect also of a lower recurring income.
So you need to put all these things adding up and taking into account the variances of the
reserving for the 2021 as an effect, which explains this going forward as a lower -- a lower
contribution. Relating to...

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. Could I just follow-up very quickly on that. I mean, so if I just sort of then take 2021
as the base where we're expecting EUR300 million of reserving and an operating profit
of double-digit negative, then beyond that presumably, we're going to be back to a run
rate of sort of EUR200 million. So that may be means that the operating profit we should
expect from Switzerland is maybe double digit positives on an annual basis past 2021. Is
that the right sort of thinking or am I, I mean as a result of the de-risking we sort of low at
the baseline a little bit?

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

You should lower the base. It is not going back to that level, exactly for the reason I was
telling you. So, the run rate goes below because of less recurring income, more cost on
the hedging, and in general, broader lower risk management income coming from the
investment strategy even going forward. So, you should expect a decrease and not such
a level of run rate.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thank you very much.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Okay, third question related to cash remittances are some entities subsidizing the hours.
As I showed you in the stress on stress scenario, all the major entities are well capitalized
to bear very large stress scenario and this is allowing us to allow the full remittance plan of
what we were expecting, especially has a highlighted, I can confirm you that 100% of the
Page 30 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

remittance 2020 has been secured, which means that in the number I gave you as cash at
year-end. We will have the full 2020 remittance plan expected in our bank accounts
interested by year-end.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. Next question please.

Operator
This question comes from Andrew Sinclair from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Good morning and thanks, everyone. Three from me. Firstly, as you speak of a good
update on progress, reiterate there a lot of targets today. One, I didn't didn't spot
apologies if I said there was the operating profit target, which I think is 4% to 6%
compounded over the time period. I just wondered if you could give us thoughts on that,
so we'll be able to have that that and just really get any idea of the operating and nonoperating split?

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly was on the cash for M&A, the EUR2.5 billion that you've got remaining really to
starts or how you're looking splitting up between smaller acquisitions or would you prefer
for one larger acquisition? And just thirdly was, you mentioned strong reserving levels
maintained -- historically strong reserving levels on P&C, I just wondered if you could give
us any numbers or details and any increased expectation for reserve releases? Thanks.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Andy, sorry your line wasn't perfect. Can you confirm your first question is about our
operating profit target? Your second question is about how are we planning to deploy the
EUR2.5 billion M&A correct?

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Correct, yeah, could it be a smaller acquisitions or one larger?

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Major one, yes, thank you. And finally, I didn't catch the third question. Do you mind to
repeat it again?

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Sure. It's probably my accent as much as the M&A -- or as much as the line. But the third
question was on, you mentioned historically strong reserving levels for P&C. Just
wondered if you could put any numbers or details around that, just for that had been an
increased expectation for reserve releases? Thanks.

Page 31 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Perfect. Cristiano, if you can start with the first question and then I'm going to -- we can
move to Philippe for the M&A and the reserving for Frederic. Thank you very much.

FINAL

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

So, Andrew. The operating target, we did not give in this plan -- an operating result target.
Anyhow, it is a very important component as you can see and very resilient component of
our result -- total result. What I can confirm you is that the projection of our operating
result stay strong because of the resilience of the book. Also thanks to the contribution of
Non-Life business, which is strong and less impacted than COVID than average in the
market. And this is again a factor of stabilization of the operating results going forward.
So, you should expect a sufficiently resilient and growing operating result for the 2021
part.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Over to you, Philippe.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Yes. On M&A, the framework we described a couple of years ago is still accurate both on
the strategic standpoint and on the financial standpoint. As you said, we still have EUR2.5
billion to allocate to acquisitions. The difference compared to two years ago is that
obviously due to the the COVID-19 crisis, new opportunities may be available. And
definitely, we would look at them as well. Talking about the size of the acquisition, I would
say doesn't really matter what matters most in the quality of the acquisition. So obviously,
the price, our ability to integrate successfully the business we acquired, this is very
important to us.
So far, we've been very proactive on small and medium acquisition, which is a good
strategy. I would say all the options are on the table. We are open to all options remaining
in our strategic and financial discipline and being opportunistic. So, the quality matters
more than the size.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Over to you, Frederic.

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
Andrew, on your question on P&C reserves. First, you know that over the past years, we
had about 4 points positive impact due to reserve release on prior years. And if you look
at our Solvency II disclosures, despite this reserve release, you've seen that our reserve
buffer, if I may say has been pretty stable over the past years, which means that we are
reserving in a cautious way.
Clearly, this year the release will be lower, which means that the buffer will increase. What
the buffer on our reserves? What do I expect in the coming years? I expect that we come

Page 32 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

back to -- I would say, normal rate, which is last year rate, so reserve release of about 4
points a year.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

FINAL

Next question, please.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
And this question comes from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, thank you very much. First, a question for Tim, please. On slide 39, you showed
your asset mix is actually shifted towards government bonds over the past four years and
that's superficially counterintuitive, but I can imagine there is a number of potential
explanations regarding market movements and asset allocation in the rest of it. So, I just
want to -- could you help me understand why your government bond exposure has
increased on that period in the slide?
Secondly, please. I'm not sure if this is Tim or Philippe, but you frequently make reference
to this ambition of becoming a top five most profitable asset manager in the boutique
area. Forgive me, but can you just remind me how you're actually measuring that, where
you are today and what you actually need to do to get into the top five?
And then lastly, sorry, if I can sneak in a third question. Your retail orientation at the
moment is serving you very well through the COVID crisis in Non-Life that's clear. And I
think many people still have a question about whether being so materially underweight
commercial lines, leaves you had a long-term competitive disadvantage when we think
about the disruption from technology and the Internet of Things and automated cars and
all that kind of stuff. So, even though you're doing well this year from being underweight
retail, are you strategically thinking about the opportunities of expanding more into
commercial lines over time? Thank you.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Tim, I suggest you take the first two questions. I think you...

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

Yeah, we can take the first two questions. So, thank you William for this. The first aspect
on your question on exposure is part of what I presented, which is the extension of
duration. I believe that interest rate risk is better managed by government bonds and we
have extended the duration of our portfolio by 1.5 year in Life and 0.5 years in P&C
because we also have obviously the willingness to reduce the risk of the downside in
interest rate risk.
Page 33 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

The second part of this reason why you see this is, as we go into real asset, many of the
real asset have especially on private debt have a low duration, floating most of the time
and for us to be able to counterbalance this affect or having very good yield and spread
as long as you are very good at sourcing and managing the risk. You need to also
counterbalance this aspect of short duration with longer duration and we use government
bond to do this.
So, this is to address your first question. At the end, it's a 1.0 increase but this is important
to notice and we are very, very deliberate in the way we do it and we are looking at the
360 degrees of old implication. This is also an expansion of our increase of cash, I can
come back to this if you want.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other topic on multi-boutique. Multi-boutique is for us merger and in terms of success
around our net profit. Today, as you ask directly to the question on where we stand, we
are number 6, if we compare that to all the different multi-boutique in the world that
define themselves as a multi-boutique and operate as multi-boutique that is to have
majority stake from a Company like Generali and give autonomy in investment decision
outside, I can give you many names, but the point is we're number 6 in terms of profit. To
be on a number 5, we will probably need to have a EUR75 million to EUR80 million
additional net profit to be at that level.
This goal of being number 5, on the top 5, is a long-term goal. It's not 2021, we know it
takes time. The consolidation in this market is pretty active. As you know, this year, we had
a couple of multi-boutique that have been through transformation, but on our side, we
are convinced this is the right model to be able to align interest of clients, interest of
obviously Group in terms of diversifying our fee business, business and obviously for our
shareholders. So, this is to address your two questions. I will leave now the floor to the
question around the third one to Philippe

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Philippe will start and maybe Frederic can add. Thank you.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Thank you. Yes, our portfolio, which is mostly a retail portfolio, as you said, has been
predicting us this year definitely, but I would say not only this year, because this year, our
combined ratio was under 90%. But in the previous years, we had combined ratio around
slightly above 90% than anyway the best of the of the industry.
So, we are definitely happy with the quality of our portfolio. You remember that when we
presented our strategic plan Generali 2021 two years ago, we said that one of our strong
convictions was that we would be able to get growth and profitable growth remaining in
our core market, which is individuals, families, professionals and SMEs and this is even
more true today.
We've seen that people are not protected enough. SMEs are not predicted enough. So,
we just can't confirm this conviction and this will remain our core business. Having said
Page 34 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

that, we are not out of the large corporation, the insurance business, we have a
dedicated business unit, corporate and commercial with around EUR2 billion premium and
we are quite happy with this business. The quality of this business is good. This is strong.
We are confident that in the next few years price will will increase and will be able to
further increase the profitability of this business. But we will not shift our core business
from retail in SMEs to corporate and commercial.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

And if I -- William, if I can add a comment on the last question. So, first to say clearly, we
do not plan to increase our weight to corporate clients. We are extremely happy on the
retail and SME. And we are happy for two reasons, I mean, the first one as I've mentioned
in my presentation, is that not only we have the best combined ratio amongst our peers,
but we have also the more stable combined ratio. And we want to be a stable. We want
to be a Company with a stable and predictable result. But there is a second reason which
is interesting, which we've seen during this lockdown. Many people may have thought that
the lockdown.
Many people may have thought that the lockdown would have favored digital business
models, new business models, but we've seen -- what we've seen is the contrary. What
we've seen is that in our retail and SME lines, the winners have been the agents and
we've gained market share during this crisis.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we believe that also for retail and SME, people need the right advice and we believe
that we have the right business model to achieve strong and stable results and fees.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Next question, please.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you very much.

Operator
And this question comes from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

First question is for Tim. Some multi-boutiques in the past have run into problems with
retention because this is a model that is quite dependent often on key personalities in
each of the asset managers. I'm a bit confused what is the weighted as a minority stake in
the asset management business and is there accreting phantom equity four key
personalities. I guess I'm just interested, what is the retention strategy beyond pay and
you've told us your operating costs are lows. I'm assuming there must be some other
form of remuneration going on below the line.

Page 35 of 46



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

Second question. It's sort of question about value for money. Is there any evidence yet of
price sensitivity for life and savings customers on how much they're paying annually? If I
look at your product literature for Italy, I can see an average annual reduction in yield
based on the suggested holding period for the products of about 250 to 280 basis
points. Some of your competitors are launching life products with passive components to
lower that weight. It still looks quite high, but they have them for some time and it never
really has mattered. Do you detect any sensitivity at all around the annual running charge
for Life products. Is there any more discussion around that?
The final question, I still have little problems translating your operating profits into bottom
line because of nonoperating noise, does the sale of equities significantly reduce that for
2021, and what is the expected impact of restructuring charges in 2021?

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Tim, if you can start. And then we are going to move to other
questions.

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew, you're absolutely right. In terms of the aspect of alignment and compensation on
the multi-boutique side and asset management overall. We have in common a couple of
key points, one each owner and key personnel have access and have incentive on the
equity of the business, even if we own a 100% of the business. So, this is the first
element.
The second one we want those partners to also put money into the Company, not only as
an element of the capital, but also in the fund they manage and they are incentivized to
distribute. This is a key element for us. And we also have a very clear element is, we don't
have the same model, boutique by boutique. It's actually different, if we engaging real
assets such as infrastructure like GGI versus aperture that we have with Mr. Peter Kraus in
the US. So, our model is very specific depending on this type of asset, depending on the
geographies. But at the end, we want to make sure there is an alignment of interest
between the client Success and their individual success.
This is a key element for us and this is from an experience and I was working in a company
that works with you now. This is for me key to have this alignment. The alignment between
value creation and value sharing. Now, I leave the floor to the second question on the
sensitivities. Is that Frederic?

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
I will take it, Andrew. This is the question we have often on the how much should client pay
or ready to pay, is there some pressure on the margins and so on. But you should
remember that we are a retail company, we are not dealing with high net worth or private
type of clients, generally speaking. So, the fact is that the margins are what clients are
paying is quite different from one market to the other, but is extremely stable if I look
over the past years.

Page 36 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

And we have absolutely no pressure on margins and we do not expect to have pressure
on margins from our retail clients. Then at the end, the proof is that our surrender rates
remain low and the even thing to decrease and our Net Promoter Score on these
products is increasing. So at the end, I think the secret on fees is that the clients value the
brand, they value advice and the value to whom they speak to and they trust our agents
and they trust the brand.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Cristiano, for the last question, please.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

For what regards to the translation, I do agree with you. This year, it was a higher volatility.
The equity de-risking, which has been mentioned both by team and myself during the
speech, is bringing down the volatility. Don't forget that there is also some accounting
driven volatility because of our rules, we have the so-called rule of the -- so-called once
impair those impaired. So, when you held an equity, and this is trigger to be impaired and
if this stays in the book, you are exposed to that, but the portfolio restructuring and in
total the sum of reduction between direct equity and funds of more than EUR4.1 billion of
reduction of equity having done so far, will reduce this volatility.
Second part is expected restructuring charges will decrease and they will be low-double
digit, they would be low to mid-double digit in that region compared to the 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. We are now just going to stop for a second, taking questions from
the phone. And we are going to move to the question coming from the webcast. We have
one question coming from Elena Perini. She is asking what's our strategic view is on Banca
Generali? I will handover to Tim.

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

Yes. As I mentioned during my introduction, we are very happy about the Banca Generali
and the management team is doing a fantastic job. We don't comment on rumors.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. There seems to be no other questions from the webcast, so we
can move back to the phone line. Thank you very much

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from Alberto Villa from Intermonte. Please go
ahead.
Page 37 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. A couple of questions. The first one is on the technical profitability at
P&C. I was wondering taking out the noise of the COVID this year. How do you see the
mid-term profitability in terms of combined ratio for the main jurisdictions and moving
from what we have seen recently? So, do you think there are further room for
improvement or the pressure or do you think this level is expected to be stable? So what
is your view on the mid-term combined ratio for the Group and then eventually for the
main jurisdictions which you are operating?
And the second question is on the ESG update you gave us. Thank you for that. I was
wondering if you can maybe give us an idea of how do you think your position compared
to main tier on this and what is your expectation in terms of, let's say margins or client's
retention of being able to be present and let's say the state-of-art in ESG? Thank you.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you. Frederic, if you can take the first question and then (multiple speakers) ESG.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
Thank you. Alberto. This is good and tricky question because this is always difficult to, as
you said, exclude the noise, but let me -- let me tell you our view. I think there are two
elements. The first one is that thanks to the excellent work done by the team in Generali
Corporate and Commercial. We are strongly improving our profitability in General
Corporate and Commercial. By the way, and I see it in the video you've seen the result of
this business unit over the past years has been better than the result from our peers, but
still there is room for improvement. We had a combined ratio of 101 in this business unit.
We expect this year to have a combined ratio of about 95, which is a mix of pruning and
price increase. Knowing that the business unit is about 10% of our P&C business, it has
let's say 0.5 impact -- positive impact on our global combined ratio.
The second element that you should have in mind is that even before COVID, our
combined ratio had the trend to improve. This is due to all the initiatives we're
implementing on claims on data analytics and so on. And my guess on fees, but this is a
guess is that we could see improvement or of around 0.5 points. So again, take it as a
guess. But I will not be surprised if we see a potential for improvement of our combined
ratio from already extremely low levels of about 1 points

Operator
Thank you very much. Over to you, Lucia

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you, Alberto. And while you give me the possibility to highlight some key concept
that you already touched during my presentation. While the first of all, in terms of the
benchmark with our peers, as you may know, a couple of days ago, where the results of
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and you know we are in the world index in the
European index or at the top of the, let's say, list of competitors. And as you know, ESG
Page 38 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

has now golden standard. So, there are many different ranking and ratings. And we are
always on the top, let's say positions. Let me also remind you that we are one of the Most
sustainable companies, according to corporate nights. So, this gives you the sense of, we
are not just telling our story about. We are proud to be also evaluated by external
sources.
In terms of the competition and how ESG can have the competition. From some internal
surveys, we found that clients are really impacted in terms of preference in understanding
the level of sustainability of companies. So -- and we have seen that when they know the
Generali is sustainable, the preference is multiplied by 7. So, you know, of course we are
deep diving on these results our internal surveys, but this means that definitely ESG will be
a lever for the future competition.
Let me also add that according to some external surveys, again the ESG filters within
investments, so asset manager and asset owner will pay more and more attention to ESG.
So, we really think that also in terms of access to capital markets, definitely ESG will be a
key differentiator. Last but not least, also we must consider all the new let's say
regulations coming sooner. So, it is really likely that ESG will be other than a differentiator
sooner or later kind of condictious and sinequanon to be on the market.

A - Luciano Cirina

{BIO 16706180 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Fredric will just add the point on the first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
I will add a point on your first question, Alberto, because Phillippe reminds me that I have
commented only on the claims ratio and not on the combined ratio. But it is true that we
have also an expense component that we should take into account and you know that our
P&C business up to the COVID used to grow at about 3% a year. This year, it is flat at
constant scope, so year-on-year, but let's say that the trend is about 3% per year. And our
costs in mature markets are decreasing as you know and we've increased our target and
fees. So, you should factor denotes factor in also positive impact on the expense ratio.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Next question please.

Operator
And do you have another question from Michael Huttner from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Page 39 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Well, thank you so much. hree questions. The first one is Frdric gave this lovely answer on
the life back books, but I just wondered if you can also give a figure in terms of the life
liabilities which have been affected so far? The second is really kind of applauds how quick
and how good you are at integrating your acquisitions, and that really is remarkable and
you highlighted the success with Cattolica as well. And I just wondered if you can maybe
mention if there's a kind of secret recipe. Is there kind of secret Zoom team, which
descend on these companies or something? Just to appreciate that when the next deal
comes, we then we'll be able to say how quickly the profits will come out. And then the
last one, which is probably very boring. You gave full answer last week on the regulatory
risk on dividends, which was lovely. And I just wonder if there's any update and particularly
if your regulators have seen your lovely stress on stress charts and is now -- we can be a
bit more confident about the 2019 and 2020 dividends. Thank you

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. My suggest you start Frederic with the first question, Michael sorry,
we didn't hear the second part of the first question, you asked about the life back book...

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

(Multiple Speakers) amount.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, but what you want? You would like the figure or...?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Yeah, just the total figure of liabilities, which have been sold. So, Banca Generali and the
total ago with five deals. I just wondered how much that is in terms of total Life funds?

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

I suggest maybe I'll get back to you after the call. Philippe, over to you for the second
question or the secret of our integration track record?

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

I start with -- I start with this one, okay. So, we start with the second. No, if there were a
secret, I obviously would not delete. I think it's quite simple. First of all, it's personal
experience. Personally, I had to -- many times, I had to work on the integration of
companies, I did it more than 20 years ago in Italy, when our integrated five companies, it
was in another Group, I did it seven years ago when I joined Generali to integrate in
Generali Italy. All the companies that were -- that had not been integrated before, we did
it again recently in Germany and then it has been done very successfully.
For example in Portugal, much less than one year to fully integrate the companies. So, I
agree with you, it's quite a remarkable. I think that if there is a secret, it's speed. You have
to be very aggressive in the timetable, and to setup a very ambitious planning for the
Page 40 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

integration because the longer you wait the more difficult it become to integrate because
you crystallize some difficult situation including human situation. So, you have to put
everybody on board to work on a very fast and quick execution of the integration. And
when you do that, you create enthusiasm and it works and it works. So, there is one secret
being ambitious in the speed of the of the execution.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

And the final question about the regulator and the dividend?

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
On the on the dividend. First of all, this year, we were -- as you know we were allowed to
pay the first half, which is slightly -- a bit slightly more than the half of the dividend that has
been decided by our shareholders meeting. We expect to hit the second tranche as soon
as we are allowed by the regulators.

Bloomberg Transcript

The decision of the Italian regulators, it has been explained was macroeconomic decision.
I think to to do with the specific situation of Generali, which is extremely good, even
including stress -- stress test. So, I hope that for the next few -- for the next years for 2021
and 2022, both European regulators, and local regulators will be more relaxed about
dividends in the insurance industry.
The problem with the current situation is that there is no more level playing field in Europe
because in some countries you are -- insurance companies are allowed to pay dividends
in some countries. We are not allowed to pay dividends in Europe and I think that this
absence of level playing field is not really sustainable in the longer term.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

(Multiple Speakers) just one point I think it is important. If the regulator has seen distress
chart for sure the one off today, yes, but regulatory constantly in contact and seen the
stress test, for example. Having secured the 2020 remittance this year means that there
is an ongoing discussion on projected, solvency projected liquidity of the regulator, which
are the one which accepted and then allowed us to secure. So that was my answer, clearly
integrating the framework described by Philippe.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you. I suggest we now close the call from the phone and we move back to the
webcast. We have two questions coming from Emanuele Musio at Morgan Stanley. The
first question is about P&C pricing. Emanuele is asking which country we have seen the
Page 41 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

most pronounced improvement and what are our combined ratio expectation in those?
And the second question is asking about the hurdle ROI that we have in mind for M&A.
Frederic, if you can take the first one and then over to Philippe?

FINAL

A - Frederic Marie De Courtois D'Arcollieres
So, on the P&C prices. First, we should distinguish commercial lines and retail. And you
know that we have commercial and business. What we see in the commercial end prices
is consistent with the market and we are mainly position on Europe. So, we see singledigit increases on prices. So, let's say around 8% to 9%. And we see, let's say overall also
in in Europe. But on retail, the situation is different usually. But I would like to make it very
clear because we have questions on the fact that prices on retail may decrease because
of the lockdown and so on.
So what we see today is that retail price, retail P&C prices in Europe are absolutely stable.
Also on motor, so we may see some slight increase increase in some countries, some
slight decreases in some other countries, but globally retail prices are stable in Europe.
This is also the opportunity for me to remind that I think the way we managed the
discounts during the lockdown I think has been the right way. So, we have not given
blanket discounts to our clients. But we've given extremely segmented and focus
discounts, where we believe it was useful and I think it was good for the client. It was also
good for our technical profitability.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Philippe, over to you on the M&A.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

On the second question, I would say that there is not that much to add to the framework
that has been disclosed two years ago about the strategic criteria and the financial
discipline. Obviously, we are targeting return on investment higher than our cost of equity.
This is the reason the why we were talking about the insurance business. We are very
much targeting countries where we already are in order to not only to strengthen -- to
further strengthen our market position but also to get significant benefits from synergies
which obviously boost the return on investment.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you. We can now move to the next question comes from Michael Haid at
Commerzbank. He is asking us the reason behind our equity de-risking and asking
whether this was driven by Solvency II ratio by the desire to reduce the IFRS accounting
volatility, so he is asking what was the main reason? Suggest for Tim to take the question?
Thank you.

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

We always base our decision on economics and fundamentals. We're entering this crisis
by being cautious and actually even negative, as I mentioned in my speech, about the
huge dislocation we are facing. Just to remind everyone, we have a spread between the
Page 42 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

FINAL

NASDAQ and the S&P of 22 points and there is a huge dislocation and our portfolio had to
actually to be repositioned to have a better sector allocation, star allocation and we took
the benefit of the rebound during the spring and the summer to actually diversify in better
that portfolio.
And as well for us to keep an upside on the equity market, because we also believe that
on a long run is a good to be an investor in equity, but we also believe that there is some
sign of tension and I'm actually cautious for the end of the year-end 2021, as we can see
the volatility spike again in the market. And I think we always look at not only the expected
return, but also the risk that we have and not just volatility, but also the overall evolution of
geopolitical risk as well as financial risk and economic risk, which we are facing with the
unpredictable action sometime of government. So, we are cautious. It's being driven only,
but economic decision.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We can now move to the next question. We have two questions coming from
Claudia Gaspari at Barclays. The first question is with regard to dividend. Claudia is asking
if the EIOPA was to extend the dividend ban into next year whether we expect IVASS to
take a case-by-case approach or? Or if we think there is a chance that they my follow and
extend the blanket ban? And the second question is on the slide 46 of the Asset
Management Presentation. she's asking out that EUR230 million in the waterfall, how
much of that is driven by in-sourcing of unit link funds? And she's asking whether there is
much more to do from here. So, I suggest Philippe, if you can start and then for team to
take the question on the asset management slide? Thank you.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Well, definitely, I don't know the answer to this question, because I don't know what your
price is going to decide for next year. I don't know what would be the position of IVASS
regarding the EIOPA's recommendation, so I cannot say. Once again, I hope that this will
stop next year. And there are many reasons for these. I already said that the fact that
there is no longer a level playing field in Europe in the insurances is not sustainable and
this is in this is very important. I also want to make the point on the difference with the
banking industry situation because first of all, as you know during this crisis and everybody
understand that. Banks got the benefit from some capital relief from regulators. They
could distribute loans with the guarantees -- with the guarantees of states. So, they were
asked in exchange not to pay dividend this year, but the ECB was able to guarantee the
level playing field in Europe for all banks and all of these didn't happen with the insurance
industry. We didn't benefit from any kind of capital relief.
The policies, the insurance policies we continued selling during the crisis don't benefit
from any kind of state guarantee. And once again, EIOPA was not able to guarantee the
level playing field in Europe. So, it's a very different situation, which makes me hope
reasonably that it will be a different situation next year.

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Tim, over to you.

Page 43 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

A - Tim Ryan

{BIO 21076682 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. On the second question, the increase we have of EUR230 million plus for
2020 is clearly linked to the growth that we have, thanks to Generali. Two-third of that
growth is coming from Generali including unit link and one-third is coming from the
distribution and the boutique that we have externally and with our external clients.
So, this is very important to notice. The expansion we have, as you know, we want to keep
and Fredric has mentioned that several times, we want to have an open architecture
platform for our unit linked and we want to ensure that we always have the best offer for
our customer. That means that we still have room to grow to answer directly to your
question. We are growing. Lucia mentioned ESG, we are doing a fantastic job to integrate
our ESG capability in the platform because there is a substantial demand of these
products. We are doing also real asset into the platform of unit link including our
infrastructure that team of GGI. So, there is room to grow, to answer your question.
And we are actually planning for this. As you know, we want to continue to expand our
range of product. Over the last three years, we've been able to massively shift the offer
from a very low base to now more than 27 different products. And when I say products is
strategies and we want to continue to develop in the thematic approach. In the coming
days, you will see some news on this topic that will attract also and help us to provide
better upside for our clients in this environment of lower for longer.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lucia Silva

{BIO 20229471 <GO>}

Thank you very much. As we have no more questions from the webcast, I understand
there is one more question in the phone queue. So, I suggest we open the queue for the
last question. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. This question comes from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody. Thank you so much. Firstly on Cattolica, you haven't really given any
guidance on the extra revenues that you may get from asset management from
reassurance from Internet of Things and it seems to me that it could be quite a major
component to the next few years. So, I'm just wondering if -- what you can say about that.
Secondly, on cash flow, you're ahead of your run rate and it sounds like even if you inject
capital back into Switzerland, you're going to be ahead. So, can you give us some
quantitative feel for where you are and are we now looking at a convergence between
cash and capital generation for the next few years?
And then lastly, very quickly, if I may, could you just explain the EUR13.5 billion of social and
green products that you have in a pie chart in your presentation, what does that refer to?
Thank you.

Page 44 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Thank you. Cristiano suggest, if you can start with the question and then we'll hand over
to Lucia

FINAL

A - Cristiano Borean

{BIO 15246531 <GO>}

Hi, Farooq. So, the guidance of the extra revenues we said that it is in the range of the low
double-digit million euro on top of the equity method accounting of the result of the
company, which drives us for our return on investment above our threshold. And the
second question related to cash flow and capital generation. You need to be aware of the
fact that we were able to overperform, especially in the components of lower cost of
debt, lower cost in the Assicurazioni Generali and also better tax consolidation effects.

Bloomberg Transcript

On top of this, there is also the effect of the cash remittance to be secured and has been
secured and going also forward, which is allowing us to be better and even after the
capital contribution to Switzerland you mentioned. So the guidance, in my opinion is that
on the net holding cash flow, you should see some hundreds million more on cash and we
will see in the next year, the full deployment.
So, it is not an immaterial over performance, which is exactly linked also to the amount
that Frederic was mentioning of more than EUR10 billion cash. And the convergence
between cash and capital generation, we are still in a region of differences between this
effect and the effect of the capital generation because I can't confirm you that we are in
line with the EUR3.5 billion run rate capital generation even slightly above this year, thanks
to the run rate capital generation even slightly above this year, thanks to the non-life
current year best estimate. And this is still different from the net holding cash flow as our
run rate because this is coming from the fact that the amount of cash generated by the
business still is not fully deployed because of our big bucket of life, which has to still a roll
on. I think we need some more years to get to that level. Hope, I answered you.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Now we can hand over to Lucia for the question on green and social
products.

A - Luciano Cirina

{BIO 16706180 <GO>}

Thank you very much. And as I mentioned, green and social products refer to let's say
three main concept. The first one is really about those products that can have positive
impact on the environment. And think about pay as you drive, for example. Second let's
say, big piece of this products are about those products that can incentivize responsible
behaviors and I think about vitality, for example. So, with the positive impact on the health
of the people, but also on the health system of the states. And finally, we focus on
vulnerable people, the elderly, the young family's children, women. So, you know is really,
let me also add that is kind of the core of what we call the responsible consumer
ecosystem. So, we have definitely a strategic approach on the way we do business when
think about also on a sustainability. So, this goal that we have on green and social products
is really about integrating sustainability in our core business and the green and social

Page 45 of 46



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2020-11-18

product refers to the lifetime partner when applied to those customers that want to have
a positive impact to the environment and to the society.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

That's great, thank you so much.

A - Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

That was the final a question. So, it concludes our question-and-answer session. We are
really grateful for your interest. We look forward to meet with you virtually for the time
being over the coming months. And we thank you all for all the attention. Thank you very
much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 46 of 46

