Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-16

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager & Director

Other Participants
Manuela Meroni

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome and thank you for joining Poste Italiane Consolidating the
Italian Main Market Conference Call. As a reminder, all participants are in a listen-only
mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator
Instructions)

Bloomberg Transcript

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.Matteo Del Fante, Chief
Executive Oﬃcer and General Manager of Poste Italiane. Please go ahead, sir.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. And here with me, the CFO, Guido Nola; the
Head of the Logistic, Massimo Rosini; and Massimiliano Riggi, Investor Relations.
As you know, last week we published our third quarter and we conﬁrm Mail decline has a
trend. Indeed the trend is more pressing in Italy where e-substitution has been faster than
other countries in Europe and the lockdown made it even heavier.
Today, we're pleased to announce the Nexive [ph] a transaction that aims to tackle the
trend and to ensure the long-term sustainability of the national postal service in Italy.
Yesterday night we signed a preliminary agreement to acquire Nexive, the second postal
operator in Italy. The acquisition is in line with what experience in other countries in
Europe, which already see the presence of strong National Mail Champions dominating
on their own markets.
The acquisition of Nexive that would enable Poste to beneﬁt from economies of scale,
guarantee in the service to all customers across Italy, while preserving our ﬁrst levels. The
transaction falls under Article 75 of low decree number 104 of last summer, signing and
closing are expected by the end of January next year subject to potential speciﬁc
measures that the national antitrust authority may prescribe within 30 days of
Page 1 of 5



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-16

FINAL

authorization period, also say -- also taking into account the overall sustainability of the
transaction for Poste Italiane.
Slide number 3 provides an overview of the low provision which allows the acquisition. In
particular into Article 75, the acquisition of Nexive is a concentration responding to
relevant general interest of the national economy involved in companies operating in
markets, characterized by labor intensive services or of general economic interest, which
suﬀered losses for the last three ﬁnancial years and that could create and feeds their
activity. Also, as a result of the health emergency.
In light of the above the acquisition of Nexive is consider as materially authorized so with
prior notiﬁcation to the Italian antitrust of measures to prevent the risk of bond and some
eﬀects on ﬁnal users. Again, the authority then has 30 days to possibly request further
additional measures also taking into account the overall sustainability of the transaction
for Poste Italiane.
Let's move to Slide number 4, where we can see the acquisition, rationale and the main
advantages for all our stakeholders. As most countries in Europe have already
experienced a consolidation in the mail market appears the only viable option to preserve
the continuity and overall sustainability of the postal service.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that in mind, Poste Italiane appears the sole systematic player in Europe, capable to
carry out the such consolidation obviously in the interest of all stakeholders. With the
purpose of ensuring reliable postal services across the country.
It can indeed capitalized upon economies of scale and leverage on distinctive Joint
Delivery Model. It is also the only player and we are only player that has the resources
needed to eﬀectively invest in innovation. As mentioned before, this transaction is in the
interest of all stakeholders. It guarantees the provision of reliable postal services across
Italy. It creates a sustainable value and it preserve workforce levels.
On Slide number 5, we focus on speciﬁc features of the Italian mail market, namely its
high fragmentation with some 3,000 operators across the country and the extremely low
leverage volumes of sent. The sustainability of the sector is factor undermined by the
lower penetration of mail compared to other countries. In 2019 in Italy, each resident
received less than one mail item per person in week.
Looking at mail per capita, in fact Italy display less than 50 items per year compared to
Germany with the 171 and UK with 153, more than three times than Italy. Poste Italiane has
a market share of 82% in terms of volumes-wise. All other European incumbents have a
much higher market share among all Royal Mail, 99%, and French La Poste, 97%. In
addition, please bear in mind that Italy has complex geography and population
distribution compared to other countries, which impact the logistic chain increasing
overall cost.
On Slide 6, the structural contraction of the mail business is evidenced and known to you.
As anticipated decline in mail volume has been particularly steep in Italy. As shown in the
Page 2 of 5



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-16

FINAL

bar chart on the top, the Italian mail market shrunk on average by 8 percentage point
here from 2013 to 2018, twice as fast as other countries on average. In the same period in
Germany, the trend was ﬂat, while Spain and UK record a decline of 4% and France
posted a reduction of 6%.
On the lower chart, we focused on the acceleration of the e-substitution as a result of
restrictive measures adopted by European Government facing the COVID-19 emergency.
After several years of structural decline around 5% on average, 2020 is expected to be
material impacted by approximately an additional 15% reduction in mail volumes. In other
words, this means that mail decline has been accelerated by around three years.
In this scenario, bear in mind that Poste Italiane one single business mail item sent is what
only EUR0.30 on average in terms of revenues when you look at no registered mail. This is
what we get to collect, sort, move, sort again and deliver an item across the country, this is
deﬁnitely not sustainable in the long-term.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here we have summarized on Page 7, the key ﬁgures of the transaction. In 2019, Nexive
revenues were approximately EUR200 million compared to Poste Italiane EUR3.5 billion.
In the same period, Poste delivered some 2.0 -- Poste Italiane 2.7 billion items with a
market share of 82% compared to Nexive 350 million items equivalent to a 12% market
share.
Finally, transaction overview. The timeline starts with yesterday's signature of the heads of
agreement and the consequent ﬁling of both undertaking under Article 75. As mentioned,
the concentration is considered as materially authorized, Italiane Antitrust Authority has
then 30 days to potentially require further measures, also take into account the overall
sustainability of the transaction. Provided that the condition and transaction unmet, we
expect the signing and closing by the end of January 2021.
In the preliminary agreement has signed yesterday, the parties agreed on a Nexive
enterprise value of EUR60 million, whilst the ﬁnal price will be determined upon
completion of the due diligence process. Both intends to fund the acquisition entirely by
cash with zero impact on its dividend policy, given the size of the transaction and group
strong cash proﬁle.
To conclude, this acquisition would allow Poste to beneﬁt from signiﬁcant economies of
scale. The deal will be key to shorten the timing to reach back even in the Mail, Parcel and
Distribution segment, which has been delayed by the impacts of lockdown.
Thank you for joining us, and now we will open to some questions. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Page 3 of 5



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-16

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst
question is from Manuela Meroni with Intesa Sanpaolo. Please go ahead madam.

FINAL

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes. Hello. Thank you for the presentation. I would like to know if you can share with us
some more details about the Nexive? You said that the revenues of EUR200 million, can
you please split it between mail and parcel? And then looking at the main number, it
looks to me that the price per unit of Nexive is lower compared to your price per unit. So
I'm wondering if you also expect to and some revenue synergies together with the cost
synergies that I think could be linked to the (Technical Diﬃculty) sharing of the same
infrastructure network?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Sorry. Taking my mask oﬀ. Hi, this is Guido Nola. Yes, you're completely right on the ﬁrst
point. They have a lower price per item because they are much more focused on
unregistered mail, that's the bulk of their business, and hence the price per unit is -- it is
lower. On revenue synergies, I think it's a bit early to say, as COO said today in the press
release, we are about to start the second phase of due diligence which is about to start
given that we just ﬁled today and was supposed to start with the signature preliminary
agreements. So that we'll form part of our next work for the next 30 days.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. And just to add that the valuation we performed to get the formal approval from our
Board of Directors was based purely on sharing with the seller cost synergies, because
this is what at this point we're talking about, and we wanted to take this as a conservative
stance because everything that can come from the revenue side of the feature is it would
be basically on the top.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Mails and parcel revenue?

Operator
And Ms.Meroni, your line is open.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes. I'm wondering if you can also tell us the split the between a main revenues and
parcel revenues of Nexive?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yeah. It's 90% mail, and 10% parcel.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Thank you.
Page 4 of 5



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-11-16

Operator
Gentlemen, there are no more questions registered at this time.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. If there are no more questions, I thank everybody for the time and we keep working
and we will keep you posted. Thank you very much. Bye.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 5 of 5

