Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Oliver Bate, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analsyt
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst
William Hawkins, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results
2019. For your information, this conference call is being streamed live on allianz.com and
YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head
of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you. Yeah. Good afternoon from my side as well, and welcome to our conference
call. As you know, we have two presentations today, so I keep it brief and hand directly
over to our CEO, Oliver Bate.

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Thank you very much, and thank you for joining on a Friday afternoon. I have a few slides
to present on overall results and where we are on our journey and then Giulio will in high
quality as always go through some of the numbers. The content of what I would like to
present to you is highlighted on page A-2, I would lead you through the pages as we're
on a call. First, a quick overview on the achievements for the year 2019, then a little bit of a
Page 1 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

stock-taking on where we are in our journey, Renewal Agenda 2.0 and targets and
outlook for 2020 and how do we think about that.
Let me move to page A three. This has been the ﬁfth year of another record in operating
proﬁt and we are at EUR11.9 billion, 3% [ph]. You may say only up, but is quite something
to continuously go up. On that number, revenues have crossed the EUR140 billion line to
EUR142 billion, that's 8% up means basically more than doubled the growth of the global
economy. And shareholders income is up 6%, again, almost to a record level, 2007 was
the highest, I hope we are crossing that too. And our earnings per share up 8% to 18.9%.
Dividend per share has proposed to the AGM would be around EUR9.60, 7% up. Our
solvency ratio is back to a very strong level at 212%. Our return on equity have reached
also an all-time high with 13.6%. and total shareholder return for 2019 was 30%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, I can hand back to Giulio. No, I'm not going to do that. But I thought it's such
a pretty cool page that we can sort of end here and be frank. I know we have a little bit
more to do because we are not just talking about the past today and the year, but also
what we're going to do going forward.
So let me turn your attention to page four, and let's see how we are doing. We have
targets for operating proﬁt, earnings per share and dividend per share and you see
relative to what we are trying to do on our targets and what the implicit absolute targets
are, I think we are overall ﬁne. But let me go through the individual components.
Operating proﬁt relative to what we are trying to achieve. I personally assess as to be
good. The issue is and we'll talk more about it that AGCS has clearly been disappointing,
as has been, by the way, in the portfolio, commercial lines at large. After many years of
declining claims inﬂation, actually we've seen a continuous increase in global claims
inﬂation and it shows a little bit how industry is rattled by many, many things. And also by
particular events in the liability lines and we'll talk more about that later.
However, the reason why I'm conﬁdent is we have really understood what's going on. We
are taking very strong action, have been taking very strong action and we are really
seeing the beneﬁts whether that is from price increases or portfolio increases or changing
wordings. So the improvement will be measurable. The issue is only how quickly will they
sort of come into the earnings on the one hand and declining losses over the next few
quarters.
Earnings per share, I think is ﬁne. There is something that we really, really established in
2015. That is very strong discipline around the use of your capital. I think that's something
that we want to continue to communicate. We've had very good internal growth. And the
capital discipline, ladies and gentlemen, is here to stay. It's not been three years, it's been
four years. It is becoming a part of our culture and we're going to get better and better at
it. Are we yet at the end of the rainbow? No, we are not. There is more questions around
to all of our business and the proper returns. We are focusing on that more and more.
So, again, there is more to be done, but that also means there is more upside. And
dividend per share, I'm very proud of all of our people that worked very hard to deliver to
Page 2 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

you the seventh increase in dividend in a row. We're also not a small feat and also shows
the consistency, as we said, we share the capital productivity with our shareholders, and
that's why we announced the share buyback yesterday. Some people say, we're wedding
accustomed to it. And is that good enough? I think being good enough is never good
enough, but we are very consistent. We have no incentive to keep the money that we
don't need to run the business and due to very strong action on the solvency side after
the August surprise and of interest rates getting negative and us being able to go back to
2000 to numbers that are very much in what where we'd like to be. I'm very happy that
we are not just able but determined to bring capital back to you.
Now page number ﬁve, give you a few details in terms of how we think about that. The
one thing I'd like to mention is on page A 5 to the lower left. Often you ask Oliver, Giulio
and team, is your M&A and what you've been doing the last few years? Actually
producing value and we will put on that. I think we did a very ﬁne job on the UK
acquisitions. We have done a nice job on Latin America and what we've done in China,
but people said, you know, didn't you paid too much on Euler Hermes when you did the
minority buyout. We are planning to free up about EUR0.5 billion in capital and upstream
that to us.
And when you then look at what this will do to ROE just for oil, it will improve ROE by a
whole of 2 percentage points from 12.0 something to 14. So that acquisition, so to speak,
and that investment is surely turning into value creation over time as well. So the last
investments that we've done on an external side as much as the internal one are
producing value and that is very important for you to know we will apply the same
discipline on future M&A transactions. If and when they arise, as I always said, we only do
things that really makes sense for us over time. And I don't want to spend any more time
on the other things that we have on this page, not even on the share buyback. Remember,
our dividend that we continuously increase comes with a ratchet. Again, most investors do
not remember that it is very important to remember in 2011 when we had the surprise
around Greece and the euro crisis, we move to an 85% or something payout ratio
because we had the ratchet in. So you're getting the dividend. You're getting the ratchet
and you're getting the share buyback on top of it.
And that you see on page number A 6. So we've basically paid out more than EUR25
billion over the last ﬁve years, and you see the components, how that adds up through
dividends and share buybacks. So much for numbers, capital discipline and how we are
thinking about your money. Now let's talk a little bit how Allianz has performed. As you
know, we ﬁnd it very important to balance all the stakeholders. And we know that the
ability to pay dividends and generate net income is dependent on how we are
outperforming vis-a-vis our clients, vis-a-vis other constituents in our people.
Page number seven shows you that we are working on these dimensions in parallel. As of
last year, we are on all the relevant KPIs, the number one brand in our industry. We have
the strongest rating in our industry and we are number one in sustainability as seen by the
major indicators. And we ﬁnd that very important because that talks to you a little bit
about also how sustainable our business model is overall. So, one thing is to talk about
the past and strong delivery on a consistent basis. The other one is, how resilient is the
organization to do that.
Page 3 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

Now, the page number A 8 gives you a few more insights. One thing I'm very happy
about is what we did last year, we crossed the 100 million direct customer barrier,
something that's very important for us. By the way, on top of that, we have more than 200
million clients that we have through B2B2C. How do we think about the quality of our
portfolio? The NPS numbers in terms of outperformance business has dropped a little bit
to 70 because of deliberate decisions in Turkey to increase prices and cleaning the
portfolio that has impacted a bit negatively and two companies in Eastern Europe.
Overall, however, the most important numbers to the lower right-hand side. We have the
ambition over time that at least half of our business should be the number one in terms of
customer loyalty in the market. We move this number over the last few years from about
30 to now 46, so we're getting close alone last year this number improved by 6
percentage points. Now, it will never be fully stable and only go up, there will be the odd
year where you go up or down, but the trend is pretty clear. The same is on the employee
side.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the way, as you remember, we measure employee satisfaction and motivation is
through our Inclusive Meritocracy Index, it's based on the annual survey we do with all of
our people and is comparable to hundreds of large corporations around the world. We
have already reached our 2021 target last year and February 3 is world benchmark, i.e.,
the top companies are in that range and we are very happy to be that. I'll tell you, give
you another one. We are now the world leader in terms of using LinkedIn Learning. So we
are also investing in our people through digital means. Just as an example of what we are
doing with our people.
So a healthy company has a healthy customer base and a healthy employee base. Now, in
the case of Allianz, you all know that we have a very speciﬁc mission when it gets to
climate and climate change. Just some data on A 9, beyond our Net-Zero Asset Owner
Alliance mission that we are on that we really believe and we have had a neutral carbon
footprint since 2012. And we are actually generating more and more revenues from
sustainable solutions, be it in insurance or being it investments and that is being
rewarded again by the leading industry ratings, whether that's RobecoSAM or MSCI or
FTSE4Good. So that is and will remain important to who we are and who we would like to
be.
Page A 10. So, you may ask, so where are you actually in your transformation on the
customer side? We've told you, it's a decade-long journey. And it's very important that we
know it's a very long journey. We need to deliver results, and we've already achieved our
2021 target for the expense ratio, this year. Now, there were some one-oﬀs in that, for
example, the canceling of the bonus pool at AGCS, so you need to really normalize for
that. You can always -- you always have to assume that you cannot have those strong
momentum all of the time, but we are very, very happy how we have been able to move
both the admin expense ratio and acquisition cost down over time and we intend, as we
said, 30 basis points to 40 basis points on average is what we are trying to do year-overyear.
Now what is driving that? The key thing is trying to simplify what we do. The ﬁrst is to do
that at the customer end, because the key feedback from our consumers is, it is hard for
Page 4 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

us to trust you if you are so complicated of products are not intuitive and you're wasting
our money with very complicated processes and systems. So bringing down the number
of products, the number of product variations, the amount of paper that we sent out is
super important. And then, of course, to bring the number of IT applications down, we've
given you some numbers, just by the end of 2020, we want to have 10% fewer IT
applications in the group and by 2021, we want to move to more than less -- to have than
20% less, sorry, on -- in our overall performance. That should immediately give us savings
EUR100 million run rate is the minimum that we expect by 2021, and to be honest, we
need to accelerate that as much as we can. That is based on the simple notion, we would
like to harmonize products and product process design across countries in a step by step
basis. The upside is gigantic, again, both on the admin cost side and then on distribution.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, M&A, we talk about it all the time, everybody comes on, so you can do anything you
want, but don't buy anything big. Funny that you read sort of a Newswire article and says
Allianz fails to do big deals. I think it's actually for many of you would say that's a big
success. Now let's talk about what we've actually done, Page 11. The most important ones
were three, was what we have done with acquiring this sort of second half of LV in the
United Kingdom and doing the portfolio with a Legal & General. That is being executed,
has moved us oﬃcially to number two in the country, by the way, this is before adding in
Euler and AGCS. So there is even more that actually should be in the cake.
The second one is, what we've done in South America, we've discussed it last year
extensively. And we're now in separation, and that will lead us to be the number three
P&C insurer in the country, actually, number two in auto. And motor gives us the scale that
we need to have in the largest economy in Latin America with more than 200 million
people. And as you know, we were the ﬁrst to have the wholly-owned foreign ﬁnancial
holding company, which is very important because we are going to build up our asset
management and insurance asset management capabilities over time. And our joint
venture with JD is working extremely well far ahead of plan. And as we go into more
liberalization once China is back in business, we will also address the life insurance side.
And that's why we've been taking a stake in the largest privately held company we have in
China, that is Taikang.
So that's all of them. There's many more strategic ideas we have. We can talk about them
today. But China will remain on our priority list very high. Also, for asset management, that
may even be a bigger opportunity than insurance. But it is going to take time. So before
we are going to arrive at very high earnings from China, a few years will go by. But we
need to keep on investing in what will be one of the biggest ﬁnancial markets on this
planet, already is in many ways.
Now page A 12, gives you a nice little record on where we are and where we have been in
terms of our ambitions. Over time, we had a target range coming from 2016, EUR10.5
billion and going up consistently. For 2020, we are planning a midpoint at EUR12 billion,
with the usual EUR500 million up and down range. And, again, let me give -- particularly
what is already happening in the ﬁrst quarter. This is before a major distortions around
NatCat and other major economic crisis, and that is very important to understand. We've
also been able to over achieve our midpoint in the target and we are obviously working

Page 5 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

hard to trying to do that, but that cannot always be guaranteed. It's just a matter of
numbers and statistics.
Now, let me give you one last page, that is A 13. Because it is not really the only question
whether we and what we do in 2020. But how do we think about the 2020 targets at '21
targets that we laid out last year. And we are sticking to these targets, very important. So
the EPS growth is supposed to be larger than 5% of which we would like to have 4%
organic. ROE north of 13% is clear and has been at record level 13.6% this year and we
should be north of that, of course, going forward. The Solvency II ratio, we've talked
about. Customer centricity, we've also talked about. So we're working on getting to the
75% plus range. And again on IMIX, as I had mentioned before, we are already where we
want to be. But it's tough to stay there. So it's not going to be easy as we continue to
transform this company. So overall is, Allianz is very much on track to make its 2021
ambition, despite the noise we've had in the P&C segment and we will probably talk
about that. There is lots of things going on in P&C to make sure that we improve the loss
ratios and everybody has hands on deck now.
And with that, I'll hand over to Giulio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, Oliver. And we can move to page B-03, and I'm going to give you a quick
update on the fourth quarter results and then I'm going to speak a little bit more in detail
about the 2019 [ph] for the full year. So when you look at page 03, our results for the
fourth quarter, I will say that (Technical Diﬃculty) when you also look at the operating
proﬁt development in Life/Health and Asset Management and also when you look at the
net income evolution. But clearly, what is taking out in this slide is the development of the
combined ratio with 99.6%. And this is mostly driven by AGCS. I'm sure we're going to
have time to discuss this later. But otherwise, I would say the quarter looks pretty good
and also like to highlight the business margin on the Life side with 2.9%, despite negative
interest rates. That's a very strong message about the work that has been done over the
last years to make sure that our production is proﬁtable also in the diﬃcult environment.
And then also the ﬂows in Asset Management have been again positive. And this quarter
was not just because of PIMCO, but also because of the contribution coming from AGI. So
lots of good things in the quarter. And then as you see also in the headline, we had the
result strengthening at AGCS.
If we move now to page 05. When we look at the full year, and discuss also price, our
revenue has increased by about 6%. So you'll just see what we discussed already in the
last quarters, and the growth in revenue has been driven by the Life business and also,
which is nothing new also by our Property-Casualty business. The evolution of operating
proﬁt where we got an increase of about EUR350 million, sees a deterioration due to the
reserves strengthening at AGCS. On the other side, you can see the other segments have
contributed to our operating proﬁt. And this is, again, a sign of the strength, if you want,
of our franchise, of our business model, or the diversiﬁcation that we can bring to the
table. On the net income, you can see a very good results. I think you know the number
now. We are very pleased with the ROE of 13.6%, and we are also very pleased with the
development of the earnings per share.
Page 6 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

If we go now to page 07. The capitalization is strong. We discussed in the last quarter, saw
a reduction of the Solvency II ratio because of the interest rate environment and now you
see in the fourth quarter, when the interest rates have changed direction at least for the
quarter. The Solvency ratio went up signiﬁcantly to 212%. The main driver is the
development of the interest rates. And on top of that, we had also a model change. The
business evolution in the quarter has been negative because of the AGCS strengthening
and also because of a catch-up eﬀect. I'm sure going to be a question on this later. Also, I
will use the Q&A to go into the technical explanation of what happened in the fourth
quarter.
What is important anyway is really to look at 12 months, so when we look at the business
evolution of the 12 months, and we go to page 09. When we remove the dividends and
the taxes from our business evolution, that was 7%, add in the 1% because of the AGCS
strengthening that will be an 8% of business evolution, which is a good number. That's
also the guidance that we are giving for 2020. One thing to highlight that if we deduct the
buyback pro forma from the 212% of Solvency ratio, the Solvency ratio will be 209%. So
that's if you want the adjusted level, considering the pro forma for the buyback.
Moving to page 11. We can see here the growth rate in the P&C business. And as you see
the growth rate adjusted for FX and also for consolidations has been 4.7%, the growth
rate is driven 60% from price changes and 40% of the growth is coming from volume. All
entities have posted a positive growth with the exception of Spain. As you know, we have
been cleaning the portfolio in Spain after the surprise of 2000 -- that we got in the course
of 2019 at the end of 2018. The price changes on renewal are positive across the board
3% and these are also, I will say, price changes that at least in line with the inﬂation and tax
can be above inﬂation. Clearly, the development at AGCS is particularly important. And
we see that the price increases that we are getting as we go into 2020 in excess of the
inﬂation that we are predicting. We are kind of cautious anyway on the expectation for
inﬂation moving forward.
At page 13, the combined ratio for the year has been 95.5% if you adjust the combined
ratio for AGCS, so if you remove AGCS from the equation for one second, the combined
ratio will be 93.5%. So when you look at, let's say, the Group performance excluding, if
you want, a one-oﬀ, I will call it, of AGCS, we are, indeed at a very good level, 93.5%. Also
what is important is the evolution or the expense ratio, as you see, we have an expense
ratio now 27.5%. Oliver, mentioned that before. If you think just two years ago, we were at
28.7%. So there is deﬁnitely a nice improvement. And I would say, we are not down with
looking for further improvement in the expense ratio down the road. So I will say, clearly,
the combined ratio might look disappointing you when you look at 95.5%. But, again, if
you look at how the majority of ROEs have performed, in reality, we have a lot of things to
be very proud of, and we can see this in page 15.
Germany is deﬁnitely doing very, very good. We had a combined ratio of 92.4%.
Sometimes, I'd like to go back in history and there were times where the combined ratio
in Germany was not 92.4%, and that was maybe ﬁve, six, seven years ago. So we should
also recognize that we have been able, over the last ﬁve years to achieve a massive
improvement in a company, which is making more or less 20% of our net premiums. So
this is not a small thing.
Page 7 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Italy is performing always at a very good level. In France, I will say there is some work to
do. But to be frank, there was also a lot of volatility, large losses and weather-related in the
fourth quarter, so the fourth quarter was kind of challenging for France. And then we are
very pleased with the development in Eastern Europe. That's also a region, which was
operating at very diﬀerent level of combined ratio just a few years ago and now we are
below 19%. Spain, we discussed during the year, the results of Spain, we expect to have
better results as we move into 2020. In the case of the United Kingdom, we had
(Technical Diﬃculty) some one-oﬀ adjusted for the combined ratio will be closer to 96%.
And then AGCS, clearly, the number is very high and the reserve strengthening is about
EUR600 million. If you look at the accident year combined ratio, that's slightly north of
100% [ph]. We also should recognize, however, the NatCat activity on AGCS was very low.
So in reality, if you normalize the number for AGCS, you might be closer to a combined
ratio of about 105% on a accident year basis. So all in all, I will say clearly, some work to do
at AGCS, but that's not just Allianz. That's also market issues and then most of the
operations are delivering according to our expectation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to page 17, the investment income. If you look at the interest and similar income
because in the position at harvesting, we have some volatility when you look at the core of
the investment result, that's very stable. And that's a good sign because despite the
pressure coming from lower interest rates, we've been able to somehow to maintain a
stable interest in similar income. Clearly, as we move forward, we are going to see some
reduction, but this also shows that we are not just exposed to the market dynamics. There
are also things that we can do in order to mitigate the challenge coming from the low
interest rate environment.
And now we can switch to the Life business at page 19. First of all, we are very pleased
with the new business margin of 3%. And again, the interest rate environment in 2019 has
been brutal. So let's -- we've got negative interest rate for the majority of the year. Despite
this development, we ended up at a good level of the business margin. The business mix
is consistent with our target and also we have been able to increase production,
especially in Germany Life, but also in the US we had very good 2019.
Page 21, the operating proﬁt for the Life business has been very, very good. As you
remember, yes, we had also a couple of one-oﬀ, like the DAC [ph]. The change in DAC in
Q3 in Allianz Life, but there is also a strong underlying performance. I'd like to the
highlight the loadings and fees, which are increasing 8% and clearly not the entire
amount of loadings and fees translates one-to-one into proﬁt, but I will say about half of it
is operating proﬁt that should be sticking moving forward. So from that angle, I will say
that also compared to what we thought when we put together the plan in the Capital
Market Day, we see deﬁnitely more and more traction on these position that we were
thinking just 18 months ago, and this is something that should support our proﬁtability for
the Life business also moving forward. So the bottom line of the story is a good
developments from the underlying performance. And then on top of it, we have had also
the DAC change. And in the fourth quarter, the amount of realized gains has been a little
bit more elevated than normally, and that's because of the changes that we had to do to
extend duration in an environment where the duration of the liability is getting longer.
And also the volatility in the market has been very low in the fourth quarter. And on top of

Page 8 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

that, we didn't have basically impairment on the equity side, that's also very diﬀerent from
the situation that we had last year, the fourth quarter 2018.
With that, to page 23, you can see, which OEs are contributing the most to the nice
improvement in operating proﬁt in the Life segment, clearly, the United States and that's a
combination of low volatility, also the exchange good underlying performance. So
everything went in the direction for the United States. And since this is my former
company, I'd like also to see that now they had the biggest contribution operating proﬁt,
even more than Germany Life. And I'm sure that the colleague in Stuttgart are going to do
all the best they can to being again number one in operating proﬁt.
In Asia Paciﬁc, also, we have a very nice development. Just a few years ago, the
proﬁtability coming from Asia Paciﬁc was half, this proﬁtability. And if we -- when we had
Korea, there was even a question mark if we are going to have a proﬁt or a loss. So now
we are in a very diﬀerent situation. And then we see also a nice development in Italy and
France. And in Italy in particularly, the development is driven by the unit-linked because
clearly, in a market like this, the assets basis is going up signiﬁcantly.

Bloomberg Transcript

At page 25, investment margin, as you see, is stable. And during the year, we guided you
to something closer to 80 basis points. So at the end of the year, we ended up at 86 basis
point. Again, here, we have the Fed that the fourth quarter has been very strong because
of the reasons I mentioned before. But overall, we are pleased to see that there is overall
some more resilience compared even to some of our expectation. And as usual, the asset
base is growing and it is kind of support anyway, the stability of the investment margin
when you look at that in absolute terms.
So now we can switch to the Asset Management segments. So we have in total EUR2.3
trillion of assets under management. So that's really staggering number. And so when you
look at the assets -- third-party assets, we are at EUR1.7 billion and as we are going to see
in a second, this is a higher basis compared to what we had in 2019, which is also kind of
promising for the development in 2020. We gave you also now some -- the pie charts
where you can see the composition of our assets by diﬀerent classes and also by regions.
One thing I'd like to highlight is not new to you but maybe now is even more evident. We
are very much -- if you want geared to ﬁxed income. 80% of our assets are in ﬁxed
income. And even when you look at the multi assets, more than half of it is also ﬁxed
income related. So from that point of view, I will say we are not so exposed to the pressure
coming from the -- on the fee because in the ﬁxed income, there is less pressure
compared to equity. And in environment like this, clearly, also rates go down. Clearly, we
are beneﬁting from this development, which might oﬀset some of the negative impact
that low rates have on other parts of our business. So this plays into the diversiﬁcation
element, I was talking before.
At page 29, as you see the assets under management for third-party increased by 17% and
everything went in the right direction. The ﬂows have been positive and also consistently
positive over the quarter. And as I said before, AGI had also positive ﬂows in the fourth
quarter and then also the market development was favorable and even the exchange rate

Page 9 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

have been favorable. So when you get a situation like this, clearly, we have a nice increase
of the assets.
At page 31, the revenue went up 6%, if you adjust for the exchange rate, the growth was
2%. Here, we had eﬀect coming from the ﬁrst quarter of 2019, because as you remember,
the fourth quarter of '18 was very bad for the capital markets. That has drive a little bit
down the revenue in the ﬁrst quarter, but then clearly we saw a diﬀerent trajectory in the
remaining quarter. So we should see also this play out in 2020.
The fee margin, it's a little bit lower both at PIMCO and AGI compared to last year, but
half of the reduction in fee margin is due to the investments that we have done in closedend funds, and this acquisition cost cannot be deferred in the IT that's positive because,
clearly, when we look at the business case, we make a nice IRR out of this closed-end
fund. So that's just a timing issue. Otherwise, I will say, the mix has led to a little bit lower
new business -- fee margin but overall, we have a very, very strong picture, and we can
see this at page 33, where we can see that the operating proﬁt has gone up. We also
adjusting now, I'll show you the adjusted operating proﬁts. If we remove the performance
fees, so that you can get a little bit of sense of what is the underlying trajectory versus
potential volatility introduced by the performance fees. And when you look at 2019, you
can see that the underlying performance was pretty much similar to the total performance
that we see on the operating proﬁt.
PIMCO, has been positive, clearly, we have also FX eﬀect here, but overall PIMCO has
been able to increase the operating proﬁt adjusted for fees by 4%. And if I were to adjust
also for the investment in this closed-end fund, at the beginning of the year the growth
rate will be 5%. In the case of AGI, you can see a small reduction in the operating proﬁt
but also here we have this impact coming from a closed-end fund adjusting for that, the
growth would be 2%. So, overall, I will say a good year for Asset Management, and also a
very good basis to go into 2020.
Corporate, at page 35. It's a signiﬁcant improvement compared to what we saw in 2018
and even the prior periods and the improvement is mostly driven by Allianz technology.
Now we are coming to a diﬀerent phase. So this is also something that is going to stay
more or less at this level in the future. So now we are in a diﬀerent situation compared to
what we had just a couple of years ago.
And with that, I will move to page 37 where you can see what happened below the line. I
will now go into this slide. If you have any questions, I'm happy to get your questions in
the Q&A. And now we come to page -- to last one, which is maybe the most interesting
page for you, because I'm sure that you know our numbers by heart by time for 2019. So
let's speak about 2020. Overall, as Oliver has mentioned before, we are targeting a midpoint or EUR12 billion, plus/minus the customer is EUR0.5 billion. When we look at the
diﬀerent segments in the P&C, we were clearly to have a diﬀerent performance compared
to the EUR5 billion that we posted in 2019, and clearly part of this improvement is going
to be driven by diﬀerent results at AGCS.

Page 10 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

In the Life side, we are kind of normalizing the results of 2019. But with 4.4, we are
deﬁnitely signiﬁcantly above the midpoint that we set for 2019. And we should consider
that we had in 2019 Banco Popular, the joint venture proﬁt. And starting from 2020, we
don't have this proﬁt anymore in our operating proﬁt.
On the Asset Management, we are kind of keeping the forecast for 2020 ﬂat over 2019.
This is deﬁnitely on the conservative side, if the markets are staying the way they are and if
the US dollar staying the way they are clearly there is some upside potential there, but
we'll always like to take a little bit of a cautious stance on this one. And then, our
corporate is more or less the level of last year, just adjusted for some volatility in the
investment income.
So overall, with EUR12 billion, we are looking to another successful year in 2020. And,
again, I believe we had a very strong performance in 2019. So we have all the reasons to
be optimistic about this year. Thank you.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Yeah. And with this, we are happy to take any questions.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And we'll take our ﬁrst question comes from Michael
Huttner of Berenberg Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. And well then thanks for the lovely buyback. I just have two questions. The ﬁrst
one, you said, please ask, so this is the organic capital generation, the minus 1% in Q4.
You said there were two eﬀects, AGCS and one other. And the other question is, for your
guidance of EUR12 billion plus/minus. And what is that you're assuming for AGCS and
where you at? If I may, this is the last question. I was speaking to one of your -- to one
journalist and he was saying that there had been IT kind of oﬀer, which means
interruptions. And I just wondered if that's included in your cost assumptions. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

So maybe I can start with the capital generation. So we had two eﬀects, one is AGCS
reserve strengthening, the other one is related to Allianz Leben, and that's more of a trueup, if you want in the calculation, because just at the end of the year, we have the statutory
accounting, gross margin, how much we put in the RFP, how much we have for real
declaration, and also how much annualized gains we have. So during the year, we don't
have all this number because clearly, this happens just at the end of the year. And so
clearly we need to do a better job, try to estimate what the year-end could be.

Page 11 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

This said, when you look at the 12 months, the generation coming from Allianz Leben
including the new business is about EUR2 billion, even more than what we had in last
year. So, that's just, if you want, call it this way, sort of accounting eﬀect in the fourth
quarter just because our model ended up -- produce, if you want too much Solvency II
earnings for the ﬁrst nine months. And then there is a catch up to what should be the
expected level by 2000 -- by the end of the year.
So we're going to work on reﬁning that. That's also important. The reality is a switch
between Solvency II earnings and surplus fund. So fundamentally, especially for Allianz
Leben, there is -- the own plan are not really changing our case because of the
transferability restriction, there is a little bit of an impact. But fundamentally, just, if you
want an accounting or try to true-up at the end of the year. The main point is, I will cover
the generation for the year is at 8% adjusted for AGCS and that's also the level that we
anticipate for 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other question was on AGCS and what is our expectation for AGCS. I will say that we
had two expectation for AGCS. One is potentially combined ratio of 100. It could be also
slightly above 100%. And so I will say that this is somehow how we are thinking about the
performance of AGCS in 2020. So, in a possible case to go to 100. But that could be also
slightly above 100. And this will depend on -- let's set aside, clearly, natural catastrophe.
That's a totally diﬀerent conversation. This is going to depend on the level of inﬂation that
we're going to see. And so we are still need to be cautious on the inﬂation level. We
clearly see massive rate changes coming, especially, in the US, but also in Europe. There
is a lot happening. But clearly nobody can really predict how inﬂation will continue to
develop in 2020.
But clearly, we expect to have a diﬀerent level of performance for 2020. And if you ask
me, I will say that by 2021, I would deﬁnitely expect that we are going to be below 100.
And indeed I personally stick to my idea that we should be able to get to 97 combined
ratio by 2021, which was more or less the old plan. So I think the market is just supportive
right now. I think everybody is recognizing the issue. And I believe this is going to have to
get to a very diﬀerent performance moving forward. The last question, honestly speaking,
I did not understand --

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

I can help. Otherwise, I'm getting bored anyway because of the technical details. By the
ﬁrst -- the ﬁrst 10 sentence was it's noise in the fourth quarter, Michael, forget it. On the
Solvency II earnings, it's 8% over the year. That's why we want actually no more quarterly
earnings. I'm just kidding. Kidding aside, sorry. On this thing, you asked what the IT
outages have cost us anything. This is within the normal course of operations. Sometimes
the computers don't work, including at Amazon and others. But that, on a more serious
note, we had in August and October in Allianz Partners, in Allianz Germany, signiﬁcant
outages that we have been in the process of addressing and the consequences for our
customer satisfaction and cost has to be taken serious. The recent trends have been very
good and very positive and we need to keep on working on them. But it's not something
that creates massive disruption on expenses or any other items.

Page 12 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

FINAL

It's more a concern for customer and employee motivation than most other things.

Operator
Thank you. And we can move to our next question. It comes from Jon Hocking of Morgan
Stanley.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, starting with AGCS.
Looking at slide B-42, there's just a comment there that the portfolio restructuring is
ongoing. I just wonder if you could give a little bit more color about that in terms of where
we are in the process and what the parameters are, and whether this is just a question of
getting business past renewal dates, et cetera?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then second question, AGCS. I just wonder if you could give a little bit of color in
terms of how you've got conﬁdence, you clearly seem to have in terms of where the
reserves are set down, particularly some of the trends you were talking about in London,
before the New Year break in terms of some of the D&O stuﬀ, and I think German liability
[ph] was mentioned this morning.
And then just ﬁnally, all of the -- at the beginning, in your preamble, you made an
interesting comment about, if there's still business units within the Group, there aren't
earning any acceptable returns. I wonder if you could give a little bit more information
there -- are there any particular areas we might not ﬁnd obvious to see from the
disclosures?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yeah. That ﬁts very much with your question. I'll start with that, that's AGCS, of course, by
the way unfortunately not just 2019, but we have now had a number of years of -- and
that's the real issue. So the question is not are we comfortable with the results now or not.
The clean up we need to do there is more fundamental and it attaches many items. It
attaches, ﬁrst and foremost, portfolio appetite what industries want to be -- do we want to
be exposed to. What lines of net lines are we oﬀering this. What the type of wordings are
we oﬀering. I think there has been a lot of negative inﬂation that we need to get out of the
system, and therefore, would be -- it's not just about price increases, but really changing
wording, changing portfolios and getting rid of over exposures.
You just mentioned one example, so far in Germany, in Germany we had liability
portfolios that are overall excellent. But when you go deeper and deeper you'll ﬁnd that
we had a huge market share and automotive suppliers and anybody with a brain should
have thought through that if the industry is in trouble, while we don't cover recall for

Page 13 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

OEMs, there is recall exposure in the automotive suppliers, and that has been
mismanaged. So there is a lot of work going on.
The other area that I'd like to mention is reinsurance. I think we have a number of piece of
homework to do on how do we protect our earnings better, and that then feeds into the
question of capital eﬃciency. How do we do that in a way that is capital eﬃcient. And last
but not -- real eﬃciency when you look into the model, let's take an example for quarter
share, you get between 26% and 28% seating commission. If your own cost ratio was
north of 30%, your incentive to reinsurance is 0%. So we need to make sure that the
productivity levels get to a level that reinsurance with the market prices actually make
sense. So we need to have a diﬀerent level of productivity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, why are we conﬁdent that we are going to get there. We've put one of our best
managers on top, Joachim Muller, who has transformed the German business. We have
one of our most talented ﬁnance people then in there was Claire-Marie. We have put
Thomas Sepp. And so we systematically been changing the team. And now we need to
move into more consequential execution.
Now, last comment I'd make, it's not just AGCS. I think as an industry, we need to really
work hard on commercial lines. It's both in terms of processes, still a bit archaic. And we
have a joke, all the brokers drive the Ferraris and the shareholders do not get a proper
return. And I think that's something we need to address. So commercial lines, overall, to
answer your question, where the returns have to be, and they're often hidden in national
portfolios where the retail side is hugely proﬁtable and we have some cross subsidy to
commercial and we are working also on that. So this is not about, okay, the UK makes
more or less money than the other guys, but also inside of the countries, we have
portfolios to ﬁx that have been cross subsidized by a largely very well performing
portfolio. So I would like to also reiterate, in AGCS, we have many portfolios that are
actually making very good money, but we need to make sure that we focus on those and
stop doing the nonsense.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Okay. We'll move to our next question. This comes from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi, there. A couple of questions. First for Giulio. Could you just update us on what your
current view is on the saga, which is the Solvency II review and the latest permutations on
that and what your current view on potential impact would be given most recent
discussions? Secondly, what's going on in terms of further redesign of life products given
the move down in interest rates. I think in Q3, and the inside Allianz that you said you
were looking particularly at a further new permutation of products in Germany to align
with an even lower yield curve environment. Could you just update us on that? And the
kind of feasibility of keeping the new business margin over 3%, while still generating sales
Page 14 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

growth (Technical Diﬃculty) as a whole. So what is the drag from commercial lines as a
whole? I mean, you said, it's being subsidized by retail. Forgetting AGCS for a minute, I'm
talking about the rest of your commercial lines, which I think it's about 30% to 40% of the
rest of the book. What is the diﬀerential in terms of combined ratio between that and
retail? Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe I can start with the Solvency II review. So if we look now at, let's say, the idea
to go with the last liquid point from 20 to 30, the impact at year-end on our Solvency II
ratio would be a little bit north of 20 percentage points. So there will be a signiﬁcant
impact. Clearly, ﬁrst, we don't think this is going to happen. As you know, there is already
a diﬀerent potential approach, the Dutch approach. But we also believe that the last liquid
should stay at 20, but somehow between 20 and 30. There are other potential idea that
are more benign clearly. Also in the case, we get a change in the last liquid point and we
have always the possibility to change our duration mitigate impact. In general, there are
things that we can do. But also we are -- since there is a lot of uncertainty around what
could happen. We also, clearly, thinking about the potential use of transitional because
especially if we have a change, which is massive, like going from 20 to 30. Clearly, we can
change the portfolio to mitigate the impact, but it is going to -- you don't do this in one
quarter, right? It's going to take a little bit of a while to change our asset portfolio.
So from that point of view, clearly mitigation action that we are deﬁnitely discussing is also
the potential use of transition. What is very important as we think about the new business
that was your question is to make sure that the new business production is as good as we
had in the last year under the new conditions. So we're taking a lot of action. In the case
of France, we are going to introduce by the mid-year, a product -- I will not use this as a
marketing statement, but between us, we can say with a negative guarantee. So at the
end of the day the guarantee are going to be less than zero. In the case of Allianz Life,
they are working at all -- in Life USA, the interest rates are diﬀerently north of zero. They
are still working on the playbook with interest rate of zero, and this should give them the
possibility to have a new business margin of 3% even in a very tough environment.
For Allianz Leben, clearly, we have the same kind of conversation, and we are going to
make product changes. But also it's going to be a lot about managing the mix. We have
already products, hybrid products that clearly have, if you want a very low -- extremely low
guarantees, it's more sort of protection. And what we are going to do is clearly to see how
we can see the mix in that direction.
Are we going to be able to sell despite the product changes. I strongly believe in
Germany for sure. I have no doubt that our German organization can deﬁnitely sell a
diﬀerent set of products. So no doubt on that. And when I look also the rest of the
European markets, I think that's absolutely doable because everybody is in the same
situation. I would -- and also in the US, I've been there for many years and we have always
been able to manage to get to a product portfolio, which is suitable to the environment.
So you might have clearly a drop in production in a single year. But eventually, the market
and the system is adjusting. So I'm a pretty positive that we are going to be able to have
good production also in a new environment.

Page 15 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

And then you had a question on the commercial lines, that was a question to Oliver, but I
can dig it up. At the end of the day, you really need to look company by company. If I just
put all the numbers together, and I remove the AGCS on the picture, we might even
argue that the diﬀerential between commercial lines and personal lines is not huge, but
that's because maybe there is a country where the commercial line operations can be
proﬁtable and they had the entire segment to look. But I can just tell you where we
deﬁnitely have room for improvement is in France. That's a signiﬁcant block of
commercial business and deﬁnitely in France, we are operating at a combined ratio, which
is a way higher compared to what we have in retail.
In Germany, we had the same situation till last year, so 2018, but we made a lot of
progress in 2019. So I would say the gap between commercial lines and personal lines is
relatively small. So it's not signiﬁcant. So, if you ask me, it's a lot about getting the
portfolio in France to operate at a diﬀerent level, making sure that the portfolio in
Germany is going to be perform as it performed in 2019. And also, I will say in Spain also - there is also some room for improvement. But in totality, I will say, the gap is not huge.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sorry, can I just get back to the Solvency II. There is various other aspects up for
discussion now, you potentially, apparently rolling back on risk margin, as well as -- I mean
have you had your view on some of these other aspects?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. There are many other things happened in the year. Clearly, potentially there is
margin could be positive. Also there are conversation about the volatility adjusted, so -but clearly, they moving from 20 to 30. Last week, you point, there will be a big impact
compared to what the beneﬁt could be from the other. Reality is we don't know what is
the ﬁnal proposal that I hope is going to come up with. I believe that most likely the
proposal is going to be reasonable proposal, but we need always to be prepared for all
kind of possibilities.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. And we'll take our next question from Peter Eliot of Kepler Cheuvreux.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

And maybe I can have -- why we get in -- Andrew. The issue is very simple. The modeling
modeling only ends at the end of June. Then, during the German Presidency, people will
look at the numbers and discuss what the numbers mean. So they are still in the data
gathering phase and then they will trade on various items as they're reading, for example,
the change in interest rates and they will talk about last liquid points, then they will talk
about volatility adjusters. And then they will look at the fact that credit spreads are at an

Page 16 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

all-time low. Who would have thought the Greek Republican ﬁnance short-term money at
negative rates, give me a break.

FINAL

So people need to really look at the data and then we know that under the Portuguese
Presidency, which is in the ﬁrst six months of 2021, the things come out. So now
speculating on what the outcomes may be, I think is reading tea leaves.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

I'm guessing the mic has been handed over. Can you hear me?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thanks very much. So, Peter Eliot. I had three questions, please. The ﬁrst one was on
the life margin, I mean, I was very pleasantly surprised to see that the basis points
guidance hasn't been sort of downgraded from last year. And, I mean, I take your
comments, Giulio, on the AUM supporting the sort of the absolute level of the margin. But
I was just wondering if you could give us a bit more color on your thinking behind the sort
of the sustainability of the basis points. And I mean, perhaps that ties in a little bit with
Andrew's question. But that would be great.
The second question was on Asset Management, and I saw a sort of the comments on the
tape that, I mean, potentially the coronavirus shouldn't be negative, could even be a
positive impact for you, obviously, nobody likes to beneﬁt from things like this. But I was
wondering, if you could just give a little bit more color on your thinking there and how
Asset Management sort of started the year. I mean, I saw comments about good inﬂows in
January. So I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit, that would be great.
And ﬁnally, I saw recently that you struck a deal with Microsoft to provide ABS services
through the cloud to other insurers. I'm just wondering if you could sort of elaborate on
your thinking there and the opportunity, I mean, I guess at ﬁrst sight, it looks like you're
sharing a digital edge, but maybe people are going to get this anyway, and you want to
beneﬁt, but I just wondering if you could talk about that space a little bit. Thank you very
much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. So I can start from the investment margin. As you see our guidance for 2020,
75 basis point to 80 basis point, which is kind of stable compared to the guidance that we
had also for 2019. And the point is, we deﬁnitely see more stability. We are working clearly
on making sure that we can get, I call it, a spread that we like to achieve, for example, in
the United States. If you remember, at the beginning of 2019, we had some drag on our
investment margin, our spread, and somehow, we have been working during the course
of 2019 to restore the kind of spread that we'd like to see. Clearly, when we also work with
our European companies, we are making sure that we can secure the amount of the
Page 17 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

investment margin of the proﬁt sharing that we think is adequate. Keep in mind that we
are not necessarily at a minimum proﬁt sharing. So this gave us some ﬂexibility. So overall
we had a sort of push to see what we can go to keep the margin stable as possible
despite the challenge coming from the lower interest rate environment.
Also, thinking about that, that's clearly the low interest rate environment has an impact on
the -- on our investment income. But it is going to come also a little bit over time. So we
had time to react. And that's also why so important that we make the right -- we make the
right decision on the new business that's critical to make sure that we see stability also
beyond 2020 or 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the Asset management, the -- my remark about the coronavirus that could be helpful
for Asset Management. So that's a little bit of a cynical remark, but it's just a technical
consideration. Clearly, if you have sort of change in the capital markets, you might argue
that in this case, the interest rates are going to go down. Also you might see an
appreciation of the US dollar. So when you combined the two things, there might be a
positive on the Asset Management. I will not, anyway, overemphasize this as the main
driver, and that's deﬁnitely not wish. So that's just a consideration, because the question
was what happens to your Asset Management in the case of coronavirus. And I would say
that Asset Management will not be necessarily impacted by coronavirus. It potentially
might even be slight positive. But don't do too much out of that.
On the Microsoft, yeah. And the idea there to have ABS, which is a disposal for
companies, which are not Allianz, we -- there is deﬁnitely something that we are pursuing
because we think we can also create additional revenue out of it. What is important is
when you look at ABS, there are diﬀerent components. So there is a core component and
then you have all the customization that you can do. So we are not necessarily giving the
entire ABS to potential non-Allianz insurance company. It's just part of the ABS solution.
Then clearly, what is the customized part is going to stay just with us.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. We'll move to our next question from Farooq Hanif of Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, there. Happy Friday everybody. Just going back to some of the comments you made
on combined ratio in 2020. So you, in the notes, you've written strong progress expected
in the UK in 2020. Is there some more guidance you can give with some examples on
what to expect in the UK, and particularly around synergies?
Secondly, the massive growth you've had in new business in Life business, so across the
board and capital-eﬃcient products and protection, what's going on there that's better
than your peers? And how does that lead in 2020? And then, on the restructuring of
Page 18 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

AGCS going forward, what have you baked-in for potential reserving risk and what about
top line? Thank you.
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. So starting from the UK, clearly, starting 2020, we are going to have now the full
consolidation of LV and also the business of legal and general. So our expectation for
2020 is if a combined ratio close to 95. And that's very important when you look at the
combined of 2019, which is just the Allianz UK, you need to normalize that combined ratio
for the few eﬀects. So in reality, we are starting already from something closer to 96, as I
was saying before. And then when we combine also the other two businesses, we should
be able to get to 95 combined ratio. At least, this is the plan for 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of synergies, you're not going to see necessarily the synergies ﬂow in 2020, they
are going to come later. So in 2020, we are going to have rather some integration costs.
But the idea will be that between LV and legal and general, we should be able to realize
EUR50 million of synergies. And in my opinion, this number is even a little bit
conservative. So I think that we can do better than that. But I will say at the moment we are
operating with a potential synergy of at least EUR50 million.
Then, you had a question on the AGCS, right, and the reserving, what is the reserve risk? I
would say the reserve risk that we have on AGCS is the development of an inﬂation. You
saw that we made a big movement at the end of 2019, and you also saw that somehow we
were not expecting that level of inﬂation when we had just our meetings or the
conference call in at the end of October, beginning of November. So now we've seen that
we've made a good move to reﬂect inﬂation, but you never know what could happen.
That's also very important that new business is going to be most likely exposed to -diﬀerently to inﬂation, because when we speak about new business, we are not just
changing price, we're also changing deductible, we're changing limit. So from that point
of view and we are also getting rates of some accounts or some books. So you might see
some diﬀerent trends in our new business compared to what we have in the in-force [ph].
But overall, we feel that we made a strong move in 2019, with a reserve strengthening,
which is very high with EUR600 million. So then, we're going to see what inﬂation is going
to -- how is going to play out.
On the Life growth, I would say the main diﬀerence is the balance sheet that we have and
makes a big diﬀerence. Clearly, if you have signiﬁcant, so-called hidden reserves, if you
will, so how much annualized gains you might have in your statutory accounting. I'm
referring to Germany, how big is the level of participation reserve that you have? How -what kind of room you have to the minimum policyholder participation? So clearly,
depending on the German business works as a portfolio, if your overall portfolio is
stronger, you can deﬁnitely do more than competition will do. This said, clearly, we need
to make sure that we continue to make the right decision over time to make sure that we
had the same kind of portfolio. But don't neglect that 3, 4 years ago Allianz Leben has
made a signiﬁcant change to the product portfolio and you can see, this is serving us well
Page 19 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

right now. And now I think we're in a situation where we need to make other changes. But
history has shown that we can be successful and I believe that history in this case is going
to repeat itself.

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Can I ask one question quickly? So on the AGCS reserving that you've done. Have you
added reserves to lines and books where you may not have seen a deterioration, but
you've kind of guessed systemically, there may be areas of risk?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

No. We booked reserve where we saw that the trends where we're getting out of line.
Otherwise, we didn't book reserves for potential things that we are not seeing. Let's put it
this, EUR600 million was good number already. So we are taking a look at what we see.
And again, I really believe the environment is very supportive. So I would expect that as
we go into 2020, 2021, 2022, the pricing strength is going to be very, very signiﬁcant.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Please
go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Good afternoon and thank you very much. So two quick ones on AGCS, please, and one
on Life. Again, very quick follow-up. Thank you. First one on AGCS, if -- I mean, if you go
back 10 years or 12 years, this used to be a EUR3 billion portfolio, 90%, 90s combined,
and a lot of business mix -- businesses have been transfered to AGCS, of course,
including Fireman's Fund, but even others through the last decade. Would you see that
AGCS has sort of being treated like a bad bank and now that's why the problems
becoming much bigger? Or would you say that, that's really not the case. AGCS has
whatever issues everybody else has as well. So that's a little just a best of both -- just a
question to ask there.
Second question would be, again, on AGCS speciﬁcally, would you consider that in the
US, for example, any (inaudible) behaviors could potentially pose a risk for yourself for
AGCS in this coming year or next year? And if that business is not relevant, please, I would
love to hear that as well. And last thing is just that we mentioned that Life growth coming
from loading and fees and business mix. But also I would like to just understand the
capital eﬃcient products, which obviously grow very strongly for many years, but we still
have that, say EUR200 million normal run rate quarterly operating proﬁt from this
segment. So you said -- and in the past you've said that this could increase. But is that still
a few years away, this increase? Or are we getting to that stage where we should expect
more numbers on this segment? Thank you.

Page 20 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, maybe I start with the bad bank. No, AGCS is not a bad bank. Not at all. And what
we're seeing right now, it's signs that you can see also in other competitors. So we are not
the only one being exposed to the trends we are seeing. So from that point of view, no,
AGCS is very far away from bad bank. I want also -- because I was thinking the other day,
you mentioned 10 years ago, AGCS was a very good company and now it looks to be very
diﬀerent and still a good company, by the way.
I was thinking the other day, 10 years ago, Allianz Life did look to be a very good
company, and we had to put a lot of capital now is going to pay USD750 million dividend,
as we speak. So I strongly believe that AGCS is going to return to a better level of
proﬁtability is far away from being a bad bank. The only thing we know the industrial
business tend to be more challenging than other businesses and also the volatility might
be higher, but I'm pretty conﬁdent that we have a good asset we just need to have a more
supportive environment and also making sure that we made the right choices. But, no
concern about the liability of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the liability side, in the US -- our book in the US, honestly speaking, it's so big. So from
that point of view, I would say, any development will be relatively muted. Also we see in
the US massive -- massive rate increases. So from that point of view, in reality, the US book
is a book where, fundamentally, when you look at the situation, it might be that
proﬁtability is going to be restored pretty quickly. Then clearly every time you speak
about the United States, you need to be generally cautious because we know the
environment tend to be very, very litigious. But what we see right now from a rate
increases point of view is extremely comforted.
So we -- and also another point is not a liability, but ﬁnancial lines in the United States. We
-- our numbers have indeed not that bad at all. So I wouldn't say that the US must be a
main source of concern for us. On the capital-eﬃcient product, the issue that we had
there -- I don't want to bore Oliver, because he doesn't like long accounting conversation.
The point is how our German colleagues somehow also split in the proﬁtability and
operating proﬁt between capital-light products. And if you want the old products, you
could argue, it could be done in diﬀerent way. We had the situation of the way the DAC
accounting is done. So we have a sort of drag happening. You would expect to have a
drag in IFRS, but the way they do the calculation, leads to us the same eﬀect that you
could see in a statutory accounting where you cannot really deﬀer the commission. And
so that's -- since we are growing the business in a substantial way, you can see this drag
there, we could change the methodology and just allocate the proﬁt based on the assets
under management, and then you will see deﬁnitely a better result in the operating proﬁt
line.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And we move to our next question that comes from William Hawkins of KBW.
Page 21 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

FINAL

Hello. Thank you very much. The ﬁrst question, you've commented slightly on this already,
Giulio, but just to clarify. In the combined ratio, your conﬁdence on improving the Spanish
results next year, you sound throughout 2019, but the ratio has sequentially deteriorated
through the quarters, maybe you just cleaning up the book for 2020, but if you could
clarify that.
And also then on France, could you talk more generally about your ability to improve?
You've already talked about commercial versus retail, but that just seems to be an
embedded issue in your portfolio. And the French combined ratio has actually been
deteriorating for the past 3, 4 years. And there are some peers that are getting that ratio
down to the low 90s. So I appreciate what you said about commercial versus retail. But we
-- interesting to hear, if you've actually got a solution to that. I mean, for example, why
wouldn't you just be doing signiﬁcantly less French commercial business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then secondly, please. Could you help me understand the EUR4.4 billion guidance that
you've given for Life. How that breaks down between the investment margin and the
other business. I mean, I appreciate you've given an investment margin guidance. But it
strikes me that I need to take the worst case for your investment margin 75 bps, and
assume that all the other business doesn't grow to get to EUR4.4 billion. So either you're
punching EUR4.4 billion at a very low level or I've missed some elements of the equation.
And then lastly, sorry, just to clarify, I'm sorry, if I can get this from somewhere else, but
your EUR600 million reserve charge in AGCS, and what were the total reserves in AGCS
and what were the reserves for liability and ﬁnancial lines before you added EUR600
million? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

There maybe the -- let's start with the AGCS. The total reserve for AGCS are about EUR10
billion and the reserve for the liability line are about 2 point -- yeah, I sum up liability line
and ﬁnancial lines because I don't want to give you too many details, but we are about
close to have EUR5.5 billion. That's on the reserving for AGCS. On France, what we are
seeing, France is -- and we saw that in 2019 and also in 2018, we see that when we add up
all the large losses, weather-related, we have, in -- let's say, in 2019, we had about -- a load
of about 13 percentage points. When we do our plan, we are more at 11. So if we believe
that two percentage point gap is just volatility, then one could say we are actually in a
better spot compared to the 98 that we see. But we are also -- I share your points, we are
kind of reluctant how to say that 11% is the right number, 13% is just bad luck also because
in 2018, the situation has not been -- it's been also kind of a negative. So deﬁnitely, in
France, we want to take a closer look at what we can do to improve the performance and
that's what we are doing, indeed, with the management team of France and then we will
see where we land.
A major driver of improvement anyway for France is supposed to be the expense ratio.
We want to bring the expense ratio down further. And I have to say that on this, the
French colleagues have been very good also in the last year. So now we want to continue
to push on the productivity element and clearly we're going to take a closer look at the
Page 22 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

performance in the commercial lines. But also we are going to take a closer look at what is
the amount of loading that we need to put for net cash. And weather-related and large
losses and making sure that our pricing is going to maybe reﬂect a higher level compared
to what we have assumed in the past.
On Spain, yes, we are conﬁdent that we are going to get a better results in 2018 -- in '20
and with the -- I would say combined ratio should be below 95. I just want to tell you Q1
might be challenging because of a few large losses. But when we look at the underlying
accident year, I will say TI in 2019, we see that there is -- there is a good strength in the
accident year. So we would deﬁnitely expect to see better results in 2020 compared to
what we saw in 2019. But just for the ﬁrst quarter, we had just a couple of large losses that
you might not see the improvement fall in the ﬁrst quarter yet, but you're going to see this
in the -- as we move throughout 2020.
On the investment margin -- okay, the way I'm looking at our Life business, we had an
operating proﬁt of EUR4.7 billion in 2019. And I will say if you -- if you remove by Banco
Popular, because you need to remove that, we are at EUR4.6 billion. And then we had the
DAC asset [ph] and -- which is EUR150 million. And then I would adjust another EUR150
million for the investment margin. So then you start from a basis, which is about EUR4.3
billion and this is how somehow I'm thinking about the starting point. So you need
somehow to remove Banco Popular, you need to remove of EUR150 million, which is a
DAC issue. And then you need also to adjust the investment margin towards the 80 basis
point. So that will be the starting point for any kind of extrapolation to the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

That's already helpful. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

So it's 25 minutes past. So we have time for one last question, please, if there is any.

Operator
Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thanks for Oliver.

Operator
Okay. So our ﬁnal question comes from Ashik Musaddi of JP Morgan.

Page 23 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

FINAL

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, hi. Thank you and good afternoon, guys. Just a few questions. First of all, can we get
some color on the UK P&C outlook, what are we hearing because most of the companies
who have reported UK motor, UK home, I mean, there is a clear message that claims
inﬂation is still running about say 3%, 4% ahead of maybe more ahead of pricing? So how
should we think about UK motor, because if I look at your guidance, you're saying 96
you're old portfolio and 95, including the acquired business. So it feels like you're talking
about 93, 94 for the acquired portfolio. Are you comfortable with that number given
what's happening here and given the pressure from FCA reserving -- sorry, the review that
they are doing. So that's the ﬁrst one.
Secondly, on AGCS, can we get some color as to what -- how should we think about net
price increase like clearly 9.5% or 10% price increase we are seeing. What would you say is
the recurring, say, claims inﬂation at the moment or is it just hard to say that because you
only learn about that over the year, because it just volatile at the moment. So that would
be the second one.
Thirdly, I was a bit surprised to see that your reinvestment yield in Life and P&C is both
more or less same, even though, one is half duration, the Life business. So can you just
explain that dynamic a bit? These three would be really helpful. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

And maybe starting from -- as of kind of rate increases we are seeing. I can just say in the
last quarter, in the Q4, when you look at rate increases, not just renewal, also no business
on return basis. You see across the portfolio, something very close to 20%. So the rate
increases that we see right now are massive. And so it's all about what kind of inﬂation
assumption you make, if you're making the assumption that the inﬂation is zero, then
you're going to have very healthy and a nice combined ratio. But that's clearly not realistic
assumption. When we look at the assumption for inﬂation, it depends on the diﬀerent
countries. And I would say in the US, we are still thinking that the inﬂation could be at the
level of about 7%. So we are thinking that inﬂation could be pretty elevated. In the case of
euro, we think inﬂation is going to be more towards the 2%. So then you can combine this
and for our portfolio, I will say there will be something closer to 4% to 5% inﬂation. But
again, it's always hard to predict how this speed in inﬂation might change for the better or
for the worse.
On the UK, I will say that, we saw what you are referring to, and we had also conversation
with the local management team and what they are telling us is that they are getting rate
increases that should be enough to oﬀset the inﬂation -- their claims inﬂation. So from that
point of view, there is conﬁdence that at this point in time, we are getting the needed rate
increases that were actually pretty, pretty healthy. So this is where the kind of conﬁdence
is coming, that -- yeah, we should be able to oﬀset the inﬂation.
In the case of Life and P&C, I think the main diﬀerence is that the contribution of the
emerging markets in P&C is stronger compared to what we have in the Life business, the
Life business is mostly and we are speaking on investment, is mostly dominating by
Europe. In the case of the P&C, we have growth coming also from emerging markets of
Page 24 of 26



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

Turkey, and this makes a diﬀerence. The reason why reality, you need to adjust the yield
for the diﬀerent geographical mix.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

That's very clear and very helpful. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

I just would like to remind us something when you think about the outlook. I would like to
go back to 2020 and 2021. So the ﬁrst one is we believe we are on track to 2021. Also
because we really do have strong diversiﬁcation in the portfolio. Now as a critic, you could
say we've been beneﬁting from very strong investment markets.
I would just like to point out to the fact that probably and we don't know the numbers for
Fidelity, Allianz is by now the world's largest active asset managers dominated by ﬁxed
income, which is almost 70% of what we do where we have had the strongest record on
history in terms of investment performance and that is unlikely to abate. So Giulio has
nicely said, we obviously don't know whether that will continue. So we are more market
exposed. But that gives us a very strong bench.

Bloomberg Transcript

So when people thought about us 10 years ago as a P&C insure attached with some
distribution ﬁnancing life businesses and then some startup called an asset management,
I think that picture has dramatically changed. Now, why do I say that? Because at the time
when the commercial lines industry and P&C is struggling has to rebooted and we are on
track. We have an enormously strong and vibrant business that we've build.
Second observation our Life business now, this is the third time we are transforming it.
First time was 2011, 2011 after the ﬁnancial crisis an interest rates coming down after the
euro crisis 2012 and 2013 and we've been doing that working on the back book, is like we
didn't talk about that today. We are still working on the in-force book massively, not just
on the new business. We are going to address the new business by the way it gets ever
more diﬃcult with consumers because with negative rates as Giulio has said.
And I wouldn't call that a negative guarantee. I would basically say, the question, how do
you think about protecting capital after you've subtract cost. So one of the things we'd
really have to look at is whether distribution cost for the product not just how do you
address distribution cost alone but -- and guarantee cost alone, distribution and cost will
really matter. And that allow us to really work hard on the P&C portfolios that we have.
And you know you can get from -- if your nervous to look at the picture is there something
beyond the AGCS. Again, I'd like to reiterate, we are working on commercial lines. There's
lot of more work to do. But the Spanish issues and a number that you have seen are really
one-oﬀs, so you call them a trepid.
Now, ﬁrst quarter this year, there's a lot of NatCat activity, that's already happened.
Australia, you've seen. You have seen UK coming. You have seen Sabine, I don't know
why storms always have a female name. I think is men putting the names on it. Men knows
clouds. Yeah. We had clouds, that's right. But recently, yeah, Aniban [ph], That's right.
Page 25 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2020-02-21

somebody has picked this name, but anyway I was wondering. By the way do we have any
female analyst on the phone. Anyway diﬀerent discussion. But kidding aside, the key
thing is would one really needs to believe in, that you are on board of one of the
strongest ships that exist in our industry, that we are not pumping on one cylinder but on
many. And that we have both the will and ability to deliver on what we set ourselves and I
think you've seen the track record over the last ﬁve years and beyond, actually, dividend is
seven years up. So you make your pick. We are conﬁdent that we can do what we've been
promising. Thank you very much for listening.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right. Thank you very much. We wish everybody a very nice remaining afternoon and a
relax weekend. Good-bye.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's call. Thank you all for your participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

