Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Annemiek van Melick, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jos Baeten, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michel Hulters, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
David Barma, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the ASR Nederland Investor Call Full-Year Results 2020. This
call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Michel
Hulters. Please go ahead, sir.

Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for switching
to this channel. Welcome to the ASR conference call on our full-year 2020 results. On the
call with me today are Jos Baeten, CEO, and Annemiek van Melick, our CFO.
As is customary, Jos will kick oﬀ with some of the highlights of our ﬁnancial results and
discuss some of the business performance that we've seen. Annemiek will then delve into
the development of our capital and solvency position after that and then we'll open up for
Q&A. We've got scheduled to 12 o'clock here. And I think it will leave us ample time for
Q&A.
As usual, do please have a look at the disclaimer that we have at the back of the
presentation for any forward-looking statements. And so, having said that, Jos, the ﬂoor is
yours.
Page 1 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Michel. And good morning, everyone. Thank you for switching to the ASR call
after having already a busy morning with one of our most beloved competitors in the
Netherlands. So, hopefully, in the future, we can prevent you from having two
presentations on one day on Dutch insurance companies.
I hope all of you are still doing well in these challenging COVID times. Before we get into
the numbers, let me just start by saying that I'm really proud of the way our company and
our employees have continued serving our clients in this extraordinary year.
The outbreak of COVID-19 and the measures taken to combat this pandemic continue to
disrupt our personal lives, the business communities and our society as a whole. And
while our ﬁrst and foremost concern is the health of our employees and customers, we, of
course, also care for the well-being more generally as well, including job security and
economic uncertainty for our customers who are entrepreneurs and business owners. We
generally hope that we can leave this crisis behind us soon.

Bloomberg Transcript

At ASR, we've been able to keep up morale of our employees at a high level throughout
the year. Customer satisfaction went up and we have maintained strong commercial
momentum in our business as demonstrated by the growth of our business and our
ﬁnancial performance.
As we reported, the overall impact of COVID-19 was benign, thanks to the mix of our
business in Non-Life and Life that eﬀectively neutralized this impact in 2020. We believe
ASR has shown resilience against challenging and uncertain economic background and
has again delivered against ambitious targets.
Without further ado, let's turn to the ﬁnancial highlights, and those are on slide 2. I
presume you all have seen the press release which we issued this morning. So, I will
highlight only the most important developments. As this dashboard shows, our
performance in 2020 has been really strong. The 3.2% increase in the operating result to
EUR885 million is driven by higher results in all our segments and includes, as I just
mentioned, the impact of COVID-19 being a negative of EUR1 million. Operating return of
15.3% is well above our target between 12% and 14%.
Our Solvency II ratio based on standard formula is up by 5 percentage points to a solid
199%. This increase includes 12% from organic capital creation, which at EUR500 million,
landed by coincidence exactly on the medium-term target. Solid contribution from the
business, higher excess returns and a higher net release of capital compensated the
higher UFR drag due to lower interest rates.
The combined ratio amounted to 93.6, ahead of our target of 94 to 96. This includes a
positive eﬀect of 0.6 percentage points out of COVID-19.
Our eﬃciency ratios improved in all business segments despite an increase of EUR45
million in operating expenses, which was mainly driven by acquisitions, holding cost and
Page 2 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

growth of our fee-based business.

FINAL

Based on the strong performance and in line with our existing policy, we propose a
dividend of EUR2.04 per share. This is an increase of 7% compared to last year.
Today, we also announced a share buyback of EUR75 million, which is supported by our
strong solvency and OCC. So, in sum, we have shown a solid result over 2020.
Let's turn to the next slide, slide number 3. Our strategy will continue to focus on
sustainable long-term value creation for all involved in ASR. We take our role as a
sustainable company in society seriously and we are happy to see that international
investors aim more and more on sustainability.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our ongoing focus on customer service has led to an increase in the Net Promoter Score
from 44 to 49, already well above the medium-term target of 44. One of the drivers
behind the increase was the more personal contact with customers during the COVID-19
outbreak when everybody was working from home.
Our CO2 footprint has now been measured for 93% of our whole investment portfolio.
And with over EUR1.7 billion, our impact investments have already met the targets for 2019
to 2021. Due to the lockdown restrictions and social distancing rules, our employees have
not been able to do any of the activities we typically do for society. To protect the health
of our employees and the people involved in these projects, we had to cancel or scale
down these activities. In some cases, we have been able to convert the activities into an eversion. And as soon as social distancing measures are relieved, we of course -- we will
scale up these activities again.
ESG is more and more an integral part of our product development. For example, the
sustainability repair and replacements in insurances, mortgages for sustainable home
improvements, but also in pension DC with our speciﬁc ESG funds.
And lastly, I'm very proud of the recognition we received on our sustainability. In 2020,
ASR has been included in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index. We see this as a
recognition of our successful strategy on which we will continue to build going further.
Let's continue with some insight on the COVID-19 impact on our business, and that's on
slide 4. In dealing with this crisis, we continue to oﬀer suitable solutions for customers
who have been impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. After an initial rise in customer requests
for deferrals on premium payments, mortgage payments or rents, we have experienced a
decrease in these requests in the second half of the year.
Also, rent arrears in our real estate portfolio have reverted to more normal levels. The
number of requests have been very manageable. For instance, as per today, we have
approximately 60 P&C customers with premium arrangement, 400 in the disability area
and roughly 45 corona-related mortgage arrangements. So, all in all, very manageable.

Page 3 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

We continue to use a weekly monitor to track employee morale, and this remained at a
very high level. We are focusing on the sense of connection and inclusion of our
employees, particularly now we are all working from home. Our approach since 2012, to
build one culture based on time and place independent working proved to be a strong
foundation for managing the current crisis.
And ﬁnancially, the negative impact of EUR1 million on our operating results consist of a
positive EUR21 million in Non-Life and a positive eﬀect of EUR4 million in health. Higher
claims in disability and strengthening the reserves were more than oﬀset by lower claims
in P&C. More on this when we get to the Non-life slide.
In our Life business, the impact was EUR22 million negative from lower dividend and
rental income mainly in the ﬁrst half of 2020.
And ﬁnally, our IFRS net result is lower, primarily due to the impact from ﬁnancial markets
and goodwill impairments. Also, in 2019, we reported a purchase gain from Loyalis which,
of course, wasn't there anymore in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's move on to the next slide and talk a bit about how we did in progressing and
executing our strategy. I would like to talk about some business developments here. First
of all, the last year introduced Vitality program is continuously growing, with currently
over 50,000 active participants and 10,000 employees at this moment. This is helpful in
improving our customer relevance and loyalty.
Also, we have brought the reintegration activities of Kempen to ASR, of which we already
owned 50%. This expands our expertise in the ﬁeld of reintegration and sustainable
employability and strengthens our connection with customer. But, most importantly, it
helps us to manage and control claims.
In the Life department, we delivered on creating synergies by reducing the number of
applications and converting the systems to a software as a service platform, including the
VvAA and Loyalis portfolios. This, ladies and gentlemen, completes the migration of all of
our own books and all of the acquired books on to ASR's new platform on time and on
budget.
Our cost eﬃciency is illustrated in the Life operating expenses, which decreased from 62
basis points in 2016 to 45 basis points in 2020. Our fee-based business are doing very
well.
Third-party assets under management have increased by EUR3.4 billion to EUR25.4 billion
and was mainly driven by growth in our mortgage funds and DC funds. Our mortgage
origination was up 40% and amounted almost EUR5 billion in 2020.
And lastly, we have transferred the remaining accounts in the divestment of a.s.r. bank to
Van Lanschot Kempen and have withdrawn our banking license in December 2020.

Page 4 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Now, let's move to slide 6 and elaborate a little bit on our Non-Life results. A solid
performance in Non-Life with operating result increasing to EUR241 million. In 2020,
COVID-19 had a positive impact on Non-Life of EUR21 million. This includes headwinds of
roughly EUR71 million in our disability business and tailwinds of roughly EUR88 million in
our P&C business.
In disability, we have seen a clear improvement in individual disability in the second half
where we have been able to pick up the reintegration processes and successfully
managing the backlogs from the ﬁrst half of the year.
In sickness leave, we have seen some COVID-19 related deterioration in the portfolio,
particularly as we experienced an increase in claims from customers due to mental and
psychological issues. Moreover, these claims also tend to have a longer duration. This is
something we are closely monitoring, of course, and we have strengthened our reserves
for this development in H2.
P&C mostly beneﬁted from favorable claims experience in the second half of the year.
This trend has reverted as well as traﬃc was signiﬁcantly higher compared to H1. Also,
reserves have been strengthened within P&C, primarily related to bodily injury, partially
driven by a court verdict earlier in 2020. And you know ASR. We tend to take a somewhat
conservative approach in these matters.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with respect to storms, although 2020 was a relatively calm year, we did record a
EUR9 million hit from Ciara.
This leads to a combined ratio of 93.6 for both P&C and disability together, beating the
target of 94 to 96. Adjusting for COVID-19 eﬀects, combined ratio would go up with 0.6 to
94.2, still at the lower end of the target range.
The cost ratio decreased from 8.4 to 8.1, which is driven by a higher gross written
premium, whilst realizing cost synergy from the Generali Nederland IT migration. So all in
all, we became even more eﬃcient despite we had to work from home.
The organic growth in the gross written premium of disability and P&C amounted 4.6%, at
the higher end of our range of 3% to 5% per annum. This is hard work, ladies and
gentlemen. Make no mistake on this. And for 2021, this is the real challenge, given the
economic uncertainties in which we operate.
And ﬁnally, the increase in health gross written premium reﬂects a strong increase in the
new beneﬁt in-kind insurance product which we launched at the end of 2019. So far, we
have seen this increase to be continued at the start of the health season in this year.
Let's move to slide 7 where I will talk a little bit about the Life segment. Some highlights to
mention in our Life segment. Operating result of Life segment increased by EUR34,000
million to EUR730 million despite the EUR22 million negative impact from COVID-19. This

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

impact relates really to the ﬁrst half as it is mostly reﬂected in lower dividends. If you relate
this to the total operating result for Life, we believe the COVID-19 impact is benign.

FINAL

The increase in operating result is driven by higher investment margin. This is mostly due
to a positive eﬀect from our swaption portfolio of EUR42 million due to the amortized
realized gains.
Also, we have been optimizing the illiquidity premium and credit risk premium in our
portfolio. For example, we have expanded our mortgage portfolio further in 2020, which
represents in the meantime 19% of the total investment for own account. The decrease in
required interest is mostly due to maturing individual life book and the average guarantee
declining. I would like to refer to appendix R and S as well where we have displayed our
stable investment margin over time.
The decrease in technical result was mostly the result of favorable result on mortality in
2019. There was only a limited positive impact from COVID-19 on the mortality result,
given the diversiﬁcation between our product lines. We have seen a positive impact in
Pension DB, partially oﬀset by a negative in Pension DC, and these pertain to premium
paying customers and also having a surviving pension cover. Impact on individual life
were slightly positive, oﬀset by negative impact on (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

Furthermore, our cost eﬃciency improved to 45 basis points as a share of the basic
nominal provision, which is equal to the lower end of our target for 2021.
So, let's now turn to other segments, which performed quite well. And those are on slide
8. The operating results for the two fee generating segments, Asset Management and
Distribution and Services, combined amounts to EUR57 million, up from EUR48 million in
2019. This conﬁrms that we are running ahead of the medium-term targets.
Asset Management showed the strongest growth, EUR7 million, mainly due to strong
inﬂows in mortgage funds and DC funds.
Operating result of the Distribution and Services segments increased to EUR25 million,
mainly due to small acquisitions and organic growth.
Operating results for the holding amounted to a minus of EUR143 million. The decrease is
mainly driven by higher net service costs for our pension plan due to a lower interest rate,
which amounted to EUR20 million, and the increase in interest expenses of EUR6 million
from the EUR500 million Tier 2 subordinated liability placed in April 2019.
Please note that, as of January '21, our pension plan for employees moved to a DC
product. This means that going forward the expense related to the employee pension
plan will decrease and become less dependent from interest rates and hence more
stability going forward.

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Before I hand over to Annemiek for the highlights on solvency and capital generation, I
believe we have built a very strong, solid track record of ﬁnancial performance and
disciplined and rational allocation of capital.
The results published today supports our ongoing story of attractive capital return. Since
the IPO in 2016, we have been committed to oﬀering shareholders attractive returns and
dividends, driven by higher operating results and supported by robust balance sheet and
supplemented by share buybacks. During this period, ASR has returned EUR1.6 billion of
capital to shareholders via dividends and share buybacks, including the one-oﬀ we
announced -- including the one we announced today. This roughly equals 36% of our
market cap.
This year, we propose a total dividend per share of EUR2.04, a 7% increase, whilst
remaining at the lower end of our payout ratio of 45%. And on top of that, we announced
another share buyback of EUR75 million.
We will continue to allocate our capital rationally. If suﬃcient capital remains from the
targeted OCC of EUR500 million in 2021 after investing in organic growth, inorganic
growth and market risk and as long as we are above the well-known thresholds, we will
decide on capital returns to shareholders. This way, we can grow our business proﬁtably,
and meanwhile, oﬀer an attractive capital return to our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I will hand over to Annemiek for solvency and capital.

Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Thanks, Jos. Let's go to slide 11. Despite all the uncertainty in 2020, Solvency II remained
very robust and we ended the year at 199% on the standard model or 208% if you were to
exclude the full year dividend and the buyback that we executed in 2020. The share
buyback we announced today is not yet included in this full-year '20 solvency ﬁgure.
Within the 199%, we absorbed the further UFR decline of 4 percent points. In total, we
added EUR425 million of unrestricted Tier 1. And if you would exclude the EUR357 million
capital return and the EUR121 million UFR reduction, we would have added around
EUR900 million of own funds, demonstrating our ability to generate capital throughout
uncertain times.
Our total SCR increased by EUR124 million as an increase in insurance risk and market risk
was partially mitigated by increased diversiﬁcation beneﬁts and an increased LAC DT due
to the reversal of the lowering of the corporate tax rate. Our LAC DT factors remain
unchanged at 75% for Life and 90% for Non-Life.
The increase in insurance risk reﬂects an allocation of capital to growth, both inorganically
with the closure of the VvAA and the Veherex acquisitions coming in, as well as
organically, predominantly in disability and health. And it also obviously includes the
impact of lower interest rates.

Page 7 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Within market risk, we mainly saw an increase in interest rate risk due to lower rates and
equity risk due to increased valuations, as well as the impact of some rerisking, which we
mitigated by decreasing currency risk and market concentration risk.

FINAL

Despite these developments, market risk as a percentage of required capital remained at
44%, which is actually well below our internal limit of 50%.
Now, all in all, strong solvency level at 199% at a standard model, with ample headroom
available within the Solvency II framework, EUR1 billion restricted Tier 1 and over EUR500
million Tier 2, Tier 3 headroom, as you can see.
If we move to slide 12, we can see the development ﬂow throughout the year. And strong
organic capital generation of EUR500 million or over 12 percent point on solvency as well
as a positive contribution of 3 percent points from market and operational developments,
more than compensated the 1 percent point related to the closing of acquisitions and
increased capital distribution of EUR357 million versus last year's EUR267 million, which
actually took out 9 percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at the market and operational development buckets, within that 3% that you
see over there, we've included a decrease in the UFR with a negative impact of 4 percent
points. It also includes a minus 7 percent points, reﬂecting both negative market
developments as well as rerisking. But they were more than oﬀset by updated noneconomic assumptions, 8 percent points, and a reversal of the tax rate lowering impacting
the LAC DT, which is plus 5 percent points.
Now, the non-economic assumption mainly included updated mortality assumptions,
largely driven by the Dutch Actuarial Association, which came out with new industrywide
tables.
If we turn to our organic capital creation on slide 13 and you can see EUR500 million,
which we're actually pretty happy with. As I said, a little over 12 percent points of our
solvency, roughly the same as last year when it came in at EUR501 million, while we
actually had to absorb close to EUR18 million of increased UFR drag.
Now, we did manage to absorb the additional UFR drag by both increased business
capital generation and an increase in net capital release. Business capital generation
came in EUR42 million higher, mainly due to an increase in excess returns, driven by both
rerisking within credits and mortgages, as well as some spread increase and an increased
contribution of our fee business which is an important part of our strategy to actually grow
that business.
The increase in capital release was mainly driven by increased SCR release due to lower
interest rates and the full-year impact of Loyalis on the SCR release. Good to mention
there that the group disability business tends to have a high SCR in Q4, which then
releases throughout the year. And last year, we missed four months of that release
because, the ﬁrst four months of the year, Loyalis wasn't part of us yet.

Page 8 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

Now for 2021, we still have an OCC target out there of EUR500 million, which actually may
sound like a piece of cake given that we reported EUR500 million today, but doesn't feel
like that. It's actually a pretty challenging target. We'll have to absorb an echo UFR drag of
around EUR37 million; the impact of temporary spread widening in 2020, let's say, around
EUR10 million; and the impact of the tax reversal on the OCC through LAC DT and also
direct taxes, which obviously would knock out around EUR15 million. So, that would
actually lower down to around EUR440 million.
But there are always positives. And if we look at the interest rates today, the sting of the
UFR echo would already be reduced by half, let's say, EUR17 million, and we will not have
the adjustment in our employee pension contract ﬂowing through the OCC, which is
currently around EUR7 million. So, that leaves around EUR460 million as a starting point
for 2021.
We do still see scope for OCC accretion from rerisking and will continue the path that
we've set in this year at, say, around EUR15 million or so. And the remainder is a challenge
we really have to kind of live up with through our business by organic growth, cost
eﬃciency and just good underwriting.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we then turn to slide 14 and have a quick look at the solvency sensitivities. They haven't
really changed that much towards 2019. We still see limited impact of both parallel and
non-parallel interest rate shocks, sensitivity towards 50 bps parallel decline is limited to
minus 3 percent points in solvency, and 10 bps steepening limited to minus 3 percent
point solvency as well.
And in terms of managing the interest rate sensitivity, so we have a limit of 15% regulatory
Solvency II ratio on 100 bps parallel shocks. So, we're actually very much within our limits
at this point in time.
We believe that, for ASR, the optimal strategy for managing interest rate risk is a
combination of both cash ﬂow hedging and duration hedging.
We apply cash ﬂow matching for the ﬁrst 12 years. And then, for the longer maturities, we
apply duration matching -- duration hedging, whereby we hedge the interest rate
sensitivity for liabilities including risk margin. For us, it provides a better interest rate
hedge than cash ﬂow hedging for those 10 years as it also takes the optionality and
convexity into account. Optionality in assets, think about mortgages, prepayments, et
cetera. Optionality in derivatives, indeed swaptions and liabilities, think about proﬁt
sharing. Now, all of that optionality is fully incorporated in duration hedging. And on top,
it also covers the risk of long tail cash ﬂows, from example, our funeral business.
As you can see in the cash ﬂow chart, we're relatively cash ﬂow matched on the left part,
I'd say, up to 30 years.
And in terms of spread sensitivities, it's good to know that the sensitivities we show on the
top-hand chart, for instance, the 75 bps corporate/credit spread sensitivities, are
excluding the expected mitigating impact from the VA. You can see that in a separate
Page 9 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

chart. The corporate spread sensitivity does include the impact of spread widening on our
IAS 19 pension provisioning.

FINAL

So, that's all I would say for sensitivities and we can turn to slide 15 to give a quick
overview of our investment portfolio, a few words on gradual shift to higher-yielding
assets within that, as well as the resilience of our portfolio.
In 2020, we lowered our exposure to sovereigns by around EUR500 million and we
increased our exposure to retail mortgages by EUR1.2 billion. We've also increased our
credit exposure by EUR200 million. And, even more importantly, within our credit
portfolio, we seek to optimize return on SCR by focusing a bit more on illiquid credits and
either government guaranteed, some private loans and structured ﬁxed income. In total,
we added around EUR600 million to corporate's ﬁnancials there and [ph]EUR120 million
to private structured loans and we actually decreased our covered bond position by
around EUR500 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're happy with the resilience of our portfolio. Out of the EUR53 billion, around 67% is
ﬁxed income, contains EUR14 billion of sovereigns and EUR13 billion of corporates and
ﬁnancials. The average rating is A+. And of the corporate and ﬁnancials book, over 97% is
actually investment grade. We have limited to no exposure in the oil and gas and leisure
sector. And in general, credit migration risk continues to be very limited in terms of
Solvency II impacts.
We have a real estate book of EUR4.5 billion, which constitutes 8% of our investment
portfolio. But it's good to note that, of that EUR4.5 billion, around EUR1.7 billion is actually
related to our rural portfolio, which is a very resilient portfolio. That also gives us a
competitive edge in ﬁnding attractive investment opportunities to contribute towards the
energy transition, such as solar and windmill parks, as land continues to be very scarce in
the Netherlands.
Our retail real estate exposure is around EUR800 million, of which EUR650 million is via
the Dutch Prime Residential Fund. Now, of that fund, around two-third is actually high
street retail based on very strict investment criteria and one-third is related to supermarket
district shopping centers who are actually doing quite well in COVID times.
Retail vacancies remain low with 3.7% versus 3.5% last year. Now, in total, our real estate
portfolio saw a modest decrease in direct income and still yielded around EUR86 million
of indirect investment income as positive revaluations in our rural book, residential book
and oﬃces more than compensated for the negative revaluation that we've seen in retail
real estate.
Dutch mortgage market continues to be very resilient and there continues to be a
shortage in housing and house prices actually increased by 11% in 2020. Most forecasts
show, although on a more limited nature, still an increase in house prices for the next two
years.

Page 10 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

33% of our book is covered by NHG and the average LTV is 73%. Arrears over 90 days
continues to be very low at 4 basis points and credit losses remain very low as well.

FINAL

So all in all, we remain very comfortable with our investment portfolio and we do still see
further room to increase investments into mortgages and we also see further room to
further optimize our credit book with some more liquid credits, government guaranteed,
some private loans and structured ﬁxed income.
If we would then turn to slide 16, couple of fast words on balance sheet. And it remained
strong. We still have ample ﬂexibility within there. Financial leverage decreased to 28.3%
on an IFRS basis due to an increase in equity. That remained unchanged. Double leverage
showed a slight increase to 103.7% due to several acquisitions in the Distribution and
Services segment.
Interest coverage ratio, which is based on our IFRS net result, dropped, but is still well
within the target range. And I guess, you've all seen the S&P rating.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, a last word on cash position on slide 17 before I hand over to Jos again. Our
holding cash ended at EUR502 million, which is in line with last year, and it's really aligned
with our policy to put cash at work at the OpCos and only upstream cash to the holding to
cover holding expenses, coupons and dividends.
We also have an unused revolving credit facility of EUR350 million. Liquidity roughly
equal then compared to last year. We've upstreamed cash mainly from Life and a bit from
other entities. There was no need to upstream more, but there's also no impediments to
do so if we would have wanted to.
Our debt maturity proﬁle, as you can see, is robust. Next maturity date is in 2024 and we
still have ample ﬂexibility and room to add leverage if we would like to.
Solvency for the group is strong, as mentioned earlier. You can also see the ratios for NonLife and Life, which at 163% and 195% are well above our targets.
Now with that, I'd like to hand it back to Jos for a ﬁnal wrap up.

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Annemiek. So, to conclude our presentation, you can imagine, we are proud
on the results we've presented today. We delivered again a very solid performance in a
very challenging environment. And I'm proud of our employees who have been working
hard to achieve these results.
We showed solid progress in executing our strategy and demonstrating ﬁnancial
discipline. We continue to build on our track record of rational allocation of capital and
attractive shareholder returns, but very pleased to propose the dividend, as mentioned, of
EUR2.04. And on top of that, we propose another share buyback of EUR75 million,
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

supported by a robust solvency of 199 on the standard formula. I believe ASR is in a
strong position to continue its pursuit of proﬁtable growth.
Looking ahead, direct eﬀects of COVID-19 have so far been limited, but let's be clear.
We're not out of the woods yet. We're still facing the challenges from COVID-19 and we
remain cautious for the eﬀects in the longer-term. The eﬀect of the virus and the
restricting measures that are being taken to control the virus is noticeable in our
businesses and those of our customers. This may well impact us going forward.
We believe we are strongly positioned and maintain the medium-term targets for 2021.
However, given the economic uncertainties, achieving an organic growth of 3% to 5% for
disability and P&C may end up being the most challenging one of all of our targets.
So, having said this, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our presentation and I hand
over to the operator to take any questions you might have.

Questions And Answers
A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

(Operator Instructions)

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now take our ﬁrst question from Cor Kluis. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO-ODDO. Couple of questions. First of all, on
disability insurance, that's good to see that the reintegration process has picked up and
improved in the second half of the year. Could you give somewhat feeling on premium
increases that you have been doing in the beginning of this year, especially in the sickness
leave area? And also, the reintegration, how is that progressing? The stock reserve being
fractionated, that might also help somewhat in that process.
Second question is on P&C. Year-to-date, we've seen a lot in the Netherlands. We've seen
some snow, we've seen some riots, no ﬁrework, lockdown continuing. It's diﬃcult to
estimate. Can you give some feeling on your P&C experience on combined ratio there.
So, maybe on disability in that respect.
And my last question is about M&A. Last year, ASR didn't do any yearly acquisitions. Every
year, (inaudible) for acquisitions. So, (inaudible) at this moment. Could you give a little bit
feeling on the progress that you see at this moment in a COVID-19 environment? Can you
do acquisitions or if it's still [ph]too hard to do that in such an environment? That's all my
questions. Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, thank you, Cor. Let me start with the question on disability and premium increases.
Over the last year, in October, we have increased premiums for individual disability. That
Page 12 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

was not due to COVID, but due to the lower interest rates. So, we have increased
premiums over there since 1st of October. In sickness leave, we increased last year, on the
1st of Jan 2020, the premiums already. And we've done the same in 2021 due to the
developments we've seen there in the Netherlands. In general, over the last couple of
years, sickness leave went up with 4% per annum. Last year, we have seen, in the whole
society in the Netherlands, sickness leaves going up with close to 7%. So, therefore, we
again increased premiums in the sickness leave business, aiming at a positive contribution
at the end of this year, which we hopefully are able to deliver.
In P&C, to your question, yes, we have seen some claims coming in on the weatherrelated issues last week. We had happily some snow in the Netherlands. We've seen a
competitor mentioning a large (Technical Diﬃculty) claims. We, however, up until now,
have seen not more than 200 -- I believe 204 is the exact number of new claims related to
that. All very small. I believe the largest one we had due to the weather was EUR15,000,
which is perfectly manageable.
The riots we had in the beginning of the lockdown during the evenings, we had some
incoming claims. Total of that number was 7. All very limited. We're of course helping
customers there, but also very manageable.

Bloomberg Transcript

So all in all, those two situations will not signiﬁcantly impact the combined ratio. And up
until now, we haven't had any severe winter storms where we had last year, Ciara, with an
impact of EUR9 million.
Then, on the acquisition side, last year, we, of course, did one acquisition, Brand New
Day. And there, we actually spent the OCC that we had in mind. It's, however, diﬃcult to
do any predictions on what might happen this year. We are still positive that there are
some opportunities out there. COVID is not helpful for that, especially given the
lockdowns, et cetera. So, to develop relationships, to have the right conversations, it's not
helpful.
However, we remain active in that area and keep on looking from a more ﬁnancial
perspective to potential life books that can be integrated on our very eﬃcient own life
platform and our preference is to do acquisitions in disability, in non-life and also in
distribution.
And whether it will happen this year is to be seen. I'm born in December and most
people born in December tend to be positive about the future. So, I remain positive.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Very good. I was born in November. Thank you very much.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Operator
We will now move to our next question from Farooq Hanif. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody. Good morning. So, just my ﬁrst question on going -- about the combined
ratio. You gave the positive impact of frequency beneﬁt from COVID. I'm guessing that
that didn't include the disability reserving. So, I was wondering if you could just quantify
that, so we can get a real kind of underlying picture of where you are.
And also in health, I noticed a strong performance. I'm guessing that's because people
aren't using all the services that they could be using during lockdown. So, just what is
your comment on that?
And secondly on investment margin, you talk about stability, but actually as a percentage
of asset margin, it continues to expand. So, I'm kind of wondering whether you can give
more guidance on kind of where you are in your rerisking journey and whether we should
really sort of factor that in going forward as a continuing trend.
And that's it really. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Farooq. You want to start on the investment margin, Annemiek. Or shall I take
the ﬁrst two questions ﬁrst. Okay.
Farooq, on your assumption that the reserve strengthening is not yet included in the
combined ratio, it is included in the combined ratio. We already did that in 2020. So,
hopefully, that answers your question.
On your second question, our view on the relation between the strong performance due
to a lower use of services, I think in the Non-Life area, in P&C, you're right. We've seen a
lower number of claims, et cetera, which impacted ASR positive. That was, by the way,
mostly in the ﬁrst half of 2020. In the second half, we've seen that returning to more
normal levels. I think we already talked about disability. We've seen that customers used
our services to call it -- services more in last year. Going forward -- up until now, we don't
see really new trends compared to the last half of 2020.
So, we continue to see actually the same trend in the ﬁrst month of 2021. So, some
tailwinds in P&C and a lower headwind in disability compared to the ﬁrst half of last year.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Just to come back. I realize that the -- you've included the reserving. I was just wondering
what the amount was because you gave a 0.6 percentage point improvement in

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

combined ratio from COVID. Presumably there was also a negative from the reserving. I
was just wondering if you'd quantify that.

FINAL

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

We haven't disclosed that speciﬁc number on the reserving due to COVID. The total
negative impact due to COVID in disability was EUR71 million. EUR51 million of that was
already there in the ﬁrst half. So, in the second half, we actually show an additional
negative impact from COVID of EUR20 million. And that included the additional
reserving.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

So the additional reserving is included in the EUR20 million.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. And your question on investment margin, obviously, we've seen it increase last year.
Three main reasons for that. We had a positive impact on our swaptions, basically result
that we made on -- positive result that we made on swaption in the past, which actually
are now following through via amortize realized gains. And that's a beneﬁt that we'll
continue to have.
We also saw an increase by part of the -- a bit of a re-risking that we did and speciﬁcally
optimization within the credit risk portfolio. The latter, we will continue. And obviously,
there was a required interest decrease due to the maturing individual life book.
If you look at the investment margin, if you would do it over the basic nominal life
provision, we have a slide on that in the appendix. It's actually slide 40. You see that it has
been relatively stable over the last three years, 2.3%, 2.3%, 2.5%. And I think we're
comfortable with that level going forward as well.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
We will now move to our next question from David Barma. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. First of all, just to come back on OCC, thank you very much for giving
us a sort of bridge from the end of the year. Can we just zoom in again on sort of levers
you see to get to your target beyond the -- sort of what we've seen are in this year, the
Page 15 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

own pension switch that you see, the interest rate pickup and all of that, how should we
see the room you have for the rest of the uplift, especially considering the trends in the
normalization you're talking about in P&C and in disability which may take a bit longer.

FINAL

And then just on -- just a follow-up on that, on disability, can you quantify the contribution
in the OCC in the second half?
And lastly, just to follow-up on the explanation on the investment margin. In the past, you
gave an amount for the contribution of the realized gain reserve and the amortization of
that. How much should we expect for the coming years because I think the previous
guidance was until -- it was until this year? Thank you very much.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

All right. I'll start oﬀ with the OCC. I think you meant with your ﬁrst question, how will you
get EUR21 million from an OCC perspective. And if we start oﬀ with the UFR drag, we
always take the average UFR drag, i.e., the average drag that belong to 1st of Jan versus
end of year, and then we take the average of that. That would mean that, if interest rates
would not move, would not have moved where they were at the end of December, we
would have an echo UFR drag of minus EUR37 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also seen spreads widening in 2020 really related to COVID, has come back again.
If you would think that temporary spread widening was really temporary, you would have
to knock out another EUR10 million.
We've seen the positive impact on stock of the lowering of taxes via LAC DT, but,
obviously, that will have a negative impact of -- by the reversal of the lowering of taxes
and that will have a negative impact on ﬂow of around EUR15 million.
Now if you would deduct the UFR drag, if you would deduct potentially the temporariness
of spread widening we saw in 2020 and if we would deduct the fact that there was a
negative impact on ﬂow from the reversal of the lowering of the tax rate, then you would
get to around EUR440 million as a starting point.
If you would look at interest rates where they are today, they've actually come up a bit
since the end of last year, and that would reduce the UFR echo by around EUR15 million
to EUR20 million. We took out some additional -- we had net current service cost due to a
change in our pension scheme of around EUR20 million in the operating result in this
year. And that in OCC terms equated to around EUR7 million because you don't have
everything ﬂowing through OCC from that. Now, we won't have that EUR7 million again
next year. So that's a positive. Then you would end up at roughly EUR460 million as a
starting point for 2021.
Last year, we did some rerisking, as I said. Now, the re-risking we did last year was around
3 percent points in solvency stock and it added around EUR15 million in OCC. I would
expect us from an OCC perspective to be able to realize something similar this year. So,
we're deﬁnitely looking to add another EUR15 million or so by re-risking. Leaves us at
Page 16 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

EUR475 million, meaning that another EUR25 million or so, we would have to compensate
by increased business capital generation.
Now, as Jos just alluded to, we've done some price increases. So, hopefully, we'll see that
coming through our insurance results. We continue to look very hard on cost eﬃciency
and we also continue to strive for organic growth, both in the Non-Life business, but also
in the fee business. So, it's really our challenge and also our goal to compensate that by
further increase of business capital generation, and that's why we would consider the
EUR500 million as doable, but challenging.
And then, you also had a question on what the visibility impact is on the OCC. We don't
disclose that that ﬁgure. I think it's fair to say that the Life contribution to OCC is relatively
stable. It would be around EUR450 million. If you would look at the total Non-Life
contribution in the OCC, it would be at around EUR100 million. And then, obviously, you
would have to add the fee business and you would have to subtract the holding and then
you would get to the EUR500 million again.
And then, you had a last question on the investment margin and the capital release, the
amortization of realized gains that we see in there. And we expect that to be fairly stable
going forward.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very stable. That's the same EUR300 million level that you've given before.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

I can't give the exact disclosed ﬁgure for this year. But by and large, we expect it to be
stable.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
We will now move to our next question from Steven Haywood. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thank you very much. On your real estate portfolio, and in particular, the whole Dutch
property market, how do you see the mark-to-market impact coming through in the near
term? Do you see any negative drivers for resilience in the property market here? And
when do you do the big sort of revaluations within your portfolio here?
Secondly, on the court case, what was the actual ruling related to -- on the bodily injury
court case? And is this an expected impact for the whole of the industry to take that
additional reserving? Thank you.
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

FINAL

All right. Let me start with your question on real estate. And I guess, you refer to retail real
estate there, if I understood it correctly. Listen, we do see some impact of COVID there.
But as I said, around two-third of the exposure we have via the Dutch Prime Retail Fund is
actually high street retail business and one-third is related to supermarket district
shopping centers.
Now, the latter part hasn't really seen any negative revaluations. It actually went up a bit in
the COVID times. Obviously, high street retail, there we did see some negative
revaluations. In total, our real estate had a negative revaluation of around 10%. In our total
real estate book, that actually was more than compensated by the re-evaluation of the
rural position, which is far greater than the retail real estate position, and also the positive
revaluation of the residential position that we have.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Sorry, can I just follow-up on that? In terms of the commercial side of things as well and
the oﬃces potentially, do you expect to see any change in their valuations in the future, if
there's going to be more working from home going on?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Yeah, what we've -- we only have a very small position in oﬃces. And we actually, there,
have seen a positive revaluation on the oﬃces space, also because we realized some new
oﬃce buildings, that the projects were still ongoing last year. And within our, we call it,
Dutch Mobility Oﬃce Fund, and they are all prime locations adjacent to the largest city's
railway stations. They tend to be all multi-tenant, and we do see that there is still quite
some appetite for those locations.
I think in the oﬃce side, if you would move more to the [ph]peripheral, the rural areas,
kind of outside of the big cities being Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht, then it's getting
more diﬃcult for those oﬃces. But we don't have those in our portfolio. So, we're really
focused on big cities next to the largest, most important railway stations, multi-tenant
buildings.
So, to the extent that there is working from home, we tend to see (Technical Diﬃculty)
shifting from large own buildings more towards renting smaller space in these multitenant buildings, which have good public transport opportunities in the vicinity.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your second question, Steven, the court case I mentioned was the same one that
was already mentioned in the ﬁrst half where the Dutch court decided on the interest
rates, you should take into account, for future claims, which had to be lower due to the
lower interests in the Netherlands, in the ﬁrst half, we already took EUR8 million for that.
That was based on how we looked at it after a half-year. In the second half, we reviewed
our whole portfolio and we looked into all the ongoing cases and we decided -- and I
already mentioned that we tend to be conservative on those decisions. We took another
EUR17 million. So, the total additional reserving in Non-Life was EUR25 million. And
Page 18 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

whether the whole industry will do the same, that's up to the industry, but we tend to be
very, very conservative on that.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

FINAL

It was a good year to be conservative there.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thanks for the reminder. And what was the actual change in the interest rates?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, in the past, the industry calculated with future interest rates, up to 3%. And in the
court case, it was decided that it's better to calculate with an interest rate of zero, given
what customers can make on the saving accounts.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Yeah. Brilliant. Thank you very much for your help.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We will now move to our next question from Fulin Liang Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Just a couple of questions. So, ﬁrst of all, thank you very much
for run one through the guidance of the OCC. But just to reckon, there are a few
vulnerability within the whole kind of system. And for example, you've already taken some
of the interest rate rise year-to-date so far into your OCC. And just wondering, are you
doing anything else to protect your kind of volatility to interest rate? What if the interest
rate goes down from here? And also, I know that you're kind of hoping that further cost
saving will help on the remaining 25 gaps in OCC. And I just wonder if the whole kind of
back to normal realized from May, June, will actually some of your cost saving reverse?
What you've seen in 2020, will that reverse? So, that's kind of one question, how you
protect your OCC?
And secondly, it's just -- again, I think it's probably a bit detailed. So, in your UFR drag in
2020, we've seen similar amounts in ﬁrst half versus the second half. But if you look at the
interest rate movements, the second half is much larger than the ﬁrst half in terms of the
interest rate movement. How did you manage to get the same UFR drag for very diﬀerent
interest rate movements? Thank you.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

To start oﬀ with the last question, Fulin, we average it out. So, we take the UFR drag and
we calculate the UFR drag for full year based on 1st January, 2020. Then we calculate for
the full year based on the 31st and then we average that. So, that's the full year UFR drag
Page 19 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

and that's also the reason why, if interest rates would not change, we would have the echo
of another EUR37 million within this year. So, that methodology hopefully explains your
last question.
And in terms of -- yes, the UFR drag remains sensitive towards interest rate changes. So,
you're right, if interest rates would not go up, we would not have a reduction of that UFR
echo drag. Obviously, it's being dented a little bit by the capital release. If interest rates
would go down further, we would also have a positive impact on the capital release.
And to give you some feeling around sensitivities here, if interest rates would see 50 bps
decrease, for instance, that will probably -- from where they were at December 31 last
year, that would roughly equate to around EUR18 million reduction in OCC, which is
basically EUR100 million UFR unwind, but it's also EUR20 million of increased capital
release. So, yes, we do remain sensitive towards that. And covering up EUR18 million of
OCC on top of a UFR drag that's there, that's going to be challenging from a business
perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

If interest rates remain where they are, then we would have to compensate around EUR25
million from a business perspective. Indeed, there are some levers that we can still pull in
terms of cost development. I think we may actually also receive a little bit of help by the
continued lockdown that we're experiencing in the Netherlands. So, from a P&C
perspective, the month of January is not exactly unfavorable. So, there are some items
that could still help our business capital generation there. And as I said, we will continue
to look at the rerisking part, speciﬁcally within credits, and hope to add at least another
EUR15 million there in terms of OCC contribution.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you. That's very helpful to run through. Thank you.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Michael Huttner. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I had a question on slide 40 please. I wonder if you could talk a
little bit about the basic life provision which is actually growing. It's not falling. (inaudible),
if you do nothing, it would fall by 2.7% a year. Here, I have three questions.
The ﬁrst one, how does this chart compare with your expectation which I think you
published in the 2018? The book would reduce by 50% or so in a period of year?
And the second is, within that EUR25 billion or EUR24.9 billion ﬁgure, how much is the
Individual life? And you mentioned that your preferred M&A is more in Non-Life than
services. So, does this mean that you actually quite -- you'd be quite happy -- you have no
objection to this provision ﬁgure actually declining going forward?
Page 20 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Shall I start, Jos, with the question on slide 40. If you look at the best estimate liabilities,
we said that we see a CAGR of minus 2.7% for the upcoming 10 years, meaning that, in
around 10 years, we would have seen a reduction. We expect to see a reduction there of
around 25%, which basically mainly comes through the individual life book, which we
would expect from a BEL perspective to around halve within that period. We do expect
pensions and funeral to be relatively stable in there. And the numbers may have changed
versus 2018, given the fact that we've also added quite some acquisitions since then. So, I
don't have the exact line-by-line comparison of what the acquisitions will have done, but
those will have obviously changed those numbers.
And the chart that you see on the left-hand side is the basic normal life provisions, and
that's not the best estimate liabilities.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And to your second question, Michael, when we made a statement on M&A, we were not
trying to say that we don't -- that we wouldn't like any Life M&A anymore, but Life M&A
will be more seen as a ﬁnancial transaction and we will more decide on whether it adds
value to the book and less from a more strategic point of view. From a strategic point of
view, for the longer term, we would prefer to do more Non-Life, more disability and more
distribution. But if and when we do see any opportunity to add Life reserves to the Life
book to protect the in-force cost going down for the future, then we deﬁnitely will do, but
we will judge those transactions more from a ﬁnancial point of view and less from a
strategic point of view.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

And on that -- sorry, may I just ask a follow-up? You know you have a big competitor who
says they look at their life book on a ﬁnancial basis and you're using the same language,
but talking of acquisitions. When do you think you could meet?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And as you can imagine, those kinds of questions are diﬃcult to answer, but our view, in
the past, has been and continues to be, going forward, that we have a slight preference
for smaller and medium-sized transactions because we were able to integrate them in a
very swift way. And how market developments and correlations will evolve in the future,
that is in the future, I think.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thank you very, very much. And thank you for putting that slide up.

Operator
We will now move to our next question from Colm Kelly. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Page 21 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, thank you for taking my questions. First one is just on the illiquid asset strategy.
Obviously, you mentioned you're moving more into illiquid credits, which is private
placements and structured loans. For the asset allocation, obviously, the risk proﬁle is kind
of gradually changing. To what extent has that been discussed with the DNB? Is the DNB
overall comfortable with the direction of travel with respect to the illiquid asset portfolio
and the type of assets that are increasingly being put into that? And that's ﬁrst question.
Second question is on the economic view of Solvency and EU, which is obviously key to
your capital return strategy. The long-term return previously had been assumed to be
2.4% on the investment portfolio. Has there been any change to those long-term return
assumptions post-COVID?
Then, just lastly, on Non-Life solvency, so the Non-Life hasn't remitted much this year.
(inaudible) the solvency was ﬂat year-on-year. There were pluses and minuses in the
underlying results. So, what I'm trying to get a sense of is, what is the actual operating
capital creation in the Life -- in the Non-Life business to fund remittances going forward?
Or should we expect the remittances will almost all be driven by the Life business over the
next couple of years? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

All right. To start oﬀ with your ﬁrst question on rerisking, we're not exactly hugely
expanding the total credit portfolio. We're really looking towards optimizing a little bit
within that portfolio in a Solvency II optimal way, so to speak. And part of the illiquids that
we're moving into is really government guaranteed, think about EIB or other type
structures like that.
In total, for instance, our market risk hasn't changed and we don't really expect that to
change. I think it's relatively an optimal way of looking at it. As I said, we added around -it was around 3 percent point, slightly over EUR70 million of SCR that we added due to
the rerisking that we did last year and looking for something similar this year to do.
And in terms of moving a little bit more into the illiquid part, given that we have liabilities
also on the funeral business that tend to have a very long duration, that actually matches
pretty well with the slightly more illiquid credit as well.
Then in terms of the remittance, for quite some years, we didn't actually remit that much
or nothing at all out of the Non-Life business. Last year, we did do remit a bit out of NonLife, but it was only EUR18 million. So, even last year, we actually upstreamed most of it
from the Life business. Given that that's also running oﬀ, so it's kind of -- it seems a natural
place to do the remittances from.
And we don't rule out to remit from the Non-Life business this year or next year. It's
comfortably above the threshold that we see. And so, there are no impediments to remit
out of it, but it's also an area where we do want to continue to have some organic growth.

Page 22 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

FINAL

So, even if you combine the organic growth targets, plus if you think about the remittance
this year in a COVID where on the Life side, it was pretty clear early on that there wouldn't
be so much impact speciﬁcally this year of COVID, on the Non-Life side, we obviously had
quite some moving parts, with P&C doing very positively, disability taking a hit in H1. So,
we really wanted to get a bit more feeling about the uncertainty there for these to cash in
for any organic growth and support there. So, we just didn't take it out while we could
have taken it out. So, there is no underlying change in our strategy there.
In terms of economic view, I believe -- just checking which slide it is, but we do continue
to give the sensitivity. It's slide 29. And there, you can see what the sensitivity would be if
it would be around 2.5%, if it would be 2% and you would obviously see the
corresponding positive impact on the OCC ﬂow. And that's just a pretty mathematical
calculation. We still feel very comfortable with both the rates on a UFR basis, but also if we
look at lower rates which the sensitivity slide shows on slide 29. We're very comfortable.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Yeah. It's certainly -- it's very useful. I suppose, is the base case economical UFR is still
2.4%? Because I think that's the bit that's missing from the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Yeah, I think we've taken a diﬀerent approach to that now because we used to just use the
2.4%, but then at it from an economic framework and not make any changes to all the
other parameters that you would also have to look at if you truly look at it from an
economic framework. If we would look at it now, I guess, we would lower the 2.4% to a
lower level, but actually also make some other changes because, if you look at it
economically, there are also other elements that you would have to take on board. And if
we would look at the new economic framework case which we're currently developing,
which would contain a slightly lower interest rate, looking at the new economic
framework, we would actually end higher than the 2.5% that we -- that's, for instance, on
this slide and the [ph]old kind of framework.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. (inaudible) to the extent of that 2.4% (inaudible) long-term view on the returns on
the investments portfolio, has there been any change in terms of your view on the longterm return assumption on that investment portfolio?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Just so I have the question clear, Colm. You said on the assumptions that we have on
returns on the various asset categories or could you-- Yeah. So, you disclose each year the
economical UFR of 2.4%. And as an implied long term -- assumed return on the
investment portfolio of something close to that. So, I just want to get a sense, has there
been any change either in the economical UFR or your long-term assumed return on your
investment portfolio?

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

No, we don't have any changes there in the scenarios that we run.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay, perfect.

FINAL

Operator
We will now move to our next question from Robin van den Broek. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, good morning/afternoon, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. First of all, I
think the bridge hat you've given on OCC is very clear. Thank you for that. I was just
wondering, when you say adjusted for current rates, is that rates for today or is that rates
of 10 days ago because it feels to me that 30 bps and maybe some headwinds from the
average VA in 2021 versus 2020 only reducing EUR15 million to EUR20 million, seems a
little bit on the low side. So, I'm just wondering, is that conservatism or is there maybe
rates that are behind -- of a few days ago, not reﬂecting the (Technical Diﬃculty) we've
seen?
Secondly, when I think about residual COVID impact, for banks, it's very clear that there
could be defaults in the SME space and maybe consumer ﬁnance, what have you. For
you, that balance sheet risk of course is very limited. But I guess, there could be
implications from defaults for your gross written premiums. And as a result of that, your
results could still be impacted. I was wondering if you have done any assessments around
that and how big those impacts could be?
And lastly, I think your capital promise has been very clear that you basically stick to
EUR75 million as long as you're above, was it, 180%. You're well ahead of that. I was just
wondering if there's anything that could happen that would make you add to that EUR75
million buyback or you're just going to ride this plan out on that basis? Thank you.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Shall I start with your ﬁrst question on the lesser UFR drag, et cetera, in terms of OCC?
Those are actually based on beginning of last week rate. So, there is probably a rate
diﬀerence if you would refer to as of today's rate.
If you look at your question related to the EUR75 million buyback and us being well above
the 180%, given all the uncertainty around -- in markets, we would stick to the EUR75
million for now and the capital return policy that we've actually communicated last.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Sorry. Just one follow-up on the UFR, basically. Is it fair to assume that 1 basis point is EUR1
million roughly for OCC?

Page 24 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

If you would have a 50 bps interest rate impact, you will have around EUR80 million in
OCC impact. And that's a combination of -- it's a combination of (Technical Diﬃculty) and
the capital release. You have to take both -- two elements into account.

FINAL

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And to your second question, whether we run scenarios going forward, we have run some
scenarios based on the assumptions of the Dutch Bureau of Statistics. Taking debt kind of
scenarios to the top line is very diﬃcult. Up until now, we have based our view going
forward on the subset of our portfolio and we are not that large in the areas that are hit
mostly currently. And the statement we've made on the top line going forward is more
based on -- it is diﬃcult to predict how the economy as a whole will be hit by the moment
that the Dutch government decides to stop ﬁnancial support.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I look into to the arrears in all kind of areas, it's very, very low. If that is a basic signal
going forward, then one might be positive. But if there are a number of type of business
that end up being bankrupt going forward, then it might be more diﬃcult to meet their
target. And so, it's hard to predict. But based on the scenarios from the Dutch Bureau of
Statistics, it's all looking quite good. But you know us, Robin. We, in general, tend to be a
bit more careful on those kind of statements. So, we might be too conservative and let's
hope for that.
To your second question, whether -- if the solvency remains at the level where it is today,
whether we would consider to give more capital back to investors, in general, ASR tries to
stick to a plan. And if we promise something to the market, we tend to deliver on that. So,
for the time being, it is the three times EUR75 million and how that will develop going
forward is going to depend on how we judge further targets (Technical Diﬃculty) for the
year after 2021.
And we have always been clear even when we are not able to use the capital in a positive
way to grow the company or to rerisk the business -- sorry, to re-risk our investments,
we're not capital hoarders and then we will look at the most eﬃcient way to return it to
shareholders. But for the time being, it's our aim to deliver on the promises made last
year to do at least three times EUR75 million and this is the second year where we deliver
on that target.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thank you very much.

A - Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. We only have room for one ﬁnal analyst to ask questions. We'll come back
to any analyst that have questions for a later moment. So, operator, can we have the ﬁnal
analyst for questions please?

Operator
Page 25 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

Certainly. We will now take our ﬁnal question from Andrew Baker. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Am I'm now feeling the pressure of being the last. So,
I'll try and make it quick. So, the ﬁrst is just on the EIOPA 2020 review. Appreciate you've
previously given an update on the expected impact on the stock of capital, but can you
give us a sense of the impact you're expecting on the ongoing capital generation once it's
implemented?
And then secondly, I know many of your peers have undertaken longevity reinsurance
transactions. Is this something that you guys are still exploring? Thank you.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew, for your question. I'm already thinking why does no one asks a question
on EIOPA review. But, yeah, we did publish the results actually on stock, which basically -if it would be implemented in 2024 and it would be implemented without the phasing in,
we would have a minus 10 percentage point solvency impact. Actually, with the phasing
in, that is probably a plus 1 at that point in time. If you do that minus 10% impact on stock,
that would correspond with roughly EUR25 million of OCC in 2024. So, that's the without
phasing in impact on it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And your last question was related to the -- can you repeat the last one again?

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Just if you're still exploring--

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Longevity, yeah.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

--longevity reinsurance?

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Yeah. We do look at it. We do continue to look at it. But, obviously, in terms of any capital
transactions, we kind of look at both the necessity and whether it makes economical
sense. And if we would look at a longevity swap, it would indeed be kind of mid-singledigit release of capital that would ﬂow through. Having said that, that's based on the old
mortality tables. We really wanted to wait until the new mortality tables came in. They
clearly came a little bit our way, as you can see, in terms of stock. And given the fact that
we have a funeral business, positive beneﬁt of a longevity swap will also diversify away a
bit. So, that's why, for us, it would be kind of mid-single digit to such a trade and it will,
obviously, have a negative impact on capital generation, on ﬂow going forward. So, if we

Page 26 of 27



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-02-18

really need the capital or if the economics of it would improve, we will deﬁnitely look into
it. But we're not in a hurry to do such a transaction.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Thank you very much.

A - Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Jos, would you wrap it up?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, thanks everybody for joining us. Hopefully, the answers given to all of your
questions were helpful. If and when there remain any questions, please ﬁnd one of the
colleagues of IR.
As we already said in the introduction, we're quite proud on the delivery of our results.
We remain working hard to keep on delivering on our promises. And as said, the
challenge to do so remains also very, very big, mainly due to circumstances we can't
inﬂuence that much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having said that, thanks for joining and let's hope that we can meet you in person at least
when we present the half-year numbers and that we can have our regular dinner to
discuss in depth on the numbers of ASR.
So, stay healthy and enjoy the rest of the day in writing all those reports on those two nice
Dutch insurance companies.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You
may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

