Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Amanda Blanc, Chief Executive Officer
Jason Windsor, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Larissa van Deventer, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Aviva plc Full-Year 2020
Results and Strategy Update. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After
the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) I must advise you, this conference is being recorded today on Thursday, the
4th of March, 2021. I will now hand the conference over to your Group CEO, Amanda
Blanc. Please go ahead.

Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our 2020 results presentation. As
usual, I'm joined today by Jason Windsor, our CFO. And I've said this at previous financial
updates but it's worth repeating. So I do hope you're all staying safe and keeping well.
Before we get into the detail of today, let me start by saying how incredibly proud I am of
Aviva's response to COVID. Our people have consistently stepped up and delivered
beyond expectation since we sent the home to work remotely in March last year. They've
continued to deliver for our customers during what I think we can all agree have been the
most challenging of circumstances. And Aviva has also stepped up the support we
provide to our communities, from GBP43 million of charitable and community donations to
Page 1 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

providing support to highly deserving NHS staff. I would like to take this opportunity to say
thank you to each and every one of our employees.
Turning to today's agenda shown on slide three, first I will provide an update on the
progress we are making towards our strategic priorities. Second, Jason will take you
through the full-year results, and finally, I will provide you with further color on how we are
transforming performance and accelerating growth in the UK. We will then open the lines
for your questions.
So, let's turn to slide five. Seven months ago, I set out three strategic priorities for Aviva
which to remind you were, focus the portfolio, transform performance and financial
strength. I'm pleased to report that we are making excellent progress on all fronts. We
said we would focus on the strongest businesses in the UK, Ireland and Canada, and
manage our international businesses for long-term shareholder value. And that is exactly
what we have done.

Bloomberg Transcript

In less than 7 months, we have announced the exit of France, Singapore, Italy, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Vietnam and Turkey. The sales of France and Italy are of course the most
significant steps forward in Aviva's strategic transformation. We have strengthened our
capital and liquidity, materially reduced our balance sheet exposure to macro risks and
realized significant value for our shareholders. We've also made good early progress on
the critical task of transforming the performance of our core markets, effectively the new
Aviva. But there is still much to do, more on this in a moment.
Central to the delivery of our strategic priorities is the financial strength of the business.
We continue to benefit from a robust balance sheet with a healthy capital surplus of
GBP13 billion, cover ratio of 202% and central liquidity of GBP4.1 billion. These will further
strengthen as we complete the announced disposals in 2021.
In November, we set out our clear intent to deliver sustainable ordinary dividend to our
shareholders covered by capital generation, cash remittances and growth from our core
businesses. Today, we are announcing a full-year 2020 dividend of 21pence per share with
a final dividend of 14 pence per share.
Now moving on to discuss our trading performance on slide six, despite the challenges
we all faced in 2020 our financial and trading performance has been robust with record
trading results in the key growth areas, 8% year-on-year commercial lines growth, GBP6
billion of BPA new business sales is a record for Aviva, GBP8.5 billion of savings and
retirement net inflows.
There were less than pleasing performances in personal lines where topline fell and Aviva
Investors with weak profitability. Rest assured, we're on it and these issues are being
addressed. We are ahead of our plans in delivering GBP300 million of cost savings by the
end of 2022, with a GBP100 million achieved -- GBP180 million achieved to date, all of
which contributed to GBP2.5 billion operating profit from our core markets and GBP1.4
billion of cash related to the group, a much stronger second-half performance.

Page 2 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

However, turning to slide seven, it is clear to me we need to do a lot more to truly
transform the performance of the new Aviva. This is crucial to our future success and to
deliver value to our shareholders. We currently serve 18 million customers across our core
markets. And our business must be built around each one of them, serving their needs
seamlessly and efficiently, regardless of whether they are an individual, a business or an
intermediary.
My intention is to focus Aviva on serving more of our customers' needs, especially where
we have leading positions and clearly have the capabilities to win. We will be targeting
growth. We have an absolute focus on execution with the goal to building upon these
leading positions and creating further value for our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we've [ph] said before, we will not be holding the Capital Markets Day. This is not what
is needed here. You may even be relieved that you won't have to see sit through one.
Instead, we will be providing you with regular strategy updates and occasional deep-dives
into our businesses. Consistent with this, today I will be providing an update on the UK,
our largest and our home market. In future sessions, we will provide you with updates on
Canada, Ireland and Aviva Investors.
Let's move to slide eight. A key part of delivering the necessary transformation starts at
the top of the house. In my first statement as CEO, I have made seven appointments to
my leadership team and we are now strengthening the next layer. All our leaders have a
very clear understanding of what is expected of them, from what they need to do to how
they need to do it. When I arrived, 90% of employees had no performance ratings or
even simple conversations on how they were performing. How on earth can we raise our
game if we're not having honest conversations on performance.
I have made immediate changes so that everyone has simple, clear, aligned objectives
and understand how they are performing. This will help us to deliver and develop and
retain our people, deliver on our objectives and attract the critical talent we need into the
organization. I'm breaking down the silo mentality and establishing a unified, collaborative
approach and culture across the business.
If we want customers to see Aviva is one business capable of serving more of their
needs, we need to think, behave and act as one business, nothing less than this will do.
So now, let's talk about where we are heading and our targets. Turning to slide nine, Aviva
has been a recognized later on ESG issues for many years, but we are going further. As
you will have seen earlier this week, we have elevated our ambition. We intend to be netzero about 2040. This is the most ambitious goal set by any UK financial institution, and
yes, we do mean the carbon emissions we produce ourselves, those contributed by our
suppliers and the investments we make for our customers and shareholders. It is a clear
direction of travel that I know our employees, partners and customers will want to get
behind and enthusiastically support.
Meeting these commitments will be hard. I make no apology for that. But what became
clear to me when I arrived at Aviva is that we cannot wait for everything to be neatly laid
Page 3 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

out before we move the organization on the right direction. Let me be clear that we are
not doing this just because we believe it's the right thing to do. We're doing this because
we believe it makes sound commercial sense. And ultimately, we are focused on creating
value for our shareholders.
Today, I am providing further clarity on how we will achieve this by setting out our new
financial targets which are set out on slide 10. We are targeting GBP5 billion-plus of cash
remittances to the Group over the next 3 years, with the ambition to grow annual cash
remittances to GBP1.8 billion by 2023. In November, we upgraded our cost savings target
to GBP300 million from the core markets by the end of 2022. Today I am reconfirming
this target and going further. Once the GBP300 million savings have been achieved, we
would expect all our business lines to go on and deliver top quartile efficiency versus their
peers. And this will give us some more stretching and dynamic go-to target over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I am reconfirming our target debt leverage ratio to be below 30%. As you will
appreciate, against the backdrop of ongoing national lockdowns and economic
uncertainty, we are not announcing specific targets by line of business today. However, we
are confident in our plans to grow the overall cash generation of the business and the
targets I have just laid out.
Turning to deployment of excess capital, in November I set out our capital framework with
the priorities for deployment being, debt reduction, investing to grow our core
businesses and shareholder returns. As a result of the rapid progress we've made with
disposals, I am today announcing that we will redeem GBP1.7 billion of cash during the first
half of 2021. As we promised, this accelerates our delivery of the debt reduction and
Jason will provide more detail on this shortly.
Following the completion of the remaining disposals, we will then also be in a position to
make a substantial return of capital to our shareholders. While we have made excellent
progress in reshaping the portfolio quickly, and I think we really have, we understand the
substantial long-term value creation will mostly come from returning to growth and
transforming Aviva's performance.
I will return to this topic shortly. But at this point, let me hand over to Jason to take you
through our full-year 2020 financial results and to provide further detail on these targets.

Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Thanks, Amanda. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to start in slide 12. I'll spend a few
minutes and take you through what has been a very busy year with resilient financial
performance, setting us up well as we move into 2021. Before I do that, I'll spend some
time looking at how we're delivering against our strategic priorities.
We delivered strongly against our strategy. With the recently announced divestment of
France and today's announcement of the sale of our remaining Italian businesses, we've
made decisive progress on focusing the portfolio. Our Solvency II position and centre
liquidity is strong, providing a significant financial flexibility.
Page 4 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

Today, we are announcing plans to reduce debt by GBP1.7 billion in the first half of this
year, including an GBP800 million tender offer on our debt. This is an important first step
in delivering against our capital framework, providing a clear path for returning excess
capital to shareholders. As Amanda just mentioned, we're also announcing a new 3-year
cash remittances target from our core businesses. This GBP5 billion plus target London
will underpin growth in our sustainable dividend.
We're setting this new target with strong momentum across our core markets of UK,
Ireland and Canada. Even in a turbulent year like 2020, we have delivered absorbing the
impact of to COVID-19 and making good progress in transforming our performance. But
there is a lot more to do and we're committed to better performance.
Moving to slide 13, the sales of France and Italy are the most important steps in our
strategic transformation, which allow us to focus the Group and they also have
repositioned the balance sheet. The transaction significantly strengthened our capital
liquidity with excess capital above 180% expected to increase by GBP3 billion and centre
cash by GBP3.9 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

France and Italy were each predominantly traditional guaranteed savings businesses, and
this is why the Group capital release is so significant despite the loss of diversification
benefits, bringing up capital for investment and return to shareholders. Following the
sales, we will still retain around GBP3.5 billion diversification across the Group with over
GBP2 billion relating to our core Life and GI markets, a clear benefit of our business
model. We expect the transactions to complete by the end of 2021. So, there is still some
time before we book the benefits in our capital and cash position.
Let's now turn to an important first step in the progress against our capital framework on
slide 14. As a recap, under our capital framework announced in November, we are
targeting leverage below 30% and a Solvency II working range of a 160% to 180%, and we
target AA credit rating metrics.
We've also said that we will invest to grow our core business, and that capital above 180%
was excess. We are announcing today debt reduction plans of GBP1.7 billion, including an
GBP800 million debt tender offer together with maturities and calls of GBP900 million.
This will lead to a reduction in our leverage ratio of 4 percentage points to 27% by the first
half of 2021, significantly less than our 30% target.
The tender will result in us having to pay a premium (inaudible) targeted bonds a relatively
short basis, and we estimate the cost is around GBP100 million. At the same time, we
expect an ongoing annual interest saving around GBP100 million from this overall debt
reduction.
Turning to the next slide, we can see on the left that our deleveraging action will utilize a
large proportion of our excess capital above 180% Solvency II ratio, approximately 12
percentage points. On the right, we can see that we will use a large proportion of the
extra central liquidity approximately GBP1.8 billion. So clearly, before we take any
significant further actions against our capital framework, we will need to wait for
Page 5 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

completion of the France and Italy transactions in the second half of the year. But this step
today unlocks a clear path to substantial future return to shareholders.
However, longer-term value creation for shareholders must be sustainable and not just
driven by capital actions. To (Technical Difficulty), we're announcing today a new cash
remittance target from our core markets, as you can see on slide 16. This target is over
GBP5 billion of cash for the 3 years, 2021 to 2023. It's an ambitious target but one that's
achievable given the strong cash generation of our business and the improvements in
performance we are pursuing.
While we're not setting individual annual targets, we are guiding you to GBP1.8 billion of
cash remittances by 2023. This combined with lower centre cash outflows as we reduce
interest and other costs should help us drive excess centre cash flow available for
dividend and reinvestment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now turn to one of the levers that will help us achieve these cash remittances
targets, our ability to reduce costs. Our GBP300 million cost reduction represents a
significant improvement in efficiency. But as we mentioned in Q3, we're now aiming to
deliver slowly from our core markets, increasing the cost reduction from 7.5% to 9.5% of
the 2018 cost base. As a reminder, it's an absolute cost reduction target, so we are also
absorbing 4 years of inflation.
We are now more than halfway through the program and have delivered GBP180 million
of cost savings to date. Over the last 12 months, we've seen a 4% reduction in our
workforce, largely through natural attrition. We've also seen a 30% reduction (inaudible)
external contractors.
Product simplification within general insurance is also paying off. We further migrated our
IT to cloud. And our experience with working from home would allow us to rationalize our
property footprint, accelerating some savings which Amanda will cover in a moment.
While this is a good start, we have more to do as we strive for top quartile efficiency
across the business.
Let's now turn to the 2020 results, which had been resilient over the year with a strong
second half. This is on slide 18. Group operating profit was stable at around GBP3.2 billion
while IFRS profit after tax improved 9% to GBP2.9 billion. Cash remittances were much
stronger in the second half, totaling GBP1.5 billion for the year across the Group, with the
vast majority of this coming from the core markets.
Operating capital generation showed similar resilience, with core markets up 5% to
GBP1.95 billion. At Group level OCG was lower, primarily owing to changes to the French
life model. These changes also had a negative impact on the Group's Solvency II return on
equity, which reduced to 9.8%. However, underlying ROE improved from 8.1% to 9.8%.
So let's look in a bit more detail at how each of our core markets has performed, starting
with UK and Ireland Life. Overall, UK and Ireland Life operating profit was 3% lower at
GBP1.9 billion. There was good growth in savings and retirement, BPAs and group
Page 6 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

protection, as well as a GBP98 million higher benefit from management actions and other.
This was partly offset by lower new business profits in individual protection and equity
release. I'll come back to each of these areas in more detail in a moment.
Profit from Heritage was GBP68 million lower, reflecting the run-off of the book broadly as
we would have expected. And Ireland Life made a small loss owing to transformation
spend and higher protection claims. Operating capital generation was stable at GBP1.26
billion, with new business trend [ph] also stable despite the increase in BPA volumes. We
continue to focus on expense efficiency which helped reduce cost by 5%. There's more
that we can do as we pursue our goal of being top quartile for efficiency.
So, let's now turn to the areas that will drive quality growth. These, as Amanda will come
back to in a moment, are large and fast growing (inaudible) market where we already
have leading positions and capabilities. So on slide 20, you can see that Savings &
Retirement achieved a 35% increase in operating profit in 2020, helped by 17% increase
in revenue to GBP571 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

The cost income ratio in the business remained high at 79%. This is a business which will
benefit greatly from operational leverage and we expect this to be more evident in future
years as we grow revenue and focus on efficiency. The strong revenue growth benefits
from higher average assets, which rose 13%, driven by market movements and record net
inflows of GBP8.5 billion. These strong flows were underpinned by workplace which
added almost 0.25 million new members. Our platform also performed well achieving 3.7
billion in net flows, ranking second in the market, increasing its assets by 18% in the year.
Moving onto Annuities & Equity Release where we had a good year, particularly in bulks
which grew new business by 48% or GBP6 billion. Operating profit of GBP815 million was
6%, as higher profit from bulks was offset by lower profits from individual and equity
release in particular.
In terms of profitability, BPA VNB increased by 33%. However, new business operating
profit was more muted owing to the greater impact of quota share reinsurance. We
expect to continue to grow in BPAs albeit not always at the rate seen in 2020, and the
growth may be lumpy year-to-year. We maintained our number one position in individual
(inaudible) sales of GBP1 billing as demand was impacted by historic low interest rates.
However, we also managed to double VNB to GBP65 million.
Equity release new business was most directly impacted by the lockdown restrictions, with
sales and new business profits down. Looking forward, we expect our strong position in
this market to deliver growth as people increasingly access the significant value locked up
in our homes.
Moving to another value giving franchise, Protection & Health, with the number two
position in Group and individual protection and number three in health. The strength of
our offering has helped drive a 2% increase in sales, driven by a record year for group
protection with sales up over GBP0.7 billion. However, our individual protection business
saw a reduction in sales of 11% as lockdown measures impacted the housing market as
Page 7 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

well as some of our distributors. This was the main reason for the reduction in operating
profit across Protection & Health. Health sales were flat with growth in corporate offsetting
more subdued market in SME and consumer.
Before I move on to GI, I wanted to take you through Management Actions and Other.
The benefit of these items increased by GBP98 million to GBP469 million. And as I
signaled with Q3, this was above our longer-term guidance of up to GBP200 million a
year. We continue to see benefits of longevity releases although these halved compared
2019 to GBP390 million.
The benefit in 2020 stems from our detailed analysis of trends. It is not an effect of
COVID-19, the impact of which is still too early to predict. Importantly, we also benefited
from improvements in efficiency which have led to GBP123 million expenses reduction
compared to an expense reserve increase of GBP60 million in 2019. We're continuing to
expect benefits to management actions and assumption changes to be approximately
GBP200 million per year on average.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now turn to the core GI businesses in the UK, Ireland and Canada. As you know, this
part of our business has been most directly impacted by COVID-19. So, it is really
(inaudible) to see that despite an GBP84 million impact on claims and commissions from
COVID and lower investment returns, the business delivered a 2% increase in profit to
GBP500 million. This increase in profit has been driven by strong improvement in the
underwriting result with core improving to 96.8%. Core based on average weather losses
and excluding the impact of prior-year development and COVID-19 improved by 5
percentage points to 95.8%.
Premiums remained stable, reflecting a buoyant commercial lines market and more
challenging conditions in personal lines. So, let's look at this in a bit more detail starting
first with the UK. In personal lines, premiums declined by 7% as COVID lock down
impacted our distribution partners, including the UK banks. We also exited some
unprofitable lines of business.
Personalized underwriting improved significantly, partly boosted by prior-year
development and weather, as well as the impact of COVID on claims frequency net of
commissions. The core excluding these items also improved but at 101. 6% remained too
high. We must continue to improve the efficiency of the business.
Turning to commercial lines, we can see that it's part of the business which is really
moving ahead of pace, with double-digit topline growth. The business has benefited from
rate hardening and high levels of retention, cementing our number one position. It was
also very encouraging that despite the backdrop of the pandemic our trust score with
brokers remained significantly ahead of our nearest competitors and even increased over
the last 12 [ph] months to 95% despite the challenges posed by business interruption
claims.
Let's now turn to our Canadian business on slide 24. Within personal lines, we saw largely
flat premiums of around GBP2.1 billion as customer relief measures and COVID-19
Page 8 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

impacted our distributors, as in the UK. The underwriting margin improved strongly,
building on the profitability actions we initiated in 2018 and 2019, and we saw favorable
weather and lower claims frequency. Our business is well positioned for the future and
we're investing in our product range, including a digital direct-to-consumer offering.
Commercial lines continue to see good topline growth, with very rate hardening partly
offset by focus on more profitable business. In contrast, the underwriting result worsened,
mainly owing to the business interruption claims. While 2020 had been a tough year for
profitability in commercial lines, the underlying performance has improved significantly,
and we expect this to continue with tailwinds in the rate environment.
Turning now to Aviva Investors on page 25, overall the business had a tougher year with
lower revenues and -- partly offset by lower costs. However, it was pleasing to see that in
contrast to many asset managers, the business continues to attract assets although some
of these came from lower margin liquidity funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

Total net flows were GBP8.5 billion, of which GBP1.7 billion was from third parties. As
announced last week, Aviva Investors France was part of the perimeter of the France
divestment. We therefore highlighted separately the operating profit for Aviva Investors
France.
So, I'll be spending a moment on the crucial role Aviva Investors plays in our strategy and
the growth ambitions under the new leadership of Mark Versey who has recently taken up
the reins. First, its investment solutions helped millions of customers save for retirement
through our workplace pension business and second, its capabilities will continue to be
pivotal to help us grow in the bulk annuity space.
We see huge potential in leveraging our decades-long track record at the forefront of
ESG and sustainable investing for the benefit of the wider group and third-party clients.
We intend to build on significant success with strong momentum in real assets, liability
management and credit, areas that are close to (inaudible) heritage. We also know that
we can become more efficient. The actions we are taking to drive efficiency combined
with future growth will enable us to significantly improve our cost to income ratio.
I'll touch quickly on the performance of the manage-for-value markets set out on slide 26.
In France, profit was stable as we saw improved product mix, which offset adverse
protection claims. However, as we indicated in Q3, OCG reduced as a result of a
correction to a mis-applied rule in the French life model. It was exacerbated by the low
interest rate environment. The impact on this -- on Group OCG post diversification was
much lower. This impact on capital together with regulatory restrictions on the payment of
dividends as a result of COVID significantly impacted cash remittances from the managefor-value markets, (inaudible) GBP127 million or just 8.5% of Group remittances.
Our Polish business delivered a resilient performance despite the impact of COVID, while
in Italy higher AUM as well as favorable claims experience resulted in profit growth. With
the announcements regarding France and Italy as well as the sale of Turkey, we're making
excellent progress in refocusing the Group on our strongest markets.
Page 9 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

So in summary, as I've just mentioned, we've made decisive progress on focusing the
portfolio just 7 months after announcing the new strategy. We've accelerated execution
against our capital framework, with action on debt that will reduce leverage below 30% by
the half-year and that will bring us closer to returning excess capital to shareholders. Most
importantly, our business is well-positioned for growth. With new cash remittance target
underpinned by further efficiencies and winning positions across the UK, Ireland and
Canada, in savings and insurance, we can deliver sustainable long-term growth.
With that, I'll hand back to Amanda who will outline in more detail why and how we can win
in the UK.

Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Jason. As I said earlier, we are making tremendous progress in focusing the
portfolio on the new Aviva of UK, Ireland and Canada. In this and in subsequent sessions, I
intend to set out for you our key strengths, how we will grow the business, how we will
transform performance and ultimately how we will create value for our customers, our
shareholders and our people.
I'll start today with the UK, our largest business and our home market. In future
presentations, we will provide detail on the other core markets. Okay, so let's turn to slide
29 and get going. For Aviva to be successful, we must win in our home market. We have a
unique opportunity here that we must capitalize on. I have a big vision for the UK, to be
the leading insurer by establishing ourselves as the go-to-customer brand for all our
customers' insurance, protection, savings and retirement needs, for individuals,
corporates and their respective intermediaries.
Aviva is the only insurer in the UK that supports customers throughout their lives, from
buying their first car through to starting a family, saving for their future and securing an
income in retirement. Over the next few minutes, I want to share with you my views on
the strength of the UK business and our strategic priorities to transform performance and
deliver growth.
Now, I know many of you would have heard this kind of presentation many times before
and you will be skeptical. I get that. Now, please allow me to step you through this.
Hopefully, you are beginning to see that we are delivering what I said we would and we
intend to continue to do this.
Slide 30 sets out our strategy, which is ultimately centered on our customers, what they
need and what they want from their insurer. From individuals to multinational corporations,
they are all seeking financial security, be it saving for the future, securing income in
retirement or protecting what matters most to them.
The insurance industry has specifically made the customer experience more difficult and
complicated than it needs to be. So, what customers want from their insurer is really very
simple, fair prices, a trusted brand that delivers on its promises, excellent service, ease of

Page 10 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

access and all of this from a company that acts in a sustainable and responsible way. Aviva
understands this and have delivered on all of those points. This is unique.

FINAL

On the next slide you will see, we have been serving customers for over 300 years. We
are part of the financial fabric of the UK, as more than one in seven UK handles save
(inaudible) with Aviva and we already serve 15 million UK customers.
We have a strong platform that we can develop and grow. We are the number one
trusted brand. We are recognized for our excellence and leading customer service. We
have developed strong digital assets, which customers are using on a more frequent
basis. 5 million customers are now registered on MyAviva and customers are buying more
from Aviva with 30% now holding two or more products with us.
And as set out on slide 32, I see our intermediaries as important customers as well. They
play a crucial distribution role in this market. As the chart on the left illustrates, most of our
segments are more than 70% intermediated. And this has been consistent over recent
years. Given our market position, it's no accident that Aviva has the strongest relationship
with these intermediaries. We are consistently ranked number one in broker surveys and
won general insurer of the year at the Insurance Times Awards in December.

Bloomberg Transcript

What intermediaries value from us is no different to our direct customers. They want a
company with a strong brand and financial strength, they want fair prices and great
service, they want their issues resolved quickly and they want a company that's efficient
and simple to deal with. And we can deliver all of those things. These strong relationships
that are key underpin -- to Aviva owning lead market positions across UK insurance.
Slide 33 sets these out. Number one in General Insurance, number one in Workplace
Pension, number two in Protection & Health, a top three player across Annuities & Equity
Release, and these are attractive and growing business lines. Yes, I said growing, we
absolutely see opportunities across our key business lines to deliver meaningful growth,
and I will go into more detail on this shortly.
Now, I'm aware of course that there has been talk about whether Aviva can truly be
successful as a composite in the UK. But to my mind, this completely misses the unique
opportunity and potential that is right in front of our noses. Aviva is the only insurer in the
UK that is capable of serving all customer needs. That is unique, a tremendous asset and
a platform from which we can expand and develop further.
Let me bring this to life for you with a very simple but powerful example on slide 34, one
of the many examples that we can demonstrate. You can see on the slide how Aviva's
wide offering means that we can meet multiple customer needs from our leading position
in Workplace Pensions. We can offer our 24,000 workplace corporate clients broader
employee benefits, for example, Health & Protection, as well as helping them de-risk the
balance sheets through defined benefit solution.
For their 4 million employees who are now Aviva customers, we can offer personal
insurance, health insurance, protection and personal savings products. And their
Page 11 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

workplace pension funds and personal savings can be invested into Aviva Investors,
including our market-leading ESG funds. In turn, Aviva can continue to invest in real assets,
supporting the wider UK economy. And that's just one example, one of the many
opportunities that we have in the UK because of the breadth of our coverage.
Now this structure not only delivers benefits in meeting multiple customer needs, it also
delivers significant synergies, be they capital diversification, benefits from economies of
scale, brand leverage or capturing more of the value chain. But -- and here is the
opportunity, it is obvious to me that we are not capitalizing on these strengths as
effectively as we should be.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's turn to slide 35. Aviva has not delivered the growth for the underlying performance
that I think it should have done, given the strong foundations and leading positions. Our
people deliver amazing service to our customers day in and day out, but it is not
consistent enough. We are hitting trading records, but they are not translating into the
market-leading performance that we should aspire to deliver. Therefore, to address this, I
have identified four actionable priorities to turn our unique position into a sustained
advantage, improving our financial delivery, bring more customers into our franchise and
serve more of their needs. Let's step through each one of these in turn.
The first priority on slide 36 is to continue to propel Aviva into the modern world to
ensure we can meet the ever-increasing customer expectations. Being efficient and
simple to transact with is a non-negotiable, and we are dialing up our delivery on this. As
Jason outlined earlier, we are making good progress on cost savings. You don't just
deliver GBP180 [ph] million of savings from trimming around the edges. However, with our
ambition to deliver top quartile efficiency, there is a lot more to do and we're on it. We're
digitizing and automating more of our customer journeys. As of today, we are at 50%,
which is increasing our suite of service and delivering better customer outcomes. I am
raising that with the ambition to be at 75% by 2023.
Helping customers with a complex health claim or supporting a loved one following the
loss of a partner will always involve human interaction, with an experienced and sensitive
Aviva representative. But the reality is most of our customer interaction should be through
digital channels. In General Insurance, we have been making excellent progress in
simplifying the number of products, delivering a 30% rationalization of the product estate
over the past 2 years. We will go further with this.
Tackling the legacy in our IT estate is also vital. Aviva is this year celebrating 325 years and
in some parts of the organization, the IT is a bit too, shall I say, heritage. We've made
good progress, catching 27% of IT applications in 2018. But we intend to go further and
faster with this.
And as we enable a greater level of digitization and agility across our operations, we will
need fewer physical premises, with our employees about to work remotely as they
service the needs of our customers. By the end of 2021, we will reduce our property
footprint by 30%. All these actions will help to deliver better customer outcomes,
sustainable cost transformation and greater agility to Aviva's operations.

Page 12 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

The next key priority, which I've set out on slide 37 is growth. Some people tell you that
the UK insurance market is mature with limited growth opportunities. I absolutely disagree
with that, and the facts speak for themselves. There are macro trends driving customer
needs over the coming years that present material opportunities to build upon our
success and deliver material growth. We will allocate our capital and target our attention
towards these opportunities.
For example, one in four people in the UK are forecast to be over 65 by 2039, presenting
a massive opportunity to deliver substantial growth in our individual savings and
retirement business. If we consider the BPA market, current forecasts estimate GBP30
billion to GBP50 billion of flows per annum over the next 5 years. That's a tremendous
opportunity for Aviva to sustain the record volumes we have delivered in 2020 and to
grow further.
In commercial lines, we are witnessing one of the hardest rate markets in memory. We
have achieved good growth in 2020, 7% from rate increases and 4% from new business,
but we can do more. Our leading positions in SME and mid market set us up for
tremendous success and further growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Across personal lines, we are targeting areas of profitable growth. For example, we
announced earlier this week we are expanding our high net worth offering with a marketleading underwriting team joining Aviva from a competitor. The outcome of the FCA
pricing review will result in customers moving to stronger brands and of course Aviva has
the strongest brand in UK insurance, 10 points higher than the nearest competitor.
Speaking of brand, turning to slide 38, I said in November we would relaunch, reposition
and recognize the Aviva brand to grow further, and ensure we deliver this growth. Our
brand needs to be built upon trust with our customers. It must build confidence and
reassurance that our product offering will meet their needs at every point in their lives.
In April, we will be re-launching the Aviva brand under the title 'It Takes Aviva'. This will be
supported by a full media campaign. We expect the vast majority of the UK population will
view the brand at least 21 times within Q2. I make no apologies that you will be seeing a
great deal of us.
But awareness of the brand is just one measure, we want our brand to work harder to
create a more meaningful, emotional engagement with our customers. And this connects
to our final priority set out on slide 39. We must drive greater customer engagement. We
must service more of our customers' needs, offer them the opportunity to more easily
purchase more products from us and to stay with us for the long term. Ultimately, we
need to build an efficient, enjoyable, engaging and digitally-led customer experience, and
to do this consistently across our business.
Customers want to purchase and interact with their insurers through mobile-led platforms.
If we look at our own experience, MyAviva login to the user are at 45% during 2020. Our
Q3 launch of Aviva Connect for our intermediaries has been tremendously successful with
410,000 logins in January. We need to leverage these digital interactions by connecting
Page 13 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

the rich data we collect to offer customers the right products and services at the right
time in their homes. And to sustain our position as the UK's leading sure and be here to
celebrate another 300 years. We need to continue to lead the UK market with innovative
products and services.
So, let me recap and turn into slide 40. Aviva is the only insurer in the UK to conserve all
our customers' needs at every stage of their lives. That's a unique ability and we need to
make much better use of that than we have in the past. We will achieve this by delivering
meaningful growth, simpler and more agile operations, build engaging digitally-led
customer experience and ultimately a transformed financial performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as we set out to deliver this transformation, how will we measure our success? On
slide 42, I've summarized the metrics and KPIs that we will focus on as we go forward. We
will be expanding our customer franchise by winning more customers, meeting more of
their needs and delivering meaningful growth. We will modernize our operations,
delivering top quartile customer service and an increase in digitization. We will continue to
be the UK's financial services leader on sustainability and seek to grow our share of the
UK population, saving and retiring with Aviva. And ultimately, we will create value for our
shareholders by growing the cash generation of our businesses to support dividend
growth over the long term.
So turning to slide 43, let me conclude. I am under no illusions that our shareholders
expect us to deliver tangible improvements in our financial performance and to do it at
pace. I understand this and all my senior colleagues understand it too. I'm confident we
have the right priorities in place to deliver this. We are focusing our attention only on our
core markets and have announced the disposals of France, Singapore and Italy in less
than 7 months.
As a result of this rapid progress, we will redeem GBP1.7 billion of debt during the first half
of 2021. We will then be in a position to make a substantial return of capital to our
shareholders. I have re-invigorated the senior leadership team. This will have an impact.
Our strategy is clear, placing the customer at the center of everything we do and serving
more of their needs throughout their lifetime.
We will enhance customer engagement by placing digital at the heart of our business, and
there are clear opportunities to accelerate growth in areas where we have leading
capabilities. We have actionable plans underway to explore [ph] them. Transforming
financial delivery is our absolute focus. It will take time and we will keep you updated as
we make progress.
Thank you for listening. I'll now pass back to the operator, and we'll open the lines to take
your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Page 14 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of James Shuck of Citi. Please ask
your questions.

FINAL

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everybody; two questions from me. First question -- so thank
you for your commitment to return capital above the 180% Solvency II ratio. I'm just
interested to know, to what extent the leverage target of below 30% is the binding
constraint. So if you have line of sight into that number kind of -- if it kind of go up, if -above that 30% threshold, if you have line of sight that it will drop down below 30%,
given book value growth for future disposals.?That's first question.
And secondly, just on Poland please, would you mind giving us the own funds and the SCR
as well as the diversification benefit component? Thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Okay, thanks, James. I'm going to let Jason take these questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Hey, Good morning, James. On the first one, our strategic target levels is less than 30%.
That means it could in times go slightly higher or lower (Technical Difficulty), but that's the
level that we want to be at. I wouldn't expect us to be higher than that for any prolonged
period of time. I think if you're touching on in 2022 where we've got some significant
maturities of GBP1.3 billion, I think we had actions that sort of looked forward and looked
through the (inaudible) of those and they lost (inaudible) near term it's very clear that we
had the cash at hand on the balance sheet and we had a book leverage figure a gross
basis, we would look at the cash (inaudible) that together. There's no reason we wouldn't
be able to do that.
On the Poland owed funds figure, I don't have that at my figure tips. It's around GBP1
billion from memory. Don't take that as scripture. I'll come back to you with a more precise
figure. I think in terms of diversification, it's a much smaller figure for Poland. Given the
nature of its business, there is not much risk in the Polish business compared to Italy and
France. And therefore, there is much lower SCR in that business and the diversification of
obviously is proportionate, so therefore it's a small number of hundreds.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Great, that's very helpful. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Oliver Steel of Deutsche Bank.
Please ask your question.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}
Page 15 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Good morning. And sort of -- (inaudible) can I congratulate you on everything you've
achieved so far. First question is just looking at the cash remittances targets you've set, I
mean GBP1.8 billion by 2023, that's presumably based on the higher tax rate as well. It
implies 10% growth from the 2020 core remittance (inaudible) per annum. And then on
top of that, you've got lower central costs and lower debt costs. So I'm just trying to sort
of rationalize in my mind then how that sort of interacts with the low to mid-single-digit
dividend growth rate and what you're planning to do with the excess that implicitly builds
up in every year?
Secondly, you talk about sort of investment into the business. And obviously, one of the
sort of key topics at the moment is how much excess capital you might want to return
eventually to shareholders. Can you give us a bit more guidance on what you're thinking
that you will be investing in or indeed the cost of that?
And then the third question I've got is, are you considering buying back any of the senior
debt because obviously that doesn't count towards solvency?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Okay, thanks Oliver. I'll pick up the first two of those questions and Jason can pick up the
third one. So yeah, on the cash targets and the growth and the generation from the core
markets and the dividend connectivity, look, I think -- I would like to start by saying sort of
one step at a time, we're sort of in the process of resetting the perimeter and I think
we've made quite rapid progress on that. And we saw -- for the time being, we're not
changing our dividend guidance. We think it's at a sensible level. Our aim is to sensibly
grow the dividend per share over time by low to mid-single digits. And for the time being,
we really want to focus on delivery and being resilient. We are confident on the cash
generation of the business and coupled with our focus on the transformation of
performance, but I think at this point in time, we're just focused on delivery.
In terms of the investment in the business, then I think obviously the new cash remittance
targets demonstrate that we are confident about the delivery and we will invest in the
core businesses as we see material opportunities to accelerate the growth ambitions. We
already have, and I think we've mentioned on various calls before, GBP400 million annual
investment costs across -- investment across the Group, and which is now of course being
focused on the core markets.
So, we believe that is a significant investment and any additional investment that we
would put into the business will be directly focused on accelerating growth and continuing
the transformation of the business. And you saw earlier this week, we made the
announcement around the high net worth team and it would be in those sort of areas
really. And -- but we're very focused on the long-term view and generating strong
shareholder returns.
(inaudible), Jason?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}
Page 16 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

That is a very easy third question, and the answer is yes. We published this morning the
tender price across suites of bonds, (inaudible) maturities. The two senior bonds are
included in that. We're looking -- I think it's a (Technical Difficulty) just over GBP5 billion and
we're looking to -- we've decided to take GBP800 million of that.

FINAL

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Sorry, so just to save me having some -- go through that document, (Technical Difficulty)
the whole GBP800 million you're accelerating, the buyback of the senior, is that right?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

No, it's the GBP800 million across the series of bonds. I think the 6 months in total, the
senior and two of them -- I think it's actually 8 months [ph] -- the six priority ones to
obviously make sure we get the volume done. It's a -- senior [ph] cost of it and I think pro
rata it's about 28% of the total.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Right, thank you very much.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Jon Hocking of Morgan Stanley.
Please ask your question.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Hi there, good morning everybody. Just on the -- first question please; in terms of the
substantial return of capital, the amount referenced, have you got any views in terms of
what form that capital return might take? I think everyone's assuming it's going to be a
buyback, but would a special dividend or any other form of capital return be something
you might consider?
Secondly, on the GGBP1.8 billion of remittances in 2023, just to sort of follow up on all at
this point, is that reflected in the UK corporate tax rate and is that a level which you might
expect to grow from or at least maintain? Is there any sort of one-offs in that GBP1.8
billion?
And then just finally on the IT spending, Amanda, you referenced sort of the heritage IT
that you've got. Are you intending to sort of re-platform the business? I think you've still
got quite a lot of legacy mainframe, some middleware, et cetera. And if so, is that going
to be something which is going to be contained within the GBP400 million of the
investment spend you just mentioned? Thank you.

Page 17 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

FINAL

(Technical Difficulty) I'll pick one and three and I'll ask Jason to pick up two. So in terms of
the substantial return of capital, I guess we were sort of expecting the question around
this. I guess we were asked it a number of times today. We're not going to outline today
in what form that is going to take. We set out the framework last November. We stated
that once we completed the restructure of the Group, we'll return the excess capital
above 180% to shareholders. I think we've made good progress with the be disposals.
We're clear on the priorities. First is debt reduction. Jason has outlined today what we're
going to do. We've used the collective liquidity so far to deliver the announced GBP1.7
billion debt reduction. That will be completely -- completed by the first half. Then we
talked about the investment in the business and the substantial return of capital to
shareholders. When we've got more to say on that, we will update you on progress. But
we're not going to be drawn today on what that -- in what form that will be.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the IT spend and the re-platforming, look, I'm not a massive of major IT projects and
re-platforming, I have to say. I think that you can confuse the organization massively,
spend a lot of money and perhaps not even get to where you need to get to. There are
other areas of the business where we really could invest in the equity release business in
some of the systems there. And we know that the digital that's really our key focus, how
do we simplify the journeys, moving more applications to the cloud, we've already done
some of that, we can do more of that. So, these are the sort of investments that we
would consider.
Yes, a significant amount of that is in the budget that we've already set. I don't want
people to get spooked by what we are saying. What we're saying about investment is to
accelerate growth and it is where we believe -- in areas where we believe we don't
currently have capabilities. Jason?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So tax -- so insurance tax growth is obviously extremely complex. It's got [ph] many
different features. We are in 2023 (inaudible) knew this, but we're bringing in IFRS 17 which
will change substantially the profit recognition within insurance as well. So needless to say,
we sort of have IFRS 17, we didn't anticipate quite a big rise. We weren't expecting a rise
in corporate tax. To cut a long story short, we don't see significant impacts of tax on our
businesses. We will just have to work it through.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

(inaudible) are there any sort of one-offs you're expecting in the GBP1.8 billion, is that a
new run rate that we can sort of (inaudible) going forward?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, sorry, I (inaudible) that, nothing beyond the guidance that I gave, that we brought
this with GBP200 million approximately for management actions in our -- that we expect
and we plan for. So, no specials or anything like I've indicated before.

Page 18 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay, thanks Jason. Thanks, Amanda.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Blair Stewart of Bank of America.
Please ask your question.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning all. I've got three questions, I think the first one is really just a
check on my numbers, please Jason. You talked about pro forma capital ratio of 236 [ph].
We then need to knock off I guess 12 or so points for the debt. So about 220 [ph], so
about 40 points over the 180, which by my reckoning is about GBP4 billion of excess
capital. I just wondered, is there anything wrong in those calculations?

Bloomberg Transcript

My second question, just on growth, Amanda, you talked about accelerating growth in the
core business. Is that something that you're currently looking at purely organically or are
inorganic opportunities as well that you might consider?
And thirdly, I just wondered how you saw Aviva, has Aviva a dividend stock in your eyes
from an equity story perspective, at the moment you pay out 80% of your net cash as a
dividend, which seems like a pretty appropriate payout for a yield stock to me. I -- just
coming back to some of the points around what happens to the dividend as potential to
shared leverages and as net cash goes up from the various actions, I just wonder how you
saw that dynamic playing through. Thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thank you. Jason, do you want to --

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

On the first one, we've tried to set out two things here. We obviously give an update
(inaudible) been through, but that (inaudible) in Italy position is the most significant change
to the balance sheet and you can see the big dip SCR from GBP12.8 billion to GBP10.4
billion pro forma and that's a new baseline. So 180% of that -- obviously less than 180% of
the higher figure. So you just need to get -- make sure you just work that through when
you do your model. And then if you think of the absolute reduction in debt as a
percentage, it's going to be slightly higher or (inaudible) lower SCR, it's the 12 points that
I'm indicating there. Very broadly, your numbers are right in terms of the proceeds and the
debt reduction.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}
Page 19 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

On the -- on your second question around growth and -- I think you spoke about inorganic,
I mean, look, we do see tremendous opportunities to grow Aviva and I think my
confidence has been improved by -- enhanced by what we've seen during 2020.
Commercial lines, we can see that the market is hardening there and we've got a really
key position. We've seen GBP8.5 billion of savings and retirement net flows, I think that's a
really strong performance. And we know that, that is going to be -- there is a real demand
there, GBP6 billion of the BPA new business. So, we see that the macro trends do support
our growth opportunities and we believe we've got some capabilities that can meet
those.
On your sort of inorganic, in the past I think we've said never say never to that question. I
think as we seek to transform and grow the core business, well, inorganic activity is not
currently a priority for us. We will be thoughtful about where M&A could enhance our
capabilities or accelerate our strategic development, but suggest [ph] ratio everyone, this
will be a high bar and anything that we do must enhance value for our shareholders and
this is one step at a time. We've got a lot to deliver.
And on your question around what you see -- whether I see it as a dividend stock, I mean
obviously dividend is very important for our shareholders, we know that. I guess we'll let
you decide how you define it. But we will -- we are focused on cash generation and
growing the customer franchise. That's our key areas of focus.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the 80% payout as an appropriate level?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

I think, Blair, we've not set ourselves targets for that. I was (inaudible) in November to talk
about the new EPS which we delivered today of 21 pence and we've set a low to mid
single digit growth rate and so I think -- think of that as we go through the transformation
in the back, that's the sort of guidance that I wanted everyone to take away. (Technical
Difficulty) in 2020 is really quite depressed in a relative (Technical Difficulty) and we're
expecting that to deliver, but is sort of one step at a time as we start to think about how
we develop from here.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yeah, I appreciate it and I won't push the point. But I do think that low to mid single digit
dividend per share growth is there normally here. I think it's already come out in a couple
of questions. It doesn't make sense given everything that you're doing. But I do respect to
fact that you want to be given time to kind of to do what you're doing.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Thanks, Blair.
Page 20 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Crean of Autonomous.
Please ask your question.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Good morning.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Three questions I had. The first one is, I just wanted to dig a bit more on the debt.
Obviously you're looking to pay down GBP1.7 billion of debt this year. You've got
redemptions of GBP1.3 billion coming up next year. I'm just wondering how much of the -of that is -- you're going to be tendering this year and whether you're intending to
redeem everything next year with that re-fine [ph] in order to increase the amount of
debt that you pay back as you equally reduce the capital through overheads. And that was
the first question.
Second question is on slide 13 where the SCR is falling from GBP12.8 billion to GBP10.4
billion, could you tell us what the loss of diversification was on the French and Italian
businesses? And also in the final bullet, you said that of the GBP2.5 billion of remaining
diversification, GBP2 billion is from core markets. Does that mean essentially that there
was about GBP0.5 million potential loss of diversification if you (inaudible)?
And then the third question, simple one, the legacy book -- UK legacy book, would there
be any intentions to look to dispose of any part of your legacy UK Life business?

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Okay, thanks Andrew. I'll let Jason pick the first two and I'll pick up the third question.
Jason?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So yeah, morning Andrew, thanks for that. So on the size, the 2022 bonds are in the
tender offer. We are not indicating what we'll do in 2022, that we're wanting to do around
those bonds. I think our clear statement is to take the GBP1.7 billion down and that's the
action that we are announcing on that. We have got some flexibility in 2022. It's a lower
debt [ph] and there is quite a few things that needs to happen between now and then.
On specification, there was a significant buying [ph] effect of the French deal, which was a
-- I think a feature that we've talked (inaudible) -- around -- over a period of time,
approximately GBP1.5 billion for France Life and GI. I've talked in the past about GI and I've
talked in the past about International Life, but if you take the French business, it's around

Page 21 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

GBP1.5 billion. Italy much, much smaller than that, lower percentage, I can't remember the
exact number, around GBP200 million, GBP300 million in the Italian SCR.
I think of the remainder, it is normal Poland [ph] businesses in there. There's China, there's
the stake in Singapore, there is Poland, and it's not just the GBP0.5 billion, and this isn't us
little bit trying to say exactly how it would re-run through the model once we took things
that, but Poland is a piece of that, but it's certainly not anything like GBP500 million. I think
we SCR in Poland is only around GBP400 million or GBP500 million in total.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

And on your point around heritage, it's a key part of the Group and we're focused on
serving the many customers that we look after there.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

So, that's call?

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thanks.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Colm Kelly of UBS. Please ask your
question.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Yeah, good morning, and thank you for taking the questions. Most of mine have been
asked, but I'll -- I have one remaining just on the returns and growth for the core business.
So we're seeing good progress this year on the underlying -- Solvency II return on equity
has increased 1.7 percentage points to 9.8% and it's still a bit below the 12% you're
targeting by 2022, So, is that still a key target for you?
And then related to that, I think one of the main levers you stated to achieving that target
was after capital allocation, higher returning segment, which makes a lot of sense given
three-quarters of the capital you allocate to the core markets is for UK Life which is
generating an underlying return of 5.1% this year whereas the other business divisions are
generating 3% to 4% (inaudible) even within a COVID year.

Page 22 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

So if I look at the mix of capital between 2019 and 2020, that mix across the core
businesses haven't really changed much. So, it feels like that -- you've made a lot of
progress on our cost base growth, but it feels like maybe the active allocation for higher
returning segments is one of those areas where there is a bit more to do that you talk
about. So can you articulate a bit more the actions you're taking to amplify that capital
allocation, the higher returning segment, within the target of 12% return on equity?
Thanks.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So, thanks. You're right, we've made a significant step forward in the underlying return. I
know the UK Life business is (inaudible) metric and sometimes not -- certainly not flat -has made a quite significant step forward. It has gone from, as you say, from 4% up to
5.1% underlying. But there are -- there is the other action that's -- it does beat across [ph[
the capital at the overall level.
I think the 12% figure that you mentioned needs to be retuned following the reshaping of
the Group and the reshaping of the balance sheet. And if you think of UK Life being a
much higher percentage, that is a lower return, much higher in terms of cash flow, it's
good quality and it's more predictable and it's long bases. You don't get over a period of
time -- the (inaudible) you book, that level of return you bring it forward. So, we will be recalibrating that and it's not (inaudible) 12% for the Group in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. I mean in terms of allocation of capital (inaudible) segment, is there anything you
can say around taking actions around that, because it was one of the levers you stated to
getting that return on equity up?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, so there still is that sort of more -- major actions, for example, around cost
reduction, which does drive -- there is a more significant piece of work around how we
use reinsurance to BPAs which allow us to improve return on capital. And there is a whole
suite of micro-actions that you would imagine, of course fine-tuning distribution channels,
fine-tuning different product pricing structures, and starting at General Insurance which is a
higher ROC business. And whilst -- we've done that pretty well in terms of commercial
lines in 2020 and we expect that to continue in 2021. So, we will make sure that the GI
business has more than enough capital to make sure that they can continue to grow.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay. And just to follow up briefly, I mean is there any (inaudible) capital from UK Life
segment and recycle [ph] then to those other divisions to accelerate that?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

You see this sort of Heritage run-off as effectively doing that. Amanda answered a
question a moment ago, but that is producing capital each year, we pay that out of UK
Life and then we sort of allocate out the dividends or to growing the other segments our
Page 23 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

across the board. But we are trying to grow the UK Life business at the same time. So
allocating the (inaudible) Annuities and Protection and Savings & Retirement, these are
cash generative but we don't want to pull out more capital than they make. We want to
continue to see some growth potential in those segments.

FINAL

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay, excellent. Thanks a million.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Ashik Musaddi of JP Morgan. Please
ask your question.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, thank you. Hi, Amanda. Hi, Jason. Just a couple of questions; first of all, on the cash
outflows from the central liquidity, basically if I look at the last year, it was about GBP630
million of cash outflows which is external debt, internal debt, cost, some other incoming
result. So, how do we think about that? I mean the reason I'm asking is basically I'm just
trying to square up the cost saving number into this central spend as well as your plan to
reduce internal debt, so how that will work out. So, that would be the first one.
And secondly is UK PNC results were pretty strong in second half, any cost on that would
be great. And lastly, as you -- I mean the manage-for-value businesses, Poland and other
JVs, if you just remind us what are these other JVs, I remember India is one of them, but
any other JVs that we would flag would be great. Thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thanks. Jason, do you just want to pick up the first one?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Sure. I think (inaudible) question, I mean the cash outflows are going to come down
(Technical Difficulty) three reasons. First and foremost, lower interest cost and (inaudible)
the GBP1.7 billion released about GBP100 million run rate reduction. So that means lower
central spend as we reshape the Group, we'll be taking that down. And third, the
repayment of the internal loan, at the moment we're paying of GBP50 million a year and
that comes out of that. But we make a significance repayment following the French
transaction. We wouldn't have to do that. So, that would be a sort of GBP50 million upside
to those outflows. So, I think that's what I would say on that.
In terms of -- I didn't quite get the question on P&C reserve, sorry actually. Could you
state that one again?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean if I understand correctly, I think your second-half P&C result in UK was pretty
strong compared to first half. Obviously, first half was more impacted by COVID
Page 24 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

reserving, but what was the driving factor of second half ? Is it like just frequency benefit
without any COVID losses or was there anything other major positive as well like reserve
releases?

FINAL

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

I mean, yes, I think in the second half the business continued to grow, so there is good
rate increase in there, a reasonable benefit from frequency and obviously no COVID
claims are coming in the second half of the year. But we also saw the impact of, as Jason
mentioned earlier, the distribution -- some of the banking distribution not being open,
which has depressed the revenue in personal lines.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

On your third question --

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

(multiple speakers) JV.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

The JVs that we currently have are India and China, and obviously we have a 25% stake in
Singapore which we announced back in September.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, very clear. Thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Gordon Aitken of RBC. Please ask
your question.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much. Three questions from me, please. First on postBrexit Solvency II reform, so with the ABI published their response last week, what would
you do differently if the risk margin reduces?
Secondly on illiquid assets backing Annuity liabilities, can you just tell us a bit about what
illiquid assets you're keen on and less keen on, I mean particularly you mentioned

Page 25 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

infrastructure? In particular, it seems that the UK Government is very keen for help in
ticking its climate change box. And finally, on cross-selling, on slide 34 you talked about
cross-selling and somewhere else in the presentation you mentioned skepticism. And
we've heard the cross-selling opportunity from your predecessors and indeed other UK
insurance CEOs for at least 20 years now.
So -- and if I think about one of the things you showed in the slide, bulk annuities is very,
very price-driven in terms of sales in that market. Is it feasible that you would win deals
purely because maybe you had a relationship on workplace DC? And maybe what metric
will you point to in the future so that we know that cross-selling is actually working? Thank
you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right, okay. Thank you. I'll pick up the question around the ABI and Jason can pick up the
more specific one around illiquid assets, and then come back to me on the cross-selling.
So as far as the ABI stance and Brexit, and Solvency II, we're obviously completely aligned
with the ABI on that. Our priority is the rules absolutely reflect the specific characteristics in
the UK market, which will allow us to provide our projects the customers and value and
long-term stable investments in the UK.
So, we would like a wider range of assets to be eligible for matching adjustment. For
example, by changing the criteria for (inaudible) assets from fixed payments to
predictable payments, this increases our scope to invest in long-term infrastructure and
climate [ph] transition as you quite rightly pointed out. And we believe that the design of
the risk margin should be changed to reduce its size and volatility and that would support
the provision of annuities to business and retail customers, giving them more certainty in
retirement.
On the cross-selling, what's different, well, quite a number of things are different. I know
people have talked about this for the last 20 years. But for the -- in the last 20 years we
did not have the digital capability that we have today and we did not have the data
capabilities that we have today. And so, I think that makes it a lot easier for us to know and
understand our customers and understand what are the most relevant products for them
at the time of life where they're at. That is unique to Aviva because we will be able to
have that information across a number of product ranges.
In terms of what you said about what will we measure this one, it will be on the multiproduct hold-in, so we will be -- that will be something that we will be holding ourselves to
account to.
And so, whether you say it would be feasible to win a BPA deal on the back of getting
more customers -- I think the example I used was around Workplace Pension and what we
do know for fact is those customers that have workplace pensions with us and that is the
corporate customers, they are extremely keen for their employees to have access to
other projects, whether they be personal lines or health or protection products. And
we've also -- we know from our own numbers that those customers are more likely to buy
an Aviva product than not. So, we are really quite excited about that and those
Page 26 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

conversations, they're more dynamic. Ten years ago, we would not have been having
those conversations and today that we are,.
Jason, on the (multiple speakers) --

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Sure. On the liquids, 2020 was (Technical Difficulty) to 2019 as you most imagine, we saw
it's much harder for projects to get completed and the funding did slow down. We filled
up the gap with some significant purchases for corporate bonds in 2020. But we expect
spending on 2021, 2022 to return to the full levels of infrastructure into PFI [ph] origination
that we've seen historically. So that's quite UK and we're sort of (inaudible) from the
balance sheet perspective in Europe [ph] and in North America. We started to diversify
that and that as a capability for Aviva Investors -- is a key focus, both for the balance sheet
of the insurance business but also to third-party clients and we continue to see good
growth across real assets.
In terms of the new announced infrastructure buying [ph], I think we look totally clear what
it is. It feels (inaudible) said yesterday that's a bit of a replacement, the EIB, in the UK. EIB
is obviously a big participant in a number of these fundings, so sort of step one. Step two,
maybe it can produce more funds for equity type investments in projects. We tend to
have much higher appetite on the debt side just given the annuity business that are -- if
they can come in and do that I think that would be helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Just follow-up on the first question, would you reduce the amount of longevity
reinsurance on new business if the risk margin comes down?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Possibly, it has come down a lot would be the simple answer. I've answered this before. It
will come down and price go up, so that will make a difference. But it would have to be a
material reduction. It's so disproportionate. These are the levels of interest rates, then the
storms is attractive. It gives us the capital benefits and obviously helps us manage the
risks. So I sort await developments, but I'm re not -- I'm not expecting it to come down
enough that it would fundamentally change our insurance strategy.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

So ABI saying there basically 75% reduction, do you think that's optimistic?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Well, that's sort of the consultation that's gone in. I actually don't know, to be honest, still
what it could be. So that's -- then that would be a big reduction. And the regulator has
said that they expect capital overall not to change dramatically. So if they took away on
the risk margin -- took away the requirement on the risk margin, you don't know what
could come back on the other side. So I think we are pretty cautious on developments in
this regard.
Page 27 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Steven Haywood of HSBC. Please
ask your question.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thank you very much and good morning. Particularly on the GBP800 million tender for the
debt instruments, can you tell me whether you were considering a fair price market
tender for the preference shares or not or if these are sort of off the table now and can't
be redeemed?
Secondly from me, can you give an update on the dispose -- potential disposals and the
Italian disposal for the -- about assets under management that may disappear from Aviva
from Italy and Poland, and also where are we standing now on the Polish bancassurance
agreement with Santander?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally from me, we obviously saw a big uptick in the management actions at the
end of 2020 from the previous guidance. Do you have any plans or guidance you can
share about 2021 management actions, whether they'd be slightly higher or expectedly
higher than the previous guidance? Thank you.

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

I'll pick up the first on the preference shares. I think that Jason had said previously on this,
this is not a file that we have or plan to reopen, and we won't say any more on that. I
mean, Jason, do you want to pick up the --

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah. Perhaps just to be clear, (inaudible) to debt tender. We're tendering for institutional
bondholders first of all, and (inaudible) somewhat by institutions, somewhat by resale.
This is not a part of that transaction.
In terms of the disposal, as you call them, Italy, I don't think very much of the assets is
managed by Aviva Investors at all, and what is managed Aviva Investors is in the Aviva
Investors France, so sort of incorporated in that AUM figure and that profit figure that we
provided you as well. Aviva Investors Poland has got a subsidiary actually in the Polish
business, it's not very big but it does manage a lot of the assets itself. I mean I'm not
going to comment on bancassurance with Santander other than to say we've very strong
agreements and very strong relationships with them.
In 2021, I don't have anything further to say at this point other than the general GBP200
million guidance that I gave, which is an average. I can't predict sitting here in March what
we'll do on things like longevity. We tend to look at annually and we tend to do that in Q4.
Page 28 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

So -- but across the board, we don't embark on a year with lots of prudence. We do try
and keep up with events but we also expect to find some opportunities.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. And our final question comes from the line of Larissa van Deventer of Barclays.
Please ask your question.

Q - Larissa van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Thank you. Two quick questions from my side. The first one on bulk annuities, you did
have a very strong showing in 2020. Do you have any target, either related to volumes or
margins, that you would like to write in the bulk annuity space? Basically, are you going to
make a strong play in bulks?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second question is on cost reduction. On slide 17, you did have some of what
you've done and some of what you're likely to do. The first question is, does that include
the lower debt? And the second really question is, where else do we -- should we expect
the remaining GBP120 million [ph] to come from? Is it mainly IT or are there other aspects
we should consider?

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. So on BPA, I think as I said, we do see the BPA market as an important market
for us and one that we will seek to growing. We won't be giving specific targets on that.
As I also said, we are not going to give line of business targets today.
In terms of the cost reduction, it doesn't include the low debt costs. The GBP300 million
includes the operational improvements across the business and they come from areas, as
we've spoken about, more simplification, more digitization, legacy platform reductions,
product simplification, and also opening the draws [ph] as we grow the Savings &
Retirement business, improving the expense ratios. So those should reach the upper
quartile target that we mentioned. Thank you. Okay, thank you very much everyone. Have
a good day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
Page 29 of 30



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 30 of 30

