Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

Annual General Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Christopher Jerome Swift, Chairman
David C. Robinson, EVP
Donald C. Hunt, VP
Trevor Fetter, Lead Independent Director

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. And welcome to the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders for The
Hartford. I would now like to introduce Chairman and CEO, Christopher Swift.

Bloomberg Transcript

Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Good afternoon, fellow shareholders. I am Chris Swift, Chairman and CEO. On behalf of
the Board, executive leadership team, the employees of The Hartford, welcome to our
2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Don Hunt, the company's Corporate Secretary, is
the Secretary of today's meeting. Louis Larsen, a representative of Broadridge, is the
Inspector of the Election. He has already taken his oath and reported that we have a
quorum for the meeting. The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of The Hartford is now
convened. Each of the director nominees, members of The Hartford's executive
leadership team and representatives of Deloitte & Touché, the company's independent
auditor, are on the line with me today. At this time, I'll ask David Robinson, The Hartford's
General Counsel, to preside over the business portion of this meeting. Following that, I
have some brief remarks highlighting the past year and the exciting future of The
Hartford. David?

David C. Robinson

{BIO 17598322 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris. Today shareholders are asked to vote on three proposals, the details of
which were included in the proxy statement. We have not received advanced notice of
any director nominations other than those included in the proxy statement nor any
additional proposals for consideration at this meeting as required by our bylaws,
Therefore, director nominations are closed and no other proposals can be presented
today. I now declare the polls open for voting. If you have already voted your proxy,
please do not vote again unless you would like to change your vote. If you want to vote
now, click the voting button at the bottom right corner of your screen. The polls will remain
open while I list the 3 items for your consideration.
The first item to be acted upon is to vote on each of the 12 director candidates. The
second item is the ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touché as the company's
Page 1 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

independent registered public accounting firm for 2021. The third and final item is the
management proposal to approve on a nonbinding advisory basis, the compensation of
the named executive officers as disclosed in the proxy statement.

FINAL

(Voting)
As all shareholders have been given an opportunity to vote, I now declare the polls closed
and ask the Corporate Secretary to read off the results of the voting.

Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}

I've received the preliminary tabulation report from Broadridge, and based on that report,
I declare as follows: first, each director nominee received more for votes than against
votes, therefore, all nominees were elected directors of the company; second, the
ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touché as the company's independent
registered public accounting firm for 2021, received a majority of votes cast; and finally,
shareholders approved on an advisory basis, the 2020 compensation of the company's
named executive officers. Please note the final voting results of today's meeting will be
reported on a Form 8-K that we intend to file within 4 business days of this meeting.

Bloomberg Transcript

David C. Robinson

{BIO 17598322 <GO>}

Thank you, Don. That concludes the business portion of the meeting. Just a few
comments before turning the floor back to Chris. Please note the information on the slide
now being presented. Chris will be making some statements that should be considered
forward-looking. Our actual results could differ materially for a number of reasons,
including the risks and uncertainties described in our 2020 annual report on Form 10-K and
other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. I'll now turn the
meeting back to Chris.

Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Thank you, David. I have never been more excited about the future strategic direction of
The Hartford. Today's macroeconomic environment and industry outlook favors The
Hartford. I believe these market factors, combined with the strength and resilience of our
businesses, position us to deliver accelerated growth and attractive returns for our
shareholders.
I will provide more detail on our outlook in a moment, but let me start by taking a step
back and briefly reviewing some of the key decisions made and work we've done to
position the company for success going forward. Almost a decade ago, we initiated a
strategic plan, which focused on 2 key goals: first, to divest low ROE, market-sensitive and
capital-intensive individual life insurance and variable annuity businesses; and second, to
focus on businesses where our market leadership position in long-term, sustainable,
competitive advantages would generate profitable growth and superior returns.

Page 2 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Fast forward to today The Hartford is an industry leader with a diverse platform of
complementary businesses, producing industry-leading results. In short, over the last
decade, we have repositioned our company to become a leader in the segments where
we compete. Our small commercial franchise is the envy of the marketplace. We are the
second largest writer of workers' compensation, the second largest writer of group
benefits, in the top 10 of commercial P&C carriers, and the fifth largest direct insurer of
personal lines P&C coverage.
We have built this incredible franchise by taking a comprehensive approach through
organic growth and executing on inorganic growth opportunities, which we funded with
divestitures, all while maintaining a disciplined capital management approach for
shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, in addition to reducing leverage
and interest expense. 2020 was significant in the context of the global pandemic and with
respect to what The Hartford was able to achieve while facing unprecedented challenges.
We concluded 2020 with more than $2 billion of core earnings. This performance reflects
the strength of our businesses and our focus on executing strategic priority, and it builds a
solid foundation for sustainable outperformance.
In 2020, small commercial results were excellent as we continued to strengthen our
competitive advantages and market leadership position. We launched our new business
owners policy, and raised the bar for customer experience when it comes to buying and
managing coverage. Going forward, we have a robust strategy to grow through product
innovation, while continuing investing to maintain our industry-leading digital experience. In
middle of large commercial, we completed the first year of a 3-year plan to transform the
underwriting process and provide a differentiated customer experience. Future growth will
benefit from continued firming in pricing and cross-selling from an expanded product set.
The performance of our Global Specialty business has exceeded our expectations with
significant contributions from the Navigators' book, now two years post-acquisition. With
the continued benefits of our disciplined underwriting efforts as well as a strong pricing
environment, we are poised to grow and improve profit margins in the coming year.
In Personal Lines, we extended our AARP relationship with a new contract through 2032
that solidifies our unique value proposition for the 15 over demographic. In addition, we
launched a new cloud-based technology platform with updated auto and home products.
In Group Benefits, we continued to drive underlying performance as illustrated by our core
earnings margin, excluding the impacts of COVID-19. As we look ahead, we anticipate
growth driven by strong new sales, higher employment levels growth in our voluntary and
A&H products and abating mortality trends associated with vaccine deployment. As an
enterprise, we have built a complete and robust product set, invested in digital
capabilities and expanded our distribution, making The Hartford both a broader and
deeper risk player, all while producing top-quartile returns and double-digit return on
equity that consistently outperformed our peers.
As we emerge from the pandemic, we are confident that several macroeconomic factors
will provide meaningful tailwinds positioning our business to accelerate growth and
improved returns. First, we expect to see reduced excess mortality in the Group Life
business and reduced workers' compensation losses in Commercial Lines. Second, rapidly
Page 3 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

FINAL

improving expectations for unemployment, which could be below 5% by the end of this
year and GDP growth in the mid- to high single digits are expected to increase the top
line of our employment-centric Workers' Compensation and Group Benefits businesses.
An improving economy will become an additional catalyst for growth across Small
Commercial segment.
Third, as the underwriting environment remains constructive, P&C commercial renewal
pricing is expected to remain strong, resulting in expanding margins. And finally, rising
interest rates are anticipated to provide an incremental benefit to investment portfolio
yields. With expectations for strong financial performance and capital generation, we have
increased our share repurchase authorization by $1 billion to $2.5 billion. We expect to
repurchase $1.5 billion worth of our stock in 2021, with the remaining balance to be used in
2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, we are targeting a core earnings ROE of approximately 13% to 14% in 2022
and into 2023. We are focused on financial excellence and superior shareholder returns.
At the same time, The Hartford's deep commitment to sustainability is rooted in our
proud legacy and lives at the core of our long-term business strategy.
Our environmental, social and governance, or ESG framework informs our investment
decisions, guides product development and enables us to attract and retain top
employee talent. The Hartford remains committed to mitigating climate change and
building community resilience to its impacts, fostering a diverse and equitable and
inclusive workplace, supporting the neighborhoods where we live and work, and
operating with the highest ethical standards. We are continuing to enhance our ESG
disclosures. I am proud to announce that earlier this month, we released our first SASB
report so that all stakeholders can assess our impact in this area.
We also are doing our part to build a more diverse workforce and nurture an inclusive
culture inside our company and across our industry. I am personally engaged in advancing
change and was an early signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion. Through
community partnerships and programs and the generosity of our employees, The
Hartford is on track to positively impact 10 million lives by year-end 2022, actively
supporting the small businesses we insure in the communities where we live and work. As
I look towards the next 10 years, I am extremely confident in The Hartford and the
outstanding team of employees that I work with every day. After more than 200
successful years in business, our best days are still ahead. At this time, I'd be happy to
take your questions, which shareholders or their proxies can provide in writing. Don, can
you read the questions that we've received?

Questions And Answers
A - Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris. We're going to take a moment and compile the questions. Then we will
-- which could be submitted both in advance and during the meeting. Then I will begin
reading them to Chris for responses. Thank you. Thank you for your patience.

Page 4 of 8



FINAL

Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

So Chris, now, I'll start with a question submitted by Marc Okun, who's Council
Representative for the North Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters. Marc asks or
states and asks, as long-term investors, we strongly believe that the company's executive
compensation plan should be designed primarily to drive the successful execution of the
Board's long-term strategic plan. Today's public company executive compensation plans
are largely formulaic, peer-related plans with simplistic annual say-on-pay voting
reinforcing plan homogeneity. Would you or the Chair of the Compensation Committee,
please speak to whether The Hartford might be better served by an executive
compensation plan tailored specifically to the company's particular circumstances and its
unique long-term strategic business plan?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Thank you for the question. I would say I believe our executive compensation programs
are unique and tailored to The Hartford and our strategic priorities and the direction that
we're trying to take the firm and as demonstrated by that alignment, I think we've created
value for our shareholders. I think additionally, the majority of our compensation for
executives is variable, meaning that it's linked to individual and overall company
performance. And finally, last 2 points, the annual incentive plan that is tied to core
earnings is something that we review with the Board annually. It aligns with the guidance
that we provide to our shareholders for the outlooks for the coming year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then our long-term plans are ultimately tied to return on equity, the capital utilization and
generating high returns on that equity, and then TSR on a relative basis, how we did
compared to our peer group. So I like the plans. I think they're aligned with what we're
trying to do as a company, and they are aligned to the long term.

A - Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris. The next question. Mr. Chairman, the topic of stakeholder capitalism as
an alternative to shareholder capitalism has received considerable attention recently. As
long-term pension fund investors, the Carpenter Funds appreciate the sentiments
embodied in the stakeholder capitalism perspective, but feel that execution could be
complicated. Could you discuss the Board's perspective on the concept of stakeholder
capitalism and what principles the Board will use to balance the interest of varied
stakeholders as it develops and implements the company's long-term business plan?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for that question. I would say we have acted in the best interest of all
stakeholders for more than 211 years and that's central to our corporate purpose of
underwriting human achievement. The Hartford has its vision focused on not only financial
performance and customer value, but also on the strength of our character. We are
committed to delivering value for the benefit of all our stakeholders, and I think we have a
history of doing that, whether it be shareholders, customers, employees, distribution
partners and the communities where we live and work. And we don't see a fundamental
conflict between shareholder capitalism and stakeholder capitalism.

Page 5 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

FINAL

I think you got to balance, you got to focus on all of it, but I believe they're both critical for
the long-term sustainability and success of any company. I would also note that our Board
of Directors does have oversight for sustainability and the full Board does take that
responsibility seriously and they monitor, obviously our progress. So that's what I would
say.

A - Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris. The next question was submitted by Ann Pratt, who is attending today's
meeting on behalf of the Connecticut Citizen Action Group, and it reads, The Hartford has
pledged its support for the Paris Agreement, which sets out a global framework to avoid
dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius and
pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius.
However The Hartford's current policy is restricting underwriting and investing in coal and
oil sands projects and companies are far from limiting global temperature rise to 1.5
degree Celsius or even 2 degrees. Data from the California Department of Insurance and
the Insure Our Future campaign has found that The Hartford has billions of dollars
invested in fossil fuel companies and is a top oil and gas underwriting globally.

Bloomberg Transcript

Building any new fossil fuel infrastructure is fundamentally incompatible with the goals of
the Paris Agreement as the emissions from coal, oil and gas reserves already in
production would take the world well beyond 2 degrees Celsius. Despite this clear
science, The Hartford is continuing to support the expansion of fossil fuels here in the U.S.
and globally. How does The Hartford plan to take action this year in line with the Paris
Agreement to restrict its support for fossil fuel expansion?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Thank you for the question. I would share, we were one of the early supporters of the
Paris Agreement as a signing signatory. We're proud of our history of uncompromising
commitment to sustainability and delivering on our broad-based ESG strategies built
around goals, objectives and measurements to create that long-term alignment. We have
long understood that we have a special role to play in the climate change dynamic as
extreme weather conditions are affecting lives, businesses, and the risks are only
compounding as we sit here today. So we will continue to make progress on our ESG
matters, broadly defined, including we published our first report on the Task Force on
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures or the TCFD report. We will continue to report
under the SASB standards that we just recently put out. And our commitment to the
environment, particularly as it relates to coal and tar sands has been effectively
implemented across our platform, whether it be from the underwriting risk side or the
investment side. We will continue to divest our investment portfolio, other assets not
meeting our targeted objectives. I would say that about 4.5% of our invested asset
portfolio is in fossil fuels. We monitor that, and we are expanding our investments into
alternative investments to fund alternative energy sources. So and put that all together,
we are committed to doing our fair share in this area, and that's what I would share.

A - Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}

Page 6 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

FINAL

Thank you, Chris. There's one last question. It's from Rob G. Based on public filings, it
looks like members of senior management, including the CEO and CFO, entered into
10b5-1 insider sale plans to sell a good portion of their stock for about $65 a share.
Management said there -- excuse me, I'm trying to read this in real time -- there's no
better use of excess capital than to repurchase shares and have repurchased $250 million
worth of stock since earnings.
While management should be able to manage their personal wealth, it's hard to reconcile
how all of this makes sense, especially in light of Chubb's interest and the Board's
decision that $70 is not high enough to at least begin discussions. Could Mr. Fetter please
address why management is selling stock yet the company is aggressively repurchasing
stock and not engaging in sale discussions?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

What I'd like to do is, David Robinson, our General Counsel is here. David, could you
please respond to that question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David C. Robinson

{BIO 17598322 <GO>}

Yes, Chris, I can certainly start. As the question notes, these trades were pursuant to
10b5-1 plans that were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These plans
were entered into at least 30 days before the sales of the securities under the plans took
place, and that was -- that 30 days was well before Chubb's unsolicited proposal to The
Hartford. I would also note as the question includes that even after these sales, the CEO
and CFO still maintained significant holdings in the company's securities and due to this
day. Chris, I don't know whether you want to ask Trevor to comment on this question as
well.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

I would. Trevor, if you have any additional commentary, that would be helpful.

A - Trevor Fetter

{BIO 1487332 <GO>}

Chris, the only thing I would add from a Board perspective is that the Board monitors all of
these activities and affirmatively makes the decision about stock repurchases. So with
respect to the executive sales, we have long-standing policies about the manner in which
executives are able to sell stock, the disclosures that are made, the plans under which
they make them, and the standards that we have for share ownership by members,
management and the Board. Then with respect to the very separate question about the
company's decision to repurchase shares, that is part of a long-standing discussion on
capital allocation that is had between management and the Board and ultimately, the
buyback program was approved by the Board.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Thank you, Trevor, for sharing your perspective.

A - Donald C. Hunt

{BIO 18043261 <GO>}
Page 7 of 8



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2021-05-19

There are no more questions, Chris.

FINAL

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. I would like to conclude by thanking all of you for your interest and
continued support in The Hartford. Change is constant. There will always be new
challenges to address. We are resilient, financially strong and ready for those moments.
As we always have, The Hartford will utilize our people, experience and expertise to
underwrite human achievement, achieve sustainable success and deliver long-term value
for all our stakeholders. The meeting is now adjourned. We look forward to seeing you
next year -- hopefully, in person.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for attending. This event has now concluded. You may disconnect at this time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 8 of 8

