Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Charles Brindamour, Chief Executive Officer
Darren Godfrey, Executive Vice President, Global Specialty Lines
Isabelle Girard, Senior Vice President, Personal Lines
Ken Anderson, Executive Vice President, Corporate Development & Investor Relations
Louis Marcotte , Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Barbeau, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

Other Participants
Doug Young, Analyst
Geoffrey Kwan, Analyst
Jaeme Gloyn, Analyst
Mario Mendonca, Analyst
Paul Holden, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Tom MacKinnon, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Intact Financial Corp Q2 2021 Results
Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will
conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Also note that this call is being
recorded on Wednesday, July 28, 2021 and I would like to turn the conference over to Ken
Anderson, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go
ahead, sir.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thank you Sylvie. Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining the call today. A link to our
live webcast and published information for this call is posted on our website at intactfc.com under
the Investors tab. As usual, before we start, please refer to Slide 2 for cautionary language
regarding the use of forward-looking statements, which form part of this morning's remarks and
Slide 3 for a note on the use of non-IFRS financial measures and important notes on adjustments,
terms and definitions used in this presentation. With me here in Montreal today, we have our CEO
Charles Brindamour; our CFO, Louis Marcotte; our Chief Operating Officer, Patrick Barbeau;
Isabelle Girard, SVP of Personal Lines and Darren Godfrey, EVP of Global Specialty Lines. We'll
begin with prepared remarks, followed by Q&A. With that, I will turn the call to Charles.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks, Ken. Good morning everyone and thank you very much for joining us this morning. Our
communities have made great progress over the past few months and we're hopeful for a gradual
return to normalcy as we emerge from the pandemic. For us, this means continuing to be there for
our customers and helping our people adapt to a new work environment.
It's reassuring to see that and an important period of change and turbulence, our business cannot
only be resilient but also thriving growth. Clearly, the successful acquisition of RSA is a good



example of this and we're quite pleased with the progress we've made so far.

FINAL

But in the meantime, our business is continuing to deliver strong performance. Yesterday evening,
we announced second quarter net operating income per share of $3.26 of 39% increase over Q2
last year, driven by strong underwriting and distribution results. Top line growth of 29% was driven
by the acquisition of RSA with approximately 7 points of organic growth reflecting strength in
commercial lines on both sides of the border.
The overall combined ratio was at 86.7% driven by strong performances across all lines and
geographies. In Canada, the combined ratio is excellent at 85% driven by strength in underlying
performance. The combined ratio included one point from the tragic Lytton fire. Our claims team
and on-site business have mobilized very quickly to help the community get through this difficult
time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now look at our results by line of business starting right here with Canada. In personal auto,
premium grew 1% year-over-year excluding the BC Auto exit growth was 3% driven by units. The
combined ratio is very strong at 82.4%. Our personal auto business is solid and we expected to hit
low 90s for the remainder of the year. Looking at the industry, we're seeing prudent rate
tempering in the current environment and with driving activity just 5 points below pre-COVID
levels, we could see rate momentum return over the next 12 months.
In personal property, premiums grew 5% driven by firm market conditions. With a very strong
combined ratio of 83.3% in the quarter, the business is performing extremely well. Our operating
track record in the past five years is a testament to the resilience of this business. In commercial
lines, premiums grew 12% driven by rate actions and solid organic growth while delivering a strong
89.6% combined ratio. Looking at the industry, we expect hard market conditions to continue, and
our commercial lines business is really well positioned to delivered low 90s or better performance
going forward.
Moving to our US commercial business. Premiums grew a strong 19% in the quarter benefiting from
increased activity in COVID impacted lines versus 2020. Adjusting for this, the underlying growth in
Q2 is in the low double-digit range, supported by the continued hard market conditions.
The combined ratio at 90.3% was solid as the team continues to execute on the objective to
deliver sustainable low 90s performance. Turning to our RSA acquisition, a lot has happened since
we closed seven weeks ago. People are largely on-boarded with their roles, teams and locations
confirmed.
Customers in Canada will start to move to our products and systems next week. A number of
technology investments, decisions have been made and are rolling. Action plans are in place
across all segments to drive outperformance. We acted quickly to rationalize the footprint with the
sale of Denmark.
So it's fair to say that there is momentum. Now let me provide a bit more color on Canada
Specialty Lines and the UK&I parts of the integration, as well as transition. In Canada, the
integration is going really well. We're advancing on systems, conversions with the first ball renewal
on Intact paper to be issued in August, allowing us to leverage our core capabilities in data, pricing
and segmentation.
We're building capacity to drive the internalization of RSA's claims operation and we're starting to
leverage our supply chain management expertise as well. This includes engaging our on-site
restoration business to handle a large portion of RSA's claims since close.
The Canadian integration is definitely on track. It's key as this drives three quarters of the
synergies. Moving to Global Specialty Lines, North American portfolio is being integrated as we



FINAL

speak with Paul Lucarelli originally from RSA leading the charge. We're bringing the global network
into the fold, which allows us to expand our reach and we're working across our geographies to
better understand our core specialty lines capabilities as we prepared to build our international
franchise. We see the expanded specialty lines platform as one of our key growth engines for the
next decade. Moving to the UK&I, so following the close, a few members of the IFC team and I
spent three weeks in the UK engaging with Scott and the RSA team and together we're aligned on
the main areas that we need to excel to build outperformance.
People simplifying the business, improving pricing sophistication and modernizing technology. First
on people, Scott has put together an excellent team and we're delighted to be working with them
to continue their journey towards building an outperformance machine.
Together, we've set mid-term strategic objectives for the business and we've had the opportunity
to share our values and the importance of an outperformance mindset. We're also supporting the
team as they simplify the business by focusing the footprint, streamlining the offering and
technology infrastructure.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operations will build a robust foundation for outperformance that (inaudible) deliver second to
none customer experience. We also have a number of experts working closely with the UK team to
share our expertise and pricing, risk selection, machine learning as well as claims management.
Overall in the UK&I, I am pleased with the progress so far. The RSA team has done tremendous
work over the past couple of years and are already delivering solid performance and we have
great momentum and people are engaged. We've talked about focusing the footprint and we
move quickly right after the close to announce the sale of the Denmark business which is expected
to complete in the first half of 2022.
The sale will generate over $1.2 billion in proceeds to Intact which lifts our IRR expectations by at
least 1.5 points for the RSA acquisition. While we are integrating RSA, our teams haven't missed a
beat in executing on our customer-driven strategies. On the digital front, we're continually adding
new feature on our mobile app to create value for our customers, driving engagement throughout
their journey with Intact.
We added roadside assistance to provide enhanced protection for our customers and our recently
launched claims chatbot, now handles close to 90% of the digital chats with our customers. Our
distribution channels are also delivering on our customer-driven promise. BrokerLink is now running
over $2.3 billion of premiums annually, an increase of over 25% since 2019.
And with a robust M&A pipeline, we think that Joe D'Annunzio and team can double that business
over the next five years. There is a lot going on and the business is firing on all cylinders. Over the
last year, we've made very good progress on all fronts. Throughout the pandemic, we've lived our
values and delivered on our purpose to help people, businesses and society prosper in good
times and be resilient in bad times.
We've also transformed our business with the addition of RSA all the while continuing to deliver
second to none customer experiences. This would not be possible without our people and I want
to thank them for their continued drive, focus and energy. We've added an impressive amount of
talent and expertise through the RSA acquisition and I want to welcome everyone into the Intact
family. Our business has a lot of momentum. Our balance sheet is very strong. We have a clear
focus on what we need to achieve. And I am more confident than ever in our ability to deliver on
our promise to customers meet our financial objectives of 10% NOIPS growth annually over time
and 500 basis points of ROE outperformance every year. With that, I'll turn the call over to our
CFO, Louis Marcotte.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}



FINAL

Thanks, Charles, and good morning everyone. After six months of planning together on June 1, we
closed the RSA transaction and welcomed RSA's Canadian, UK and International employees to the
Intact family. Financially, not only is the deal immediately accretive to net operating income per
share, it also brings increased resilience to our balance sheet. Strategically, it expands our
leadership position in Canada, bolsters our specialty lines capabilities and opens up new markets
in the UK and Ireland at scale. I will provide some more color on the financial impacts from RSA
shortly.
But first let me make a few comments on our strong second quarter results. Net operating income
to common shareholders increased by 49% year-over-year with all earning sources contributing to
this growth. Underwriting income grew 63% compared to last year to $464 million as strong
underlying performances across the business continued reflecting the benefits of our actions over
time, mild weather conditions and the impact of RSA.
Net investment income of $154 million increased by 9% year-over-year. For the full year, we still
expect net investment income to be flat before including the impact of RSA which will add roughly
$100 million to 2021 net investment income including the $13 million recorded in the month of June.

Bloomberg Transcript

Distribution EBITDA and other income grew an impressive 51% in the quarter driven by better than
expected variable commissions as well as solid organic and M&A growth. We expect growth in the
second half of the year to taper towards a 10% to 12% range as we compare against a strong
second half of 2020. Although RSA was included in our results for one month only, it added $57
million of underwriting income and $13 million of investment income to our operating earnings.
After reflecting financing cost and dilution from the shares issued, the net operating income per
share accretion is high single-digit for the month of June.
We expect to maintain a similar level for the second half of the year. Looking at underwriting results
in a little more detail. Healthy favorable prior year development contributed to our strong results in
the quarter and year-to-date. We have been and continue to be prudent in establishing current
year reserves, particularly considering uncertainties related to COVID.
We maintain our longer-term expectation that favorable PYD will be in the range of 1% to 3% of
reserves annually for the Intact group in aggregates. Depending on how and when the
uncertainties unwind, we expect to see favorable development in the upper half of the range in
the shorter term.
In personal auto, the underlying loss ratio of 59.6% was strong despite the impact of premium
relief and reflects our actions over time. The relief program launched in March is now closed and
we returned an additional $30 million to customers in Q2 bringing the total program in 2021 to
$105 million.
Looking at commercial lines in Canada, the underlying loss ratio of 51.3% is the best performance
we have delivered to date. In the US, the underlying loss ratio of 51.6% was strong, driven by
corrective underwriting and profitability actions as well as rate gains across the book.
Momentum in commercial lines is strong on both sides of the border and well positioned for low
90s or better performance over time. On expenses, the overall Canadian expense ratio of 32.9%
for the first half of the year increased 2.2 points over last year. This was driven by higher variable
commissions, consistent with the strong underwriting performance in the first half of the year.
The combined ratio of 90.7% for RSA in June was solid driven by underwriting performances in
both Canada and the UK&I. These results are also largely the result of lower frequency, mild
weather and profitability actions offset by elevated CAT losses in Canada. Although one should not
assume that results for June are indicative of full-year results, we are pleased with the results so
far and are increasingly confident in our ability to deliver the earnings accretion we promised. We



FINAL

are entering the second half of the year on solid footing while closely monitoring driving habits as
people progressively go back to their offices as well as CAT activity. In terms of RSA's underwriting
results for the second half of the year, we believe the best starting point on top line is to use half
of the premiums of 2020 as reported in their annual report for both Canada and the UK&I. The
combined ratio is difficult to predict of course, but we would use the 2019 as the base year to
exclude the impact of COVID in 2020. Both Canada and UK&I reported combined ratios in the mid
90s range.
If you (inaudible) profitability improvements already achieved and add a bit of synergies, you have
a good idea where RSA's underwriting results should land in the second half of the year. Keep in
mind, it's important to anchor any expectations with our accretion estimates.
To further derisk the acquisition, we entered into a transaction with a repeatable reinsurer. Subject
to specific exclusions and limitations, this agreement provides us with a recovery of 50% of
adverse development up to GBP400 million on the UK&I claims liabilities for 2020 and prior
accident years.

Bloomberg Transcript

The net cost of this reinsurance will be recorded in Q3 2021. With the addition of RSA, it is also
appropriate to revise our annual estimates for CATs which reflect long-term view of trends. We are
raising our annual CAT expectations from $300 million to $570 million per year to reflect the
growing premium base and change in business mix.
We now expect two-thirds to impact personal lines and continue to expect one-third of the annual
CATs to occur in each of Q2 and Q3. Having said that one month into Q3, we have experienced a
couple of weather events (Technical Difficulty) which will translate into CAT losses for the third
quarter.
As of today, based on early estimates, these losses are within our revised CAT guidance. On
synergies, we are on track to realize the stated $250 million and run rate synergies within 36
months largely generated from claims internalization and consolidation of shared services.
We continue to expect integration and restructuring costs for the transaction to run at 1.5 to 1.7
times the annual run rate synergies. In the second quarter, we recorded approximately $35 million
of these costs and we expect to incur half the cost by the end of 2021.
The remainder will be recorded progressively over 2022 and 2023. These costs are reported as
non-operating results and do not include the net cost of the adverse development cover. Moving
to our balance sheet. On closing of the acquisition, we recorded the acquired assets and liabilities
of RSA at fair value together with the associated transaction financing. Coupled with our strong
performance in the quarter, this took our book value per share to $77.67 on June 30, an increase of
44% compared to Q2 last year and up 25% compared to last quarter. Our operating ROE
increased to 19.8% for the 12 months to June 30 for full year 2021 and going forward, we are
aiming for a mid-teens operating ROE level in line with our historical average. Our financial position
continues to be strong. We closed the quarter having incorporated the RSA acquisition with
approximately $2.6 billion in total capital margin, a healthy buffer to absorb potential shocks.
On a debt-to-total capital, our debt-to-total capital was just above 24% at the end of the quarter
better than we projected thanks to the strength in our book value. Deleveraging will accelerate in
2022 as we expect to use most of the proceeds from the sale of Denmark assuming it closes to
reduce our debt and reach our 20% target earlier than planned.
With the acquisition closed and integration and synergy realization underway, we are on track to
generate high single-digit accretion to net operating income per share in the first 12 months
moving to upper teens within 36 months. We produced an excellent set of results for the first half
of the year, while accelerating our strategic roadmap.



FINAL

Our focus is now on capitalizing upon the momentum across the business while delivering on the
strategic and financial merits of the RSA transaction. With the strength of our teams and our
platform, we are well positioned to deliver on our financial objectives in the years ahead.
Before giving it back to Ken, I will take a second here to thank our teams in Finance, Actuarial,
Legal and IR on both sides of the Atlantic for their significant effort over the past months to
produce quality financial Information for investors on the timely basis. I'm very proud of what the
teams have achieved and I want to thank them for their contribution. With that, I'll give it back to
Ken.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks Louis. In order to give everyone a chance to participate in the Q&A, we would ask that you
kindly limit yourselves to two questions per person. Of course if there's time at the end, you can
certainly requeue for follow-ups. Sylvie, we're ready to take questions now.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Certainly. (Operator Instructions) Your first question will be from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital
Markets. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. My first question was on personal auto. I think you've talked in the past about
potential for a premium increases when driving returns to more normal levels, but I was curious
around how much the combined ratio may also influence the timing of any sort premium increases,
so example, like if you get driving back to normal then presumably from a timing perspective, the
combined ratio is probably going to increase in a reasonable amount of time, but what if we have
a scenario where driving is back to normal, but the combined ratio remains better than before, do
you worry about any sort of potential optics for the industry from consumers around increasing
premiums if traffic is back to normal and the combined ratios remain better than usual?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Geoff, good morning, thanks for the question. I'm not worried about that. This market is super
competitive. It's always been very competitive. The industry in average has been a single-digit ROE
business and catching up with cost in a highly competitive environment has been a challenge for
the industry.
You know that's why outperformance is the name of the game in that business and that's why
we've built a big outperformance margins in automobile insurance. From my perspective, you know
the industry entered into the crisis with a meaningful amount of work left to be done to deal with
the things that we were focused on since 2016.
Think about inflation on the liability side of things, inflation in physical damage, we put much of that
work behind us. I don't think it's the case at the industry level, you don't need to go back too far to
see that the industry even in 2020 had adverse development and still poor results in the first half.
So I'm not really worried about that. I think the industry is quite competitive. I think what people
should be focused on in my mind is to make sure that prices are adequate when driving returns to
normal taking into account the pressure that existed in the system before COVID, so not worried
about that Geoff one bit and I feel like we're really well positioned with the work we've done on
relief, our pricing position and the flexibility we've covered to react when the time comes.



Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. And just my second question was with respect to the RSA acquisition for the non-Canadian
businesses that you acquired, I know, I think you've talked about evaluating them over the next
year, but have you -- are you able to say whether or not there's been any third-party sort of
approach do with interest about some or all of those assets?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well clearly, when there is a transaction of that nature, first of all, many people were surprised by
the transaction. Yes, you get inbound calls from time to time. I think that we said very clearly at the
start of this transaction that we would evaluate our strategic options for Denmark, we did and we
acted on the inbound that we've received a couple of weeks after closing. As far as the rest of the
platform is concerned, we're really focused on building outperformance here and making sure that
we're being rewarded for the risk in the capital that's been deployed.
Clearly the UK is the biggest part of this and we're focused on building outperformance there and
there is good traction. We have a very good team.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Did you have any further questions?

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Yeah, that was it.

Operator
Thank you, Mr. Kwan. Next question will be from Paul Holden at CIBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Good morning.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

My first question also relates to personal auto and Charles you gave -- you gave an outlook for the
remainder of the year, but it's a little bit different than what we've seen from some of the US auto
insurers where they've sort of seen a spike in claims or accident frequency related to returned
activity and then also have called out an acceleration and severity, so wondering how your outlook
is different than the US insurers and maybe specifically drill down a little bit more on what you're
seeing on the severity trends today.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, good morning Paul, thanks for your question. Obviously, if you compare frequency in Q2 2021
with frequency in Q2 2020, you'll see an increase, it's obvious. The state of the world was very
different a year ago than you see now, so I think that one needs to look past what happened Q2
over Q2 and look at where driving is going and then look at where inflation is going, so what I'm
thinking Paul, maybe we start with Isabelle, who will give us her perspective on what we're seeing



in terms of activity and then Patrick will take us through what we're seeing on the severity in
inflation side of things, so Isabelle, why don't you take this.

FINAL

A - Isabelle Girard

{BIO 21256467 <GO>}

Yeah, so in terms of driving what we see with the latest wave of COVID in 2021, we saw some
(inaudible) driving in the spring 2021, but as you were mentioning Charles, nothing to the expense
we saw in the spring of last year in 2020 where we were in full lockdown. Being said that, driving
activities on the rise since early May and we are now setting about just 5 points below the preCOVID levels of driving.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as vaccinations continue to progress, we expect that the driving will also continue to rise in the
coming weeks. Being said that looking at the average of driving, we can think that we're close to
normal, but normality maybe a bit different in the coming months. So we've been looking closely at
the various data coming from our telematics and while number of miles driven is one factor that
changed with the pandemic, there is also other bits that have changed, so when people are driving
and where people are driving and how people are driving are example of things that we saw some
changes during the pandemic.
So few examples, I think that we observe that are necessarily back to normal yet, rush hours and
congestions are example, I think that when we look at the weekends, we're pretty much at
historical levels, but when we're looking on the weekdays, especially for the rush hour morning, we
see that we're still below historical level. We also observe that driving has been recovering faster
than public transit usage and in the last few weeks, though we have seen public transit picking up.
So those are examples of things that we're continuing to follow and we believe with our data will
be ready to quickly identify any new trends that may last post pandemic and adapt our pricing are
encouraging.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks Isabelle. I think, maybe we can talk about inflation a little bit.

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Yeah. I feel the main driver of inflation on severity continues to be the technology in cars that
increases the cost of parts and the complexity of the repair process. But this is not something new
in our view, we've been talking about it for a while, it's what central to our action plan two or three
years ago, and it continues to put pressure on severity.
It is important to mention that we can quickly reflect this trend in our pricing, given our price
specific to each make, model and year, so as new models come out in the market, we leverage
our (Technical Difficulty) data to price that complexity in the parts and repair process even before I
would say the claims experience actually shows it.
We supported that with our actions in claims and supply chain to allow to mitigate that trend over
the past couple of years. So overall, we've seen mid single digit increase in repair costs over the
past year. With regards to maybe the price of new cars and the inflation of used cars, it is there,
but again here, our pricing can adjust very quickly on the new cars as well as representing the
depreciation pattern if you want in older model years. Maybe my last comment is overall in Q2
when we look at both our experience here in Canada and in the UK, the total losses which is where
we settled the claims based on market value instead of repairing the car have seen the low-single
digit inflation rate so about half what we see in the cost of repair.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks a lot, Patrick. Yeah, so we try to make sure that you know what we read in the newspaper is
not what we talk about in the earnings calls. We have a fair bit of granularity here and I'll see
there's a lot of moving pieces at the moment and that's the sort of environment that we love



FINAL

because the pricing strategy that we have a super-focused and segmented to take into account
behaviors and on the inflation front, I think, Patrick and team have done a fair bit to tame some of
that inflation over the past few years and a big chunk of it is reflected in our pricing thought
process. Last point I'll make is that there is flexibility at the moment in terms of our ability to react
and I think the team is on top of that.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Got it. Okay and then my second question is related to the revised CAT loss guidance. Are you
able to unpack how much of that is related to the RSA acquisition and how much of it is related to
increase in expected claims trends?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, Paul, there is not much in terms of increased expected trend, I think it's the makeup of the
business at this stage, but I'll let Louis give you a bit of color on that.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Well, I think that's the answer. It's mostly RSA driven. So you're taking into account the addition of
the Canadian exposures into our Canadian expectations and then the addition of the UK perimeter
as well with maybe a slightly different business mix. When you combine that, this is what drove the
increase we shared with you today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it's much largely the RSA impact that we took into account.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

And if I can ask just a quick follow-up on that answer then is the mix also different within RSA
Canada, it looks like there's a little bit more CAT exposure within their book versus in tax legacy
book, is that accurate?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

No, I would say when we refer to the change in the mix, it's more adding the UK volume that more
has a bigger weight on properties, so forecast it had a bit more than its share from a volume
perspective, but the books in Canada don't have a big difference. It's mostly proportional.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Okay got it. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Doug Young at Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. It was stated in the release that there is regulatory reforms coming in the UK
that could result in some volatility and opportunities for RSA's personal line business and I think
that's early next year, so I just wanted to delve a little bit into that more specifically, what do you
mean by volatility and opportunities?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, good morning, Doug and you're right. These reforms are reforms that will take effect largely
at the end of the year; and therefore, early January. They are driven by the FCA, so market
conduct regulator in the UK, let me give you a bit of context to understand what the intention is
there and then maybe share my view on what it means for the marketplace and this will help



FINAL

answer opportunity and volatility are the words that you're interested in. I think if you look at the UK
Personal Lines market because this is largely about personal lines, we've seen massive shifts in
distribution over the past couple of decades.
It's really driven the market to be a price-only type market and as a result you see that customer
retention or loyalty is much lower than what we are observing in other markets and certainly here in
Canada and there is a lot of pressure to attract new customers at low prices and so when you put
all that together over time, a meaningful disconnect has been created between new customer
pricing and existing customers pricing which in effect penalizes loyalty, so obviously that's a
problem and the FCA reforms while are a few pieces that is the big issue in my mind it really aims
at restoring a better balance between new business and renewal pricing.
We think it makes sense actually and we support the intent of the regulator. There is debate as to
how the rules will be applied and so on, as there always is but we think the intent is a good one. So
what it means for the market and what it means for us, the reforms really are focused on home
and auto.

Bloomberg Transcript

We think that because there is a meaningful difference in market practices between new business
and renewal that in January, you will see significant price dislocation and new business pricing is
likely to go up somewhat materially in my mind while renewal pricing will go down.
The net effect of these changes is yet unclear, it's a very competitive marketplace and we'll take a
prudent approach as we approach this change but this location, we think is an opportunity to grow
our Personal Lines portfolio and take advantage of that to improve price sophistication. So the
teams in the UK are totally focused in my mind, and we spent a fair bit of time on that, Doug, when
we were in the UK a few weeks back. Team will be ready and we're using this opportunity to lend
Canadian pricing experts to support the good work of our teams in the UK. What we really like
about the UK Personal Lines market is the fact that there is tremendous flexibility to modify prices
and leverage pricing sophistication very quickly.
In fact much greater than what you can see in most provinces here in Canada. So clearly our plan,
Doug, is to intent -- is to really use all that flexibility to deploy the best science and predictive
analytics. So overall, I think the reform is a positive one for the UK Personal Lines market in the long
run.
In the near term, it will be windy. There'll be a fair bit of dislocation, but again lots of moving pieces.
We like that and I think the team is ready for that in the UK.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

And just. So basically what I'm getting at too is like when I heard, you talked about dislocation which
I've heard you talk about many times. I would think of M&A, and that's really not kind of the focus
here that focus is not when you think of dislocation and opportunity, M&A, it's more taking
advantage of a change in the marketplace to better your business essentially.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, yeah, I think that's right, Doug and M&A, you know it depends on the extent of the
dislocation in the market, but our comments far more geared towards day in, day out of market
activity.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

And then second, just on the prior year reserve developments, another quarter of strong results
there and you kind of had your ups and downs over the last few years, it feels like you've adjusted
down your guidance in the past. Are we heading into another level here and can you talk a bit



about some of the drivers and what you're expecting in terms of contribution from RSA on the
reserve development side?

FINAL

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes sure, you know, I think Doug it has not been the same number every quarter, I'll say this there
is no doubt about that. When you say up and down, it varied over time, but if you look at the track
record, and if you look at every year, it's positive pretty much all the time.
So I think I want to make sure that this is clear when we look at our historical track record.
Structurally speaking, a lower interest rate environment leads to a lower expectation of prior year
development. I think that's one key element that drove the guidance we've provided between 1%
and 3% over time. There is a number of moving pieces we're being cautious, maybe I'll let Patrick
give you his perspective on PYD in aggregate and then we'll see if it covers the elements of your
question.

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. Yeah, so as Charles was introducing the lower levels of interest rate over the past two years
until today, let us to provide guidance in the 1% to 3% range for favorable PYD. On the other hand,
you know, over the past few years with inflation pressure in auto and more recently the additional
uncertainty around claims and to be specific here, we're talking the indirect effect of COVID
related claims on the long tail lines.
We took a very prudent approach in the reserving in that context, so in the short term this might
create a little more volatility in the PYD but our cautious approach on these aspects give us a very
good likelihood in our view to be on the higher part of the range of 1% to 3% and that's for total
IFC including the RSA book.
But probably we can expect Canada to be slightly above what we will see in the other parts of the
book. Q2 was largely an illustration of this. There it's what helped by a couple of large files and the
fact as well that in short tail lines, we always expect to see a bit more of that in the first half of the
year than the second one.
But I would say, largely aligned with reflecting, I get that dynamic. Now, the last thing I would say is
we need to be careful not to totally isolate PYD from the current year because reflecting additional
risk in the reserves in the current accident year is what creates potentially more favorable PYD
afterwards if and when the risk business fully materializes.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think it's a very good and an important point. I think when I look at the underlying
performance of the business today, I think in aggregate, we're not too far off from what the
underlying is at the moment when PYD is in. On the UK per se, we spent a lot of time -- a number
of us spent a lot of time on looking at these reserves over the past few years.
We're quite comfortable with where we are. We strengthened the balance sheet at closing. We
bought an adverse development cover. The idea here is not because we were uncomfortable with
reserves, it's more with the fact that there is an unknown we're not from the UK. We haven't been
involved historically. It's an organization that has a long history and therefore there is some
unknown and we felt that I think an adverse development cover similar to what we've done in the
US was a good risk management practice as you enter a new market, but we're comfortable with
the position we've taken in the UK and believe have established the degree of caution that's very
consistent with how we reserve in general.
Obviously if you're new in the market, you will take a more prudent approach over time and that
will not be different this time around. That's why our perspective is within the aggregate range as



Patrick said of one to three should be at the upper end and the Canadian business should in the
near term anyways help us be at the upper end of that range.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

FINAL

Appreciate the color. Thank you.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Mario Mendonca at TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Louis Marcotte, probably best for you. I'm looking precisely at what Charles just
referred to and he said that took a conservative look at the balance sheet on closing, so I've been
focusing on Note 4 of your financial statements and obviously, I'm not going to go through every
line there's a lot of complexity here.

Bloomberg Transcript

But could you speak to the magnitude of the adjustments made to RSA's claim liabilities from what
you saw on the financial statements to what you arrived at the $11.6 billion or $11.7 billion of claims
liabilities? Was there a meaningful increase in claims liabilities from what you saw in the financial
statements to where you're at today?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

So the word meaningful is may be questionable here, but what we have done in the closing
process was firstly align our accounting practices between ourselves and the acquired balance
sheet so they weren't necessarily providing for the reserve the same where we were and we
needed to have a consistent accounting policies and approaches across and that drives most of
the adjustments we've done.
There were some areas where we thought we should top up a bit, which we have done and this is
what I think Charles refers to as strengthening but overall, I would say, well, very comfortable in the
UK perimeter with where they were and just topped up a bit where we thought it was needed.
And then in Canada aligning ourselves between how we viewed the need for reserves was aligned
between those two countries, so I won't -- can't quantify, specifically the magnitude here, but there
was strengthening and the alignment needed to bring this to the balance sheet to the same
standard as ours.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

And then maybe Mario when I see -- if you look at some of the strengthening we've done, I'd say
two-thirds of it is probably Canada and the bulk of it was accident benefit driven in Ontario. And
Mario, I think we've -- we've taken the street along over the past three years or four years on the
issues there, we've said that we felt that the industry was a bit late, so we were very consistent
with our observation with the RSA reserves.
And then a third in the UK&I market focused on longer-tail lines of business commercial liability just
to make sure that we were on par with how we otherwise would have reserved.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}



FINAL

Yeah, my inclination and sort of the nature of the question is not so much that I think the company
wasn't conservative, but rather that the company has been very conservative in so far as like how
this acquisition was accounted for, but maybe more generally where I'm going with this is the PYD
in personal auto and PYD generally has been good, and we've talked about that a little bit on this
call.
I understand that that's not unique to Intact that the industry as a whole seems to have been
somewhat conservative in setting up the IBNR in personal auto over the loss in a while, but the
nature of my question is this, can an industry experiencing this level of PYD apply for pricing
increases? Are those two things -- can you actually do those two things simultaneously, record big
PYD and apply for pricing increases at the same time?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

So you can. And so I think, Mario, if you go back to the industry results right to June 2020 there was
adverse development and I'm talking automobile insurance in particular and if you look at PYD for
us in automobile insurance indeed so far in 2021, we have 3.5 points of favorable development
and not that I want to bring back all the hard work we've done in the three years or four years
before that, but what you will see is that the PYD in the few years before that was out of sync with
the historical context because of inflation and was essentially flat; and therefore, pricing, so how
this pricing works. Pricing works in the following fashion, you go back, you think three years to five
years -- the last three years to five years, you project them in the future and use that to figure out
whether your prices are adequate. And I would suggest if you look at in the past five years where
there has been no favorable development or adverse development at the industry level, you
project them in the future. You restore performance for driving, the answer is if you do your job
properly from an actuarial point of view, you can have favorable development in a year and seek
rate increases over time.
Now, there's a lot of actuaries in this call. If I'm wrong guys, you can correct me, but the mechanics
of this would suggest you can.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Tom MacKinnon at BMO. Please go ahead.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks, good morning. Just to start off, just to be clear, the increase in the CAT guidance has
nothing to do with your NOIPS accretion that you're expecting from the RSA acquisition -- is that
correct? So I mean we -- that was all factored in but you're just announcing that to the Street, but
all of that 570 tax that is factored in when you did your NOIPS accretion, correct?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Correct, 100%.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. I just wanted to make sure everybody is clear on that. Now as you look further at the
RSA portfolio in particular, the $250 million in expense synergies doesn't have anything to do with
improving the loss ratio at RSA or really improving the yields at RSA, do you have any update as to
what the potential is for those kinds of improvements as you've gone another three months here
with digging into these portfolios?



A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah Tom, thanks for your question. It's the daily question at Intact and we want to make sure we
leave nothing off the table to be clear. But why don't I ask Louis to share his perspective and then
I'll add some color.

FINAL

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles. So on the 250, so that number is still the target we're aiming for. You're right, it is
largely expense driven and we have not yet updated any guidance for loss ratio improvement.
Those are the ones we're working on but they may be a bit longer to develop as we study the
data and compare to ours.
I am the one asking the question to Charles every day on how I can reflect that in my estimates,
but still waiting for those estimates to come back, but at this point, we're sticking to the expense
synergies of 250 working on making sure that those are delivered as quickly as possible and our
visibility on those is quite strong.
So we're not -- we're very confident in realizing them and in the loss ratio once will be incremental
to those synergies.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. On the expense side, given where we are in integration, I'm very comfortable with those
because we have the bottom up view of the synergies we can generate on the expense side of
things, we are tracking that on a monthly basis. And a process we're very, very familiar with. On the
loss ratio front, it's clear that there are opportunities here. We're moving fast in bringing the
business on our platform in Canada and in the UK. I mean, we've done a lot of work with the team
in the past few months. It's been demanding, no doubt about that for the team, but they had really
good momentum. I'm very pleased with the action plans they have. We've got detailed metrics to
keep track of the performance improvement plan and I see some upside in the in the UK&I
portfolio as well.
Now I think that the upside in my mind is good and we'll all try to get as much as we can and the
market I think is conducive. I see this also as a way to upset potential surprises. So we want to
refrain at this stage from updating views on accretion and loss ratio improvement but we're
certainly focused on those.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

And the yield performance, are there any way of increasing the yield on the RSA portfolio is pretty
well?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely. So we're working on this, we're working on the asset mix. Of course, we've reset
the yields to the current yields upon the acquisition so that took them down to market yields
essentially. But as we integrate the portfolios together, we are moving to a bit more of an Intact
mix over time, and we are sort of leveraging some of the opportunities and expertise they have at
RSA to move it up. At this point, our guidance reflects some of the asset mix that will be taking
place in the next six months to 12 months that was in my $100 million investment income I shared
with you earlier. And then we're going to be working on trying to optimize that a bit further and
keep it up at this point, though we're sticking to the 100 for the next -- for this year at least.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes. So run the asset side here at Intact. I've been totally on top of the integration. First order of
business obviously is governance and the operational integration of the asset side, done a big
asset optimization exercise in the past few months. There are indeed opportunities as you know



our thought process on the asset side is total after-tax return optimized for regulatory capital
requirement, local tax regime and obviously, risk and so the fact that we're operating across really
three big platforms creates opportunities to optimize the mix. We've got a plan for that and we will
start to execute on it in the coming weeks.

FINAL

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

And the quick follow-up is on the integration costs. For those $35 million in the quarter because I
think as you said because it shows acquisition integration restructuring cost has been $138 million in
the quarter. So maybe you can describe what the differences are and whether -- how recurring this
138 number in this quarter will be?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

So the 138 includes the acquisition cost as well for the transaction. So it's the acquisition part of the
expense. There are also some integration from prior acquisitions that are still going in there and
specifically for RSA it was 35 and then what we expect in the future quarters not so much on the
other restructuring costs but on the RSA one is what I guided to half of the guidance of 1.5 to 1.7
times synergies.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

And no acquisition costs that would have been baked into the second quarter number, I assume?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

They are largely done.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Okay, thanks so much.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Jaeme Gloyn at National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Yeah thanks, just a couple of quick clarification questions. First the CAT guidance increasing from
300 to 570, did you state how much of that increase is in Canada and how much is in UK&I?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

We have not, we sort of stayed away from that and simply because this, the perimeters give us a
bit more diversification opportunities. Not sure whether they'll spike in one country or the other, so
we stuck to and overall team and provided guidance in terms of Personal and timing but we stayed
away from the countries. To be fair, if I was to model something maybe I put two-thirds in Canada,
one-third in the UK, but we're sort of not committing to it in terms of at being a firm commitment
here, it's more of a bit of a guidance, but other than that, I wouldn't go further than that.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Understood. And then in terms of the Denmark asset sale, is the valuation of that of that asset and
I'm assuming there's a gain that will be attached to it as part of the transaction, is that in the book
value as it stated today or should we expect to see a gain on Denmark in the next year when it
closes?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}



FINAL

So, the asset -- our share of the asset is recorded on the opening balance sheet at the value that
was agreed upon with our partner Tryg so that's how the value there comes up. The transaction
has been announced, is not close yet, so there is a couple of conditions to get to closing and that's
expected somewhere early in the 2022, probably end of Q1 or early Q2 and the difference
between the price agreed to on the sale and the value that we've agreed to with Tryg will be
recorded at that time of closing.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think what I mentioned in my remarks, Jaeme, is that when this transaction at the aggregate
level from an economics point of view should help the IRR by 1.5 points. And as a result, if you're
consistent then you would expect a gain when we close.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Good. On the same page on that front, in terms of the distribution income in this quarter
significantly higher, can you break out or walk us through the drivers of that gain as in commissions
on variable revenues, just sort of explain what that is and then how much is on site contributing to
the upside here?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks for the question, Jaeme. So, quite happy with the growth here we're seeing in our
distribution income very well aligned with our objective of growing distribution and to add a strong
earnings stream that support our mid-teens ROE. So this is clearly going in the right direction.
It grew 51% in Q2 and I would say about 33% of the 51 -- 33 points of the 51 is really driven by the
variable commissions that has been part of our underwriting performance so far. So you see it in
the insurance business with an extra expense ratio or a higher expense ratio from commissions
and this comes back in the distribution income and of the 51%, 33 points are driven by these
variable commissions.
There's another 13 points that's driven by what we consider to be organic growth of the business
and you'll recall last year in the second half of the year, we had a pretty solid organic growth in our
distribution network, and this is carrying on in the first half of the year.
So those are the two main drivers. You asked about on site, so interestingly on site, remember
when we bought it was meant to be a counter-cyclical earnings stream when we had multiple CAT
events, well Q or half year one has been fairly quiet on the weather side, so on site it has been
probably a bit more quiet than we wanted.
So it has not been a huge contributor to the growth in Q2 so far. There is lots of potential for on
site going forward and particularly with the RSA acquisition, but from a Q2 point of view is not a big
driver. The last comment I'll make there is of course 51 looks really good, it is, but we're also
comparing to Q2 last year which was a tough quarter from a distribution point of view. You might
remember, we were very cautious in our earnings expectations there given the uncertainty around
COVID.
So not only we have good variable commissions, we have good organic growth, but we're
comparing to a weak Q2 last year. So those are the main drivers. And I would say we're guiding
right now to 10% to 12% growth in the second half of the year and that's really taking into account
that last year's H2 was very strong and if you can combine 10% to 12% growth in H2 with what
we've done so far to date, this business is growing north of 25% for the full year. So a big
contributor to our earnings growth.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}



FINAL

Thanks Louis. I think there's a couple of things that are worth highlighting in this. The organic
growth of BrokerLink is really strong and clearly commercial lines hard market is helpful and really
conducive to strong performance in distribution. It might be good, Darren, if you highlight your view
on the state of the commercial lines market and the other point I think we should touch on us,
because we're bringing on site into the question just to help you visualize what we can do with on
site, I'll ask Patrick to talk about what's going on in BC in Lytton and what can be done, so Darren
maybe quickly.

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks Charles. I mean I think I would describe the conditions in Q2 is very consistent with Q1.
Hard market north and south of the border capacity continues to be tight, rate increases are very
consistent from Q2 to Q1 and we see no signs of that abating at all and really strong performance
from a rate standpoint, north and south of the border. Now obviously, you got to be careful in
terms of the portfolio in the US compared to some of the other benchmarks that are out there. I
mean different segments of the portfolio are quite strong.
I think I mean accident is one area that due to profitability, there is a little bit of pressure from a
rate standpoint, but again that's a lot of business that's operated consistently in the 80s, so no
surprise there. But otherwise outside of that we're pushing well into the double-digit range in other
lines and that's very consistent with what we've seen in the last quarter but also in the last 12
months prior as well.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And we're seeing good strength in the UK as well, maybe on on-site, Patrick?

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Yeah, just a little strength -- a little this we talked, I think, in the remarks about the wildfire in Lytton
BC that happened in the last few days of the quarter in June. First of all, just to reiterate that the
full estimates of the estimate costs of that was reflected in Q2, but from an operational
perspective, we were able to deploy our internal CAT team, but also our national capacity of onsite to support the team of Lytton. Examples of what this brings to the response is on-site has
been retained to provide all the security fencing and checkpoints in the city where it had been
retained as well by the Lytton First Nation to coordinate all the white goods removal, fridges and
freezers, which always require special handling and we continue to work very closely both with our
internal CAT team and on-site with the Town of Lytton and Lytton First Nation as well as the Team
Rubicon with an organization of the military veteran leading the response for the industry there, so
we've been there deploying a lot of capacity to support our customers who are facing obviously a
difficult time.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks, Patrick.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Great. Very good. I'll re-queue.

Operator
No further questions Jaeme?

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Well, actually if nobody else, I did want to touch on one aspect and that's the ROE objectives, 500
basis points I presume that applies to all for each of Canada, US and UK and I was just hoping you



could dive into what that means from an ROE perspective in each geography and perhaps maybe
timelines around that.

FINAL

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, that's a good question. We are firm on the ROE outperformance objective of 500 basis
points every year. That's the first point. As you know, outperformance, Jaeme, is the mindset and
it's driving the strategic choices we're making, the investments we're making on the data front, on
the AI front, risk selection, claims on supply chain management, no change.
And this is the lens we use when we go into other markets as well. So if you look at the work we've
done and the work we will do with Scott and team, we're really focused on risk selection and we're
working with Karl Helgesen, really strong the claims head of the UK business as well to help them
create outperformance there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So there is no change, obviously our outperformance position in Canada is really strong and as we
increase our scale advantage will be now 2.5-ish times bigger than number two. This is really
helpful to expand, our advantage will be focused on this. If you look at the US, in the US from my
perspective, we have created now close to 4-ish points of combined ratio advantage against our
peers in Specialty lines. I don't think we're 100% there, but we're clearly well on our way and I think
in the UK, we will need, you know, probably 3-ish years in my mind to go from being in the industry
back to creating some distance and that is the definition of success for us.
So, bit of a headwind I would say in terms of ROE of performance, as you went through a new
jurisdictions, but I think there is no doubt as to what success looks like and this shapes where our
time, our energy and where money goes.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

I can add Charles so operating basis still aiming for that mid-teens level and confident that we can
maintain that on the current environments. I think that is strong. When we look at outperformance,
what we're building now is in fact a blended industry ROE that will integrate a weighted level of
industry ROE in the US and then eventually industry ROE in the UK that will compare ourselves to.
So publicly because remember we manage our balance sheet centrally from all the asset is
essentially managed centrally; and therefore, the ROE of IFC is when we want to compare to and
the best comparative for us would be a blended ROE between the three parameters we operate
in.
So we're building that and trying to build that it's bit difficult to have good industry data in the UK
right now but we're putting those together and you'll see them getting published more and more
over time in our financial reports you'll be able to see how we track. But I would say most
importantly on the operating ROE part that is still firmly in the mid-teens range going forward.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think it's important to keep in mind outperformance is the mindset but at the end of the
day if outperformance leads in certain jurisdictions to single digit ROE, it's not good enough. And
we're not shying away from being rewarded for the risk we're taking, even if we outperform and I
think there's work to be done, but those two core principles are the lenses we're using to assess
the footprint at the moment and how we're positioned in each markets where we operate.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

It's a great answer and look forward to the upcoming disclosures. Thank you.

A - Charles Brindamour
Thank you.

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}



Operator
Thank you. And at this time, Mr. Anderson, we have no other questions. Please proceed.

FINAL

A - Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thanks everyone for joining us today. Following the call, a telephone replay will be available for one
week and the webcast will be archived on our website for one year. Transcript will also be available
on the website in the Financial Report Compiling section. Lastly, we will be hosting an Investor Day
in H1-2022. More details on the 2021 Investor Day will be available on our website in the coming
weeks and we look forward to welcoming you at the event. Finally, our third quarter 2021 results
are scheduled to be released after market close on Tuesday, November 9. So thank you again and
this concludes today's call.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Mr. Anderson. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call
for today. Once again, thank you for attending and at this time, we do ask that you please
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

