Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Oliver Bate, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Kim Shapiro, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
William Hawkins, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results
2020. For your information, this conference is being streamed live on allianz.com and
YouTube. A recording will be made available shortly after the call.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to your host today, Mr. Oliver
Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Welcome to our conference call. I hope that you are all well and safe. Unless you know,
we will squeeze in two presentations today, so I keep it brief and I hand over directly to
our CEO, Oliver Bate.

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

So, good afternoon from Munich, Friday after lunchtime I still hope that you have tons of
energy. We have some to share today for you. I would like, as usual, to give you a brief
overview, how we see the situation for '20 and a little bit of an outlook for '21. I know that
you're very interested in this one. Then Giulio will in the usual high quality goes through
all the details and hopefully answer all the questions that you may have.

Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We would like to start, and I'm going to give you always the pages of the document that
I'm going to be on. And I would like to start with Page A5, and you've seen the
presentation already. Just a quick recap, EUR140 billion in revenues, EUR10.8 billion
operating proﬁt, EUR6.8 billion net income and we have kept our dividend ﬂat to last year
and we are very happy about that.
I would like to remind everybody that we are operating in an environment where the
European regulator has been saying, we shouldn't be paying dividend. We have a very
good regulator in Germany that looks at the facts. And over the last few weeks, we had
very intensive discussion with our Supervisor, the BaFin stress-tested the solvency, they
have stress tested cash ﬂow and they have really looked at our plan and then approved
the payment of our dividend and the enforcement of the ratchet, and we are all very
happy and proud that we have achieved this outcome, which was by no means clear, not
because of Allianz, but because of the regulatory environment, which will remain diﬃcult.
And I'd like to say it upfront, we, of course, were thinking about whether we would be
able to reinstate share buybacks, which we would like to do. Maybe at some point even
increase dividend earlier than anticipated. Under the current circumstances we were
advised that we are good to go with the EUR9.60 and then we will re-discuss towards the
Q3 and Q4 with our Supervisor when we can reinstate increases in payouts. And you
should know that whatever we can't invest into the growth of the business, as over the last
ﬁve years, we would like to return to shareholders. That is the clear intent and a clear thing
that we'd like to do.
Now, however, that needs to be balanced with a very, very strong balance sheet. We
believe that Allianz has to be the bedrock of our industry in terms of resilience. We have a
very large balance sheet to defend and we are very happy that after the shock in the ﬁrst
quarter for the industry and the world out of COVID and market corrections, we brought
back our solvency to 207%, Giulio will talk about the fact that also if we call back the RT1s
in a couple of weeks that solvency will still remain at 203% or higher. Our ROE was 11.4%,
note it's the number and that's what the number is. It was aﬀected by EUR1.3 billion in
COVID impact, EUR1.1 billion out of Property-Casualty, EUR200 million in Life and Health.
Now, you always have to think about how you benchmark these numbers. And diﬀerent to
other companies, we have not included eﬀects on investment income. I think that's very
important because we have various deﬁnitions of what COVID impact, we believe, I
believe, we've taken one of the most conservative estimates on what COVID impact has
been because we believe it's one of the most honest. We have to deal with capital market
volatility as part of what we do. The COVID impacts that we have accounted for in P&C
and Life are really extraordinary and directly aﬀected by what has happened in business
interruption and other items. Financial income hits, which have by the way, also been
signiﬁcant but very well managed by our colleagues in AIM, have not been included in
this number.
So that means we would have been at or north of our midpoint outlook for the year and
that's very important to bear in mind. So, north of EUR12 billion, if you keep the number in
the back of your mind for the year. Now that remains highly relevant when we're going to
talk about the outlook because I've looked at some of the feedback that people have said
that it's maybe a bit cautious. Yes, we are conservative, and we are also going to be
Page 2 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

conservative. The issue is not conservatism. We do not want to promise things that we
don't keep. Keeping promises, whether that's on dividend or performance is very
important. And I'm often surprised, colleagues, I have to tell you that appears to be more
important to promise things that people don't know whether we can -- they can keep.
And then when they miss the target, as we've seen over the last few days, don't worry
about it, but the outlook is much better otherwise. I am surprised when I see these things.
We believe that promising and delivering on promises is the bedrock of our equity story
and it's going to be that. It may be a little as somebody says underwhelming, we ﬁnd that
very convincing. Now, let me go ahead and say, why is the performance of Allianz so
resilient.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page A6, gives you an indication. One, we have the levers to balance shocks out and you
see that in the development of the solvency ratio on the right-hand side, where we have
also had our ratings reconﬁrmed. You see that the cash remittance that we have disclosed,
by the way somebody wrote it, the ﬁrst time we've done that before Oskar Buchauer will
remind you, we did that in 2011 and '12 already when there were questions after the
European -- the euro crisis of what cash ﬂow from Life entities was -- has been stable, it's
going to be stable and we are managing it for stability. That's very important. So cash and
solvency are strong and will remain strong because we've worked now almost a decade
on making sure that we have the levers to balance against shock.
The other one is what we've been talking about for many years and it's still not, I think in
the minds of people, and certainly, not in the spreadsheets, it is the diversiﬁcation that we
have between diﬀerent parts of the business. Maybe because we are talking primarily to
insurance analysts and investors rather than people that understand asset management.
But the reality is, again, this year we had Asset Management outperforming very strongly
relative to expectations, you know PIMCO since we made the management change in
2016, early one has been exceeding expectations continuously every single year and
there will every year there is a new story, they have too much credit exposure, the interest
rates are going to go up. So, guys, this thing is the best ﬁxed-income house on the planet
probably, and it's going to continue to perform. And it's very important because they
don't just perform as an asset manager for third-party clients, they also manage our assets
and have been able to help us outperform on the investment side for us.
So we are getting two beneﬁts, one is for our clients on the third-party side, and the other
one is the -- we have the margin on the Life Insurance side and we get the margin on top
and the outperformance on Asset Management for the assets we entrust with them. So
that was able to balance the performance in P&C that was impacted by COVID. I'd also
like to mention, I expect this to be the last quarter, that's Q4 last year, where we had
extraordinary impacts from reserve strengthen in AGC&S, that's it. We expect the
company to at least show and 98 combined ratio for the year, that is our expectations. We
allowed the new management team that we put in at the end of '19 to do what we in
German called 'tabula rasa' i.e., used the year '20 to clean up and strengthen the reserves
where needed. Now we expect them to focus on the future and use the strong market
environment to do much better and put the past behind. That is at least my personal
expectation.

Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

And on the Life & Health side, we've been remarkably resilient even though in the fourth
quarter, we had a special eﬀect with Easy Life that Giulio will be alluding to, that made the
investment margin look a little larger than the guidance was and the guidance is as it is.
So overall, we have a very well-diversiﬁed model. I'd like to say before I move on, that also
AGI has done really, really well. I can applaud the team that has taken the helm, despite a
lot of the noise. They had EUR9 billion in inﬂows in the fourth quarter. They have done
really, really well. They have brought the cost down. We are working on improving the
cost-income ratio further that has been stubbornly stuck at the high level and we are
going to bring productivity forward because the industry is facing margin pressure, we all
know that. But we have various sources of alpha on not just investments, there's
particularly, very strong client feedback that we have both in PIMCO and AGI and very
strong operational resilience. So congratulations to our colleagues both in PIMCO and
AGI for an outstanding job in 2020. And it's a very important part of Allianz that
complements the Life Insurance side, as I said. It's a core part of what we do, and we'll talk
later when we talk about the outlook. I think if there is an area we generally have a
conservative outlook based on the higher AuMs, 2021, should have a very strong start
already. So I think we are a bit conservative on our outlook on Asset Management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page A7. I don't want to talk about. I'm actually surprised that our share didn't do better in
'20. Yes, we had relative outperformance, but I think the overhang we have on, can we
really pay dividend whether zero or negative interest rates, the swap rates 20 years being
negative, can you escape that. I'd like to tell you something. You know, we have been for
years saying that we are changing new business into preferred lines that we are building
mortality. But that is probably because people are worried about the inﬂows not coming
really through.
Let me give you an example, the German Life business has so strong income from their
risk results that only the risk proﬁts that we are getting out of the German business are
suﬃcient to pay the dividend. So it's a bit of an extreme, but you could make the point
that we don't even need investment income to pay the dividend out of the Life business.
This is how strong our Protection franchise has become and we're going to spend the
next few years to strengthen this even further. Diversifying income sources away from
pure investment income to fee and loadings, and in particular, strong Protection earnings.
A lot of people are talking about it. We are doing it. You see all -- you also see that in the
Asian business that has really been powering ahead in terms of value and earnings and
that is the way we're going to go. So just as a reminder, when you're worried about, is the
money going to come from, is very important. Now, I just got a tip from Oli Schmidt that I
always have to deduct two from the page number because you have two diﬀerent page
numbers I got that. So my A7 is your A5. I'll keep that in mind.
Now, I'd like to talk a little bit about what we believe is bringing -- going to bring
sustainable value. My Page 8 and your Page A6, talks about what we are doing for clients.
And what is very important is that at the end of the day we in Allianz now believe that if
you are the loyalty leader in your industry relative to competition, be it both all the new,
you win over the clients and the businesses that we have that are loyalty leader are both
more proﬁtable and growing faster than the other businesses that we have. That's why we
set out in November of 2015 to say we would like to have 74% of our businesses above
Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

market average as a ﬁrst target step and we have already exceeded that for 2020 as
having 79%. But what's more important is we actually now have 60% of our businesses
being loyalty leaders i.e., in the position where people prefer us over any other option,
and I think that's very, very, very important. And we have now exceeded EUR100 million in
direct clients, we have more indirect clients in Travel and Other Insurance where we white
label, so we're building that.
Second time the most valuable brand in insurance according to Interbrand, that's the only
one that we are really looking at because it's the only really professional brand
management issues and we are for the ﬁrst time in the Top 40 brands across industry in
the world. So that's very important. We'll keep the focus on and we're trying to strengthen
our brand by having partnered with the Olympic, and particularly the Paralympic
movement over the next year. So we will have a lot of beneﬁt in China and in Italy, where
we have a very strong brand, now, having higher, higher appreciation than some of the
very old established local brands.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we are obviously doing a lot on the beneﬁt side for our clients, which is, again
recognized in the customer feedback number. So it's quite odd, in an industry that was
criticized overall, particularly, last year our customer loyalty numbers, which by the way
are not self measured, they audited externally because they are part of top management
compensation, we have broken all records.
The same is true when you go to your Page A7, on the employee side. We have spent a lot
of time, and I have to admit personally a few years ago, I underestimated the power of
having a purpose for the organization that's crystal clear and focusing enough on
systematic improvement of engagement. We have been ahead of our ambition that we
have for 2021 in terms of what we call our Inclusive Meritocracy Index. What the heck is
that? It's basically 10 questions of a comparable index that is done across 2,000 global
institutions that measures in 10 questions the ability of our people to lead and inspire our
employees. That is what we are measuring. We're also re-measuring employee
engagement, as every institution does it, and we have an index that's called Work Well,
where we are measuring the mental, and physical and health resilience of our people. All
of these indicators in 2020 are massively up. That means our people have given us very
strong positive feedback on how we've worked with them. And by the way, that has also
driven a large part of the improvement on the customer satisfaction side. Only with highly
motivated people you can really do that.
And last but not least, our massive multi-billion investments in technology over the last
few years that many have criticized on, we are doing too much on digital, you're not
seeing the beneﬁt, is becoming quickly clear. We have now more than 1,600 sites on our
one global network, we have 112,000 of our 150,000 employees on our centrally run
Allianz Virtual Client system that's working, and that allows more than 90% of employees
to work from home, not having to deal with all kinds of leased third-party solutions that
are not safe and that has made us very, very proud. So that has been very good.
Last but certainly not least, you know that Allianz was one of the, I'd say the fastest
organizations, I'd say, the earliest comers in terms of driving environmental impact, was
personally criticized a lot in this country, for getting out of coal. We have taken it to
Page 5 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

another level with the Net-zero Asset Owner Alliance now having more than EUR5 trillion - and we're going to do more than that i.e., having very concrete targets by 2025. I am not
going to go through them at this point in time. Again, Allianz is not racing, but it has a
very clear science-based plan that goes into the future and shows resilience. And that's
not just too on other social items, I just would like to remind you also that our Employee
Share program is starting to have track. For a long time, we were stuck at the level of 12%
to 15% of employees being shareholders, with the new program we have now more than
50% of our employees being shareholders of Allianz and we're going to continue and
drive this up, top management more, I think somebody wrote up that we have to little
exposure. I'll tell you, I have 800% exposure to my be salary on the Allianz stock. I think
that's higher than any other company in the German DAX, for sure, but I don't understand
really the comment. And it's a large part of my fortunate is tied to this company as is from
my colleagues. So we are making sure, we have the same interest as people that invest in
the stock. And last but not least, we have just been voted the company, the number one
company in the German DAX in terms of shareholder-friendly re-enumeration system. So,
we are also very proud of that as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, keeping the balance between what we call performance that's ﬁnancial outcomes,
and the health of the organization, this is in particular customer satisfaction and
recommendation and employee satisfaction and recommendation is very important.
And my Page A11, your Page A9, tries to summarize that. We have a very clear plan. We
had a very clear plan and we aim and continue to deliver. Now, productivity is a very
important part of it. After the ﬁrst two years of CEO, where we had to massively invest
more than actually planned in IT, we have started to drive productivity up and the expense
ratio down, the number for this year is a bit better than the true economic picture. It's
more around 27 point something. But we are on track to deliver on our target, as you are
used for Allianz whatever we have under control, and that is despite pressure on the topline. I'd like to remind you, you know, and it's part of last year we had a 40% drop in new
car sales, new business in motor went signiﬁcantly down. So, that was not easy to do, but
where our colleagues did it, so big kudos to that. And we have done it without large
restructuring. We don't come out and said let's do another restructuring and then
promise earnings growth next year, we need to keep the balance between our
stakeholders. So between shareholders, employees and clients we really need to seek a
golden triangle.
Now, in terms of what is the ambition for 2021. We want to go back to normal, so to speak,
despite the fact -- that is Page A10 in your deck, we don't believe COVID is over yet. And
again, we have discussed it in the management team, should we aim higher than the
EUR12 billion, you could have said, why shouldn't they do EUR12.5 billion. We have really
gone through all the details, looked at all the things that can happen this year and we
want to deliver an outlook that is both ambitious, but pretty clear that we can deliver it
even under adverse developments, and please remember at least three important ones.
One is, again COVID, is getting worse in some countries, not better, we don't expect
massive losses out of that, but the recessionary impact can be signiﬁcant. The second
one, we've had a massively weakened US dollar last year, you already see that -- saw that
particularly in Asset Management, it crosses EUR100 billion AuM in terms of converted
Page 6 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

numbers into euros and the weak US dollar will impact earnings and we have signiﬁcantly
lower interest rates. Now, we are updating and we'll probably be better now than we
thought a couple of weeks ago. But we still are going to lose coupons, because we have
de-risked the asset side consciously also on dividends. For the equity side, we really
believe, a lot of the equity markets are by far overvalued. So we want to make sure we can
deliver very strong earnings without taking too much risk and I would like to remind you,
yes, you can promise higher earnings by just going on the edge a little more on having
less capital or having more risky investments. We do not want to do that and that's why
we also give a little bit more variance on up and down in terms of the outlook.
Our strategic priorities, last Page A11, are unchanged for this year. And I will not go
through them. We have to continue to drive productivity, by the way over time, also in
distribution expenses. We have to simplify our products further and scale them across the
platforms that is a keyword. In the meantime, we are decommissioning, you saw in the
fourth quarter, we had signiﬁcant restructuring expenses, we are investing this money in
order to both integrate new businesses that we've had, like SulAmerica, but also in order
to drive the technology scale that we have been able to create and will continue to
reallocate capital away from low performing businesses. My personal focus is making
technology work and making commercial lines deliver much better proﬁtability and on
the Life side transforming the business even further towards Protection than we've done
that in the past, but we do it on a continuous basis without creating short-term shocks
because that would not bode well on customer satisfaction and employee motivation,
which will allow us -- and again, we believe there's lots of opportunity for consolidation,
which we're going to do bolt-on as the year and the coming years unfolds to deliver
earnings growth in a measured and a way.
That is what I wanted to tell you, and now Giulio will give you all the high-quality details,
and then, I'm very happy to hear from you again when we get to the Q&A. Thank you very
much.

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver. And good afternoon or good morning, and we start as usual with Page 3
with a short update on the quarterly results. Overall, the fourth quarter was pretty strong
with an operating proﬁt of EUR3 billion. When you look at the composition by line of
business, in Property-Casualty the proﬁt is a little bit lighter, and that's because of the
impact of COVID, and also because of the reserving the negative run-oﬀ or reserves
strengthening AGC&S. So all in all, we ended up with a combined ratio of 97.4% for the
quarter.
When we look at the Life/Health business, we have a very strong quarter with EUR1.4
billion of operating proﬁt. What might seem diﬀerent here is the fact that we have
highlighted a positive impact due to COVID of EUR200 million. And the reason for it is,
we wanted to reﬂect that there was a normalization in the course of the year. So we could
recapture some of the depreciation we had in, especially in Q1. So from this point of view,
we wanted to give a fair representation that we had a catch-up in Q4.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

The results in Asset Management, are very strong with an operating proﬁt of almost
EUR900 million. When you look at the inﬂows we had about EUR30 billion of inﬂows for
the quarter and this time it's not only PIMCO we had about EUR9 billion of inﬂows also
from AGI, so that's a very good development.
So overall, I would say with EUR3 billion of operating proﬁt the quarter was strong or in
line with our expectation. Clearly, Asset Management and Life have driven these results.
In Property-Casualty, we were a little bit light, but the full picture for the quarter is pretty
good.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move to Page 5, we have EUR10.7 billion of operating proﬁt. Oliver already said, that
if you adjust that for COVID our performance would have been in line with our outlook
and that's an important message. When we look at the underlying performance, we feel
that we are actually doing pretty good, and if we just take the combined ratio of 96.3% if
you remove the COVID impact from the combined ratio, we're already at slightly above
94% combined ratio. And then as you see, we have been overall conservative on the runoﬀ, even if you adjust for the AGCS negative run-oﬀ, we are taking a conservative view. So
this gives you deﬁnitely an idea that the underlying performance is below 94% and that's
the reason why we feel conﬁdent also about achieving 93 combined ratio -- 93%
combination in 2021.
On the Life side, we have EUR4.4 billion of operating proﬁt. So basically, despite of the
COVID impact, we were able to achieve our outlook. In the new business margin, with
2.8% is very, very strong considering that we have negative interest rates. And ﬁnally, on
Asset Management with EUR2.9 billion of operating proﬁt, EUR200 million beat [ph]
compared to the outlook, hence nice cost-income ratio 61.2%. So in Asset Management, I
would say, the performance has been extremely positive.
Moving to Page 7, the Solvency ratio is 207%, even if you adjust for the call of the RT1 that
we going to do in March, the Solvency ratio is very strong at 203%.
And if we move to Page 9, you can see basically the driver of the development, this is a
driver for the year. Basically, the story is pretty simple. We had a positive earnings
generation. If you do the calculation, after-tax and after dividend, the organic generation
was about 7%. We had also positive impact from the management actions that we
undertook in the course of the year. On the other side, clearly, especially coming from Q1
and Q2, we had a negative impact coming from, especially the interest rate development.
But all in all, we are landing with a very strong Solvency quarter -- Solvency ratio north of
200%, so that's a very strong number. I'm sure that later, you're going to ask me about the
development in the quarter, so I'll leave this for the Q&A section.
Moving to Page 11, we go into the segments. Overall, the growth rate is minus 1.5% when
you adjust the growth rate for consolidation and for FX eﬀects. If you move on to Allianz
Partners and Euler Hermes from the picture, these two companies have been particularly
aﬀected by the crisis. You can see a growth rate of 1.3%. So overall, we have been able to
grow our top-line also in a diﬃcult environment. When you look at the growth rate by
companies, you're going to see a mixed picture. I would not read too much into these

Page 8 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

growth rates in this kind of environment because clearly also diﬀerent companies or
diﬀerent countries have been aﬀected to diﬀerent extents. But the bottom line is we have
been able to increase our premium revenue in this environment once you remove Allianz
Partners, which is clearly totally diﬀerent story or the Credit Insurance, which is also a
totally diﬀerent story. What is important in this slide is the momentum on rates. And
overall, you see a positive or stable momentum in most of the geographies. The only
exception is Italy, that's also the country anyway, where we have a very strong technical
excellence and combined ratio. But that's the only market where we see some pressure
on the rates as of now.
If you move to Page 13. The operating proﬁt has reduced clearly compared to the prior
period, mainly because of the COVID impact. If we look at the combined ratio of 96.3%, if
I look at the accident year claims ratio, adjusted without the net case, the accident year
translation is 68.6% and that's ﬂat over the 2019 numbers and this includes anyway to 2
percentage point of impact of COVID I was talking before. So this means that the
underlying performance on the accident year basis has improved compared to the
performance that we had in 2019. The run-oﬀ is lower than what we had in the prior
period. If I adjust this number for the AGCS run-oﬀ that will be about 1.5%, it's still a very
low number. We've been kind of conservative because we wanted to reﬂect that there is
uncertainty, clearly, as we go into 2021. So we took a conservative view on setting our
reserves in general at the end of the year, and this should provide us with support as we
go into 2021 in the case there is any additional surprise coming from COVID
development.
The expense ratio is 26.8%. So 70 basis points better compared to 2019. We had a couple
of special positive eﬀects, but even if you normalize the expense ratio for these positive
eﬀects we are at 27%. So that's again a nice improvement compared to 2019. And as you
have seen we have been able to improve now the expense ratio over time in a consistent
fashion. And I will say this time also without having any tailwind coming from growth in
premium because the growth in premium being kind of moderate still we have been able
to decrease our expense ratio, thanks to our productivity initiatives.
At Page 15, we are showing the operating proﬁt, the combined ratio by lines of business.
Overall, I would say a lot of companies are showing a very nice combined ratio. So, I will
say Germany, also France, United Kingdom, Italy, Central and Eastern Europe, Spain, even
Latin America and Turkey, don't get confused that the combined ratio is high because the
interest rate environment is very, very diﬀerent there. So these two entities have a good
combined ratio. So overall, you see that a lot of companies are performing at a nice good
level. In Australia, we had some challenges in 2020, a little bit because of NatCat some
special eﬀects on the expense side. Expense side also a little bit of COVID. So from that
point of view, 2020 has been challenging for Australia, and then we have AGCS with a
combination of 115%. Now, if we remove COVID and also if we remove the run-oﬀ from
AGCS number we are basically already at a level close to 98%. That's the reason why we
are conﬁdent that we can hit the 98% in 2021 because the starting point is already pretty
promising. This year we still remain a little bit cautious due to the recent experiences, but
we really believe that now we are in a better position with respect to AGC&S.

Page 9 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

Moving now to Page 17, on the Investment income. Oliver has alluded to it, clearly, there is
pressure on the Investment income. In this case, we see that the operating investment
results has decreased by EUR300 million and it's the consequence of two factors. On the
one side, we have lower income from bonds. You can see this reﬂected also in the
decrease in current yields. And on the other side, we had also less Investment income
from shares, from stocks because we reduced our equity holding but also because they
were less dividend payments in the course of 2020. Clearly, this is something that is going
to have an impact also as we go into 2021. That's the reason why we are very focused on
the improvement of the combined ratio and achieving also the productivity gains that we
have committed to achieve.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that moving to Page 19. On the Life business, I would say the numbers are
actually pretty good. They show a lot of resilience. The new business margin is 2.8%. Keep
in mind that interest rates have been negative also, the 20-year swap rate has been
negative. So that's really a big test when you do proﬁtability calculation, still we have been
able to achieve a new business margin 2.8%. I will say this is positioning us to get to a 3%
new business margin as we go through 2021 because all the actions that we have
undertaken are going to clearly show further eﬀect as we go into this year. You see also
how the mix has changed in that right direction. And then on the production, it's down
but it's still up compared to the level of 2018. So if you ask me what happened to our
production in 2020? Actually, not so much. It's still at a very healthy level. And also in
fourth quarter, we saw a growth rate of about 10%, but between us that we have EUR60
billion [ph] production, we have a EUR58 billion production or EUR65 billion production.
This is not really a critical point. The important thing is that we keep doing the right things
regarding the value of the new business margin if we keep this KPI at a healthy level.
Page 21. The operating proﬁt for the Life segment has decreased compared to the prior
period. Here we need to remember that we had the deconsolidation of Banco Popular,
and also 2019 was particularly strong, the volatility was very low in 2019. We saw deﬁnitely
a pickup of volatility, especially in the ﬁrst part of the -- in 2020. But the bottom line is,
with EUR4.4 billion of operating proﬁt, the performance is in line with our expectation.
Before I mentioned that we had about EUR200 million of impact due to COVID. On the
other side also, at the end of the year, we had a positive impact coming from unlocking of
assumption in Allianz Life. So the two eﬀects have compensated each other. Bottom line,
we were able to achieve our outlook for the Life segment.
And when we move to Page 23, on the new business margin, you can see that a lot of
companies are having a healthy new business margin above 2%. There are just a couple
of exceptions. And when you look at the proﬁt, I would like to highlight Asia Paciﬁc. We
had an increase in proﬁt or double-digit increase in proﬁts. But even more important is if
you look at the proﬁtability or the operating proﬁt of Asia Paciﬁc in 2018 that number was
below EUR300 million. So you can see there is a nice trajectory in Asia Paciﬁc and we
expect to see additional growth coming from that region. In the case of USA you will see
some reduction that's normal because it's driven by the volatility of the equity market. So
as I said before, '19 was very stable, '20 was not as stable. And then the only point would
be, when you look down at Spain, it's bit up just because of the deconsolidation of Banco
Popular. Overall, I would say based on the picture, when you look at the performance by

Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

entity and again a sign of the resilience that we have on the -- in our Life segment, despite
a low-interest-rate environment.
Page 25, if you look at the investment margin is actually stable at 86 basis points
compared to 2019. I checked also 2018 was still 86 basis points. So it looks like that's the
number. In reality, we had the impact from the unlocking which was positive and the
impact of the unlocking is partially going -- the positive path is going through the
investment margin and negative part if you want is going through the debt. So here we
have just four positive impact of the unlocking and then we netted this positive impact of
the unlocking with the additional hedging cost that we had. So when we do this kind of
normalization investment margin will be about 80 basis points. So that will be basically in
line with the guidance that we gave you at the beginning of the last year of 75 to 80 basis
points. The new guidance for this KPI, it's more towards the 75 basis points. We know that
we're going to have some pressure on this KPI. So that is as expected, and also our
expectation is that this pressure is going to be compensated by more proﬁt coming from
loadings and technical margin, and also there is an elemental of growth anyway
embedded in our expectation for the reserve development.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, we come to Asset Management, Page 27. That's a very simple slide. We have
record assets under management and this applies both to the total assets under
management, and also to the third-party assets under management. So that's not just a
statistical indicator, that's obviously also a good starting point for 2021. So this makes us
very proud and also conﬁdent about 2021.
If we move to Page 29, you can see that we had positive ﬂows both at AGI and at PIMCO.
As I said before AGI had a very good fourth quarter. We see nice momentum both at AGI
and PIMCO also for the month of January. So what we are seeing right now is very
positive. Then you can see coming back to the development of last year that the markets
have been overall positive in -- for the Asset Management segment. Rates went down, it
might not be helpful for our operating proﬁt in Property-Casualty, but you can see how
this can somehow help the asset bases in Asset Management. So there is a little bit of a
compensating eﬀect, and also credit spread went down that's also positive overall for the
asset base,
What has been a negative for us is the development of the FX. The US dollar has
depreciated. We have over 1 trillion assets denominated in US dollar. So clearly a
depreciation of the US dollar has taken a little bit of a toll on our assets under
management. But despite that, we were able to increase our asset base.
At Page 31. The revenue up, mostly driven by PIMCO, and the AGI is negative. But if you
adjust for the -- if you look at the basis fees at AGI, you can see growth there. And then
also what is good to see is the development of the fee margin at AGI. There is also a little
bit of a technical factor. This explains half of the improvement in the technical margin but
the rest is, remember, a better business mix. In the case of PIMCO, we see a little bit of
deterioration of the fee margin because they sold a lower share of mutual funds and more
institutional. But overall, as we know the performance of PIMCO, it's really good and the
revenue anyway is up.

Page 11 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

And Page 33, we see that when the revenues are up your operating proﬁt is also up. And
because of the operating leverage, the operating proﬁt is going to grow more than the
revenues. So overall, we have a 7% increase in operating proﬁt when you adjust for the
FX. And clearly, the growth has been driven mostly by PIMCO. I'd like to highlight -anyway the combined -- the cost-income ratio development at AGI, they were able to
improve the cost-income ratio by about 1.7 percentage points, which is a very nice
development considering also that the revenue base has been, as we saw before, not
positive or negative. So from that point of view, the ability to increase -- to decrease the
cost-income ratio, despite having -- not having the support from the revenue, I think is a
strong testimony to the actions the company has undertaken. And we also know that
these actions are going to earn also positive results as we go through 2021.
So overall, very good performance from our Asset Management operations and based on
where we are right now deﬁnitely a good starting point. We cannot clearly predict the
future, but based on what we see now, where we are now we are in a stronger position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 35, corporate -- just for the sake of time, I'm going to say, you see a big swing
compared to 2019. In reality, the results are not far from our expectations. So there is not
really major to say there.
And with that, I will go to Page 37, where we can see that the non-operating items are
down about EUR370 million compared to -- somewhat negative compared to 2019. This is
all driven by the restructuring and integration expenses. And in this case, we had about
EUR250 million of decommissioning expenses. This is part of the program, that we
discussed many times and that's also part of the more overarching Allianz Customer
Model strategy that we are driving.
And in the course of 2020, we had the commission more than 300 applications. So that's
a big eﬀort which is going to continue also for the next two, three years. On top, we have
also the integration cost for the acquisition like LV and SulAmerica. So these are all
basically, if you want, investments that are going to turn into either a lean organization or
additional proﬁt coming from the synergies that we are going to realize. Thanks to the
integration costs that we are incurring right now.
And with that, I would like to go to the last page, which is the outlook. I can show you the
numbers by segments. For P&C, we are at the midpoint of EUR5.6 billion. Yes, I'm sure
very simple, we have assumed some increase in premium, but around 1% to 1.5%. So we
are kind of conservative on estimating what the top-line, I'm referring here to net
premiums, by the way, we're kind of conservative in estimating what the trajectory of our
NP [ph] might be for 2021.
The combined ratio, we have assumed 93% combined ratio. And then on the investment
side, we might have been slightly conservative. We have assumed basically a reduction of
our investment income by EUR300 million plus. We might be a little bit better than that,
but again we decided to be a little bit on the conservative -- we have to take a little bit of a
conservative position that's on that KPI, especially after the experience that we had in the
course of 2020.

Page 12 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

On the Life side, we stick to EUR4.4 billion expectation for operating proﬁt. So we think
this is our normal run rate as you adjust for the volatility positive or negative that we might
have seen over the last two years. And then Asset Management might seem conservative
and maybe it's also conservative at this point in time, but here we need also to recognize
that the US dollar has depreciated, especially in the second part of the year. So when you
take our numbers for 2020, the operating proﬁt for 2020 which is almost EUR2.9 billion,
you need to adjust it down because of the FX eﬀect that is going to materialize even more
during the course of 2021. So, from that point of view, the number is conservative and
maybe not as conservative as you might look at a ﬁrst glance. And with that, we end up
with an operating proﬁt midpoint of EUR12 billion. As Oliver said, we feel that this is a
realistic assumption for 2021. And as Oliver said, it's very important for us to be able to
deliver on our commitments and not be derailed by the ﬁrst kind of noise that might
come in the course of 2021.
And with that, I would like to open up to Q&A session.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will take our ﬁrst question from Peter Eliot from
Kepler. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much.Three questions, please. First one AGCS, I mean, I guess the
diﬀerence with -- last year the reserve increase was sort of well-ﬂagged. This year
probably less so. So I'm just, I mean I appreciate what you said -- management was
allowed to sort of cleanup exercise, but I'm just wondering whether you could clarify if this
is something that appeared sort of right at the end of the year? And if so what it is that
makes you very conﬁdent that's the last of it?
Secondly, on Euler Hermes, I'm just wondering if you could elaborate on what you see as
the outlook for credit insurance, as the government schemes run-oﬀ, and maybe how
much visibility you have on that outlook?
And then ﬁnally Asset Management. Obviously, the cost-income ratio at AGI had a lot of
moving parts this quarter. I'm just wondering if you could sort of give us a feel for what
you consider to be the current sort of run rate, underlying cost-income ratio? And I don't
know if I'm pushing my luck, but whether there is any sense you can give us on sort of
future performance fees as well? Thanks very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

For future performance fees (Multiple Speakers). Okay. Maybe I start with AGCS, the
diﬀerence between you said last year we ﬂagged it this year we ﬂagged the AGCS a little
bit less. I would say the diﬀerence between this year and last year is, last year was not
optional, so was pretty clear that we have a lot of run-oﬀ. So this year, I would say that the
Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

situation is deﬁnitely much better compared to the one that we had in 2019. But at the end
of the year, when we looked at the actual versus expected, which is an important KPI, we
saw that in reality, the actual versus expected across the company was neutral, was not a
negative number. But as we went through the diﬀerent lines of business, we saw that in
the liability line of business was negative and other lines it was positive and we gave more
credibility to what we saw on the liability -- negative on the liability side and we basically
didn't give a lot of credibility on the positive that we have seen in other lines.
We think also that from a technical point of view, that's the right answer. But the diﬀerence
is last year we had deﬁnitely something that was absolutely needed to book. There was
no doubt that we had to catch up. And this year, I would say that it's been a little bit of a
choice, I think it's also the right choice. I wouldn't say that now we have built a margin, but
we have adequate reserving but deﬁnitely there was less of an urgency compared to the
one that we had in 2019. So this explains the diﬀerence, and also why we basically
decided towards the end of the year to go down this route, so that's on AGC&S.
On Euler Hermes, basically we -- when we put the plan together, we had assumed that we
are going to add this (inaudible) government for the course of 2021. The implication is
that, and the reality is that our revenue are lower than where we planned for Euler
Hermes. From a combined ratio point of view, we would expect to see in reality the
normalization of the combined ratio. I can also tell you that the combined ratio that you
see in 2020 is overall a conservative number. In reality, it's all IBRN and that is out of
prudency. But when you look at the underlying developments, we didn't see in reality a
lot of pickup in claims. So from that point of view, we will put the conservative combined
ratio at the end of 2021. We expect normalization in -- normalization, we are expecting
2021 that the kind of underlying trend that we saw in 2020 from State schemes we have
assumed basically the State schemes for the 12 months. At the moment, we have an
agreement for six months. And then we are going to see in six months, how the situation
is going to be. And yeah, from that point of view, there could be even some uplift in the
case we can go out. So we decided to go out of these schemes. One thing which is
important is we have ceded to the State about EUR100 million proﬁt in 2020. So I want to
repeat the situation in the credit insurance is not dramatic at all. In reality, the underlying
business is doing okay. And always keep in mind credit insurance is not a bank, so we can
cut limits and capacity very quickly. We're not giving loans to ﬁve, six years, we can
deﬁnitely -- we know exactly -- not exactly, we know most of the time clearly, which
customers can be solvent or not solvent and we can change really quickly. So it's a very
diﬀerent business model compared to the banking business model.
And the last question was on Asset Management. We told you in 2018 that we want to go
or achieve the combined -- cost-income ratio of 67%. I believe that as of now if the
markets are stable, we are going to be -- we could -- we're going to be able to go there
because we are starting from 58.4% and a lot of the actions that we have undertaken in
the course of 2020 are going to show their eﬀect in 2021. So under the assumption of
stable markets, I think that we're going to be able to go to a 67% combined ratio -- costincome ratio. If the markets are going to be unstable -- this is just delayed by one year, but
I deﬁnitely believe that we're going to be able to achieve that number at least by 2022
and then we can push it even lower. So the expectation is, if you ask me for a mid-term

Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

expectation at AGI I would deﬁnitely see a cost-income ratio below 67% is absolutely
realistic.
On the performance fees there was a question. Estimating performance fees, it's very,
very challenging. The only thing I can tell you that we are becoming, in reality, less reliant,
especially at CGI on performance fees. That's also sent into to keep in mind because it
makes a diﬀerence if you achieve EUR626 million of operating proﬁt like we did in 2020,
with less performance fees compared to 2019.
So that's also, in reality, if you ask me a sign of quality of earnings. But predicting the
performance fees, it's very hard both for AGI and for PIMCO because it depends on the
development of the capital markets, so that's not a number that I can estimate. If things
are normal I could expect that we are going to see in 2021 the same amount of
performance fees we saw in 2020, but again this is a function of the equity market or
capital market developments.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much. I guess you ﬂagged, sometimes in the past you've
ﬂagged when you've known some performance fees that are coming through and I just
wonder if that was the reason for the conﬁdence in the outlook, but that seems okay.
Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Welcome.

Operator
We will take our next question from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody and good afternoon. Going back to the comments, all of that you made
about Allianz Customer Model, you haven't really talked -- in the slides you presented at
the beginning, you talk a bit less about technology and transformation technologically. I
was kind of wondering for ACM is that because now it's sort of embedded in what you do
and they're not really that many beneﬁts to come? And in terms of innovation, is that
because really you think you have the model and in areas like commercial, for example,
you don't really see a lot more that you can do to improve underwriting data via
connections activity? So that's kind of question one.
And question two, in Allianz Partners and obviously it's been crushed because of travel
mainly, but historically it's been such a strong growth part of your business and that's the
strength of the Allianz brand. I guess, not the brand but the Allianz machine in white
labeling. So, I was wondering how you rediscover growth there on the assumption of the
travel is not really something that will necessarily recover quickly, but just, other areas that
you can use the technology? And thank you.

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yeah. Can you hear me, Farooq? Okay, so let me add. The opposite...

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yes, I can hear you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Very good. So the ﬁrst question. The opposite is true. We haven't spoken a lot about it,
we'll do it at the end of the year. There is a lot more to come actually in commercial lines
the level of automation and analytics is appalling in the industry and I think we are not
much better. So, there has to be done a lot more, by the way, it's also the reason for why
this sector is not just very volatile in terms of underwriting results, to put it mildly, but also
is very ineﬃcient.
The expense ratio that we have in commercial, even though it's an individual business is
dramatically higher than it is in retail. And in the next few years, we're going to show you
the results of the segments between commercial and retail a little more in detail in order
to show that to you. We really want to clear at least keep that. So -- and the beneﬁts in
retail are going to come and going to come more. The key thing that we have to do is, if
you remember the strategy is simplify what we do, so technology is not an objective
enough itself in the application just for pure automation. It is also and foremost a lever to
bring better value and create more simple and intuitive products for our clients. This is the
most important thing, so simplicity wins is the answer. Now, why as we've learned from
Netﬂix and all the other thing is, if you run something that is super complicated
consumers will hate it, and it's very expensive. And remember our industry comes from a
background, we're in every country, in every country we replicate the full value chain in
every line of business.
So from designing products, to designing sale systems, and commission systems to
designing IT everything is diﬀerent. And we come out of 125 years, where we have been
allowing ourselves under certain technology principles and underwriting principles to
operate completely diﬀerent systems even, by the way, within Germany remember until
2006 we had seven diﬀerent P&C companies. I mean they have the same name, but they
were seven diﬀerent companies, even the call centers were operated diﬀerently.
So fast forwards 13 years, we have now an integrated platform that we are driving from
motor and non-motor, retail into SME, and then later in commercial. We are going to
bring our businesses on to not just the same technology, but the same process framework
and the beneﬁts are just starting to come. You've seen them the last three years as an
indicator and decline in expense ratio and it's very important. We haven't done big
restructuring programs.
Have you heard about we're ﬁring 5,000 people here. No, no, no, it's coming out of
continuous work on simpliﬁcation. Now, the next step that has now have to happen, as we
have new technology is we have to retire old products and systems. So one of the reasons
why you've seen EUR700 million decommissioning expenses for the last year and take
Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

EUR200 million out for integration is that we are driving the retirement of our systems and
that is the proof of the pudding over the next three years is we need to bring hundreds
and thousands of -- actually 3,000 systems out of Allianz and move the products.
Let me give an example, in Italy last year we moved 740 non-motor retail products that we
had inherited from the three old Allianz companies that we had before 2007 and the
acquisition of Fondsai into one product that we called Ultra. Now, technology-wise it's not
yet where it needs to be. So, that's the next step. But we have been basically moving from
700 products to one, and that is what you have to think about. So it's about technology
but technology enabling simpliﬁcation and much better productivity, and it has to start in
commercial. It's not even really fully started, so there is a lot of upside.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the second question is around Allianz Partners. It's absolutely true. And by the way, I
think it's remarkable what Sim [ph] and her team have been able to produce in terms of
proﬁt, given the fact that a more than a third of the business literally imploded and there
are lots of funny issues to deal with. They're going to come back strongly. We actually
believe that travel insurance particularly on a direct-to-consumer basis, not just B2B, is
going to be one of the core products for the future because people want to travel, they
need to travel and they want to be safe.
So I actually believe that industry is going to see a spectacular coming back whenever we
are coming out of lockdown. And particularly, as we as the world leader in Assistance are
going to have all the options to drive that. By the way, through Partners and through local
systems because Partners has built a global network of doctors, hospitals and emergency
support that is unrivaled in our industry. That leads me to the second part, there is an
International Health business that under the radar is continuously growing and thriving
and we're going to build that out as well. So Partners is going to come back to growth
very, very strongly. You're going to see a lot of digital innovation there. We have a lot of
automation opportunities. Think about emergency calls or roadside assistance that is
going to look a lot more like Uber apps and is going to look like as call centers. So there
is lots of fascinating things going on and I think we're going to use this opportunity to regear up for growth. It's going to be a great story, and we're very proud to have it.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. That's just ﬁne. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Farooq, a question I have, and that relates to by the way to the outlook before we need to
look -- we are always cautious as optimists. I compare myself a little bit to an immigrant.
When I went to the US in 1987 I was told by the lady that I lived with, she came from Puerto
Rico, as an immigrant you have to be a paranoid optimist. I think about as we look
through COVID-19 forward, we are optimist fundamentally because we believe we have
one of the strongest, not the strongest platform in our industry, but we want to be
paranoid about all the things that can go wrong and harm you as our investors, and
particularly, our clients. That is our mental model and we do not like the exuberance that
we see, for example, in the equity markets. Somebody talking nicely about some Bitcoin
and the thing goes up by 1,000% [ph].
Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

We actually believe we are in an environment, we would don't want to funnel irrational
behavior. That's why -- maybe that's a bit our German DNA, we want to be a bit more on
the conservative side, excuse that, please.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

Operator
We'll now move to Michael Huttner from Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. I just had two questions. One is, I was trying to maybe move you to
be a little bit less more optimistic, maybe a little bit on the proﬁts (inaudible) funded with.
Maybe you could talk to some of the potential levers you might see for the year? And if
this is not as a challenge but you remember when in 2018, you said you're growth 4% in
operating proﬁt, so that would get us to EUR12.5 billion in 2021, and this is well within
target range. I just wondered if you could give us some more indications than what we've
seen there? And then on the cash ﬂow, on the lucky slide B45. I just wondered if you can
give us a little bit of what happened in 2020, the volatility in Life and in P&C and also give
us some indication for 2021? Yeah, it's -- that would be really nice. And I suppose the last
question. On the growth, you said the -- your assumption of 1.5 or something percent is a
bit conservative. Can you just talk how much of an impact could this have if say we start to
travel again in June?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I start on the cash ﬂow, and then we go through the other question. So at Page 45, we are
noticing that there is a sort of geography between P&C Life/Health. Part of it is you know
some of our companies are composites and we can also decide depending on the
situation whether we get the dividends or upstreaming from the Life entities or from the
P&C entity. So from that point of view, it's a little bit of a choice that we make. One thing
which is -- so we got more dividends, in reality, through upstreaming out of the Life
companies and less out of the P&C companies in 2020 versus 2019, and also in 2020 on
the Life business, Allianz Life was pretty strong. In 2019 was good, but not as strong as in
2020. So this explains a little bit the development between Property-Casualty and
LIfe/Health, but when you add up the numbers at the end of the day, you get to a stability
overall. How we look into 2021, we believe that the cash received in 2021 is going to be
lighter compared to what we have in 2020. So we think it's going to be a little bit below
EUR7 billion. But then also because we are anticipating here and there, that some
regulator will not allow dividend, and therefore, we expect to catch up in 2022.
So if you ask me what is our expectation over the next two years, I would say that on
average, you should see something similar to what you have been able to see basically on
average in the last three years. So basically, we don't expect to see over time, a signiﬁcant
change in the average numbers EUR7.5 billion that you see at Page 45.

Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

The other question was, whether we can achieve EUR12.5 billion. I think it's achievable,
but we need, in reality, is -- we don't need -- we need the absence of -- how you say
gegenwind now in a...

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

FINAL

Headwinds.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Headwinds. I would say -- I need to ﬂip always from German to English, so sometimes I
don't ﬁnd the English word. So we need absence of the headwinds, in reality, so I would
say that to the extent that we don't have headwinds I think that if we push higher than we
(Technical Diﬃculty) but a lot these comes together. It makes a diﬀerence, if you have a
depreciation of the US dollar or if you have an appreciation of the US dollar, it makes the
diﬀerence. If you have absence of volatility or suddenly you see a spike in volatility. So that
makes a diﬀerence. What also makes a diﬀerence if you have a correction at the end of
the year versus at the beginning of the year, but I would say that, yeah, we will deﬁnitely -we have in mind is EUR12.5 billion of operating proﬁt and I think that there is a possibility
for us to go up to that level, but we see how the year goes and now we can speak about
that maybe in June. We are going to have a better view on what could be an outlook -more precise outlook for 2021.
And then you had another question? No, that was it.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

But Michael, I just want to add to Giulio. Again, the paranoid optimist. We have a reason
why we put EUR1 billion range rather than EUR500 million, which I thought relative to the
EUR500 million. We put that the EUR500 million range in when we are at EUR7.5 billion or
so OP and we -- and since I've moved OP up, that's one. And we believe there is a lot of
uncertainty, you don't see that uncertainty in the markets yet. The spreads are further
tightened with drag coming and everybody believes everything is going to go great.
We are trying to look through the clutter. And when you look at -- somebody talked earlier
about defaults that we don't see in Euler, but that will have an impact on recessionary in
top-line. When we see the issues around what we're seeing on when the furlough support
run from the governments come out -- run out. When ﬁnally somebody will ask the
question, who is going to pay back all this debt. Now, we are having this European facility
at the top of the house of EUR750 billion, I have a simple question that would normally
mean when you have additional leverage at the European level you have to reduce the
leverage at the local level. Obviously, it's not there.
So we are actually putting leverage on top of leverage and all of that money is going to
the south. We have massive people refraining from investments. Saving rates in Northern
Europe are north of 20%. They have more than doubled and nobody is ready to invest.
And also we want to be very cautious, but we believe with the right momentum
throughout the year if the money is spent wisely, if the reforms are coming, if people get
the conﬁdence back and it's very important we get the vaccinations right. The COVID
Page 19 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

economics are all about conﬁdence. The COVID economics are all about conﬁdence and
there is a lot of distrust because of the botched vaccine outside of the UK. By the way,
congratulations, now lots of things went wrong last year, but now it's going very well. And
it's very important that our administration, our politicians have to deliver, again, we're
going into elections in Germany in September. The outcome is totally unclear. So we
would be unprofessional if we were going out with things that we promise, and then
along the way we have to say, oops, and other people are taking a diﬀerent tack. They're
not taking the reserves up and saying, I'm going to earn them back through the up-cycle
in commercial lines now. This is not how we operate.
Yeah, that may have a fall wind you know everybody is exuberant, but we'll believe -- now
Allianz is a stock that you should own and that is not a stock for rotation trade. So that's
how we want to be seen. The stock I want to own.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Yeah, I'm not allowed. But it's -- I agree. Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Kim Shapiro from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kim Shapiro

{BIO 16455803 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two questions, please. First of all, could you
update us on the impact on the Solvency II ratio from the current yield per proposal? I
think you provided some guidance in the past and the impact of the current proposals.
Just wondering if there's an update and when you plan to adopt these?
And the second question is, just if there is any additional guidance you can provide on
buybacks? I understand it's challenging in the current environment. Just wondering if it
might be possible that these will resume in 2021?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you for your questions. On the buyback, I would say, look for the ﬁrst six months of
2021, I don't think they are going to be on the table. I believe, look, honestly speaking
buy-back might be back on the table when we are not in lockdowns, wearing masks. So
when the time you start traveling and go on vacations that's the time when we start talking
about buybacks. Before that, I believe, from a political point of view and sentiment point
of view, there are no buyback. So that would be the link I would establish between
traveling for pleasure and having a buyback.
On the Solvency II, from a timing point of view, it's not clear when the review is going to
be implemented because basically Europa has made a proposal now and this proposal
has to go through the legislative process, and this might -- it can take one, two, three-year,
so I usually would expect that it is going to take overall, a couple of years before there is a
consensus on the review, but -- so potentially it might be at the earliest, I would say, 2023.

Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

It might be more 2024, but this is pure speculation at this time because there is no ﬁnal
approval yet.
With respect to the impact on our numbers based on the latest proposal that the impact
on our solvency ratio is about 7 percentage point negative and this assumes that we will
not do anything clearly as the proposal is reﬁned or implemented. We also going to take
action in order to protect our solvency ratio. So overall, the proposal that EIOPA has put
forward is a little bit diﬀerent compared to what they had suggested before. And now
there is a mechanism that's basically allow for some cushioning when you do the
calculation of the yield curve.
There are however other factors including this proposal that I'm not going to go into.
Basically fundamentally if you're going to look at the inﬂection number, let's put this way,
as of now just to implement the proposed the way it is without doing anything the impact
will be about 7 percentage points on our solvency ratio.

Q - Kim Shapiro

{BIO 16455803 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will take our next question from William Hawkins from KBW.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you very much. A couple of strategic questions, please, Oliver. To come back
to what you were saying to Farooq about technology. I'm just interested in your views
about the quantiﬁable impact of what you're doing, I'm excited by Allianz's opportunities
in technology that is not debated. But at the end of the day, is it the face of the business
like yours, which is already so large and diversiﬁed whatever technology initiatives you
have in place are going to get lost in the rounding, I mean Allianz for a very long time has
been a low to mid-single-digit growth business generating low-teen ROEs and you've
done that very successfully and stably. Is there ever going to come a point when you turn
around say, look, now is the time to be overwhelmed, because with this technology stuﬀ
that we're doing there's going to be a step-change in our ﬁnancial proﬁle? That's question
number one.
And then question number two, please, Oliver. And you've alluded to this at the
beginning, but would you say through the life of this business plan your thoughts about
capital management priorities have evolved at all? And whether you have learnt anything
from all the diﬀerent events, regulatory and humanitarian and the rest of it. When you're
thinking about the balance between dividends, buybacks, organic growth and M&A
basically is your mind still the same as it was in 2018? Would you think you kind of evolved
any thoughts about priorities or initiatives? I'll leave at that. Thank you.
Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

FINAL

Let me start with the last question, if I may. Yes, it has evolved. Yes, it has evolved. And we
see an increasing separation between what happens in Asia much more than in '18. What
happens in the US and in Europe. In Europe, unfortunately, we are stuck, not just because
of corona but because of a lack of investment in infrastructure, true reforms in Germany.
We haven't seen true reforms for a decade now.
We talk about infrastructure. There are some things happening, but a lot more has to
happen now. And as you can see with the vaccine, it's a real really, really, really big
problem. So, therefore, I don't believe, and also there is no insight other than sort of
printing money, how do we get out of this crisis and spending more money and having
more debt.

Bloomberg Transcript

I see a totally diﬀerent dynamic in the United States, now. They have the whereabouts and
they have the energy to invest, so we need to be along the United States. And you see -you have seen how China has pulled itself out of the problems and being the growth
engine again in Southeast Asia. So we need to tilt more strongly towards the US and
towards Asia. We need to continue to drive productivity and free up capital in Europe,
where it's not properly producing returns. So, in particular, we need to be -- and I was
negatively surprised about our own performance in commercial lines. It has to get -- it's
not just AGC&S it's also large corp.
We have had single-digit ROEs. They are not bad. They're covering cost of capital, but
they're certainly not close to the target returns we need, so we are going to have a lot
more focus on driving commercial lines separately as a business to higher returns, and
that may well mean letting market share go and we've started to do that to power
however ahead in retail. I think we have a world-class franchise that has been masked by
that. Let me give you an example, in Germany last year we had for the ﬁrst time in many
years, massive market share movements positively in the most proﬁtable lines that -- this
we need to accelerate on the back of strong customer satisfaction.
Now, on the Life Insurance side, we've done a lot since 2011 in terms of shutting down and
lowering growth in capital-intensive products with negative rates. We need to do another
jolt and we'll talk about that by the end of the year. Again, driving a lot more around
Protection being a lot more ruthless also on in-force book management rather than trying
to grow out of it is going to be the essence of it.
By the way that's very diﬃcult. And last but not least, you know you saw in the industry a
lot of wobbling. I believe there is a lot of people that are struggling. So I expect further
consolidation to come and we need to be prepared. We have our coﬀers ﬁlled. We are
looking at the opportunities and there is going to be a lot more consolidation than I
anticipated. Again, our strategy has been and is to try to drive bolt-on acquisitions, where
we have strong platforms that can -- and strong management team that can integrate. But
I'm surprised the last six to eight months I've seen a lot more activity than I've seen in the
last three years and we need to keep our eye open.

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

If we can invest your capital, it's your money probably we will go -- give it back to you, we
promise that. We are going to grow dividends with earnings, and if we can invest will do
the share buybacks if and when, as Giulio said, we are back to travel, we have no interest
to sit on it. I'm getting paid for having a proper ROE. But at the end of the day, Allianz will
be successful if we grow the company and there is so much room for growth both organic
and inorganic, we need to make sure that this company develops, a lot more ambitious
on this dimension.
But again we are an environment where a lot of people are worried about their future, a
lot of people are worried about their jobs. We do not know how to pay back the debt
other than passing it on to our children. So let's remind ourselves not to be exuberant and
be cautious as we go through this really diﬃcult situation for our society, everything else
would be not very responsible.
Now, in terms of applications and numbers that I would assume, to be honest, Oliver, we
give it to him. As you know me now, citing how many applications we have retired how
much we are planning. We are trying to bring out by 2025 65% of all our total application
landscape will have been retired, the latest and I'm trying to accelerate that. Just to give
you -- there's more than 3,300 applications, of which 600 or 700 have already been shut
down last year and we are going to accelerate the numbers as we speak. But again, the
details Oli Schmidt, has for you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you Oliver. I think my question on technology was not more about the detail, was
about whether it ever changes the ﬁnancial proﬁle of Allianz's growth and return? You've
been a...

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yes, the returns. Absolutely, the returns and then eventually because we need to leverage
technology in order to bring unit costs massively down. What we have now focused on is
really simple levels of automation taking ﬂaws out of the system, making sure we don't
have three diﬀerent property system in a country and so on. That has, however, not
delivered scale. What we need to be able and start to do is oﬀer our technology and our
software, the service basis across borders. So imagine that you do not implement a local
IT system anymore, but you source the service because you have an API on your local iPad
where you can design your product. And we have what is called the Allianz Product
Library on which you can pre-conﬁgure a product, it then automatically gets operated in
your IT. This is the future we are going to go to. We started in retail motor and retail nonmotor and it's going into Life Insurance, as we speak. Now, in diﬀerence to P&C because
you have very long-duration contracts, it will take a long time until you see it in all of the
contracts, but it's also used as an excuse. If I see some of the run-oﬀ companies, how they
are able to move back books in 12 to 24 months, we have to get to the same position.
So the journey is just starting. And it, by the way, it's not just important for margin is also
important for resilience. Think about cyber risk, think about IT systems stability. A lot of
our competitors run hundreds of diﬀerent systems that are not integrated. We do run

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

global network by and large for insurance now. We have one global Virtual Client system,
nobody has that.
So that makes us -- over time it has to make us a lot more productive, and it has to allow
us to oﬀer client satisfaction levels, as you see that people cannot match. This is what the
power of it is. And in a digital world, my last comment is a lot also about brand. The
negotiation power that we have with digital and physical intermediaries is only going to
go up because people seek our brand today. They go online and they want to buy a
product from us and that gives us diﬀerent negotiation power with intermediaries, and
you're going to see that over the next few years. Just watch it.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Brilliant, Oliver. Thank you very much.

Operator
From Autonomous, we will take our next question from Andrew Ritchie.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, there. There were a couple of announcements out in January with respect to Allianz in
China. The launch, I think it's the ﬁrst wholly-owned Insurance Asset Management
company and you took ownership of Allianz China Life. Can you just clarify is there -- is
that -- is a signiﬁcant investment required in relation to those transactions?
I don't know if you can give any sense as to when -- I mean clearly, it's a very dynamic
environment, but can you give us any sort of close to guidance as to when we would start
to see signiﬁcant impacts from those businesses there?
The second question, Giulio, you mentioned the new business margin would likely to be
3% for Q1, up from what was 2.8% in Q4. What are the kind of actions that you can achieve
[ph] to achieve that sort of signiﬁcant improvement in just one quarter?
And ﬁnally, Oliver, you alluded to the fact that you felt you were underperforming in
commercial lines. Now we can see that clearly AGCS. What do you think it is, in the rest of
the business, excluding ACGS, where do you think your commercial lines business is
running relative to retail?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

And I'll be very forthright with you. I'll start with the last one. We have ROEs north of 14%
to 16% in retail and commercial, it's around 8% to 9%, even in the core markets. So you
ﬁgure out the diﬀerence and what -- and by the way, there is no reason why commercial
should be not running north to 11%. Now, it's -- I think there's many reasons for that. It has
something to do with local scale and most important it's about discipline. When people
were looking to make top-line targets, they were often looking at commercial, when they
are looking to support their local distribution in terms of commission income they were

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

FINAL

looking to commercial. We just to be -- we have to become a lot more disciplined, a lot
more stringent in how we manage this segment away from retail. We've allowed cross
subsidies and they have to end.
Now, the other one and this is like you know the Eye of the Sauron, you need to put the
eye on things and make sure you don't turn your eyes somewhere else. This is really
important. Really, really important because there is a joke that my father is 85, always he
says, Oliver you're not running the company, the agents are running the company. So we
need to make sure that we align the interest between us and our distributors. I think that's
the number one thing to be done. You may laugh about it, but it's also very clear about
discipline, but it's about the Nike statement, Just Do It.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that you will see, and will put it in your eyes and also the internal eyes. We have in the
last fall started to have fully separate accounts for the segment, and once they are
auditable we'll make sure that we steer of them also properly. The second one -- and
that's it. Fundamentally, and when you look at that, again, it's just driving just a "technik
exzellenz" [ph] up. The long-term, Andrew, really upside has to come from making even
commercial lines a ﬂow business, as retail. We need -- we have just abysmal levels of
automation and analytics relative to where we are in retail. Now -- so there is a -- as our
former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt has said, the most beautiful room of all is not your
living room, it's the room for improvement, and that also applies to this part of our
business.
Now, the second part is, on China. This is very exciting and I would like to pay -- turn your
attention, not just to China, but also to India. Now, in China we were, as you know, got the
ﬁrst foreign fully owned insurance license. Things work not very fast because of COVID
but they work. And we have the Insurance Asset Management license and now for the ﬁrst
time. We have 100% control of our Life Company. So after AIA, we are the second one
that exists. That opens lots of opportunities, and particularly for partnerships. I don't want
to announce anything today, but as you can imagine there is a lot of interest, and given
what has happened with Ant Financial and others. Now, the tech sector understands that
you need to have very strong reliable partners. The regulators are very much turning the
screws on innovation. So we're trying to -- we are going to partner over time along the
value chain with people that can help us to really leverage the growth of China, as one of
the most promising markets in the future. As you see the interest rates are going down
there, they will face the same problem as any maturing life insurance market, risk
management -- I get constant calls from the China Development Forum to really show oﬀ
how we deal with risk management. So we believe the opportunity is starting and it's
starting now, by the way, not just in Life, we believe the same is true for Health. And by
the way, as you probably have seen our joint venture with JD has really moved great.
We're far exceeding our plans, and we are planning to accelerate it even further in the
digital world. It is always diﬃcult to deal with a Chinese tech giant, but Richard, has been
a fantastic partner and we think we can do even better.
Now what happens is -- has happened in India is also very important, the government 15
years, by the way, after promising us for the ﬁrst time Modi has delivered on his promise
and has lifted the FDI limit to 74%. As you know, we have created in 2001, two companies
together with our partners Bajaj, and we have the option to increase our ownership in
Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

P&C to 50% and in LIfe to 74%. And we will carefully evaluate the options. So India is also
a spectacular market and opportunities are arising. Again nothing will happen, Andrew,
overnight, but we have been sowing the seeds for many, many years to come and they
are ﬁnally coming to fruition.

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Then you had a question there on new business margin. So basically there are few eﬀects.
One is the change in mix is going to clearly come more and more into play, then
indicators in the United States, we have an increase in the yields on the treasury rates, an
indicator in the United States, we are basically updating the new business margin on a biweekly basis. So you're going to see the impact coming right away in Q1.
Therefore, Europe, you see also an increase in the swap rate. This is going to come rather
in Q2 because we have a quarter delay. But fundamentally, we have a better rate
environment as we speak right now, and also the change in mix that we started or the
actions that we put in the course of 2020 are going clearly to have an impact also in 2021.
And just to give an idea we launched a product in France, basically in Q4 and there was
already an impact coming from that product. This impact should be even more noticeable
as we go into Q1 and then into Q2.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Are there any other questions? Yeah.

Operator
Yes. We will take our next question from Michael Haid from Commerzbank. Please go
ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Two or 2.5 questions. Motor insurance ﬁrst
question, can you talk a bit about the year-end renewals in German motor, and in
particular interest in dealer pricing, how you positioned yourself against your main
competitor -- competitors? And that you experience a move from tied agent driven
business towards direct online contracts i.e., Allianz Direct? Related to that, any speciﬁc
developments in other motor markets, increased price competition or initiatives from your
side?
Second question, equity exposure, you reduced the equity exposure in 2020, any plans to
come back. I think the DNA of Allianz is to invest in real assets. It seems that in 2020 you
Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

like revised investment income to solvency which at 207% makes no sense (inaudible)?

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe I start from the second question was the equity. At the moment, we don't
have any particular intention to increase our equity exposure. So from that point of view, I
think that when we look at our sensitivity on the Solvency II and we are looking in general
at how we are positioned, there is not necessarily the kind of desire now to increase the
equity component, but that might change in the future.
Personally speaking, I am a believer that -- I don't dislike the Nordic model, right? They
don't have equity in P&C. They aren't their technical results. They try to make money out
of underwriting and all the equity in the Property-Casualty balance sheet, you can do it.
But I don't know whether it has something do with the business model of a PropertyCasualty company.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from that point of view philosophically I don't -- I'm not to be believer that you need to
hold equity. In the case of the Life business, it might be diﬀerent, clearly, because there is
a diﬀerent dynamic also with the policyholder participation. So that might be part of the
business model. It's a little bit diﬀerent also if you hold private -- alternative equity versus
holding public equity. There is a little bit of a diﬀerent dynamic there, but what really
diﬀerentiate between holding equity in Property-Casualty where it's not necessarily part of
the business model, it might make sense. If you have these alternative capabilities to do it
because you have capabilities, but just investing in public equity might not be necessarily
the absolute value driver.
On your question regarding the motor. I can just tell you, in general, that we had a strong
price momentum in Germany. When I look at also renewal in the retail, the increases that
we got there, extra rate change was about 5%. So from that point of view, we have been
also looking for pricing strength. What makes me happy, Oliver Schmidt got a price
increase of 9%. So -- and so this tells you a little bit about the strength of the rates that we
got into our system in the renewal.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

We must give good rate to make -- your driving staﬀ.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Right. Michael, if you're ﬁne, I would say it's Friday afternoon, we have spent more than 90
minutes on the call already. So I think we should close the call now. In case, you still have
any questions, you can of course call the team or me afterwards. Okay. And with this, we
say goodbye to you. Thanks for joining the call. We wish you a pleasant remaining day
and a very nice weekend. Thank you.

Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-19

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, have a good afternoon. Bye.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

FINAL

That's all. Thank you.

Operator
This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

