Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Progress of Mid-Term Management Plan
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, Group CEO, President, and Representative Executive Officer
Koichi Narasaki, CEO of Digital Business, Group CDO, Senior Executive Vice President
and Executive Officer
Masahiro Hamada, Senior Executive VP/CFO/Co-CSO/IR
Mikio Okumura, Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Office & Chief Executive
Officer at Sompo International Holdings Ltd.
Satoshi Kasai, CEO of Nursing Care, and Seniors Business
Shinji Tsuji, Deputy President & COO
Tatsuru Aoki, Caregiver
Unidentified Company Representative, Company Representative
Yuta Tachizako, Nursing Care Manager and Facility Head

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Koki Sato, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you very much for the kind introduction. I am Kengo Sakurada,
Group CEO of Sompo Holdings. The MC said the presentation would take 30 minutes but
I would try to be brief so that we can allocate more time for Q&A. So I would like to first
thank all the participants for taking time out of their busy schedule to join our IR meeting
today.
Our First Half Results and Revised Full-Year Guidance for fiscal ‘21 were announced on
November 19th. What I'd like to achieve today is to help you understand the progress of
the Mid-Term Management Plan that started this fiscal year.
After my presentation on the progress of the management targets and the various
initiatives carried out so far we will have some time for Q&A. Now please turn to page 3.
Page 1 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

First and foremost I'd like to share my thoughts on Sompos purpose-driven management
as a Group CEO and secure understanding on this concept.

FINAL

This slide illustrates how the pursuit of purpose will lead to sustainable growth for Sompo.
At Sompo, we believe that the pursuit of a Theme Park vision is the very essence of our
purpose. In other words, pursuing the Theme Park for Security, Health and Wellbeing, will
guide us to solve social issues and ultimately contribute to a sustainable society.
In addition to conducting businesses that contribute to security, health and wellbeing, such
as insurance and nursing care, we will build our proprietary Real Data Platform or RDP
from these businesses.
By evolving the RDP into a monetizable business model we will increase corporate value
and I think this is a way for us to meet the expectations of the investors. And through
these initiatives will try to enhance the corporate value and accelerate the cycle of
reinvesting the value generated from the Theme Park vision.

Bloomberg Transcript

You may find something similar to this diagram presented from the other companies
except for the RDP component. Sompo is unique in that we have a Nursing Care business.
We are very exceptional in that space even in a global context and we have real data
generated from nursing care and insurance business. And the second ability to analyze
the data set.
We will capitalize on this strength to realize our purpose and achieve sustainable growth.
And as you can see in the center of this diagram it is the Group's employees who have
their own personal purposes that underpin the realization of these goals.
Each employee is required to clarify personal purposes while enhancing engagement.
And from the Nominating Committee and the Remuneration Committee, I have
mandated this mission and this is one of my important missions. And I will explain how we
are working on it later.
Please turn to the next page. This slide shows the overall picture of our Mid-Term
Management Plan and summarizes the progress made in the first half of the (three core)
strategies in the underlying business foundations. I will give the details later but in general
we have made steady progress.
As I explained in May we have been sharing among the management team the intent of
showing results of each initiative set forth in the plan to the investors quantitatively with
evidence and I believe that led to our good progress. Please turn to the next page.
As announced on the 19th, we achieved record-high profit for the first half of the year. We
have also revised up our full year earnings guidance and we are off to a very good start
toward reaching our Mid-Term Management Plan target of JPY 300 million in adjusted
profit.

Page 2 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

It's only been six months since the start of the Mid-Term Management Plan and we will
continue to show our progress objectively based on these Groups management targets.

FINAL

From the next page, I will go through our Group Strategy. Please turn to page 7. Scale and
diversification is one of the three core strategies under the Mid-Term Management Plan.
I will explain the details of each of the businesses later. But the top line growth has been
outpacing the plan. Now this is due to pricing measures and new product launches in the
Domestic P&C business and rate increases in the Overseas Insurance business which
stands out with its very good growth.
In the Domestic Life Insurance business we expect top line growth triggered by the launch
of a new cancer product. And we expect the growth to be higher than the expectation.

Bloomberg Transcript

The combined ratio, an indicator of profitability is still far from the level targeted in the
Mid-Term Management Plan. This is mainly for the Insurance business. The combined ratio
for the Insurance business is still far from the level targeted under the Mid-Term
Management Plan but we will thoroughly execute the Profit Structure Reform in Domestic
P&C business and profitability improvement measures in Overseas Insurance business.
And please turn to the next page.
We are expanding the scale of our business, Insurance business both in Japan and
overseas backed by the progress of various initiatives including rate hikes. We have been
achieving a high annual growth rate of just under 7%, and this first half a high year-on-year
growth rate of just under 10%, was achieved.
In particular, the growth overseas has been remarkable and the business has more than
tripled compared to the period before the acquisition of a formal Endurance now known
as Sompo International. Furthermore the ratio of the Overseas Insurance business is
increasing against our total business portfolio.
Despite the general perception of the insurance industry being a mature industry with no
prospects for future growth, Sompo has actually achieved such strong growth. And wed
like to lead us to a steady growth of bottom line. And this will be an important measure
for us to achieve our vision under RDP.
And the Overseas business ratio and risk diversification ratio which are the numerical
targets for diversification are showing a strong start. We expect the Overseas Insurance
business to contribute more to adjusted profit in the current fiscal year than the last. And
the Overseas business ratio is steadily progressing toward the F.Y. ‘23 target of 30% or
more.
At the result meeting in May we explained that the five focus areas in the road map for
RDP which will be the pillar for creating a New Customer Value.

Page 3 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

Our goal in terms of business size is to exceed JPY 500 million in the medium to long
term. And with this roadmap, the Nursing Care RDP is expected to spearhead the overall
initiatives. As of today I will show the spotlight on the Nursing Care RDP and explain the
current status.
This slide illustrates the RDP business model for the Nursing Care business. Japan is
facing the modern social issues of declining birth rate, aging population, and shrinking
working population. Against such backdrop Sompo is taking on the challenge of creating
new value to solve social issues using the Nursing Care business as PoC verification
opportunity.
So that you will have a better picture of our initiative, we made a video of showing the
significance of working on Nursing Care RDP with Palantir, our RDP Partner, on the details
of our efforts at nursing care facilities. After the video, I will provide more details on the
next page. So please take a look at the video.
(Video Begins)

Satoshi Kasai

{BIO 20083911 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(through translator) Japan has one of the healthiest and highest life expectancy societies.
On the other hand, we face significant challenges from an aging population, and a
declining birth rate.
More people need care about the labor pool is shrinking. Japan is a developed country
facing serious challenges. We had invested in various operational systems and sensor
technologies but the data was still siloed in many different places and not fully utilized.
Thats when we came across Foundry. I believe we have achieved about 20%
improvement to the overall care operations at the facilities. We are looking to use Foundry
at 50 facilities by the end of the year.
What we wanted to first achieve is to take the real data that we have such as nursing care
records, meal consumption data, and medication records that we had in various systems
all over the place, and bring them together in a single place and be able to visualize the
data.

Yuta Tachizako
(through translator) As a Nursing Care Facility Manager, Foundry brings together all the
data that was previously scattered so it is possible for me to proactively check the
conditions of many residents and give the appropriate instructions to the caregivers.

Tatsuru Aoki

Page 4 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

(through translator) Previously it took 30 minutes to 60 minutes just to gather the
necessary information to review the contents of the care plan but after introducing
Foundry, all the necessary data is on a single screen so it is much quicker for us to
understand the status of the residents and know at a glance what actions to take next.

FINAL

Yuta Tachizako
(through translator) Currently in the facility we have sensors under the bed which
measure, sleeping time, respirator rate, and the pulse of the residents.
A few days after integrating the sensor data to Foundry, we notice that one of the
residents sleeping time had increased from an average of 10 hours to 16 hours. We were
able to find this out by using Foundry.
I asked the doctor what caused the increase of sleeping hours but the doctor couldnt
specify the cause. However when we overlaid the sleeping data with the residents
prescription data within Foundry, we were able to see that around the same time the
residents prescription dosage was increased.
I consulted with the doctor and upon decreasing the dosage, the residents average
sleeping hours went back to 10 hours.

Bloomberg Transcript

Satoshi Kasai

{BIO 20083911 <GO>}

(through translator) With this technology, we connected not only Sompos Cares data but
other care providers data to perform even more advanced data analysis and generate
significant value.
In our long-term care business we do our utmost to support the elderly with a smile so
they can live a healthy and fulfilling life. So MPO would like to help shape this kind of
future.
(Video Ends)

Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator)So that was how we are using the Real Data Platform in our Nursing
Care business. And I hope you now have a better image on what we are trying to achieve.
Let me also share the development status. Product development is underway for this
product in three steps. Data visualization, systematization of expertise, getting the “know
hows” and the expertise of able, experienced, caregivers. And using those data we would
like to make a predictable nursing care. So these are the important steps that we are
taking under development.

Page 5 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

We have already deployed the product to 20 facilities within our Group and the
development is aligned with the needs and workflow on site, achieves through an
approximately 1,000 hours of internal dialogue with Palantir, our Partner and with ABEJA
talented engineers. ABEJA is a blue chip company when it comes to IT.

FINAL

At this point we have already developed eight modules and half of them are planned to
be commercialized after verification and validation.
We are also working to create solutions that are actually necessary for nursing care
providers by having external nursing care facilities, actually use the system and give us
feedback from the users perspective. There are about 60,000 nursing care homes and
we hope that we can offer a necessary service to those facilities.
We have been able to reshape the nursing care RDP to certain extent through a process
of trial and error, and agile development.
We have confirmed that they are still a number of issues to be addressed before we can
commercialize the Nursing Care RDP. Setting the price is one of them. We believe that the
20% productivity gain can save the labor costs by JPY 10 million to JPY 20 million per
facility for an average fee-based nursing home.

Bloomberg Transcript

And predictable care function will be offered as a additional value proposition. And we
plan to set an appropriate price in commensurate with the benefits that can be delivered.
As the initial step, at a target launch of the Nursing Care RDP, is set for F.Y. ‘22. And by
combining solutions with real services for nursing care facilities, we aim to create a
business for several tens of billions of yen.
And as the next step we will form an ecosystem with nursing care peripheral businesses
and provide solutions overseas with the aim of achieving a medium- to longer-term target
of JPY 100 billion.
In addition to the Nursing Care RDP, we will continue to provide objective evidence of our
progress in other areas as well, and contribute to the resolution of social issues as the
one-and-only Real Data Platform, while aiming to achieve our medium- to long-term
target of being a globally well-known company in this space. We are aiming for JPY 500
billion in terms of size.
Nursing Care business is a challenge for the government. And there has been many
policies and initiatives considered. Enhancing the service efficiency and the level of
solution is necessary for an improvement in the Nursing Care business, and also to offer
this abroad.
We believe Sompo can spearhead this kind of initiative, to be the role model in this
market. And we decided on the capital allocation of JPY 600 billion as growth investment
in the current Mid-Term Management Plan. And the capital will be spent to increase the
Page 6 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

certainty of achieving management targets, and to further promote RDP. And we accept -expect to use it actively.
We will definitely focus on discipline while investing with a firm eye on long-term future
growth. The bottom left, it shows our investment performance to date. We have only
made two relatively small overseas deals so far and we will continue to seek opportunities
for overseas M&A to ensure that we achieve adjusted profit target of JPY 300 billion
under the Mid-Term Management Plan.
We have a list of many opportunities that we are screening with discipline, including ones
in the magnitude of a few hundred billions of yen.
In the digital domain, we have been investing to create new businesses. Our CDO, Mr.
Narasaki, is well-versed in the Digital Business, obviously and is deeply embedded in the
human work of the industry.
We are making progress and collaborating with our industries by leveraging our
discernment in various digital fields including that of our CDO. And digital investment is
intended to use the tech companies technology for our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

But as you can see on bottom right, that the financial value of our investments is also
expanding as the investors businesses grow. As a tech-oriented company and that is the
goal, that we are aiming. In the recent Global Executive Committee, we had a thorough
discussion on this topic.
Please turn to the next slide? On the left side of the page, the direction of risk by area
during the Mid-Term Management Plan is shown.
Results for the first half of the fiscal year were in line with the sense of direction. At
present we are communicating actively more than before between Holdings and Group
companies to establish the optimal way of risk taking for the Group as a whole.
And in the middle of the slide, you could see that we are making steady progress in
reducing domestic interest rate risk, and strategic shareholdings, which we disclose
numerical targets on.
We will continue to improve the capital efficiency of the entire Group. And aim to achieve
our target of 10% or more, adjusted consolidated ROE. Please turn to the next page.
As indicated in May Sompos shareholder return policy is to return 50% of adjusted
consolidated profit as basic return, and to provide supplemental returns flexibly
depending on circumstances.
This is the first time that Sompo has decided to buy back JPY 20 billion of its own shares
as in supplemental return for the interim period.

Page 7 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

As shown in the center of the diagram, this amount will be added to the basic return to be
determined in May next year, based on the current fiscal years financial results. The
reason for the supplemental return is that, as indicated in the lower left frame, due to the
partial sale of Palantir shares, the company's immediate capital surplus is expected to
stably exceed the level at the time the plan was formulated.
We will continue to provide attractive returns to our shareholders, taking into account the
business environment, and capital situation, while emphasizing capital efficiency. Please
turn to the next page.
Regarding the new way we work, which is one of the three basic strategies of the MidTerm Management Plan, we will like each and every employee in the Group to overlap
their My Purpose with the Sompos Purpose. And this should lead to the realization of the
overall purpose through engagement and overwhelmingly higher productivity.
One of the key initiatives to enable the overlapping of the Group's employees, My
Purpose, and Sompos Purpose, is to hold town hall meetings with employees. Since the
start of the meetings in September, we had seven of them. And I personally was a part of
it, communicating with a total of about 10,000 people, viewing the communication I have
had with the Group employees.

Bloomberg Transcript

I felt firsthand that these efforts would build up to improve employee engagement. And
this is something we learned from COVID-19, which was a new way of communication, and
a new management tool. I was able to feel this firsthand. And I also felt this was the new
normal. So going forward, I would like to continue on to use this tool in a proactive way.
In addition to this increased engagement, further growth for Sompo requires innovation in
which diversity and inclusion is inevitable -- where inclusive diversity is inevitable. By
accelerating D&I we will accelerate our efforts to achieve innovation and growth. And as a
Real Data Platform we would like to ensure we are able to realize of this vision.
Please turn to the next page. Regarding SDGs and Business Management, we have
established Materiality KPIs that are linked to our strategy for realizing the purpose and
we are working on them.
And I am sure that our investors are already well aware of the contents but we have
fundamentally revised the Annual Report this year, positioning it as an important
information disclosure tool for communication to investors and other stakeholders. We
hope you take a look.
We believe that the Annual Report is an important information disclosure tool to deepen
understanding of Sompos unrealized financial value. The value to resolve social challenges
will turn into cash through monetization eventually in the future.
That is what we believe in. And we would like to ensure that we are able to have people
understand this in a deeper way. So we will continue to brush up the contents of the
Page 8 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Annual Report to make it more appealing to our investors. Please turn to the next page.

FINAL

With regard to the change of the Overseas Insurance business from John Charman to
James Shea, the transition was carried out with speed and without confusion based on
the succession plan as of September the 1st.
In addition, we launched the Value Communication Team in August, called VCT. This goes
back to improving our unrealized financial values. We will collaborate within the Group to
improve the unrealized financial value through purpose-based management, and the
promotion of sustainability.
We will engage to resolve social issues, and we would like to communicate which is our
mission to engage with our stakeholders. So the VCT will partner with divisions internally in
order to effectively communicate. With that they will work to enhance our brand value and
corporate value with our multi-stakeholders.
That's it for the Group Strategy. I'll now explain Strategies by Business. For your reference,
page 20, shows the progress of KPIs by business. Please turn now to page 21, where we
talk about the Domestic P&C Insurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

The results of Earnings Structure Reform have been steadily reflected in the progress of
business performance with particularly good progress in the measures against high
losses, and the results have already exceeded the initial plan. Also so far the impact from
natural disaster losses has been trending within our assumptions.
For top line we continue to make progress in our efforts to optimize premium rates. In
addition, sales of packaged products for small- and medium-sized companies which cover
various risks surrounding them have expanded contributing to steady growth.
Regarding Earnings Structure Reform, we are working on improving underwriting by
utilizing Palantir, our Partner in technology and the effects of these efforts are steadily
materializing. And we will continue to have good expectations going forward.
From the next page onwards, the progress -- please turn to page 24 next? In contrast to
the Domestic business and the Overseas Insurance business it has been a year of major
natural disasters ever since 2017, including major hurricane landfalls, and flooding, in
Europe. Even in such an environment we expect to achieve that initial plan for our
mainstay SI Commercial P&C business.
Although the pace is slowing down ,the insurance market continues to harden against the
backdrop of frequent natural disasters and the ultra-low interest rate environment. In SI
Commercial, the (heart) market is proving as a tailwind and top line is growing strongly.
In addition by diversifying the policy portfolio and improving profitability, SI Commercial
continues to generate profit growth as a growth engine for the Group.

Page 9 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

The following thesis described SIs Commercials top line and profitability including a
comparison with peers. I hope you could refer to the momentum that the business has.
Please now turn to page 27, where we talk about the Domestic Life Insurance business.

FINAL

Adjusted profit in the Domestic Life Insurance business is making steady progress here as
well. In addition efforts to reduce interest rate risk which I mentioned earlier in the capital
policy section are also progressing well.
Annualized new premiums appears to be lagging slightly against plan, as the plan had
anticipated the start of sales of the new Cancer Insurance products in the second half.
However on the other hand, compared to the level of pre-COVID-19, ANP is trending
favorably. And even when compared to Q1 disclosure from peers, we have exceeded
their results significantly.
In October, we made a good start by launching that new Insurer Health-Type Cancer
Insurance product as planned. We are promoting initiatives to make it a catalyst for the
second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next page, we explain the progress of key indicators. Now please turn to page 29,
where we talk about the Nursing Care and Seniors business. Due to the state of
emergency declaration, there was a slight delay in the progress against numerical targets
in the first half.
On the other hand, the environment is improving at present and we will accelerate our
efforts in the second half of this fiscal year on the premise of the safety of our users, and
employees.
Adjusted profit for fiscal 2021 is expected to reach the beginning-of-year plan. And one of
our KPIs, occupancy rates are expected to exceed the beginning-of-year forecast of
90.8% by a wide margin due to greater sales activities.
For initiatives in the Nursing Care and Seniors business, apart from Nursing Care RDP,
please refer to the next page for your reference. Now please turn to page 31.
For Digital, in the Digital business, established SOMPO LIGHT VORTEX as a core company.
We have started to work on commercialization of digital solutions such as product
development sales, et cetera, by collaborating with startups with cutting-edge
technologies.
Also as a Group, we were selected as one of the (DX) companies to watch in 2021, jointly
by the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We will
continue to engage in dialogues with digital technology partners and actively promote the
Group's digital transformation.
And like I mentioned earlier, we will strive to become a tech-oriented company by
generating a track record. Finally please turn to page 33? Here is the link to the Nursing
Page 10 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Care RDP video which we showed earlier. The video was posted on Palantir's website. So I
hope you can take a look.

FINAL

The next page and following pages are reference materials, including various data and
excerpts from the first half financial results disclosed on the 19th. This concludes my
presentation. Now I'd like to take any questions you may have.
We will continue to do our utmost to achieve the management targets of the Mid-Term
Management Plan and we will report our progress to investors and objective evidencebased manner. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Company Representative
(through translator) Thank you very much, Mr. Sakurada. This will conclude the presentation
from our side. Now we'd like to move on to the Q&A session.

Operator
(through translator) So the first question is from Mr. Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. This
is what another from.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

(through translator) I have two questions. The first one is on page 15, regarding your
supplementary return. Your (ESR) is -- was within the target range. Why did you decide to
do an additional return and was the proceeds of the Palantir sales -- did the (ESR) go up. Is
that the reason or is the additional return due to an increase in cash balance?
And my next question, is on page 18, regarding the succession plan. So for the Overseas
Insurance business you had a change in the CEO. And I think the market appreciates the
strong leadership of Mr. Sakurada but do you have any comments of your own succession
plan? Do you have any candidates to succeed your position?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) This is Hamada, the CFO. Mr. Watanabe, thank you very much for your
question? Let me respond to your first question.
So we decided to do an additional return of JPY 20 billion. So this is partially due to a
partial sales of the Palantir stocks but we looked at the total capital base to decide on this
return.
The key point was that there was some capital surplus and we had looked at the capital
surplus position versus our JPY 600 billion investment plan.

Page 11 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

As to the relevant cash balance, we have looked at their capital base so with the Palantirs
stock sales we gained the proceeds of JPY 50 billion -- over JPY 50 billion in cash and this
was especially used to LIGHT VORTEX Company and the cash is reinvested for our next
growth.
And with the capital surplus, we thought that if there is a room for us to return the capital
to the shareholders we will do so and that was the basis of the current decision. And let
me respond to your second question.
As you know, we have a committee-based governance structure so including the
succession plan, and also the nomination of the CEO, and also the resignation of the
CEO, will be decided by the Nomination Committee. They have the full authority for that.
And just to give you some facts, myself included, all of the leadership here today and also
other business owners, both Overseas, Domestic P&C , Domestic Life business, and
Nursing Care business, if weve got any candidates for our respective business owners or
we have a list which has been submitted and discussion is taking place.
When, who, at what timing, I dont have the authority to share their information. And we
don't have the Chairman of the Nominating Committee so we will not be able to offer you
the answer. But we will appoint the right person at the right timing. So that is all I can say
but to that date, I will try to fulfill my role. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

(through translator) The follow up on the first question. In that sense, even if the ES -- ESR
is within the target range, there is a possibility for you to conduct a supplementary return.
Is that right?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes. That is the right understanding.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you very much.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Watanabe.

Operator
(through translator) Next from SMBC Nikko Securities, we would like Mr. Muraki to ask a
question.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Page 12 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

(through translator) This is Muraki from SMBC Nikko Securities. Thank you for taking my
question.

FINAL

My first question is about page 13. You mentioned Palantir and as well as other
investments into other digital areas. And you talked about capital. And my question is
about how much capital you are considering on deploying.
Page 14, for non-insurance businesses, you said that capital allocation is going to happen
at a certain degree. And one year ago for Palantir, from a risk management point of view,
you started discussions on what you are going to do and one year after you sold about
20%.
Going forward on an on-going basis, are you going to continue to reduce risk? That's one
question. And for other investments, I think you do have quite a lot of unrealized gains. So
by recycling it are you going to move it towards new investments in your partnerships.
Can you share with us your thinking around this? That's my first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

And my second question, if I may move -- go on. My second question is about the
International business. For page seven and top line, it seems the top line has exceeded
your expectations quite substantially but so has the loss rate as well. It has been
exceeding plan.
Since you formulated the mid-term plan not many years have passed yet, and for upward
revisions for whether the top line for revisions of the combined ratio to lift it higher, do
you think there will be a need to do so? That's my question.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) Well this is Hamada. I will take your first question then. First of all, for
page 13, and the 600 billion growth investment that you pointed out, by a certain degree,
I will be investing into the insurance business as well as into the digital areas as well.
For Palantir and shares and the way we are going to treat it going forward, as one single
stock name, the weight in our portfolio is quite heavy still so there is stock fluctuation risk
therefore over the medium term, Palantir shares need to be reduced. That is our view.
However at this point in time to be honest, we don't have a plan to divest shares even
more. And if we do share this with Palantir but in order to build RDP the unrealized gains if
possible can be deployed. That's one of the options, so that we could use it for other
digital investments.
So we will look at which areas we can invest in, as we decide to make further reductions
of Palantir's shares. And as shown on page 13, financially we have been successful in other
non-Palantir investments as well.

Page 13 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

We have established SOMPO LIGHT VORTEX for this reason actually, meaning that for
digital investments, we would like to collaborate with new technologies for -- that is the
aim of doing this.

FINAL

But because we are able to benefit financially, we would like to circulate that so that we
could deploy it for the next digital investment. And that is why we set up a SOMPO LIGHT
VORTEX. Do you have anything to add, Mr. Narasaki?

A - Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

(through translator) As Mr. -- I would like to make some follow-on comments to what Mr.
Hamada said.
Looking at the right-hand side of page 13 and at the bottom, there are some numbers
available here, ex-Palantir we have been making total investments worth approximately
JPY 30 billion in the past and that current equity value is approximately JPY 60 billion and
it has been calculated in a conservative way. We do invest into startups as well as venture
capitals as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The aim of our investments is strategic return that will contribute to RDP but for investees
or venture capitals, I should withhold giving you the exact numbers but the return comes
double to what we have initially invested.
And also for the start up investments some of the investees have already went to market
and IPOed, and we joke, the other screen has -- went to market and now it's publicly
traded. And there were other investees where an IPO exit is already visible so in a
conservative way the startup part can also double our investments.
So to your point, as you rightly said we would like to recycle our investments so that we
could reinvest into other areas, so we would like to recognize the gains while we invest in
other areas so that we could pursue further strategic return. So at one time we are trying
to achieve three things. That's all from me. Thank you.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

(through translator) And Mr. Muraki, for the overseas business, I would like to respond to
your question. This is Okumura speaking. For top line, the rate-increase environment is
favorable and we are trying to leverage that and we have been able to see so far our top
line that exceeds our plan.
But for the combined ratio, it is relatively high compared to our plan as you said. And one
reason is because of CAT losses. Compared to our expectations, it is exceeding by JPY
10 billion. That is what we're assuming.
For the Fourth Quarter we haven't been seeing that much yet so it might go below our
expectations in the end. But the loss ratio has been going up due to this reason. So our
Page 14 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

plans going forward, there are some positive factors and there are some factors that we
need to watch out for.

FINAL

So for the positive factor, as Mr. Sakurada, mentioned earlier, the rate increase
environment, we were a little bit pessimistic about it but it's becoming tighter lately again
so it should -- it is exceeding the level of lost cost.
One thing we need to be cautious about there, are two. One is CAT trends, natural
disasters that is, especially hurricanes. We need to have a close watch on them. And we're
not just going to estimate numbers in a conservative manner but we also need to revise
our portfolio whether it be geography or line of business or attachment points, and
increasing the attachment point. So we are taking various types of countermeasures.
And the other is inflation, as well as social inflation, and past-year underwriting and loss
developments from past years. We need to strengthen our reserves, that may be the
case. Or we may have to close it early by strengthening claims handling.
So inflation and social inflation might turn out to be negative factors but we believe the
rate increases that are happening now as well as the margin improvements will be able to
offset the negative factors.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this year in May we did explain some numbers. And we do believe that there is a high
probability of achieving them. Next year as well. Thank you very much.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

(through translator) Just wanted to confirm some numbers. It might be centered around
Palantir but according to your calculation, ESR should go up if unrealized value -- unrealized
gains are realized. It's hypothetical but how much should ESR go up if all the unrealized
gains were recognized, is it going to be 10 points or is it going to be otherwise?
And you also talked about past underwritings and developments, if there were to be cost
inflation. So when do you do reserve studies at SI, and when are those results reflected in
your P&L?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) For ESR, first of all, Palantir alone if the full amount were to be
divested ESR should go up by 15%. And if you were to include other elements it would be
within 20 points.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

(through translator) Okay. Thank you.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Page 15 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

(through translator) For SI reserves, we do it by a quarter. Actuaries, the claims people, as
well as our management, underwriting people, checks the data and we come up with our
best estimate.
If that's the case for the revised plan and risks associated with it I guess it's not that
significant for this year. The numbers that we have set forth at the interim period should
not be that different from the final results. But Q4 hasn't yet closed so we would like to
closely monitor the trends. Thank you very much.
(through translator) Thank you for the question, Mr. Muraki.

Operator
(through translator) Next is from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, Mr. Tsujino, please?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

(through translator) You mentioned about JPY 600 billion for investment for growth. And
you mentioned so much surplus on ESR. So I think at this time it was 255% and your target
ranges from 200 to 270%, so whatever exceeds 200% is that the surplus?

Bloomberg Transcript

I know you have JPY 770 million at present and vis-a-vis that, you have a buffer and you
can still secure JPY 600 billion. Is that your thought process. Could I confirm that and if
that is the case?
I think the -- because the sensitivity is on the interest rate because even if the equity price
drops it does not have a material impact. So I guess that means that you do have a
substantial room as surplus. But based on that, how much share buyback can you expect
for the year. It seems like it's kind of your intuitive feeling to decide on that but can you
elaborate on how you make the decision?
And Overseas that top line is growing substantially and I guess it's partially due to the rate
hike and except for the net CAT loss, the combined ratio has not come down significantly.
So I guess you are taking new risks, so the risk amount is increasing. But with this kind of
risk increase on a consolidated basis, even with the rapid growth, this risk increase will be
offset by diversification. And is there going to be a need to allocate further capital to
Sompo International going forward?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes. This is Hamada speaking. I will answer your first question. Also the
rough calculation that you pointed out is correct. So we have the adjusted capital of a JPY
3.5 trillion and the risks but the JPY 4 trillion. So if we say 200% is minimum, then JPY 700
billion, there will be the capital surplus based on ESR.

Page 16 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

But I think we explain just now, we change the target range and we are monitoring ESR so
that we can avoid the rating agency to downgrade us.

FINAL

And at this point in our view the capital surplus may be relatively small but the thinking
behind the additional return this time is that originally we had allocated JPY 600 billion for
growth investment and to maintain this every year we will have to look at the profit growth
and the capital increase, and how the risk amount is increasing.
So we do the simulation every year and for this fiscal year the original simulation versus
there is no simulation in the first six months of the year, we had the sales of the Palantir
stocks, and also we had seen an increase in the unrealized gain substantially. So roughly
speaking we had additional JPY 50 billion in the capital base versus our original plan.
So we could have returned all of that but the market price portion will be impacted if the
equity market comes down. So based on that we decided to do an additional return of
JPY 20 billion.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(through translator) So this is Okumura speaking on the Overseas business. The top line is
growing for sure. And the loss ratio is relatively high and this is because of the CAT loss
and also their portfolio is shifting from Global CAT to Global Casualty. So that is why the
loss ratio is slightly higher than expected.
Regarding the sufficiency of the capital base, and where we make the Mid-Term
Management Plan and our own business plan for the next three to five years, we are
using the internal rating calculation for ESR or the ECR based on the Bermuda calculation.
We will be exceeding 150% of our (EFR) a margin. So in terms of organic growth based on
the current business, we thought that we do not need to ask for additional capital. But if
we are going to do a bolt-on M&A or if we are going to accelerate the risk taking, the
between the holdings and the businesses we may discuss every potential capital infusion.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

(through translator) On a consolidated basis then, even if the Overseas business grows
this much, the risk increase will be offset by diversification, is that right? And also, it means
that we had the significant exposure to a natural catastrophe overseas and but you're
trying to shift the portfolio, how much are you going to reduce the CAT exposure?

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

(through translator) Well first on the Overseas Insurance business, in the real terms, yes. It
is increasing. But in terms of percentage point, looking at a business portfolio the CAT risk
rate is decreasing. For example, with the reinsurance global CAT, in 2017 when we
acquired the business, the exposure was about 14% to 15% within the total portfolio. And
now in 2025, that exposure is close to 5%.

Page 17 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

And obviously Hurricane (Ida), when a similar net CAT was hit, in the comparing our net
loss and the industry is loss, our net loss this time is much lower compared to the past.
And this is due to the revised underwriting policy and also our reserving policy.
(In a sale), on a quarterly basis, we monitor if the portfolio structure is what we intended it
to be. So we do not have a clear target or threshold but looking at the annual earnings,
we want to make sure that the CAT loss will be within the annual earnings for our
portfolio. (Does that address) your question, Mr. Tsujino?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

(through translator) So the overseas risk is increasing but on a consolidated basis the risk
amount for a consolidated basis will be offset by diversification. Is that right?

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes. That is right.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

(through translator) Okay. Thank you very much.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(through translator) Thank you, Mr. Tsujino.

Operator
(through translator) Next person is Mr. Otsuka from JPMorgan Morgan Securities.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) This is Otsuka from JP Morgan. Thank you for taking my question. If it's
possible, I would like you to take one question at a time.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes. That's fine. Please go ahead?

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) Okay. My first question is about page 5. I'm looking at page 5, right
now. For risk diversification ratio which you have started to quantify from this Mid-Term
Management Plan, my question is about page 5. As you set forth here the improvement
rate as well as the level, is what I would like to ask about.
Looking at what you're doing from the outside, you are saying you're making steady
progress but in the next six months, are you going to be able to see one percentage
(inaudible)? And would that mean that you're making steady progress? So I'm my
question is about speed of improvement.
Page 18 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

And whether you are already making improvements against the Fiscal Year 2020 actuals
which is your goal for the final year. How high do you think you can go if there were high
net CAT losses overseas or in Japan.

FINAL

From the outside how can we feel assured that you are making up for it through other
businesses. Can you give us some flavor on that? That's my first question.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you, Mr. Otsuka for your question. For the risk diversification
ratio, we're talking about scale and diversification which is one of our core strategies. As
we set this as one of our core strategies we thought about how we can show how we
have diversified so that is why we introduced this ratio.
Regarding the ultimate level we are going to go after, we actually haven't yet come up
with an answer. So we would like to constantly be able to have a strong diversification in
the business so that we could be a well-diversified Group. That's how far we have come
so far.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course in 2023 according to our simulations we are able to see where we are going to
reach but we are not sure yet if that's going to be the ultimate goal we want to reach. So
this may not answer your question but we just want to say at least that we want to see the
results be better compared to the previous year. And we are not able to quantify the final
goal yet.
So for example, a diversification of business through large M&As or through RDP and
value creation, and more contributions from that, theoretically speaking you should be
able to see a higher risk diversification ratio right, yes, that is correct.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) Okay. Thank you very much for that confirmation. My second question
is about page 10. I'm looking at page 10.
Six months ago, at this kind of briefing, I think you discussed this as well. So you have five
focus areas of RDP right now. And with respect to the speed of businesses, and the
response you're feeling from your engagement is what I would like you to share with me.
For that nursing care area, I did get the impression that you are making good progress
but for the other focus areas such as disaster prevention and mitigation, as well as
mobility, how much response or progress are you making and for the speed you are
seeing in each of the businesses, do you think the rate of how you're progressing is fine
or do you think you need to accelerate your efforts?

A - Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you very much for your question. This is Narasaki, speaking. I will
take the second question you asked. So we did explain a lot about Nursing Care RDP. And
Page 19 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

you might be wondering if we're doing well on the other focus areas.

FINAL

The feel we have is that -- I actually joined the company five years ago from the outside
but when it comes to Sompo Japan Insurance or the P&C Business, and mobility resilience
RDT, the business processes of Sompo Japan is extremely large in scale and I'm really
feeling that firsthand.
What I mean by that, is RDP is a product. Before we develop it to sell it externally, we have
Foundry, for internal digital transformation, and for better productivity.
We are utilizing a Foundry quite a lot and what we would like to do through this is we
would like to ensure we have been seeing contributions the bottom line already. So we
are working on that. And as we work on the developments to create it as a solution
product, in the area of mobility and resilience.
So we are putting together a lot of creative triggers together with Sompo Japan. So we
are trying to generate effects internally so that to outside customers and to outside
markets we have started to gain visibility that the product has far more impact on the
external markets and customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

So whether it be Sompo Japan or Sompo International, in the area of agriculture, that we
have a product called AgriSompo. And a new solution product that we can add on, is
being developed right now.
For the details, we have been able to give you a specific examples at today's IR meeting
but after Nursing Care RDP, we believe RDP products that are comparable to Nursing
Care RDP or even better than Nursing Care RDP products, are currently in the works.
But we would like to ensure that we thoroughly use the products internally first to
generate good results and then turn it into a solution product.
So it has taken a little bit longer time than the Nursing Care area, but thats how gravity it
has. So thats all from me. Thank you.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) If thats the case seems like the fuel [ph] you're getting is that
compared to six months ago you were talking about monetization by selling it externally,
and you were talking about the four phases that you would like to go through. The final
phase are level three and level four, but I guess you are now prepared to leapfrog to
level three or four?

A - Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes. You could view it that way because we are already at the end of
the Third Quarter. Now we are at a stage where the product can be shared as a product

Page 20 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

presumably next fiscal year than this fiscal year, but thats the rate at which we are working
right now.

FINAL

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) Okay so briefly one more question. In the are of mobility or disaster
prevention and mitigation, when you look at other companies whether it be domestic or
overseas, when it comes to data analysis I am sure that each and every company does
that. So are you seeing a densification of competition or do you continue to have an
upper hand if you can briefly take that question, too? Thank you.

A - Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

Well some parts of it is confidential, so I am not able to give you the details of this, but
personally I can say that we are one or two steps ahead of other competitors.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

(through translator) Understood. Thank you very much.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you, Mr. Otsuka.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(through translator) And next Mr. Sato from Mizuho Securities, please.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

(through translator) This is Sato from Mizuho Securities. Can you hear me?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

(through translator) I have two questions. The first question is for the final year of the
MTMP you are aiming for ¥300 billion for adjusted profit after six months? I think that the
progress may employ that there could be some upside. Do you agree with that?
As Im not done asking if this is going to be for higher than ¥300 billion, but Id like to look
at the situation closely to see in which part of the business you may be outpacing your
plan. For example, on page 22 you talk about the profitability structure reform and you
have personally repriced [ph] the guidance for this fiscal year.
So if this is; if this is not the loading [ph] the future impact I think I need to enjoy positive
upside. And mostly overseas the rate hike environment is better than your optimistic [ph]

Page 21 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

view, and I think youve been able to increase a topline for this fiscal year. So given that is
that going to have some upside impacts on your final target for FY 23?

FINAL

And my second question is on specific topic. With a revised plan looking at your Brazil
business it seem that the loss expectation was lowered quite significantly. I think this is
backed by manufacturers. I think are you planning to build up the reserves?
And in this way for the emerging markets in the retail business now its under SI Holdings.
What are the new challenges that you expect, and what kind of countermeasures do you
need to deploy? So are there any business units outside of Brazil that seems to be
challenging or where you have to take on some countermeasures?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

(through translator) This is Hamada speaking. Thank you for the question. Let me address
your first question. So your understanding is broadly right. So the biggest driver of our
profit is the earnings structure reform and also growing little price [ph] overseas. In the
previous six months that progress was better than expected, so I think thats a positive
factor.

Bloomberg Transcript

And for this fiscal year the net cat loss was very moderate, and that we cannot foresee
how this will trend three years from now, but in the current situation intuitively [ph] the
current accident rate. I know that today there is some info [ph] coming from COVID-19
and going forward with the resurgence of good travel [ph] the traffic may come back
again.
But ultimately, I think of it the change is happening in a society. The loss ratio will not come
back to the previous levels. So what we can expect three years from now I think this part
will be a positive factor. So that will be the changing assumption for three years out.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

(through translator) So on your second question regarding the revised guidance for Brazil
and also, in fact, on retail business, this is Okumura speaking to address that question. So
for our business in Brazil we had to revise down our guidance, but by the end of this fiscal
year we will be cleaning up the balance sheet. So the resolve and revision of the
accelerated and multi-vision depreciation will be completed.
And also in the retail companies shifting under SIH, and that what happened back in 2019.
And after that the SIH function leaders like CFO and also internal audit person urgently
[ph] communicating with the retail business.
And after the issue happened in Brazil obviously the results were audited for each of the
businesses, but the issue that we saw in Brazil happen. So we are now doing an overall
review for the whole business, and at this point we don't see anything like Brazil where we
have to do the reserve for the prior year development.

Page 22 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you very much. Thats very clear.

Operator

FINAL

(through translator) Thank you very much, Mr. Sato. Next person is Mr. Niwa from Citigroup.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

(through translator) This is Niwa from Citi. Thank you. I have a question about RDP, the
Real Data Platform, as well as overseas retail which might be similar to the previous
questions.
So first question is about page 12. On the left-hand side you show a diagram. In the CEOs
comment you were saying several tens of billions of yen in fiscal 2022 as well. So my
question is how much is the unit prices going to be, and how much of number of
operators are you assuming? Is it going to be 4,800 [ph]? Is that the basis of your
calculations?

Bloomberg Transcript

If you have any numbers that you have for this fiscal year, I was just wondering how we
should estimate the size of the business and how we should break it down? And six
months ago at the briefing you were saying that you would like to make a comment at
appropriate timing regarding profits.
So RDP for Nursing Care or for the overall RDP separate [ph] can you give me more
commentary on it? Next is for overseas retail, which is overlapping with Mr. Satos question,
but for the overseas retail segment can you once again walk us through the position of
that?
You were saying that you are promoting earnings structure improvement, but for Brazil as
well as for Turkey where there are an unsteady outlook in the geopolitical situation, are
you; should we look at this business through the view of applying insurtech in sales force
going forward? So please share with us your expectations.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Niwa, for your questions. First of all on page 12, Mr. Sakurada was referring
to we are going to launch Nursing Care RDP in fiscal 2022, and ultimately we would like to
reach several tens of billions of yen not necessarily for fiscal 2022.
I think reaching several tens of billions of yen in fiscal 2022 is something we cant commit
to. So regarding our assumptions for page 12 we did have internal discussions on our side,
too, and of course we don't want to; we didnt want to put in numbers that were
inappropriate.
And as Mr. Sakurada mentioned in his presentation by implementing this per facility how
much cost can be reduced was what we tried to work out, and how much of pay are we
Page 23 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

able to receive and return. So we looked at that and also for the number of operators, we
do know the total number of operators nationwide. And for digital devices or ICT we
thought about are the operators who can actually go through the digital transformation.
So that is why our initial target is of 400 or so companies, so our calculations are based
off this. So when you do the calculation it doesn't reach ¥10 billion; ¥100 billion yet but as
we show under others in the non-RDP peripheral areas we are expecting to generate
some income as well developing the business overseas and so forth.

A - Shinji Tsuji

{BIO 16148256 <GO>}

(through translator) So if I may follow up on that, this is Mr. Tsuji. Thank you very much for
your question, Mr. Niwa. As was just explained I would like to talk about the current state
of the business.
For Nursing Care RDP we have a CDMO team who is engaged in marketing, and as Mr.
Sakurada mentioned in his presentation currently there are eight operators to which we
have been proposing plans.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are having discussions with them. So the teams are starting from there individually. At
the next step we would like to transform to pool [ph] type marketing, for example, Im
having booths at exhibitions or doing digital marketing. So these are the things we are
currently planning for. And thats the stage were in right now. So for the monetization
schedule it is exactly as Mr. Hamada explained. Thank you.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

(through translator)

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

(through translator) So Mrs. Okamura [ph] I would like to take your question. As you know
in the past we use to support Japanese corporations and going abroad. So that was one
of the reasons why we were going overseas. But whether the developed our emerging
markets or commercial and retail now their missions are to generate profits as well as to
diversify risks and contribute to our performance.
Turkey is the most advance in their skills and culture. We are trying to develop that out to
the other retail markets. But as you have pointed, there is geopolitical risks and there are;
there is something like currency rate depreciation like what happened two days ago. And
single company efforts are not able to control that kind of risk.
So thinking about what we can do, one is scale expansion as well as diversification when
looking at the overall retail business. And in doing so what we are engaging in right now is
new channels and new markets.
We are trying to advance into them together with Ensure Tech companies. So developing
new channels as well as new markets is what were working on.
Page 24 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Whatever the case may be when it comes to currency rate depreciation which is a huge
headwind and when youre doing business on a US denominated or Yen denominated way
it is hard to see; figure out the growth prospects but overall we would like to think about
risk diversification from the retail business as well. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you. Mr. Niwa [ph].

Operator
(through translator) Next Tatsuo Majima from Tokai Tokyo Research Center, please.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

(through translator) My first question is regarding the purpose driven management. The
employees engagement is something that you like to enhance and I think a visualization
[ph] of that is a key challenge for you. What kind of measures are you taking to visualize
the employee engagement? (inaudible) has a motivation [ph] club linked motivation club
[ph]. What are the measures youre taking?

Bloomberg Transcript

My second question is regarding digital. Another player for digital will be AI, how are you
going to utilize AI as part of your digital strategy?
In regards to the usage of AI, we may be slightly behind for the insurance business, for
PNC claims handling AI is used to detect the fraud claims payment. But what is your
thoughts on using AI.
And regarding Foundry, I think you put the priority on utilizing Foundry for the nursing care
business. But in the second half of the year nursing care business is important. But with
the COVID-19 situation I think analysis on the pandemic is something significant for the
society.
The new cases have stabilized so I guess Foundry for COVID-19 analysis may not be
needed, is that the case? So those are my two questions.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Regarding the first question and the need for engagement and also
the purpose driven punishment [ph] within the board members, which are mostly outside
directors, we had a very thorough discussion and my mission or three missions from the
remuneration committee and the engagement is the key mission that was provided to
me.
And regarding the measurement of engagement there was no particular instruction. And
if we use our own KPI to measure the level of engagement it may not be significant as a
data point. So were using the Gallop [ph] data set and we are simply measuring the

Page 25 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

engagement to share the level of engagement today. But whats important is the
background which led to such results.

FINAL

So for example, were seeing the (inaudible) quarter the engagement index may be high
but on site for digital or nursing care of the insurance business the on-site engagement if
there is a slow down [ph] is going to be an issue. So thats the kind of discussion that is
taking place.
So we are using the Gallop [ph] tool and the result that will be used I think is going to be
the key for implementing the purpose [ph] driven management for different companies.
And we will try not to be self centered on that point. And on your second question I think
Mr. Narasaki would like to answer your question.

A - Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

(through translator) Taking a long time but I will try to simply answer that. So this is not a
Narasaki speaking and Im surprised that you said for AI initiatives we are behind because
among the three mega insurance companies in Japan I think we are most advanced.

Bloomberg Transcript

And to give you some very simple example, we are partnering with Abaja [ph] who is the
(inaudible) company in deep learning globally. And with the largest shareholder for Abaja
[ph] and we are using Abajas [ph] A1 and deep learning internally. I think other companies
would also have some partnership but the relationship is not as deep as ours.
And on your second point, regarding the data analysis I hope not to be misleading but AI
and data analysis is not two separate things. The data analysis not done by analysts its
done with AI and deep learning.
As (inaudible) Foundry is a type of AI in way. So for this; with the fear of COVID-19 and you
mentioned (inaudible) on the spread of COVID-19 over Sompo Japan and Sompo Group
as a whole, Foundry was introduced to kind a prefixer [ph] and this was used to analyze
the COVID-19 situation in the prefixer [ph].
And we also have the government which is utilizing AI capabilities. So to the other
municipalities this is penetrating as a service. So the data analysis not just on the COVID19 situation but for other purposes is something that we are already providing.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

(through translator) Yes, thats very clear. Thank you for that response. Thank you very
much.

A - Unidentified Company Representative
(through translator) Thank you, Mr. Majima. So we are drawing close to our given time so
the next question will be the final question. It will be a question from Mr. Sasaki from BofA
Securities. The question is through the chat box so I will read his question on his behalf.

Page 26 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

For nursing care RDP, I felt that the path to profitability has become clearer. In order to
accelerate your efforts to scale do you have any intention of receiving external capital or
bringing it to market? Will that be part of your discussion especially if youre going to
export it out to overseas you will probably need an overseas partner. So can you share us
your views? Thank you.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Maybe I should take that question. Thank you very much for your
question, Mr. Sasaki. It is exactly as you have just pointed out. So Im not saying with who
and Im not going to say any company name but there are many inquiries that are being
presented to us.
But whats important here is before we scale up that we have had this discussion
thoroughly at our board. But we need to put priority on quality. And if we focus on quality
we believe well be able to expand in quantity as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

So for nursing care too, we believe we have now gained visibility around what nursing care
RDP is all about. We still have a lot to do but ultimately we would like to export in the
future and we would like to create a marketing and research team. And we do already
have that kind of team available and I think its going to happen mainly in Asia but we are
working on it as we speak.
So there are many challenges we are facing. However there are a lot of opportunities.
Compared to when we were just doing insurance, I can say we are getting quite a lot of
inquiries these days although I am not going into detail right now. Thank you very much for
that question.

A - Unidentified Company Representative
(through translator) Thank you very much Mr. Sasaki. So as time has come, we would like
to bring the meeting to a close. If you have any additional questions please present your
questions to our IR team. Thank you very much for participating today.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

(through translator) Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
Page 27 of 28



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

