Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

Property & Casualty Treaty Renewals 2021
Company Participants
FINAL

Jean-Jacques Henchoz , Chairman of the Executive Board
Sven Althoff , Member of the Executive Board, Property & Casualty
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Andrew Richie
Kamran Hossain
Michael Hermann Haid
Thomas Fossard
Vikram Gandhi
Vinit Malhotra

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you to today's Hannover Re International
Conference Call on 1st January, 2021, Property and Casualty Treaty Renewals. For your
information, this conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to hand the call
over to your host today, Mr.Jean-Jacques Henchoz, Chief Executive Officer. Please, go
ahead, sir.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining this conference call
presenting the outcome of the January renewal for our P&C treaty reinsurance book. As
usual, I'll start with an overview before our Executive for P&C Business Coordinator, Sven
Althoff goes over the details of the renewals outcome. I'll then comment on the outlook
for the year thereafter.
Let me start with a few general comments on the market environment. Overall, I'd say,
the positive momentum we have observed in the last couple of years and in particular in
2020 has continued and we've seen another year of improving rate quality for the
reinsurance industry. Additionally, the primary insurance markets have experienced a
significant improvement in many geographies and lines of business. In some case we've
seen the second or even the third consecutive year of increased premium quality, which is
of course particularly positive for our proportional reinsurance business where we directly
benefit from the developments in the primary markets.

Page 1 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

Drivers for these developments were higher than average loss experienced in the past
four years and the continued challenging interest rate environment. As COVID was a
significant loss complex, but not capital event in 2020 for the reinsurance industry. We're
not in a disruptive market environment. We have seen capacity available. So I would call
this an orderly renewal and hence price changes were in my view overall satisfactory but
of course more moderate than some market observers had initially expected.
As always the status of the cycle depends on the capacity and demand mechanism and
even though capital was available for the January renewals. This time, the pricing power
was more favorable to the suppliers, which largely acted in a disciplined manner.
Therefore, the market firming was broad-based and accompanied by improving terms
and conditions, particularly regarding pandemic exclusions and silent cyber exposure.
As usual, the trends in this renewal did vary quite notably depending on geographies and
lines of business, when it comes to the level of pricing adjustments. In general most
dynamic development could be observed in North America, in the UK, and in the specialty
business classes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, I'd say that, this renewal has underlined that the reinsurance market was willing to
allocate capital and to support their client's needs, and has therefore shown the
relevance of the reinsurance market in this turbulent environment.
Moving on to the Hannover Re Treaty Renewal, I'd say that the most of the described
factors were also true for our own portfolio with improvements in the primary markets,
reinsurance rates being adjusted up as well as terms and conditions, adding up to a
clearly improved quality of the portfolio. Additionally, we at Hannover Re have continued
to benefit from the flight to quality which is a long-term trend in our business and given
our financial strength and the excellent market positions, we could feel that trend again
during the renewals.
Therefore, I'm very pleased with the outcome of this renewal. The total price increase
was 5.5% and the risk adjusted price change for non-proportional business was even
higher at 8%. Sven, will show you in a minute that this brings our book to a level surpassing
the risk-adjusted trade quality seen in 2012 and '13, before the last phase of the
significant market softening started.
Looking at the premium volume, our book grew by 8.5% in a firming market. You've seen
high growth rates. At Hannover Re in the past years, our focus here was on improving the
portfolio quality, and therefore, the growth of our portfolio was mainly driven by price
increases and less by an additional expansion of the P&C book. We also did not shy away
from not renewing business or not fully renewing our lines where the profitability targets
were not met by our underwriters judgment.
Additionally, the growth we have seen it does not include our facultative business,
structured reinsurance and other non-traditional reinsurance business. On top of this, we
do expect to see some more growth opportunities in the upcoming renewals as well as in
the non-traditional lines. Last but not least, the demand for insurance was in some cases
Page 2 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

dampened by reduced reinsurance commissions, by the fact that some primary insurance
premium is calculated on business activity i.e. turnover or mileages et cetera.

FINAL

In addition we have clearly steered our risk appetite in the nat cat segment, and we're
successful in diversifying the book outside of the U.S., where we were not willing to
allocate significantly more capital.
I'm particularly pleased with our team managing our retrocession. They've successfully
renewed the retro programs and placed the targeted level of coverage at a reasonable
price, which is risk-adjusted, well in line with the reinsurance market and could be
absorbed by our own business portfolio.
Last but not least, the ability to grow our book and to achieve high profitability is also
based on one of our key competitive advantages, namely our low admin expense ratio.
Therefore, it is important for us to further build on this advantage. This is in a nutshell the
development of this renewal and I'm pleased to hand over to Sven who will give you
some more insights on our renewal performance.

Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Jean-Jacques and also a very warm welcome from my side. Today, we are
reporting about the treaty business which was up for renewal at the 1st of January. This
represents a total number of EUR7.7 billion of premium out of our EUR15.9 million of
premium. So overall 67% of our treaty business and 49% of our total P&C business.
On the right hand side of the graph, you can see the regional splits of our renewable
portfolio, EMEA is of particular importance for us at the 1st of January, given that almost
90% of our total EMEA portfolio renews at 1st of January and also when it comes to the
specialty lines, a very significant part of that business is also focused at around 1/1. If
you're interested in the details, you can see a slide in the appendix where we show the
premium that is going to renew later in the year and from that slide, you will notice that
when it comes to the Americas and the APAC regions, there are significant volumes to
come at the first of April, 1st of June and 1st of July renewal dates.
Out of the EUR7.7 billion of premium that was up for renewal, we non-renewed our ceding
companies restructured business of -- in the amount of more than EUR700 million leaving
EUR7 billion of premium that we actually renewed. After the renewal this turned into
EUR715 million more, where the most influential part of this increase is actually the
increase in price which was 5.5%. This compares to 2.3% which we had reported a year
ago, so much more positive. And we had smaller contributions from the change in our
shares and the change in the underlying premium from our ceding companies.
The EUR680 million we could again show a significant amount of new business. This was
very diversified again like in the last years with particular emphasis in the German market
this year and our North American portfolio and business coming from the London market.
Overall, we grew the business by 8.5% up to 8.4 trillion[ph].

Page 3 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

As you can see, we had premium and price increases across all lines and regions with the
most dynamic development in the U.S., London market and specialty lines. The only area
where we had a slight drop in premium income, despite positive price momentum is our
agricultural portfolio and I'll come back to that in a few slides to give you the reason, why?
We look into our business on a proportional and non-proportional basis, this slide is giving
you more details. So you can see that the proportion of portfolio shows an overall price
increase of 4.4%, all regions and product lines have contributed to this and again, it
compares favorably to the 2.1%, which we reported a year ago.
On the non-proportional business, we have seen even more positive momentum with an
overall price change of 8.8%, this is significantly higher than the 2.9% we had reported a
year ago and only slightly below the 9.9% we reported for our 1st of June, 1st of July
renewals last year. But you have to remember that the 1st of June and 1st of July business
last year was very involved in previous loss activity. So mainly in the U.S., Chile and
Australia and at the 1st of January renewal, we have a much more diversified portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

The best price momentum we can -- could see from a regional perspective coming out of
the Americas, both North and South America and from our specialty lines of business.
Jean-Jacques already mentioned that adding our 8.8% of positive price development on
the non-proportional business, this has been the most pronounced rate increase we could
observe in the last 10 years cycle and adding or deducting all the price movements we
have reported over the last 10 years to you, this now brings us to a level exceeding 2011.
But let me give you a little more detail when it comes to our various portfolios starting
with EMEA.
In EMEA, the overall premium grew by 10.6% and this is on the back of a price increase of
3%. We had firming of the rates both on the primary side and on the reinsurance side. The
most notable firming on the primary side was coming out of our UK portfolio. Reinsurance
rates were firming across all geographies and as Jean-Jacques already indicated, we
were also able to improve terms and conditions.
We have increased our share in Lloyd's markets with a particular emphasis behind our
wholly owned subsidiary Argenta. The flagship syndicate of Argenta 2121 is not a fully
aligned syndicate, but we have now grown our participation behind that syndicate to more
than 50%.
Germany was particularly successful renewal, our subsidiary E+S is one of the market
leaders in that market and despite this already very strong market position we could again
widen our client base and increase our participation on existing programs.
In North America, the premium growth was even more pronounced at 15% on the back of
a price increase of 8.3%. Here again, we had very positive trends both on the primary and
on the reinsurance side across both Property & Casualty, we could successfully introduce
pandemic exclusions and made very many cases also silent cyber exclusions in our
renewal portfolio, and this allowed us to materialize premium growth across both Property
& Casualty lines. Also Latin and South America was a successful renewal, in particular

Page 4 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

Chile, again showed good levels of the rate increase following the losses we had in Chile
from the riots, a year ago.
On the APAC side, the growth was a little less pronounced compared to previous years
was 4.1%. Here the price increases actually exceeding our premium growth with 6.1%. We
had successful renewal in Southeast Asia and Korea, where we were able to write more
volumes of business at more attractive terms and conditions. But where we had to drop in
volume was out of our Mainland China portfolio which from a single territory perspective is
the biggest contributor to our APAC premium. And the reason behind that is twofold;
firstly, we did not achieve the levels of rate improvement that we wanted to achieve. And
secondly, we have a few market dynamics in China like the deregulation of the motor
business, which has led to a reduction in our premium income from the Chinese market
overall.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to the specialty classes, we grew our credit, surety and political risk portfolio by
slightly above 5% with a very pleasing development on the pricing side where we almost
hit 10% as an overall increase. This was a first step of a hardening as a result of the
uncertainties linked to COVID-19. There are relatively few incurred losses in credit and
surety at this stage given the various government stimulus packages and monetary
stimulus packages plus the fact that in quite a number of the countries credit insurers had
spec stop solutions from the governments.
But nonetheless, given the overall economic recession, we still have to expect a certain
vehicle of insolvencies, once those packages and protection mechanisms are phasing out
and given that level of uncertainty in this portfolio we were able to successfully negotiate
strong price increases. We have only very selectively grown our client and exposure base,
given the background of the economic recession, but overall, a very pleasing renewal.
In marine and aviation, the growth was a little more pronounced. It was 8.2%, again, very
good pricing momentum with 11% of an overall increase, this was on the back of various
losses both on the aviation and on the marine side. So we were able to not only
significantly increase the rates on the non-proportionate business, but could also
negotiate lesser commissions on the proportionate structures. In both markets, we see a
strong momentum on the insurance pricing, so the quality of our pro rata book has
certainly significantly improved. However, premium volumes continued to be more stable
due to the depressed turnovers given the global situation particularly with that particular
impact on flying activity and the airline industry.
As already mentioned a few slides ago on the agricultural side, we have dropped our
premium income by almost 15%, despite the fact that we are able to show an overall price
increase of 3.4%. We had various developments in this particular portfolio. So a good
growth and increased shares in countries like the Americas, Eastern Europe and Turkey
but a rather significant drop of our premium income in China.
Here the background is the fact that following the African swine fever, China experienced
at the end of 2019. The Chinese government decided to establish a state-owned
reinsurer for agricultural health and they are given the priority session before the open

Page 5 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

market and that priority session made the overall premium pool for the open market
significantly smaller, and hence, resulted in a drop of our Chinese agricultural premium.
When it comes to the non-treaty business, so restructured reinsurance and the facultative
reinsurance, we wanted to give you a little bit of an insight of how we fared at the 1/1
renewal. In structured reinsurance, we continue to see a very high demand for solvency
relief transactions worldwide. We have been successful to close an exceptional high
number of new transactions at the 1/1 renewal. We lost only one contract, so a good
growth in our structured portfolio at 1/1. We expect that trend to continue throughout the
rest of the year. And overall we do expect a premium development in the lower doubledigits area for this portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the facultative side, we are participating in the positive development on the insurance
side, we have seen a significant flight to quality. So policyholders in facultative reinsurance,
buyers have been very security-minded and there was a lot of demand for Hannover Re
securities, which we could successfully turn into new business opportunities. In addition to
the pandemic exclusions and silent cyber exclusions I have already mentioned earlier, we
can also report further improvements in terms and conditions on the facultative side. So
very often we have seen increases in underlying deductibles and reductions in
supplements for certain exposures like, non-damage business interaction coverage, and
overall the rate increase we can report as 8%, but up to 20% in territories like North
America, or product lines like particularly downstream energy.
Summarizing, our cat renewal at the 1st of January, we can see that there was widespread
improvement of our portfolio on a -- from a terms and conditions point of view in most
regions. The most positive rate movement we can report from our U.S. renewals with
about 10% risk adjusted Europe and the rest of the world was ranging in the 2.5% to 5%
range. Our premium nonetheless grew more pronounced in APAC and EMEA for the
reason that was already mentioned by Jean-Jacques, despite the fact that the strongest
rate increase came from the United States renewals.
We were not willing to dedicate more capital to particularly U.S. wind coverage. So we are
participating in the positive rate increase of 10% for that (inaudible), but we have not seen
this as an opportunity to significantly widen our exposure base on that side. Overall, we
can report that we had diversified growth of almost 10% in our cat portfolio.
Coming to my final slide on the retrocessional side, we had a rather positive renewal
season. We were able to increase the limits that have been placed both in our
aggregates on large loss, excess of loss structure from EUR200 million to EUR225 million.
We have also placed slightly more of our whole account protection coming from EUR325
million, going up to EUR337 million, where we have placed a little less as our proportional
of co-efficient, where last year we secured a paid-in capital of $680 million, this year of
$610 million. We could have placed more, but we did not wish to compromise on terms
and conditions more substantially also in light of the fact that the protected portfolio has
been seeing good improvements on the incoming side.

Page 6 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

So overall, we have been able to place according to our net risk appetite targets and the
price adjustments we had to pay we're fully in line with the price increases we achieved
on the incoming portfolio. So from a net position, a very welcome outcome of our retro
renewals.

FINAL

With that, I would hand over to you, Jean-Jacques.

Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Sven for this overview. Now let me come to the guidance for 2021.
Firstly, showing you the usual overview of the volume and profitability expectations. Just
as a reminder, we're now looking at the financial year perspective. As we have seen in the
1/1 renewal report in most of the markets and segments, we continue to grow based on
the positive change in pricing, in terms explained before. We expect particularly strong
profitability in North America and EMEA and specialty lines, but more importantly all lines
are expected to earn an at or above cost of capital level. Therefore, the overall picture is
quite satisfactory from our own point of view.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of guidance, even though there are some moving parts with the development of
the pandemic and the P&C renewals, I can confirm the outlook for 2021 already
communicated last year in November in terms of volume. The renewals have confirmed
our growth target, but we also have some important renewals later in the year, and there
might be further opportunities to grow.
Additionally, as Sven reported the structured reinsurance and facultative business which
are not only 1/1 renewals have a good pipeline for the remainder of the year. And finally,
the -- in Life & Health, we have a strong pipeline for new business, particularly in financial
solutions, but it's too early to revisit our guidance for the year. Therefore, we left the
volume guidance for the group unchanged, but there is probably more upside potential
than downside risk in my view.
The return on investment is at 2.4%, taking into account the deterioration of the interest
rates levels. We have maintained the group net income target in the range of EUR1.15
billion to EUR1.25 billion. In P&C, we now feel much more comfortable with achieving our
96% combined ratio target but this is also needed to offset the declining ROIs. This is also
supported by the reserving for COVID-19 related losses we did in Q4, 2020, which has
significantly reduced the risk for further additional reserving in 2021.
On the other hand, we have to expect further COVID losses in our Life & Health business
group in particular driven by the expected development in the U.S. at least until we see
the positive effect from the vaccination campaigns. So I would expect Q1 and Q2 to be
impacted with a significant improvement later on in the year. We still do not see the need
to change our group guidance firstly as a part of this development was initially already
included in the outlook, but secondly also because we expect to see a positive one-off
effect in Q1 2021 triggered by a restructuring of the reinsurance arrangement or the ING
portfolio. Altogether, this will help to mitigate the somewhat increased expectation or
additional COVID losses.

Page 7 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

Regarding the dividends, we continue our policy of paying out 35% to 45% of the group's
net income, as an ordinary dividend and consider an additional special dividend if we
reach our profit guidance for the year and have a comfortable level of capitalization. As
usual, we published at this time of the year our preliminary key figures for the previous
year. The full set of numbers, as you know, will be presented to you on March 11. So at this
stage just a few comments on these preliminary figures.
In terms of gross written premium we were able to exceed our guidance. In the end, we
achieved a growth rate of around 12%. This is predominantly due to the expansion of our
P&C business, where we continue to have strong momentum in 2020. The return on
investment is expected to reach 3%, which is well in excess of the 2.7% and which we
mentioned last time, benefiting from a higher realized gains and one-off effect from an
equity participation in the fourth quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

The group net income of EUR883 million is very satisfactory and this bearing in mind that
we're looking back at an extraordinary year with total claims related to COVID-19 of
around EUR1.2 billion for the Hannover Re Group life and non-life.
The P&C, COVID loss estimates increased by EUR250 million in the fourth quarter, which
is more than we indicated in November. Here, we've taken a more conservative and also
more long-term view on the loss expectations with further reserves added for event
cancellations, credit and surety and also long tail lines like casualty. This also entirely
explains the combined ratio of 101.6% which would be around 97% excluding the
exceedance of our large loss budget. The COVID related losses in Life & Health were at
about EUR100 million in the fourth quarter, mainly from our U.S. business, which should be
less surprising given the development in this country. As usual, we will communicate the
decision on our dividends in March, together with the full details of numbers for the fullyear financial results.
At this stage, however, I can confirm that we expect to pay at least, EUR4 per share
regarding the decision on the possibility of a special dividend. We will particularly look at
the expected growth opportunities over the course of this year, as well as 2022, where
we expect continuous growth momentum.
All together, Hannover Re again proved its resilience and the ability to achieve solid
results even in a very difficult year like, 2020. We'll give you the figures in full detail on the
conference call on March 11, as mentioned.
So with that, I close the presentation part and would welcome your comments, feedback
or questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Page 8 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) And the first question is from Kamran Hossain, RBC. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Two questions. One on 2020, and then another one on the
2021 guidance. I guess given your decision to take a more cautious view in the fourth
quarter for 2020, could you maybe give us an idea of how much IBNR is as a percentage
of total COVID claims and how material kind of this conscious for you has been in
changing that? So that's the first question.
The second question is just really interested in the sake of guidance for 2021. My kind of
way to put to what you're saying this morning is that you feel more positive in P&C, but
clearly excess debts on going away in the near term. Are you now thinking about the
guidance being kind of slightly worse in Life and slightly better in P&C?
And I guess, the second part to that question is, I guess, one of the footnotes in your
guidance talked about for 2021, excluding material impact from excess kind of mortality
trends. But you talked about Q1, Q2 probably having those trends. So is that factored into
EUR1.15 billion to EUR1.25 billion? Any thoughts about kind of the meaning of the word
materiality would be really helpful? Thank you.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very good. Maybe I'll ask Sven to give the percentage of IBNR at this stage.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Yes, as you would expect we had additional losses reported from our -- companies due in
the course of fourth quarter. One of the drivers behind our decision to increase our -reserves was to keep a robust level of IBNR, what we could report in the previous
quarters. So, the EUR950 million we are showing on the P&C side is still 2/3 -approximately 2/3 IBNR.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

And for '21 Kamran, I'd say P&C it's a bit early to say I mean the momentum interim we
have on the price side is broadly speaking in line with our expectations before the
renewals. We will need to see how much growth we continue to have. But certainly there
is some upside and some of the upsides is not only price related, but also related to the
pipeline of non-traditional solutions. There is good demand and good momentum there
as well. So depending on the -- on how it plays out it might be within our expectations or
ahead of them. So too early to say, I would say, for P&C.
For Life & Health, clearly the expectations or the excess mortality, particularly in the U.S.
last time we talked in the fall was a bit less than what we incurred. So Q4, roughly
speaking EUR100 million. It may reflect what comes out in Q1, possibly Q2 a lot will
depend on the vaccination programs. Of course, the vaccinations are focused on the
Page 9 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

high-risk groups. So that might lead to a better effect on what we see in the first half of
the year. We also see that the delta between overall population and insured population
continues to be quite material. We have an excess mortality on our U.S. book of about 6%
at this stage versus roughly speaking 15% in the overall population. So this remains stable.
So probably some more exposures and in Q1, possibly Q2, but on the other hand, we
have some positive one-off effect on our business which will to a great extent
compensate possible higher exposure in Q1. And we continue to have very, very good
momentum in the transactional space in financial solutions, which partly is reflected in our
2020 results, but I also see very, very strong pipeline for '21. So, I would say, yes, possibly
a slightly worse in terms of COVID burden initially in the year, possibly, compared to what
we said in November, but we have one-off effect and better traction than expected in in
financial solutions. So overall, I'd say the guidance that is can be confirmed and the level
of confidence we have in this guidance has been increased based on what we know.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thanks very much for the answer.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question is from Vinit Malhotra, Mediobanca. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much. So my first thing is that the -- just a little bit on the
exceptional disclosure on the structured book, one of the things I noticed in your outlook
is that your profitability or structure reinsurance impairment showing good positive sign.
So, I'm just curious if it's the function of supply and demand? Is it likely that we should think
of a better combined ratio for the structured reinsurance going forward or in '21 at least?
Any comment on that would be helpful.
Second thing is, I just noticed the comment you made about the fourth quarter COVID
claims, could you just shed a bit more light on the casualty element you said, where
workers driven by some COVID-related social inflation impact? And secondly also will
there be any growth and net disclosure that you're able to share now, or we wait for 11th
March? And my third and final question is on Sven's comment on U.S. nat cat where 10%
pricing achieved, but lower volume, could you just share any more comment on that,
please? Thank you.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Maybe I can say just a few words on the non-traditional business and ask Sven to
comment on casualty and nat cat, also complement on structure. But I'd say this is the

Page 10 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

non-traditional space is a little bit different in terms of dynamics. What we see is its
continued demand, I think the uncertainty on our clients' financials and strategic shifts
create demand, so we see that increase in demand. It's not a segment, which is totally in
line with the traditional market in terms of supply and demand, you need to look at it
separately.
So you don't have the same type of swings. It's more tailor-made. It's one-off. So, I would
say there is possibly a bit more demand, but we don't have the totality of the market, it's
very difficult to know. A lot of the opportunities are created, they are not part of an
existing book of business being reviewed -- renewed. So, I would say, very, very difficult to
say at this stage. I would not really anticipate a significant change in combined ratio
performance for our non-traditional book, but I would expect this increased demand to
continue over the year.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

When it comes to COVID and casualty, we still have very few loss situations reported from
our -- companies. So out of a certain prudency, we have decided to look a few additional
loss ratio points across most of our casualty portfolio. We have no insight into which
particular area of capacity will be impacted by COVID-19. So, we do of course expect
certain losses to be reported under the coverages for example, but overall our approach
has been a little more broad -- by increasing our -- last in order to recognize this
uncertainty, which in the end in a few years' time, I'm sure we'll show that in some product
lines, we will have been too high, in some product lines we will have been too low, but
overall when it comes to Casualty, we are comfortable with the recent inquisition that we
have now established.
On the U.S. -- catastrophe side, we have renewed a stable portfolio from an exposure
base, so we have not reduced our participation on the U.S. -- side, but we had no interest
in further increasing our participation in that particular peril. For the reason that it is our
peak peril by quite a margin from a net exposure base followed by U.S. earthquake and
from a diversification point of view, we have decided already in 2019, that for us, it makes
more sense to have other country peril combinations grow more significantly, i.e., catch up
with our existing U.S. winds portfolio, and that maybe in a few years' time, we start
growing the U.S. winds side again, but we didn't want to have this peak peril to basically
yes, exceed the other perils we can write from a diversification point of view even more
than it already does.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Concerning the capital allocation on nat cat remained around 18% or?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Could you say that again, please?

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

The capital allocation to NatCat, it went sort of stable as well, 18% or has it gone up?

Page 11 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

It's around 18% slightly up from the 16-and-a-bit percent in previous years.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Andrew Ritchie, Autonomous Research. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Richie

{BIO 20585998 <GO>}

Hi, there. A couple of questions. So, Sven, could you just give us some perspective on
what you expect in later renewals? I'm sort of not sure to what degree some of those
later renewals on loss affected or not. Clearly, Japan is less effective than it was, but in
mid-year, some of it will -- some of it weren't -- just give us a perspective as to what
you're thinking about those later renewals?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question and I'm still quite judging what in the U.S. your growth -- was it
casualty versus property? Was it that we have to grow both? Was there a bias in it? Just
give us a sense as to how comfortable you are particularly growing U.S. casualty?
And the final one is I think it's a very quick answer to this, but I'm assuming the reduction in
the capital of the -- won't materially affect the session rate, I think is 42% of your cat
exposed business, but I presume that won't change much but you did mention that you're
going to retain the bit more. So what will the recession rate be? Thanks.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for those questions. We are positive when it comes to the renewals at
the 1 April, and 1 June, 1 July date. You're right. Japan has been a benign loss environment
in 2020 from a NatCat point of view. But at the same time we had a very active hurricane
season in the two previous years, and at least according to the conversation we had with
our clients in Japan, they made it clear, that the rate increases we achieved in 2020 is not
100% sufficient to cater for our new -- risk. So there is more to come at the 2021 renewal.
This development maybe less pronounced compared to last year, but it will still be a
positive momentum.
The U.S. had lots of nat cat activity is this year, we had a very significant tornados the racial
situation. We hadn't record high number of hurricanes, and one of them was Laura was of
a certain significance. So, overall, again, a situation where there was a lot of frequency and
that should keep the momentum positive on the net cash renewed in North America. And
lastly in Australia, I mean, Australia will have really had terrible two years on the net cash
side and not all of that is completely priced in. We could see that with the very few
renewals in Australia, we had at the first of January renewal that there was strong positive

Page 12 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

momentum on the non-proportional business and I would see no reason why that's
momentum should not materialize the gap 1st of July renewals.
Our growth in North America Andrew is very, very diversified, so we have grown in
property, we have grown in casualty more or less to the same proportions, part of North
America is obviously also Canada. So in Canada, we have also shown significant growth on
the motor side. So overall a diversified approach with us not emphasizing property over
casualty or the other way around, so rather similar approach compared to both approach
we have taken in the last two renewal cycles. And finally your question on the -- session
that's dropped by approximately 5 percentage points to 37%, but as you have mentioned
and that explained by me when I talked about our red processions. This comes at a
moment in time when the incoming portfolio is at a much better rate in quality compared
to previous years. So from a momentum -- cycle management point of view, we felt that
an appropriate moment in time to have the session to go drop a little bit.

Q - Andrew Richie

{BIO 20585998 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
The next question is from Thomas Fossard, HSBC. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. I have two questions. The first one will be relating to your one-one
renewals and the impact of COVID-19. Reading the reinsurance brokers for stake at the
start of the year. It looks like somewhere saying that COVID-19 has been to some extent
side of the renewals because of two complex issues colliding at the same time. So, I'm a
bit wondering if you believe that COVID-19 has been already reflected in the pricing
through terms and conditions and exclusions or do you think that potentially there could
be some pricing momentum in the coming or newest come or later in 2022 more to
adjust specifically for the COVID-19 losses. So just better understanding of what has been
the impact there?
And the second question will be on the 4.4% increase in personal. I think that's when last
year you commented that usually when Hannover Rueck is showing this number on
proportional -- this is mainly the change in the ceiling commission and that you're not
taking a view on the underlying pricing change. Now you're showing 4.4 this year. So I get
that, 4.4 is not the only impact from changing ceiling commissions, but you can say, well
done this. Thank you.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Sure. Happy to comment on both. To what extent has COVID been reflected in the
renewal pricing here? I have to report that this is a very diverse situation in some
portfolios like, the event cancellation portfolio where coverage on the reinsurance
contract is very clear. The impact of COVID was fully priced in the regional community has
Page 13 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

introduced introduce the exclusionary language on the going-forward basis, so the
situation is very clear. In -- nothing has really happened yet. So from an incurred
perspective, there were relatively few insolvencies reported in 2020.
So despite all that there is of course significant inherent uncertainty in the further
development of the economic cycle and hence the situation on the insolvency site. So
when we negotiated the renewal pricing with our credit insurance partners, we talked
about their perception, our perception and came to a conclusion, how this will turn out in
the -- years 2021, 2022 when it comes to the When it comes to the real world
insolvencies, we still have to wait and see that's why we try to phrase it carefully when we
commented on our credit and surety renewals that we see that as a first sign of
hardening, when it comes to COVID-19 related losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the catastrophe driven business, I would say the situation is the most complex. There
still discussions going on between feeding companies and reinsurers about aggregation
of losses, number of events, and as you said, this is another complex. And I would say that
in more cases rather than not, therefore your comment is correct that the COVID situation
has been put to one side to be discussed at a later stage, but get the renewal done first,
and then they deal with the COVID losses during the course of 2021.
So from that point of view, yes there may be further rate increases, but -- companies may
also be minded to maybe seed traditional business, which they have not seeded
historically in order to come to a good level of understanding of what is covered, what is
not covered on the COVID side. So there may be more to come but that situation is a
little unclear right now. When it comes to the price development of 4.4% on the
proportional side, you're absolutely right that I commented last year that for the most part
we are reporting about the movement of the seating commissions in our contracts and
only to a lesser part.
We are reporting about the underlying great momentum on the insurance side like in
previous years. This is a mix, the 4.4% of mainly the development on the ceiling
commission side, but also allowing some of the positive right momentum on the
instruments item on the insurance side to come through in our expected loss ratios for
the proportion of business, but our usual assumptions on proportion of business tends to
be rather sticky. So like I said, last year when we have increases in rates and terms and
conditions, we tend to only adjust the slightly downwards, but at the same time and that's
something I also said last year, if we have rate reductions, we also only adjust them
slightly upwards. So we are not translating those insurance products momentum's 1 to 1
into what we report on the technique the price development in our presentation.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thank you, sir.

Operator
The next question is from Michael Hermann, Commerzbank. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.
Page 14 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good morning. Two questions first of all, on the retro renewal. You
mentioned it was successfully renewed. Can you talk a little bit how your retro protect you
changed year-over-year? I think, you already mentioned such the K session, but I would be
interested in the rest of your -- Second question on future claims inflation. How much did it
play a role in the one -- renewals we have seen a significant expansionary monetary
policies of central banks. So maybe, we should expect more loss cost inflation going
forward. Did you change your assumptions regarding future claims inflation going forward
or did you leave them these unchanged? These are my two questions.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. On the retro questions as you know, K is a proportional reinsurance vehicle. The
protected portfolios were kept unchanged. So with our peak catastrophe exposure in
North America, Europe, Japan and Australia on the property side and in addition, we have
our marine and aviation access of loss business protected under case. So there was no
change in that at all. And from that point of view, there are no structural change to report.
The only change is that we have to report as the change in the -- capital behind, which I
already did.
On the non-proportional structures, there were structural changes in addition to the price
-- already mentioned. In both vehicles, we have adjusted our retention slightly upwards,
which is in line with the exposure growth that we have shown over the last few years, you
know that Hannove Re has grown significantly on the P&C side in the last the last three
years which of course also made our underlying exposure base grow and hence we
adjusted our retention slightly upward. But other than that, the structure of our
reinsurance or retrocession program fundamentally unchanged.
On the inflation side, when we priced the business on the P&C side, of course inflation
plays the role, but also the interest rate environment plays the roll. So on the inflation side
-- on the interest rate side, of course, we could only use much lower interest rates when it
comes to discounting of premiums and losses, which was certainly influencing our pricing
up board. On the inflation side, we are trending the inflation assumption we are having
every year, and of course, we did the same again for towards 2021. So that's -- those
were routine adjustment and from that point of view, nothing unusual to report.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Vikram Gandhi, Societe Generale. Your line is now open. Please
go ahead.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, morning. It's Vik from SocGen. Just a couple from my side. First of all, can you share
what your view is on the potential BI impact from the UK Supreme Court judgement in
Page 15 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

other geographies like Australia and South Africa? And separately, if you are seeing some
headwinds coming in the U.S. as well from that as well from that perspective? Secondly,
can you give us a feel of half year redundancy level in the P&C loss reserves should have
developed by year end '19? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, thank you, Vik. I mean, of course, we have tried to understand the Supreme Court
ruling not only in the UK context, but also, when it comes to other common law
jurisdictions like, London, Australia and South Africa, which you have just mentioned. So I
would say that, we have tried to bake in the development we have seen in the UK, also
into those territories. But as you know, in both countries, you will have independent court
cases.
So therefore, it's not guaranteed that the local courts will take want to have one identical
position to what the UK Supreme Court has decided, but as we said here today, I would
say we have tried to make that development into our numbers when we looked at our
year end reserves of COVID-19. When it comes to the redundancy level, I would say it is
still a little bit too early to comment on that and I would like to refer to our 1st of March call
when we get the full year numbers and where we will certainly also comment on the
development of our redundancy levels.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
There are currently no further questions. (Operator Instructions) we have a follow-up
question from Thomas Fossard, HSBC. Your line is now open again.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Just wanted to check -- If you could be a bit more precise on this one-off
positive that you are expecting from your reinsurance or structuring of your ING Re book
and either going to be Q1 or Q2? That would be the first question. And actually, on the -sorry on the dividend. Why you are not coming with a peer review today? I mean, what do
you expect to be more able to understand our Q4 cat between now and the date of the
publication of your full year number to be more precise on dividend proposal? Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. On the one-off effect indeed, this is triggered by -- in the United
States selling its life -- business which as you know include security life of Denver, which
has been ceded -- which has seeded and we continue to seeded the mortality business
we acquired in 2008. So therefore, on the mortality portfolio nothing is changing but the
transaction led to some changes particularly in the collateral structure and a transfer of
assets with some fees which will lead to the mentioned one of -- that's something we
were in the process of quantifying and will confirm that in due course, but it's a material
change and we expect this to be booked in Q1. And obviously this helps compensating
Page 16 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

some potential increase in expected excess mortality impacting our book of businesses in
the U.S. with a strong offset in Q1.
On the dividends, of course, the situation is evolving we reflected on the capital
management, we still have some discussions to go in the coming weeks and we wanted
to have an orderly planned announcement as in prior years. We generally talk about and
we talked about the dividend in March, therefore, we opted for the 11th of March, for a
final recommendation. At this stage, we feel confident about the EUR4, that's why I said,
at least, EUR4 per share and we'll consider that in the next few weeks or so. That's the
reason, I don't think that will be earth-shattering developments. But I think they are --a lot
of moving parts we need to look into the capital plan, from a solvency perspective, from a
rating agency perspective. That's why we wanted to give ourselves a little bit of time and
to announce it -- as in the previous year in with March announcements and the conference
call. That's it. No, uncertainty if you want, but just the validation exercise, which we're
currently undertaking.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Okay, understood. Thanks.

Operator
And the next question is from Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca. Your line is now open again.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thanks for the chance. Just curiosity on, Sven are you able to break out the COVID
EUR950 million split into some of the lines that you could share if anything, so that's my
first question. Everything is just on the comment on prudence on the reserving actions in
COVID and then if the -- was 71% for and now it's -- what would the effective that we
should be guiding us go up because of prudence so how would we how should we see
that? And in that same comment, are you able to also just discuss the retro mechanism of
the COVID recoveries, and whether it was helpful in fourth quarter, please? Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Could you repeat the last question, please.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

So, in the fourth quarter what would be retrocessional recovery because of the whole -being allocated to individual -- K series recovery? Could you just comment on whether
they were going to be recovery quarter from retro for COVID?

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

Okay. I will try my best. Unfortunately your line is very bad. So your questions didn't come
through very well. So starting with your question on the split of the EUR950 million. I would
rather refer to our call on the 11 March, the way of course, we will give that full disclosure.
But given that, it's a preliminary result announcement today, you will appreciate that
Page 17 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

FINAL

similar to what Jean-Jacques has mentioned on the dividend side, we are still doing a lot
of validation effects right now. So I would hesitate to give you a precise split which may
them be subject to small changes before the 11th of March.
On the prudency question side, if I heard your question correctly, you're right that we are
coming from a 71% and now we are at the 2/3 IBNR situation, but that of course has to be
seen in seen in the context of significantly more activity from our seedubg companies, -their losses to us. When we look at that development there was no loss -- in Q2. We
started to see a little bit of a lot -- action from us seeding companies in Q3, but now with
the imminent 1st of January renewal there was much more activity from our seeding
companies making their case and presenting their losses to us. So that number has
increased significantly during the fourth quarter.
So therefore, I would say, the 65% we are going to report with a full year number comes
from a much more solid base and it comes to underlying information from our seeding
companies. So therefore, the level of prudency even though the percentage number has
gone down should actually be up given the underlying quality of the information we have
from our seeding companies. And on the retrocessional question again, hoping that I
heart your question correctly, you will understand that given what I said initially about the
business mix of our COVID-19 EUR950 million reserve, I'm also hesitating to give you a
precise number now, but you will certainly see that on the 11th of March.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Sven, and sorry for the voice quality. Thank you very much. Thank you.

A - Sven Althoff

{BIO 19104724 <GO>}

No problem. Thank you.

Operator
And there are currently no further questions. I hand back to the speaker for closing
remarks.

A - Jean-Jacques Henchoz

{BIO 17457677 <GO>}

Well, thank you very much for joining everyone, and I hope this session was informative
and gave you valuable insight and background on the renewals. We wanted to convey the
message that we're satisfied with the renewal round. It's an orderly renewal as I said and
some continued momentum which we will see further down the year, but also in '22.
COVID reserving is adding a level prudency and we wanted to take a longer-term view, so
that we can protect our performance in 2021.
Therefore, we're confirming the guidance for '21 and feel comfortable that we'll make it.
We see momentum on the business side, we see rates continuing to improve in P&C, we
see some growth opportunities in various segments particularly in non-traditional
business, life and non-life, and therefore, the outlook for '21 is positive, but also for '22, I
think the momentum is a multi-year development. So that, these are key messages, as
Page 18 of 19



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2021-02-04

we said, a number of times some of the answers to your questions will be clarified on the
11th of March. So thanks for your patience on this. But we'll deliver some full-year
information and more granularity as we have our next conference call. So thank you all for
joining, and talk to you at the latest on March the 11th. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You
may disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

