Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernhard Kaufmann, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
David Knibbe, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Delﬁn Rueda, Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andrew Baker
Ashik Musaddi
David Barma
Farquhar Murray
Fulin Liang
Michael Huttner
Nasib Ahmed
Robin van den Broek

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to NN
Group's Analysts Conference Call on its First Half-Year 2021 Results. The telephone lines
will be in listen-only mode during the Company's presentation. The lines will then be
opened for a question-and-answer session.
Before handing this conference call over to Mr.David Knibbe, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of
NN Group, let me ﬁrst give the following statement on behalf of the Company.
Today's comments may include forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding
future developments in NN Group's business, expectations for its future ﬁnancial
performance and any statements not involving a historical fact. Actual results may diﬀer
materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and NN Group assumes no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result
of new information or for any other reason. Furthermore, nothing in today's comments
constitutes an oﬀer to sell or a solicitation of an oﬀer to buy any security.
Good morning, Mr.Knibbe, over to you.

Page 1 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, good morning, everyone, and welcome to our conference call to discuss NN Group's
result for the ﬁrst half of 2021. As always, I'm joined today by Delﬁn Rueda, our Chief
Financial Oﬃcer; and Bernhard Kaufmann, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer.
I will start oﬀ this presentation with the highlights of the ﬁrst half-year results, including the
strategic and commercial developments. Delﬁn will then talk in more detail about our
solvency position as well as the ﬁnancial results of the Group. After wrapping up the
presentation, we will open up the call for Q&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start with the ﬁnancial highlights shown on Slide 3. Our businesses across the
Group, delivered an excellent performance in the ﬁrst half of 2021. We saw a strong
recovery in sales in Europe and Japan as COVID restrictions are easing in many countries
and online sales are becoming more common practice for agents, brokers and customers.
Our value of new business doubled to EUR242 million on the back of higher sales as well
as improved margins and business mix. At our non-life business, we see encouraging
signs of improvements, partly thanks to the measures we have been taking.
The integration of VIVAT Non-life is also progressing well with 90% of VIVAT premiums
already migrated to NN systems. NN Group's operating result increased 21% on the same
period last year to EUR1.1 billion, driven by strong operating performance at all segments.
Operating capital generation or OCG increased by 44% to EUR780 million. This increase
reﬂects a strong business performance with better non-life underwriting results, higher
new business at insurance Europe, and a higher net result at asset management. OCG
was fully supported by a higher investment return on the shift to higher yielding assets
and a positive contribution from banking under the new methodology.
Our capital position remains strong with a Solvency II ratio of 209% at the 30 of June,
2021, and we have announced today that we will pay an interim dividend of EUR0.93 per
ordinary share. More details on the Solvency position and ﬁnancial results will be covered
as always by Delﬁn, later in the presentation.
Now let's turn to Slide 4. We continually strive to provide relevant products and services
that meet our customers evolving needs and to be there when they need us most. As I
mentioned on the previous slide, we saw higher sales in the ﬁrst half of 2021, which is
really encouraging and it illustrates the strength of our distribution channels as well as all
the hard work in our units. The consequences of the pandemic in the past 18-months has
highlighted the need for protection. For example, in the event of illness or loss of income,
as well as the current under penetration of insurance in many markets. We continue to
launch protection and living beneﬁts products. For example, an income protection
product in Japan which safeguards SME CEOs and their employees against the risk of not
being able to work due to sudden illness or accident, as well as payment protection
product in Spain.
Besides the higher sales, we saw the business mix in Europe shifting to more protection
products as well as an improved margin in Japan as a result of management actions

Page 2 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

including repricing. All these actions resulted in a very strong value of new business in the
ﬁrst half of 2021, as you can see on the slide. On the other hand, we did all we could to
help our customers deal with the damage caused to their homes and businesses during
the recent ﬂoods in the Netherlands and in Belgium. And as claims, manager were
immediately available inside to directly assess damages and where possible, process and
payout the claims straight away or to provide an advance on the claim amount. We are
proactively approaching customers in the aﬀected areas to check, if they need our help.
Our insurance products are designed to help people at times like these and our
customers can rely on us to support them. As should be expected from the market leader
in the Dutch market. The full extent of the damage caused by the ﬂoods will only become
apparent once buildings have dried out and all claims have been submitted. Well, there is
still quite some uncertainty, we currently estimate the ﬁnancial impact on our results of
around EUR70 million, net of external reinsurance in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, turning to Slide 5. We are making good progress on executing our strategy as set
out at the Capital Markets Day last year, with a commitment to achieve resilient and
growing long-term capital generation. Our strategy is built on three pillars, the ﬁrst one,
being our resilient balance sheet and Delﬁn will talk about that later. The second pillar is
on generating strong cash ﬂows in the Netherlands. The actions we are taking to improve
the results of our non-life business are starting to come through. We have a leading
position in Dutch pensions as well as strong deﬁned contribution of our DC propositions.
And we continue to attract inﬂows in line with our market share of around 40%. In DC
assets under management are currently amount to EUR27 billion.
At the same time, mortgage origination at NN Bank remained at high level in a very
buoyant Dutch housing market. These assets are also very attractive for our insurance
investment portfolios and a large portion is transferred to Group companies as part of our
shift to higher yielding assets. And NN Investment partners continues to attract new
mandates with close to EUR4 billion of net inﬂows of third-party assets, while continuing
this leadership, and responsible investing, and increasing the percentage of ESG
integrated assets.
The third pillar is to achieve proﬁtable growth in Europe and Japan. Our distribution
strength in Europe is enhanced by digital capabilities, making customer engagement
more eﬃcient and more eﬀective. For example, process digitalization to enable remote
sales as well as the strong increase in lead generation, have both led to a growth in new
sales. Our strategy is focused on organic growth, but we are open to inorganic
opportunities that create value. We recently announced the acquisition of MetLife's
businesses in Poland and Greece as well as 70% stake in Heinenoord, one of the largest
non-life service providers and insurance brokers in the Netherlands. Both these
acquisitions strengthen our proposition in the relevant markets and they are also accretive
to operating capital generation, oﬀering an attractive return on investment. At the same
time, we continue to manage our portfolio and we can form a regular and thorough
assessment of our individual businesses against the ﬁnancial and strategic criteria. This
has led us to announce the sale of our business in Bulgaria in February, and the
transaction was completed in July.

Page 3 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

The strategic review of our asset management business that we announced in April, is
ongoing. We will update the market, when we have any news to share. When we talk
about generating value, we mean value for all of our stakeholders and we measured this
against our non-ﬁnancial targets for excellent customer experience, engaged employees
and our contribution to society, which are shown in the appendix. I'm particularly out of
our highly engaged employees, who are committed to helping our customers while also
actively volunteering in community projects.
Moving to Slide 6. Our commitment to shareholders is to provide attractive and growing
capital returns and we have been consistent in delivering on that promise as our track
record shows. We announced today that we will pay an interim dividend of EUR0.93 per
ordinary share in September which represents an increase of 8% compared to last year.
This amount is calculated in line with NN Group's dividend policy. So as 40% of the pro
forma 2020 full-year dividend per ordinary share.
And with that, I pass you all over to Delﬁn.

Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. Let me start as usual with a movement in
NN Group Solvency ratio in the ﬁrst half of 2021. Our Solvency ratio remains as strong at
209% at the end of June. There are a number of items that impact the ratio. So let me take
you through them.
Firstly, operating capital generation added 9 percentage points to the ratio. I will take -- I
will talk more about the drivers of operating capital generation on the next slide. Market
variance was positive, mainly reﬂecting the positive impact of the tightening of a spreads,
in particular mortgage spreads and added 8 percentage points to the ratio. These two
positive items were partly oﬀset by the category other which includes an increase in the
capital requirement due to the shift to higher yielding assets and the replacement of part
of our source with government and corporate bonds with very long duration. In addition,
the ratio was lowered by the impact of the UFR reduction from 3.75% to 3.60% as of the 1
of January this year. As well as capital ﬂows to shareholders in the form of the announced
2021 interim dividend and the EUR250 million shares buyback program that commenced
in March. Please note that the expected impact on the Solvency ratio from the recently
announced acquisition of MetLife and Heinenoord as well as the sale of the Bulgarian
business will be reﬂected at the time the respective transactions closed.
Let's now turn to Slide 9 which shows the operating capital generation by segment. Total
operating capital generation in the ﬁrst half of 2021 increased to EUR780 million
compared with EUR543 million in the same period of 2020, with most segments
contributing to increase. The main drivers of this signiﬁcantly higher operating capital
generation were the improve non-life underwriting result in both P&C and D&A as well as
the higher new sales at the insurance Europe. In addition, the contribution from banking
in the ﬁrst half of this year is based for the ﬁrst time on the new methodology, and reﬂects
the statutory net result oﬀset by a limited increase in risk weighted assets. Let me just
remind you that in preview years, the operating capital generation of banking was based
on dividends remitted to the holding. The ongoing shift to higher-yielding assets as well
Page 4 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

as higher equity valuations lead to a higher investment return mainly at Netherlands Life.
On the other hand, higher sales at Japan Life lead to new business strain, which has a
negative impact on operating capital generation in the short-term. A breakdown of
operating capital generation by source can be found in the appendix to this presentation.
The next slide shows the capital position of the holding. Let me began as usual with
Netherlands Life. Which reported an operating result of EUR520 million. The increase
compared with the ﬁrst half of 2020 -- Sorry. I think, I moved too fast with in the
presentation.
So we are back to a Slide 10 and we're talking on the cash capital position at the holding,
which increased to EUR1.5 billion at the end of June 2021 compared with EUR1.2 billion at
the end of December 2020. Total remittances receive from subsidiaries reached EUR978
million in the ﬁrst half of 2021. While we saw the gradual resumption of dividend
payments from some units regularly, regulatory restrictions are still somewhat impact in
remittances, mainly from NN Bank. As usual details of all the remittances upstream by
each segment can be found in the appendix through this presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cash outﬂows in the ﬁrst half of the year, where the payment of the cash portion of the
2020 ﬁnal dividend of EUR252 million and the repurchase of own shares for an amount of
EUR165 million. The amounts to be paid for the announced acquisition of MetLife in
Poland and Greece, and Heinenoord in the Netherlands will be deducted from the cash
capital position at the time that the transactions are closed.
Moving it -- moving onto the next slide, I will take you through the IFRS Financial results of
the Group. Starting on the left, NN Group's operating result in the ﬁrst half of the year was
up 21% compared with the same period in 2020, with almost all business units reporting
higher results. Please note that the current period beneﬁted from EUR24 million of private
equity dividends, while the ﬁrst half of 2020 including EUR16 million of private equity
dividends and non-recurring beneﬁts.
I will take you through the results of the individual segments on the next slide.
On the right hand side, you can see that the net result for the ﬁrst half of 2021 was EUR1.4
billion. The increase compared with the ﬁrst half of last year and is mainly driven by higher
non-operating items which include capital gains on the sale of public equities and
government bonds in the current period. The operating result by segment is shown in a
Slide 12.
Let me began as usual with Netherlands Life, which reported an operating result of
EUR520 million. The increase compared with the ﬁrst half of 2020 is mainly driven by a
higher investment margin in the current period as we continue to shift to higher yielding
assets, as well as higher dividends from equity investments, following the postponement
of some dividend payments in the ﬁrst half of last year due to COVID-19. The operating
result of Netherlands Non-life increased to EUR189 million from EUR111 million in the ﬁrst
half of last year.

Page 5 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

The higher results in P&C were mainly driven by favorable claims development in the ﬁve
portfolio, also supported by frequency beneﬁts due to COVID-19. In D&A, we saw
favorable claims development in individual disability as well as a higher underwriting
result in the accident and travel portfolio. The combined ratio improved to 92% versus
94.9% in the ﬁrst half of 2020. This is a strong result, but please keep in mind that non-life
results can be volatile, and as David already mentioned mention, we will see the claims
from the ﬂooding in the Netherlands and Belgium coming through in the second half of
the year.
Insurance Europe's operating result increased to EUR161 million. As COVID-19 restrictions
are easing many countries, the recording sales led to higher Life & Pension fees across the
region. We also saw a recovering sales of COLI products in Japan. The operating result of
Japan Life was up 23% on the same period last year, excluding currency FX, reﬂecting a
higher technical margin, lower DAC amortization and trail commissions, and higher fees
and premium based revenues. Asset Management, operating result increased to EUR91
million, driven by higher fees on the back of higher average assets under management
and a more favorable asset mix. The operating result of banking was broadly stable at
EUR79 million in the ﬁrst half of 2021. Higher operating income mainly reﬂect in fees
earned on the larger serviced mortgage portfolio was so oﬀset by higher total expenses.
Finally, the operating result of the segment other improved to minus EUR76 million,
mainly driven by the higher operating result of the reinsurance business, which last year
included claims related to Netherland's non-life's disability portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, I will now pass you back to David for the wrap-up.

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you, Delﬁn. We can look back at an excellent ﬁrst half of 2021 with a strong ﬁnancial
and commercial performance at all of our business units. Operating capital generation
increased 44% and our Solvency ratio remains strong at 209%. We have announced today
that we will pay an interim dividend of EUR0.93 per ordinary share in September, in line
with our dividend policy. Even if COVID-19 continues to impact the lives of many and
uncertainties continue, our employees remain dedicated to providing excellent products
and services to our customers to help them care for what matters most to them. We are
committed to delivering on our strategy to create long-term value for all stakeholders,
and we are progressing well to achieve both our ﬁnancial and our non-ﬁnancial targets.
Let me now hand you back to the operator to open the call for your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Mr.David. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start the question-and-answer
session now. (Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question is from Mr.Andrew Baker of Citi. Go
Page 6 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

ahead, sir, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

All right. Thanks for taking my questions. So the ﬁrst one is just on OCG. I'm just
wondering if you could provide the outlook for OCG for the second half based on where
current market conditions are? And if you're not willing to provide that, maybe you could
just provide the mark-to-market impact this in second half from interest rates and
mortgage revenues?
And then secondly, if you were to dispose the asset management business, just curious
what would be your plans for any proceeds that you may receive? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Andrew. Delﬁn, can you cover the ﬁrst question and I'll take the second
one.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Certainly. Thanks. Good morning, Andrew. Thanks for your question. On the OCG outlook
for the second half, ﬁrst let me remind you that, of course, OCG is more volatile than
operating result as it is dependent as you rightly point out to the condition of the market
of the rates in particular.
Nevertheless, of course, the ﬁrst half of the year has been very good driven by many
factors, so it certainly will be wrong to just use the ﬁrst half of the year or multiply by two.
There has been quite a few elements positive during the ﬁrst half in several segments. For
example, in life, we mentioned the private equity dividends that are not expected to
come in the second half of EUR24 million.
Non-life has had a very good result and at 92% combined ratio, we do expect things to
evolve more within the range of our target of 94% to 96%. But also Europe has had a
strong sales and have beneﬁted from strong market performance, providing some
additional performance fees for pension business.
Keep in mind that also the bank has a good OCG contribution, as the strong origination
of mortgages, there was a signiﬁcant transfer to third-party that impact positively in the
operating results and in the OCG. So overall, there is an elevated level in the ﬁrst half that
we don't expect repeated in the second half.
On your question on the rates. When you look at the OCG in the ﬁrst half, these are based
more or less on the average monthly rate in that period. And when we look at the current
level of interest rates, they are close to that average. So overall the impact on the markets
are expected, as you know, to be limited. Of course, don't forget the impact of the ﬂow
during -- in the second half.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}
Page 7 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

Yes, thank you, Delﬁn. Then your question on potential proceeds. Just as a reminder for
everybody what we have announced there, so we have announces a strategic review of
our asset management business to see if we can accelerate the growth of this business by
making it part of a larger platform, and options on the table, our joint venture and merger,
a partial or a full divestment. Now this review is ongoing and obviously, if we have news to
share on that we will do that immediately.
Yes, in terms of then speculating on capital return, we have a very clear capital framework.
And in the past, we have been disciplined around returning capital to shareholders and
we -- and all I can say in this stage is that we will remain also disciplined on returning
capital to shareholders, not only in the past but also going forward.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question is from Mr.David Barma of Exane BNP Paribas. Go ahead, your line is
open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. The ﬁrst one is just to come back on
the operating capital generation. So I think you mentioned EUR700 million as an
underlying -- number for the ﬁrst half versus EUR780 million reported. Can you just help
bridge the two, because from what you're saying it seems like the gap is a bit bigger than
that, was the project that you dividend very strong on might business and the European
new business contribution? So that's the ﬁrst question.
And then secondly on M&A and more generally on your appetite for life portfolios. Can
you talk a little bit about your appetite work for, say, more guaranteed books of business,
especially following the MetLife transaction where the portfolio diﬀers quite a bit, what
you are rumored to look at in the past?
And then maybe -- sorry, just a last small one on M&A, NN IP. So just to check in the press
release, I see you refer to growth mostly and now you seem to mention all the options are
still on the table, is that still the case, just to conﬁrm? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you, David. So let me start with your question on the M&A and NN IP, and then I'll
give it to Delﬁn on the OCG question. Yes, let's start with M&A. I think -- let's start with a
comment in general, I mean, we obviously have our hands full now with trying to close the
transactions that we did and preparing the integration. Overall, our base case is organic
growth and that's why we're also pleased to see the progress that we're making in driving
long-term capital generation. That is really driven by our businesses, whether this is the
non-life improvements that we have seen or for example the commercial growth, where

Page 8 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

we have been doubling our value new business or the mortgage growth. So -- and that is
our base case.

FINAL

Also, we'll continue to do active portfolio management and the divestment of Bulgaria is
an example of that, and a strategic review that we're doing on NN IP. So currently, the
priority is really around preparing and running the integration of our acquisitions and
we'll also going forward will remain disciplined on M&A.
I think speciﬁcally, on your question on MetLife, I think MetLife had a very good overlap of
business with our businesses and that helps in many ways, it helps obviously to create
more synergies on the expense side, on the product side, but it also helps on the
distribution side that you can easier a line distribution channels and create a larger
platform for growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that's why we were very interested in the MetLife business, both in Greece and in
Poland. And it will support our growth proﬁle in these markets also going forward and
thereby also supporting our operating capital generation and the EUR50 million that we
have given as a guidance on the back of this deal. Overall, it provides a double-digit
return, so we're very pleased with the transaction and are now working to close it and
prepare the integration.
For NN IP, I'm not exactly hear what your question are, indeed all options are still on the
table. If we look at the underlying performance of NN IP itself, it had a very good half
here, we saw an inﬂow of third-party business or a net inﬂow of third-party business of
EUR3.9 billion, which is of course, very good news. But also the performance was very
strong. We've seen an increase of our outperformance versus the benchmark that now
162 basis points, which is very good news and 70% of our Alpha funds are now
outperforming peers.
So for us it's really a combination of good customer inﬂow, but also strong investment
performance. And certainly, the ESG angle, as the sustainable and impacting investments
of NN IP have always been a priority and we see that also coming through in the portfolio
and there is a good growth also in that asset category. So overall, NN IP had a good half
here.

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

David, then on your ﬁrst question, I always have a bit of a struggle to deﬁne what is
normalized run rate or underlying. The truth is that the OCG in the ﬁrst half of the year
don't have, let's say, many short of one-oﬀs, they -- it is supported by a strong underlying
business driver. So the only thing is that these drivers were very strong. And in terms of
guidance our expectations going forward, we do believe that it is not prudent to use that
same ﬁgure for the ﬁrst half for the rest.
I mentioned before the private equity dividends which actually is an one-oﬀ that we have
indicated impacting operating results, but that actually is not an especial item within the
OCG, as for operating capital generation we do consider the expected return on equity

Page 9 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

and the actual performance, over performance or underperformance is reﬂected in the
market movement.
But with that clariﬁcation, I think the areas that were we see that has been very strong in
the ﬁrst half and might be less so going forward related to the non-life combined ratio. As
I mentioned before, the level of strong sales in Europe we think that they can be
maintained, but some of the outperformance fees for the pension business, it depends on
maintaining a strong market performance and can be a bit less strong.
So overall, when you look at as you know, the overall expectations for the second half,
certainly will be lower and probably closer to 700 million that you mentioned. But with no
speciﬁc one-oﬀ to mention.
Maybe, of course, this raises questions in relationship to the target for 2023, on which
apart from the positive momentum that we have seen across the diﬀerent businesses, we
see that for some upside on this segment targets, but also we have to take into account
expected contribution from the acquisition of MetLife, Poland and Greece, and also
Heinenoord in the non-life segment.
So, overall, just the two acquisitions together might bring something between EUR70
million - EUR75 million for 2023, apart from the positive momentum there.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Operator
Next question is from Mr.Ashik Musaddi of JP Morgan. Go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you, and good morning, Delﬁn. Good morning. Just a couple of -- good morning,
David. Just couple of questions I have if I may. So (inaudible) stick with this OCG, sorry to
come back on this OCG. So if I hear you correctly, you were saying like second half 700 is
more normalized, so if I do times to those 700 that looks like your normalized OCG at the
moment is about 14 -- 1.4 billion. And you said that a couple of acquisitions would add
about EUR70 million - EUR75 million so that basically takes you to about EUR1.5 billion,
just shy of EUR1.5 billion.
And then there are dynamics of lower UFR in the future, some more underlying
improvement in your P&C business, some growth in asset management, et cetera. So I
mean, how do we think about like EUR1.5 billion? Are we talking about 1.6, 1.7 any color on
that would be very helpful? That's the ﬁrst one.
Secondly, I mean, David just wanted to say thanks that your capital management has been
absolutely very spot on with respect to dividend, buyback et cetera, but is your capital

Page 10 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

generation OCG is moving higher and remittance is moving higher, then how do we think
about the buyback? What needs to happen for you to say that okay, instead of 250 million
now I'm doing 500 million buyback. So that is one thing I would like to understand, is
when do we get a higher buyback, clearly, M&A is good as well, it is adding value, but any
color on that?
And thirdly on asset management. Now, if I understand correctly, I mean, you've delivered
like EUR90 million proﬁt in ﬁrst half, that's EUR180 million for the year without any growth,
post tax is EUR140 million, I mean is that the right way to look at the math on asset
management earning, because the speculated EUR1.4 billion then looks relatively low for
business that is making EUR140 million and is generating cash on the recurring basis?
Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Ashik. Delﬁn, can you start with the OCG question?

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So, thanks, Ashik. You're right. I think that is certainly, clearly upside to the EUR1.5
billion target for 2023. I don't think it's now the time in order to set a new targets, but
apart from the acquisitions that we have mentioned, there are some positive underlined
drivers within the diﬀerent business and re-risking, we are also progressing quite well.
In terms of the cap -- how to think about the share buyback, I mean, certainly we have
been a very clear and actually we have update with the same clarity in terms of delivering
returns to shareholders with the surplus capital, when we have excess capital is part of our
capital management policy and we will do so in going forward.
We have a range forecast capital between 1.5 and -- between 0.5 and 1.5. So any excess
above that we will over time, as you know, trying to come -- bring it back to that level. Of
course, there are some acquisitions that we are expecting to close in the case of
Heinenoord before year-end and in the case of MetLife, in the ﬁrst half of next year, so this
will be some cash outﬂows. And we will continue be acting in that same manner.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. And then on your question on asset management. I mean the way we look at the
asset management, this is, as you know, Ashik, we really look from an operating capital
generation point of view. So the operating capital generation in -- for the asset
management in the ﬁrst half of EUR67 million. We've given an OCG target for the NN IP
business of EUR125 million in 2023. And well, as you can see from the results that we're
well on our way to deliver on that EUR125 million OCG target.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Our next question is from Mr.Michael Huttner of Berenberg. Go ahead, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you. So congratulations on amazing results. And I mean, yes, anyway, I
was trying to -- I feel sorry for myself for not having used by that, that's me. And just two
questions, if I may? The ﬁrst one is, could you possibly give us a kind of walk through what
could be the cash at the year-end? I drive the ﬁgure, but I forgot the some of the deals
closed after the event. I'm completely confused now. So any kind of help on how we can
using kind of some of the subsidiaries do remit quarterly and some don't and maybe the
bank will do a catch-up and I got confused with all this. That's we really gratefully
received.
And then the second is on the strategic review of the asset management and can you
help us a little bit on this? So the business is doing fantastic, you do not need the cash,
you don't seem to have tail risk like some of your competitors. I don't get it, I still don't
understand what prompted you to review something, which you had ﬁrmly embedded in
your strategic plan for 2023? And clearly, I'm missing something, you're very sensible
company, so you've talked this through. Any help on explaining why it makes sense?
Would be grateful to receive it. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Michael. And thanks for the compliment also. I think, let me start with the
strategic review on the asset management and then Delﬁn can talk about the cash
position at the year-end. Yes, so indeed to your point, we're not trying to address here an
under-performance issue or a big problem in our business. This is really a long-term
strategic review and then the question is, do we have the right setup, is the right way to
further develop the asset management business? And we all know, that there's a skill is an
important element. We know that having scaled to invest in the right capabilities is
important, there is an ongoing pressure on fees, there is still a shift to passive.
So there's a lot of macro trends that are happening, at the same time we also see that
customers become more demanding, there's white capabilities are needed from LBI up to
the general kind of the Alpha products all the way up to alternatives and everything that is
in between. So there's a lot happening in this space, it's clearly also becoming more and
more a global space, a global competition, which I would argue is not necessarily the
same for insurance where we often compete in very much in local markets with local
regulation and local tax laws and local pension systems.
So there's a lot happening and this has led us to say let's do a strategic review, not
because of that today, we don't have a good performance at to your point where, and I
make that point earlier, we're very pleased with that performance, but it is also long-term
at the best way to run our asset manager and/or should we think about accelerating the
growth by making it part of a larger platform. That's what we're investigating and I trust
that we will also come with a sensible outcome of this review, and once we know this,
we'll obviously come back to you.

Page 12 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Then on the cash position, Delﬁn.

FINAL

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thanks, Michael. So let me see if I can provide you a bit of guidance
on that front. For the cash position ﬁrst and important is the expected remittances. 2020
was year where we saw restrictions on the payment of dividends, although there is still
some prudency and some limitation in some markets we see that this has more -- has
already more normalized and this is already reﬂected in the remittances of the ﬁrst half
with the exception on mainly of the bank, on which the amount of the dividend was of
EUR13 million following the limitations, current limitations by we do expect that as from
September, this will be clear and there will be -- we will come back to the normal payment
of dividends from the bank.
Also, of course, in order to look at the dividends of the second half, you need to take into
account that there is a formality on which insurance Europe and some other entities tend
to pay more dividends in the second quarter of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The long-term guidance in terms of free cash ﬂow not only remittances but also the
expenses of the holding are to be in the range of the operating capital generation. There
are of course other cash ﬂows that are happening, one is still the execution of the share
buyback program that we are now more or less around half of that program, so that will
continue over time. And then the diﬀerent transactions we will have a some proceeds
from the disposal in Bulgaria, not that large.
And then in the second half of the year, we are expecting to close the acquisition with of
Heinenoord and that will be approximately EUR300 million. And that is the cast outﬂow
related to the acquisition of 70% and also the fact that we reﬁnanced, we take a loan on
board of EUR129 million. So for the second half of the year, there will be this EUR300
million outﬂow in terms of cash.
And then the acquisition of MetLife which is, of course, more signiﬁcant around EUR600
million, a little bit less, EUR584 million expected, this will only happen in the second half
of -- sorry in the ﬁrst half of 2022.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is from Ms.Fulin Liang of Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you. Very good results and congratulations. Got two quick questions, hopefully. So
the ﬁrst one is obviously in Dutch, you have seen the frequency beneﬁts and are you

Page 13 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

seeing the severity actually going up in Dutch market at the moment, and also you
making any provisions for this potential severity kind of going up? So that's the ﬁrst one.
And secondly is, I just wanted to look at your VNB. So obviously your VNB actually grows
year-on-year is very impressive. But then, if I compare the VNB versus the pre-COVID
world, which is the 1st of '19 number, ﬁrst half 2019, it kind of, really kind of ﬂat. However,
so that is based on the fact I -- if I understand correctly. So Japan is still in partially
lockdown and maybe many of the CE countries that are still kind of restrictions in the
place. So therefore, your current capacity may not be the full capacity.
So I just wanted to, if we can, do have assessment of the real organic growth of the
business in CE countries as well as in Japan? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Fulin, thank you. So let me ﬁrst start with your question on VNB. Indeed, we had a
very strong development of VNB versus last year, Europe was up 61%. I think there's a
couple of things happening here, we do see higher demand from customers in general,
the -- I think COVID maybe even the extreme weather, everything that's been happening
to the world has led to an increased awareness of vulnerabilities that people have. And
certainly in some of the markets outside the Netherlands, where we operate the level of
social security protection and the insurance penetration is relatively low. So I think that is
one factor that contributes to our growth.
I think there is also a bit more of a one-oﬀ eﬀect, we have seen that households have in
general spend a bit less, maybe less holiday, there's a bit of a catch-up eﬀect as well that
people are spend -- have a bit more money to spend, so I think that obviously is more of a
short-term eﬀect.
And the other thing I've been doing, we've been really moving our sales more into the
online world. So I think we make very good steps in further making our business online.
We set up also, we've shown a 40% leads increase to our agents. So I think part of it -- is
market part of it is around doing and we've also seen that while tied agents were very
resilient during the height of the pandemic. Now also banks and brokers are really picking
up again.
If you look at the numbers, you would compare it to '19. I think Europe still shows a good
growth, develop new business in '19, ﬁrst-half was EUR108 million, it's now EUR135 million,
so also versus '19 the ﬁrst half which was obviously at pre-COVID were showing a good
growth. Going forward, we've always said that VNB growth for Europe high single-digits
growth should be achievable certainly on the back of these macro factors that I
mentioned in the strength of our distribution channels.
So yes, this has been a very impressive number, but also over the longer term we believe
we can continue to grow the -- develop new business and therefore also the capital
generation of Europe.

Page 14 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

Japan, indeed is a diﬀerent story, we saw a phenomenal drop after the tax reform and
after the -- and the COVID lockdowns, but also here, I think, we're very well on our way
back up, we more than doubled our sales. I think that puts us in the number two position
in the market with an overall market share of around 13%, 14%.
We continue to sell a lot of protection products, which is also a supportive for our value.
So we see also for Japan going forward, we do see a further growth, even though,
competition is, of course, also adapting to the new products like we have done. But
overall, we've given a target of EUR150 million VNB for Japan in 2023 and we're well on
our way to deliver that as well.
So all in all, indeed, I think it has been a very strong growth and -- but also going forward,
we do expect that probably at a bit diﬀerent pace, we do expect to grow our business.
And by the way, this is not only around sales. If you look at Japan, for example, for the ﬁrst
time, we passed the mark of 100,000 SME customers. So also we're putting a signiﬁcant
eﬀort in our retention, Q2 is typically a bad retention month but we managed to do that a
bit better, therefore now for the ﬁrst time we also passed the 100,000 number of
customers in the SME space in Japan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then your question on the Netherlands. I think, I mean obviously the ﬂood has a big
impact. I think we also need to acknowledge that even though weather has become more
extreme, if you look at the last period, the weather has been relatively favorable, certainly
in the ﬁrst half year, headed the ﬂoods obviously happened after the ﬁrst half year. The
weather has been favorable.
We are looking of course at our models, so what is this do in terms of our -- in terms of the
premiums that we need to act as to customers. The ﬁre market is still a relatively hard
market, especially in the SME segment, maybe not as much as in the past, but there's still
a possibility to increase premiums, we're needed. Retail probably also but a bit less, I
mean we see less (inaudible), there's more people at home. But there's still some room
also for increases.
So I think that's on the short-term. On longer-term, obviously we also have a reinsurance
cover that is very helpful for this event that happened. We do think that over time, there is
a possibility that we'll see more of these extreme weather is happening and that's
something we need to account for in our pricing and potentially also for our -- in our
every insurance coverage.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you. Very clear.

Operator
(Operator Instructions). Our next question is from Mr.Nasib Ahmed of UBS. Go ahead,
your line is open.

Page 15 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

Q - Nasib Ahmed
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. So just coming back to the 2022 targets. You're
progressing well against the EUR1.5 billion total target, but if I look at the divisions as you
point out, insurance Europe, you're talking about EUR3 million to EUR5 million it's looking
that is going to exceed P&C, I think it was EUR2 million to EUR5 million, that's looking
(inaudible). But the one where it's you need to catch-up is life, it was a target of EUR900
million. So are you making good progress on the re-risking and you have to the target of
EUR200 million. So, the question, where are you currently with respect to the EUR200
million and can you exceed that EUR200 million target and then related to that, on the
solvency of the EUR3 million increase in the SCR, how much of that is driven by re-risking?
And second question, you just mentioned that the online sales are driving VNB. Is there a
high -- lower persistency on this business? I guess it's too early to say, because you've just
started selling the business. But in terms of the assumptions that you're making in the
VNB, are you expecting lower retention from the (inaudible)? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, Nasib. So let me start with the online sales question and then I'll give it to
you to Bernhard on the, let's say, the impact of re-risking and Delﬁn can cover the target
of NN Life.
Yes, so maybe just to clarify, when we say online sales, we don't necessarily mean so -you shouldn't compare this to direct sales. There are still agents, brokers involved. It's just
the way they do it, there's -- they can do it via screen, there's a lot more online possibility
to do policy amendments, online underwriting, so the amount of tooling is a lot more
online and we don't need to have agents driving through countries anymore for a few
hours to meet a customer. And then there's obviously the online lease model that can
support these agents so that they get enough leads, but also they can do it in a more
eﬃcient way.
We don't have any indication that this would lead to a diﬀerent retention level. In fact, I
would argue that it's also positive for customers that they are now in an easy way -- easier
way, we can do business with us in an online way, and generally, we see that the more
online active customers are, the higher the NPS, the higher a net promoter score. So at
which could potentially be a plus even four-year retention. So we don't have any
indication that this would be a reason for lower retentions.
Then on the target of EUR200 million. Bernhard?

A - Bernhard Kaufmann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes, Nasib. Where we are with our re-risking program we have already now reached our
target of additional EUR200 million OCG contribution coming from re-risking of our
investment portfolio compared to our 2019 OCG numbers. So we successfully reached
our targeted level, but please keep in mind that 2020 was a very special year where we
were able to size opportunities in the market that were impacted by the pandemic.

Page 16 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

And now, in the ﬁrst half of this year, we shifted also to hide in assets, but at the last -- at a
much lower pace and what we will do going forward is we will continue but gradually to
shift to higher-yielding assets, mainly focusing then on the illiquids like mortgage real
estate and loans. And yes, the SCR related to re-risking activities in the ﬁrst half was
roughly half of the numbers that we also show in the bucket of us.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Bernhard. Delﬁn, the overall target?

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Nasib. So for the 2023 target, you are right, we are progressing well. There
is clearly upside to the EUR1.5 billion and I could go segment by segment, but I think
overall there is a positive underline business driver. So for -- Bernhard has mentioned the
ability on the further improvements on the re-risking on the investment margin, I
mentioned already the two acquisitions that are going to contribute positively and we do
expect also some additional beneﬁts here and there. So indeed there is clearly upside to
the EUR1.5 billion in 2023.

Q - Nasib Ahmed
Thank you. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Our next question is from Mr.Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca. Go ahead, please, your
line is open.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, sir. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my question. Only one last. I
mean with your Investor Day, you basically guided for free cash ﬂow to grow to work OCG
over time, I was just wondering given you're ﬂagging out-performance on OCG delivery
versus EUR1.5 billion. I was just wondering how you're thinking on the sensibility of the
capital generation towards free cash ﬂow looks like in 2023 or share some words on how
you think on other relationships progress onto that? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Robin. Delﬁn?

A - Delﬁn Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, thanks, Robin. The link between the OCG and the free cash ﬂow is an overtime
reference because it's logical. The OCG is measuring how much is additional surplus
capital is generated, let's say, on a normalized basis or driven by the normal business. Of
course, always there is going to be ﬂuctuations around that as market impacts the actual
OCG -- market impact the actual surplus capital is not reﬂected in OCG and the rest.

Page 17 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

And in terms of -- therefore this guidance is maintained. Obviously, in some units, the
OCG might be usually a bit lower than the -- remittances might be lower than the OCG,
but also we have other units like the segment Netherlands Life on which we are currently
distributing slightly above the level of the OCG and it's expected that to be maintained
for the future. So overall, that guidance is maintained

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is from Mr.Farquhar Murray, Autonomous. Go ahead please, sir, your
line is open.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, all. I have just two questions if I may? First, we just on the ﬂoods estimate,
I presume that 70 million this kind of limited risk around that, I presume, is kind of kept by
the reinsurance coverage. And also, could I asked what the growth claims are within the
estimate?

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly, just -- sorry to coming just back to NN IP. Could I ask how you're managing
uncertainties around the process that within the business, it is ultimately a kind of people
business? I do just wonder just, is there sense of urgency (inaudible) inclusion there?
Thanks.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, Farquhar. Yes, on the ﬂood, so indeed the estimate is around 70
million pretax net of external reinsurance. Growth claims estimated around 90 million.
And again, there's also here some uncertainty around these numbers, but this is broadly
the ballpark of where we are.
On NN IP. Yes, obviously, we're actively managing this and I think also both the customer
performance and the investment performance has shown that we're managing the
uncertainties well. We also do a lot of measurements on staﬀ and engagement that we've
also seen that NN IP has a very strong engagement also in the company. So from that
point of view, the uncertainties are well-managed.
Obviously, in terms of timing, yes, we're doing this on the one hand as fast as we can
because there's no reason to delay it, but we also need to do it the right way, and this is
important. So we're going to take the time that it that requires, obviously, as quick as we
can but doing it right in a responsible way is the leading principle here.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Page 18 of 19



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Operator
We have no further questions, so, back to you, Mr.Knibbe.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you very much again for all your questions. And before we close the call, let me
just wrap up by saying we can look back on an excellent ﬁrst half-year of 2021 with a
strong ﬁnancial performance and all of our business units, and a very encouraging growth
in our sales and a solid capital position. Have a good day.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

