Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Inder Singh, Group Chief Financial Officer
Richard Pryce , Interim Group Chief Executive Officer
Tony Jackson, Investor Relations

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrei Stadnik
Andrew Buncombe
Kieren Chidgey
Matt Dunger
Nigel Pittaway
Siddharth Parameswaran

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

My name is Tony Jackson and I'm the Head Investor Relations. This morning you'll hear
from our interim group CEO, Richard Pryce, who will be presenting from London. And our
group CFO, Inder Singh, who is presenting from Sydney. We'll then open up to Q&A.
Before I hand over to Richard. (Operator Instructions).
And with that, I'll hand over to Richard.

Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Thank you, Tony. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today for QBE's 2021 halfyear result presentation. I'll start by discussing the key features of the result, provide
more granular detail on the current pricing environment and the implications for premium
growth and margin expansion. Before handing over to Inder to talk through the details of
the financials. I will then close with our priorities for the second half of the year, before
opening up for Q&A.
So if we move to slide 3. I would like to start by saying that the Board and the Group
executive are pleased with the improvement that is clearly evident in the first half result.
We have made encouraging progress with the performance agenda and momentum is
building across the business. Profitability rebounded strongly during the half and
underpinned by a material improvement in both underwriting profitability and investment
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

returns, which contributed to an adjusted cash profit ROE of 11.9%. Our combined
operating ratio of 93.3% is encouraging and over 10 percentage points better than the
prior period, which is heavily impacted by COVID-19 and the significant unfavorable prior
year development. It also shows an improvement on the 2020 exit COR of 95% that we
reference back in February.
Just briefly on COVID-19. The COVID-19 current (inaudible) impact during the half was
modest, only $20 million, which may be impacted A&H and workers compensation
attritional claims in North America and the small business interruption impact in Australia.
We flagged the likelihood of a further $130 million of COVID-19 related claims in 2021 and
while they're still a long way to go before year end. I would be disappointed if we didn't
come in below that. Given the only modest first half impact, we haven't excluding COVID19 claims in our underwriting result. However, it makes sense to continue to exclude the
very significant COVID-19 impact form the H1 20 comparable figures.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2020, we set aside significant provisions and gross margins for COVID-19 claims and
we remain confident that these will prove sufficient. Importantly, we have already received
some COVID-19 BI related reinsurance recoveries and currently have no concerns around
recoverability.
Now turning back to the broader business. Headline gross written premiums increased
27% on the prior year or 20% on a constant currency basis. The GWP growth reflects a
combination of the ongoing strong premium rate environment, targeted growth and
improve customer retention across the group. Premium growth also benefited from
significant growth in our crop business, which I will touch on later. Given the ongoing
positive pricing conditions, result unsurprisingly included a further improvement in the
attritional claims ratio, which I will discuss by division in a subsequent slide.
The only disappointing aspect of the result was catastrophe claims, which were above our
increased allowance by 1.6% of net earned premium. Texas winter storm Uri was a
standout event during the period, which led to near record first quarter losses for the U.S.
P&C industry and heavily impacted our North American result, as well as the results of
international markets in QBE rate within the international division.
We also saw elevated activity during the half in Australia, including cyclone Seroja, East
Coast floods, storm losses and the bush fires. While it is early days, it is pleasing to see a
modest amount of positive prior accident year development, including a positive outcome
in all our divisions. While the stability of reserves in North America is encouraging, but in a
fluid operating environment, particularly with respect to claims inflation, we are keeping an
extremely close eye on numerous reserving data points. I'll talk about inflation little more
later.
Premium rates increase further in the first half of 2021 with the group achieving an
average renewal rate increase of 9.7 % up from 8.7% in the prior period. Pricing remains
strong across all regions and in almost every product line. I will discuss this in more detail
later. Although, the pricing environment remains attractive, of course, you knew that there
are some signs that momentum is moderating, particularly in the international markets

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

here in London, where rate increases have been particularly strong now for nearly four
years. While the investment return was impacted by mark-to-mark losses on fixed income
securities due to the significant increase in risk-free rates during the period, investment
income rebounded strongly to $58 million from the loss of $90 million in the prior period.
Asset allocation remains appropriately conservative giving growth asset valuations and
uncertainty around the outlook for global inflation, but also given the opportunities for
profitable capital deployment across the group's underwriting businesses. I will leave the
balance sheet for Inder to talk about in more detail, but I'm pleased to see that all the
balance sheet metrics are moving in the right direction.
Now, if we move to slide 4. Most of the charts on this slide speak for themselves. As
already noted, we saw very strong growth during the half with GWP up 27%, to $10.2
billion or up 20% on a constant currency basis. As you will see shortly, our crop business
contributed significant growth, but even excluding crop, GWP was up 14% on the same
basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

The trend in premium rate increases is impressive, particularly the step-up in 2020 and
then a gain in the recent half and then this compounding effect of rate on rate that is
driving the improvement in the attritional claims ratio, so clearly evident in the chart on the
bottom left.
Inder will discuss our combined operating ratio in a later slide, but suffice to say that the
trends we are seeing are encouraging and we are pleased with the improvement. While
it's not apparent from the chart, the 93.3% is the best combined operating ratio the
group has reported in almost a decade.
Looking briefly at large individual risk claims. The net cost of large individual risk claims
increased to 8.1% of net earned premium from 7.5% in the prior period. Gross is not
apparent in the chart, the current accident year result includes substantially more IBNR
than in previous periods. And so the underlying trend in risks losses could prove to be
more pleasing than it first appears.
Turning now to catastrophe claims. The recent trend in QBE's catastrophe costs is
concerning, increasing to 7% in the most recent far to 5.5% in the prior period and well
above the group's first half allowance. The rising frequency and severity of catastrophe
costs is one of the more difficult issues that the industry is presently grappling with. As I
have mentioned before, we continue to view all catastrophe exposure with caution. We
still consider the pricing of catastrophe risk to be merely adequate rather than margin
enhancing. And as a consequence, we have not increased our catastrophe exposure
during the half.
As part of our reinvigorated cell review process, we are reviewing the performance of all
our catastrophe exposed portfolios and reassessing the effectiveness of the models we
use.

Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And finally in this slide, prior accident year claims development. Given the reserve
strength we took at the end of 2020, particularly in North America as well as adopting
more conservative IBNR assumptions for the 2020 accident year and the current accident
year, it is pleasing to see the group report a modest amount of positive prior year's
development. While all the divisions reported positive prior accident year development,
the early signs of reserving stability in North America is encouraging. Noting, of course,
that is based only on six months development.
Briefly on claims inflation. In some shorted property lines we are experiencing what at this
stage appears to be short term, rather than permanent structural shift in claims inflation
associated with supply chain shortages leading to increased labor and material costs.
There has been a small impact on the results for some property classes in North America.
In long tail classes, we have not seen any material changing claims inflation, including
social inflation and our underlying assumptions by division remains sufficient and are
largely unchanged from the level we outlined back in February. That said, we are looking
closely at trends in claims inflation emerging in new pockets, including liability, Western
Australia workers compensation and new South Wales CTP new scheme modern claims in
Australia, as well as bodily injury here in the UK. Regardless, we remain vigilant on claim
innovation and will not hesitate to further increase our pricing and reserving assumption
change should any signs of a sustained acceleration in claims inflation emerge.
Now we move to slide 5. Turning now to pricing momentum in a little more detail. As I said
earlier, premium rates continue to strengthen with the group achieving an average annual
rate increase of 9.7 % in the half up to 8.7% in the first half of 2020. While we have seen
consecutive quarters of stronger rate increases relative to the prior corresponding
quarter, namely 8.9% in the first quarter followed by 10.6 in the second, there are some
signs that rate momentum is moderating, particularly here in some lines in international
markets.
Turning briefly to each region, premium rates in North America remains strong with an
average renewal rate increase of 10.2% in the half compared with 9.5% in the prior period.
Premium rate adequacy continues to improve and rate increases are comfortably in
excess of claims inflation across most portfolios. Noteworthy rate increases by class
included 22% in financial lines, 17% in aviation, 16% in property programs and 11% in
accident and health. In international, we achieved an average premium renewal rate
increase of 10.5% compared with 10.1% in the prior period. This included rate increases of
14% in international markets, 13% in UK, 11% in Continental Europe, 7% in QBE Re and
finally 5% in Asia.
Although there are some signs momentum is moderating, particularly in international
markets, which contributed to the slightly slower second quarter increases relative to the
equivalent prior period. Rate increases remain well above claims inflation and it is
encouraging that rate continues to build the portfolios where significant premium rate
correction was necessary, such as financial lines and international liability.
Noteworthy rate increases included 32% in UK financial lines, 20% in Canada, 19% in UK
property, 18% in European financial lines, 16% in international markets property, 16% in
international markets financial lines, and finally 12% in European property. The acceleration
Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

of premium rate increases in Continental Europe more broadly is also pleasing as the
commencement of an upswing in rates in this portfolio light other territories and support
our growth plans in this region.
Australia Pacific achieves an average annual renewal rate increase of 7.7% up from 5.5% in
the prior period. As you'll recall, rate increases in the middle quarters of last year were
impacted by COVID-19 relief measures. So it's pleasing to see rate increases recover this
year, particularly given the catastrophe experience in recent years. Noteworthy rate
increases by class included 14% of professional indemnity, 13% in commercial property,
12% in householders, 11% in (inaudible) and finally 10% in engineering.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I move on, it's worth highlighting the steady improvement in the group wide
customer retention, which reflects the activities included in our customer QBE initiative
and reduced remediation activities. In addition to premium rate increases and new
business growth, improved retention contributed to the strong growth we achieve during
the half. No doubt, you're interested where IC rates trending from here. And as always,
my response is, it's very difficult to predict. While there are some signs that momentum is
moderating, there are plenty of factors supporting ongoing increases including recently
elevated and possibly accelerating catastrophe experience, negligible interest rates, the
likely short-term claims inflation in short-tail lines, I mentioned earlier. And frankly, the
needs of the industry to build reserving prudence to manage the potential that are more
sustained increase in claims inflation. In summary, I believe rates in most products and
geographies need to continue to increase to offset the factors I just mentioned above.
If we now turn to slide 6, gross written premium. As I mentioned earlier, gross written
premium increase 20% on a constant currency basis reflecting the strong pricing
environment, targeted new business growth and improved customer retention. Our crop
business in North America experience 48% top line growth during the half, reflecting
significantly higher commodity prices and ongoing targeted organic growth associated
with our market-leading service proposition.
For those of you interested in further details, we've included a slide on crop business in
the appendices, which is slide 24. Excluding crop, gross written premium increases by 14%
on a constant currency basis with the growth of 17% in North America, 11% in international
and 18% in Australia Pacific. This translates into growth of around 7% in excessive premium
rates. Despite the strong headline growth, we've retained our underwriting disciplines
targeting new business that is appropriately priced from within our risk appetite. Our
priority remains optimizing risk-adjusted return on capital.
Turning now to each of our division in a little more detail. Excluding crop, North America
achieved GWP growth of 17%, underpinned by strong growth in specialty programs,
commercial property, A&H, middle market P&C and financial lines. Growth in the middle
market is central to our strategy of building additional scale, while at the same time
enhancing portfolio balance, particularly reducing our exposure to mono catastrophe
explodes lines.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

Following our investment in market-leading talent, financial lines portfolio grew 14.2% in
the current period. To be prudent, we have supported this growth with a 50% quota
share on the current accident year. International achieved growth of 11% on a constant
currency basis, underpinned by growth of 25% in Continental Europe business, and 15% in
QBE Re, driven by specialty and casualty lines. We have seen less than optimal growth in
international markets in Asia, which will -- we will focus on these areas in the second part.
Australia Pacific achieved premium growth of 18% on a constant currency basis,
underpinned by 23% growth in commercial lines. Strong growth is also achieved in LMI,
workers compensation, commercial packages, engineering, commercial motor and farm.
Through our (inaudible) Group's net earn premium let to grocer intriguing during the half,
reflecting a number of factors including, especially strong growth in heavily reinsurance
classes like crop and financial lines, as well as earning patterns, including crop and LMI.

Bloomberg Transcript

While overall reinsurance expense will be subject to business mix trends, the gap
between written premium and earned premium should narrow somewhat during the
second half. Inder will speak to our reinsurance expenses in a later slide, but with the
current pace of top-line growth, our net earned premium trajectory should move closer to
gross written premium in the second half.
Now touring to slide seven, the attritional claims ratio. As I said earlier, given the strong
pricing conditions, the further 1.8% improvement is the Group's attritional claims ratio to
43.7% is not surprising. North America's attritional claims ratio improved 1%, reflecting rate
increases and excessive claims inflation across most lines. This is despite a modest
amount of COVID-19 related claims, which impacted A&H and workers compensation and
short-term inflationary pressures in short-tail property lines due to higher materials and
labor costs.
Internationals attritional claims ratio improved by 3.6% reflecting the compounding effect
of especially strong premium rate increases seen over the last 18 months. Somewhat
disappointingly, Australia Pacific attritional claims ratio increased slightly during the half.
Improvement in most classes was more than offset by higher weather-related claims in
householders, strata and the Pacific businesses. Given the strength of the ongoing
premium rate increases, and the rate increases, we are still earning through the P&L. It is
reasonable to anticipate some further improvement in the group's attritional claims ratio.
I will now hand over to Inder to take you through the financials in more detail.

Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Thank you, Richard. Good morning, all. As Richard has highlighted first half results, clearly
demonstrates a strong recovery in earnings driven by material improvement in both the
underwriting possibility and in investment returns. Pleasingly, the overall quality of the
result is strong with headline financials now more aligned with the improving unlike trends,
we have referenced in recent reporting periods.

Page 6 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

I'll now provide a bit more detail on our financial performance starting with the overall
group P&L on Slide 9. Gross written premium for the half was $10.2 billion, a 20% increase
over the prior period as measured on a constant currency basis. This reflects the benefit
of compound rate increases, improved customer retention and good new business
volumes. The combined operating ratio improved by around 4 percentage points to
93.3% reflecting further improvement in the attritional claims ratio, a lower expense ratio
and a modest release from prior accident year reserves. I'll step you through each of
these components in a bit more detail shortly.
Our investment portfolio delivered an annualized return of 40 basis points, excluding the
impact of risk-free rates, the underlying annualized fixed income yield was around 50
basis points. Growth assets, delivered a 12% return on an annualized basis. This was well
ahead of our long-term assumptions and reflected the supportive market settings for risk
assets in the first half.
The statutory profit after tax for the half was $441 million strong rebound from the $712
million loss reported in the prior period. It's worth briefly touching on the impact of riskfree rate movements and net P&L during the half. As slight at the AGM, we modestly
shorten, the duration of our fixed income portfolio in Q1. So as risk-free rates moved
higher, we generated a net P&L gain of $73 million with the $205 million benefit to the
claims line, more than offsetting the $132 million adverse mark -to-market impact on
investment assets. The annualized cash ROE for the first half was 11.9%. This number
equates to 10.4% excluding the tactical investment gain, I just reference. The board
declared an interim dividend of $0.11 share up from $0.04 per share in the prior period.
Informing the CEO on the interim payout the board, sought to balance the strength of our
earnings recovery, the outlook for organic growth and the higher inherent weather-related
uncertainty in our second half performance.
I'll now turn to Slide 10 and step you through some of the key movements in the group's
combined operating ratio. As you can see on the chart, our first half combined operating
ratio of 93.3% was around 4 percentage points better and the 97.4% reported in the prior
period. Walking from left to right, the first block shows the impact of movements in prior
accident year reserves. The 2021 half-year result included a modest benefit around 1
percentage point versus an adverse impact of around 2 percentage points in the prior
period.
The current accident year combined operating ratio improved by around 1 percentage
point in aggregate across the components shown on the chart. The main driver of this
improvement was attritional claims ratio, which is around 2 percentage points lower at
43.7%. This reflects the benefit of earned premium rate increases and are now well
established underwriting disciplines. The 60 basis point improvement in our expense
ratio, reflects the benefit of our nation see -- efficiency initiatives over the last two years,
coupled with discipline cost control and operating leverage from the higher premium
base. The improvement in the commission ratio primarily reflects a shift in business mix. In
particular, the strong growth in our crop business where commissions are reimbursed by
the US government and growth in class is protected by quota share insurance such as
North America's financial lines and lenders mortgage insurance.

Page 7 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

On large individual risk claims, we are seeing a relatively low level of reported claims
activity, while we're continuing to hold higher IBNR assumptions to reflect both the
inherent volatility in these claims and the high risk of inflation over the medium term.
Catastrophe claims were elevated reflecting the winter storm in Texas, floods and storms
in the east coast of Australia and cyclone Seroja in Western Australia. We have booked our
crop business at our current accident year combined ratio of 95% relative to the 2021 plan
of 92% and the prior period comparison of 90%. This reflects both elevated drought risk
in the Dakota as well as in Minnesota and the inherent difficulty in accurately forecasting
the crop result prior to the harvest in November.
I'll now turn to divisional performance in a bit more detail. I'll start with North America on
Slide 11, gross written premium for the half was $3.8 billion, an increase of 31% versus the
prior period or 17% excluding crop. Before I talk about the combined operating ratio, I'll
just describe what we're showing on the charts on this divisional slides. The left-hand bar
show the current accident year combined operating ratios with CAT claims elevated
allowance. And then the middle section of the chart shows the impact of actual versus
allowance on CAT claims for each half. As well as the movement in prior accident year
reserves. We think this provides a good view of the underlying performance of the
business of the two comparative parts.
So as you can see here in North America, the current accident year combined operating
ratio improved by around 70 basis points to 95.9%. Within this attritional claims ratio
improved by around 1 percentage point with the benefit of premium rate increases partly
offset by the impact of claims inflation. Short-tail property classes related to both
construction materials and labor costs. The large individual risk claims ratio improves 40
basis points, compared with the prior period. We've seen a relatively low level of reported
claims, but are continue to booked IBNR assumptions, given the inherent volatility in large
individuals' claims. It is worth noting that the continued build out of casualty lines such as
financial lines will ultimately shift our business mix slightly towards large individuals' claims
and away from attritional claims. Catastrophe claims exceeded our first half allowance by
5.7 percentage points mainly due to the extreme winter weather in Texas as Arctic
temperatures and power shut shortages resulted in record insurance claims.
Overall, the Texas winter storm has been estimated as a $10 billion to $15 billion loss
event for the insurance industry ranking the first quarter of 2021 as close to the worst first
quarter in history and second only to the first quarter of 1994, which included the
Northridge earthquake. After this, we undertook last year, prior accident year claims
experience was broadly stable and in line with expectations. We remain vigilant around
the risks that could challenge the adequacy of our reserving estimates, in particular social
inflation and its implications for casualty claim costs remain a focal point for both us and
the industry more broadly. We continue to make good progress in improving the
operational efficiency of our business in North America, the underwriting expense ratio
improved by 3.2 percentage points to 11.6% reflecting the benefit of these efficiency
initiatives as well as the improved operating leverage from the much higher premium
base.
I'll now turn to our international division on Slide 12. Gross written premium was $3.9 billion
was up 11% on a constant currency basis, reflecting the strong premium rate environment
Page 8 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

and targeted growth particularly in European insurance and in QBE Re. On the left hand
side of the chart, you can see that the current accident year combined operating ratio
improved by slightly more than 1 percentage point to 91.9%. Within this the attritional
claims ratio improved by around 3.5 percentage points, 39.1% reflecting the benefit of
compound premium rate increases and reduce claims frequency in motor and liability lines
hardly assisted by the government lockdowns. The cost of large individual risk claims
increased by around 2.5 percentage points to 13.1% mainly due to higher IBNR
assumptions, which enable to get account for more than 70% of the total cost of large
individual risk claims incurred during the first half. Prior accident year claims experience
was modestly favorable with NAV reserve releases of around 40 million or 1.5% of net
earned premium. Several experience in UK motor and UK and European liability lines was
partly offset by some further strengthening in legacy financial loans portfolios.

Bloomberg Transcript

On catastrophe claims, we had benefited from particular benign experience in the prior
period and this partly normalized during the first half of 2021 both international markets
and QBE Uri or impacted by the Texas winter storm that I referenced earlier. Despite this
increase, catastrophe claims were within the international divisions allowance for the first
half. The expense ratio improves 50 basis points to 13.4% reflecting operating leverage
from the substantially higher premium pool coupled with disciplined expense
management.
Moving to our home market of Australia Pacific on Slide 13. Gross written premium was
$2.5 billion was up 18% in constant currency terms with premium rate momentum
recovering following the expiry of temporary COVID-19 release measures that we put in
place last year. Premium growth was broadly based with good momentum in our core SME
and mid-market segments of commercial packages, commercial motor, commercial
property and workers comp. The current accident year combined operating ratio remains
strong at 90.8%, albeit 60 basis points higher than the prior period. Within this attritional
claims ratio was around 30 basis points higher with the benefit of premium rate increases
more than offset by higher weather related claims and our householder's book, strata
book and in the Pacific Islands portfolios.
The cost of large individual risk claims was around 60 basis points, lower than the prior
period. But as I referenced earlier, this is an inherently volatile metric and we remain
acutely focused on the risk of elevated claims inflation, particularly in the longer tail liability
lines. Prior accident claims experience was mostly favorable with net releases around 24
million or 1.2% of earned premium. Adverse development liability lines, workers comp was
more than offset by favorable development and short tail classes in CTP and some
modest releases in trade credit and LMI. Catastrophe claims remain elevated at around
1.5 percentage points in excess of our allowance would be down from the levels, we've
experienced in the prior period, which included the extreme bushfires on the East Coast
of Australia. We are seeing higher new business volumes and lenders mortgage insurance
driven by historically low interest rates and government incentives. But we remain cautious
with respect to the group's net exposure to the Australian housing market and
accordingly increased our quota share insurance on this business from 30% last year to
40% for the 2021 underwriting year. LMI credit metrics have remained stable and the
combined operating ratio improves to around 49% from 55% in the prior period. This

Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

improvement included the benefit of a modest prior reserve release, reflecting the
improved economic outlook and the strength of the local residential housing market.
Turning now to our investment portfolio and performance. Our investment portfolio
remains conservatively positioned with around 93% invested in high quality fixed income
securities and the remaining 7% investment -- invested in growth assets, including unlisted
property, infrastructure and private equity. We remain focused on quality and resilience
across our portfolio and within our corporate credit book have seen less incidents of
downgrade or negative outlook than the broader market and none of our investments
have been downgraded to some investment grade. In the middle table, you can see that
our core fixed income booked generated an annualized yield of 50 basis points. This
excludes the impact of risk-free rate movements and we also saw a 20 basis points
benefit from narrower credit spreads. Within growth assets unlisted property and
infrastructure portfolios delivered strong cap depreciation, while our private equity
portfolio kept pace with listed market strength.

Bloomberg Transcript

The net annualized investment returns for the half was 40 basis points. In addition, we
generated the $73 million net P&L gain from the tactical short duration position that I
referenced earlier. As you can see on the chart on the right hand side of the slide, the
running yield on the fixed income portfolio is currently around 40 basis points, which is
markedly lower than prior periods due to both lower risk-free rates and credit spreads.
Given the currently strong outlook for possible organic growth on the underwriting side of
the house, we will retain a measured approach in deploying towards our long-term
strategic investment portfolio settings of a 15% allocation to growth and risk assets.
Moving now to reinsurance balance sheet and capital management on Slide 15. As you can
see on the chart, on the left hand side of the slide reinsurance expense in the half was
$1.4 billion, an increase of $400 million relative to the prior period. This increase was
driven by three key elements growth in the crop business with higher premium seeded
into the U.S., Federal MPCI program. Increase in the level of quota share reinsurance in
North American Financial lines, and lenders mortgage insurance, and in trade credit. And
as backed in February, the cost of group's for CAT and risk XOL treaties increased by
around $40 million. In the middle of the Slide, you can see that the PCA multiple is
increased slightly to 1.73 from 1.72 times at the end of last year, and remains above the
midpoint of our target range. The positive impact of earnings generated during the half
was largely offset by the capital cost of new business strain. We saw meaningful increases
in insurance liabilities, premium receivables and deferred reinsurance expense, all of
which carry risk charges within the PCA calculation. On capital management, we
redeemed $200 million of subordinated Tier 2 notes in the first quarter of this year. This
redemption was funded by the Tier 2 subordinated debt issued in August last year. As a
result of this redemption gearing improved to 31.1% from 34.8% at the end of 2020.
We're now closer to the midpoint of our internal benchmark range of 25% to 35%.
With that, I'll hand back to Richard for his closing remarks.

Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

Inder. Before we move to Q&A. I'd like to quickly run through our areas of focus for the
remainder of the year. Which broadly fall within our strategic priorities of performance,
customer, modernization, and talent and culture.
Starting with performance. As I've said before, market conditions remain attractive, and
better than we've experienced in more than a decade. So, it's incumbent upon us to
capitalize on those conditions to maximize a premium rate that we are achieving. But also
to lock in as much growth as we can, while still maintaining underwriting discipline. Well, I'm
pleased with the overall rate that we've achieved during the half. There ourselves where
we need to push harder. Similarly, I'm pleased with a targeted premium growth we
achieved during the half. But there's always room for improvement, international markets
in Asia being prudent, examples. In terms of specific lines of business, I'm hopeful that we
can continue to see growth in North American retail QBE specialty and casualty lines,
Continental Europe and core commercial lines in Australia.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to modernization -- sorry, before that. Recognizing, there's always more to do
to improve performance. the focus for the second half of the year, will remain
multifaceted. So reviews portfolio optimization, especially in catastrophe exposed areas
and further evolution of our brilliant basics program, including the delivery of our global
property pricing project and more development on pricing in financial lines We're also
undertaking, a more sophisticated and granular assessment of risk, including reserve,
underwriting, catastrophe, credit and operational risk that is expected to improve capital
allocation by sale in region. Cost facilitating and more accurate assessment of premium
rate adequacy to better inform our decisions on where to grow.
Turning now to the customer. Targeting profitable new business growth and retaining our
existing high-quality customers will be key to the future success of QBE. Alongside are
committed and talented underwriting and claims teams. The extra ingredient is customer
of QBE. Having launch customer QBE in late 2020. Recent activity has been around how to
better connect with our customers including quantitative and qualitative research into
what is important to our customers, their business mindset, risk management approach,
buying behaviors, and what they are looking for in their insurer partner. This will underpin
our aspiration to build stronger relationships with all our customers via truly differentiated
proposition. We intend to further embed the use of sales metrics to provide better
visibility of key pipeline data, but also help identify where to focus our efforts to secure
vulnerable renewals and maximize customer retention.
And now on to modernization. We continue to modernize the business to improve
performance and the customer experience and fundamental to this is a digital first
mindset. We have detailed rollout plans for technology and modernization by functions
and division. And recently, transitioned up to our new IT partnership. Outdated and
redundant technology and systems are being updated or decommissioned. Applications
moves to the cloud, and customer and distribution partner experiences improve through
automation. But modernization is much more than just technology. We understand that the
business needs to change. So over the last six months, we've challenged ourselves
around historic operating structures and work practices, including recognition that the
working environment will likely be very different in a post COVID-19 world. To this end.
North America has taken some significant steps to sustainably improve operating
Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

leverage, which is already becoming evident in their expense ratio. They have reduced,
their real estate footprint in New York and Atlanta. In favor of the Sun Prairie campus, and
have reset management layers and spans of control. Together, these will deliver a
sustained Improvement in efficiency and performance. Modernizing our practices and
operating structures remain a priority, as we look to build a high-performing company and
culture.
Finally talents and culture, we continue to commit time and energy to our culture
accelerator program to enrich our culture. While also building a set of key actions to the
future success of our business. This work needs to build on the foundations of our QVA -QBE DNA, to empower and motivate our people to create a consistently high performing
company for all our stakeholders. We have engaged the entire organization in this
conversation with input from our people across all geographies enrolls. As a result of the
work, we have established clear areas of focus, including many ideas suggested by our
people for a recent culture hack. That more closely aligned behaviors to our DNA to build
an inclusive workplace, where everyone feels respected and supported. Equally important
is our desire to acknowledge and embrace the values of consistent high performance.
The group executive committee and the group board have invested significant time in the
program and will continue to focus on culture as we deliver the actions identified through
this important work.
Before I open up the call to Q&A, I should say this will be my final result as Interim Group
CEO. Incoming CEO, Andrew Horton commences enroll in September, and I look forward
to supporting him, before I retire from QBE at the end of the year. It's been a pleasure to
serve as the Interim CEO, and I wish Andrew, the group board, and the group executives,
all the best for the future.
We will now open up for Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thanks, Richard. Thanks, Inder. We've got some questions online. The first question is
from Kieren Chidgey of Jarden. If you can hear Kieren, go ahead please.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Couple of questions if I could, starting on the combined ratio, which obviously is
improved very strongly. Within that, the attritional loss ratio component looked pretty flat
on second half '20 with a lot of the improvement coming in the expense ratio and
commission rate. So just wondering if you can talk to why that's the case around the
attritional loss ratio, is it issues like the short-tail property claims inflation in the U.S., you
flagged or have you also baked in higher accident year lost fix for such '21?
Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Well, I think the impact of any short-term inflation is de minimis in any of our attritional loss
ratios at this stage. Now, I think there is a reasonably material improvement, as we see on
the prior year. I think anything, when you go through these phases of increasing rates, it
always takes a little bit time for the actuaries to acknowledge exactly what the
performance of the business is. They'll take a cautious approach, which we fully support.
So you don't always see the improvement in the attritional ratio, maybe as much as you
would see in the correspondence to the rate increase at the same time. But as we said, I
think we've seen a decent improvement and the trajectory is good.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

All right. Thanks. And second question on sort of the catastrophe and large risks and just
tying that in with a comment in your outlook statements about considering further
strategic reinsurance. Just wonder if you can elaborate on sort of what you flag in there, if
that is relating to sort of cat and large risks or if it's more fallout of specific around other
initiatives.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Look, I think Kieren, the number one thing for us on cap here it is to work out to really
understand our portfolio and make sure we're selecting and pricing correctly. Reinsurance
is not a substitute for doing the proper job on underwriting and that's why we haven't
increased on cat exposures in the first half of the year. We don't want to be overly reliant
on reinsurance. We think we should be able to run our business ourselves. So we always
look for insurance options. But at the moment, I think the key priority as far as we're
concerned on cat is make sure we optimize the portfolio, get the right price. And if we
can't get the right price, like we're already doing in some areas, we will remove our
capacity from those particular lines of business. But at the moment, we don't have any
plans to materially change our appetite on cat reinsurance.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Thanks. And the final question, Inder, just on the investment book. You seemed to be
flagging a bit of a -- sort of re-risking or shift back towards growth assets over the next 18
months. So just wonder if you can talk to sort of how we should be thinking about the
percentage mix and what type of changes and what the capital implication is of that
change might be.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes. Sure, Kieren. So effectively at the moment, we have 9-3-7 mix and I think the -- what
we flag historically is, more like a 8-5-15 mix would be the optimal strategic asset
allocation when we think about combination of growth and risk assets contributing to that
15%. And we're taking a very cautious approach in building back to that level over the next
18, 24 months. And so in terms of capital consumption, the actual capital consumption
itself is modest, as you evolve the asset mix, also it brings a little bit more volatility or risk
of pull back in the market sector could impact your capital position. So, we're just being
cautious at the moment. I think the first call on capital goes towards the underwriting

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

account and we see plenty of opportunities to continue to grow profitability in that
underwriting account as we've sort of demonstrated in the first half.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Thank you.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question is from Andrei Stadnik from Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, Andrei.

Q - Andrei Stadnik

{BIO 18854292 <GO>}

Good morning. Can you hear me okay?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, Andrei.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, Andrei.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrei Stadnik

{BIO 18854292 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you. I wanted to ask two questions. Firstly, you've mentioned that your
ultimate COVID cost estimate of about $785 million, now might be looking a little bit too
high. What are your plans around that and also how comfortable are you with a longer tail
casualty claims?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

So I think we actually -- I said that the current accident year provision of $130 million for
COVID is looking on the high side. We didn't make any statement around the prior year. I
think the prior year, there's a lot of developing obviously with what we have provisioned
last year. If you take a look through the key components, the U.K. is settling pretty well,
and within our expectations and the important point on that is the reinsurance recoveries
have started to come in. So, that's a good move for us.
Australia is in a very different position as you'd know because we are still long way behind
in having any legal determination. But it's probably fair to say, we feel a little bit more
comfortable on the valuation and the potential claims if they are covered because our
analysis shows that maybe they are maybe a little bit less than we initially expected. And
also we haven't got a material uptick in claims notification. So I think as far as that's
concerned, we feel pretty good but the area we haven't seen many claims this year that
we possibly anticipated in $130 million provision is on the credit lines in LMI and trade
credit and that has been quiet. But there certainly we trade credit. I think we're a little bit
nervous as to what may occur towards the end of the year. If the government's stimuluses
around the world are withdrawn and then maybe some volatility. So, trade credit could be
more difficult and that's why we're holding the provision in the second half, but we're
optimistic. But that was mainly for credit lines and that has been lighter.
Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

As far as casualty, we haven't really seen very much and we keep a vigilant eye on the
casualty and COVID impacts, but there's the odd one here and there a little bit in what
has come and so on, but really nothing material.

FINAL

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Andrei, I'll just give you a couple of numbers just so that saves you hunting around. When
you look at the 2020 accident year, we had $655 million of which $355 million was your
premium expenses and claims and $300 million was risk margin. On that $355 million, we
are now at $343 million, which is about a $12 million release. And then we set up $130
million for this year against which we incurred $23 million, right. So when you look at the
$23 million incurred this year versus the $12 million released from prior year, that's a net
impact of about $11 million and then risk margins in the round ball from $300 million to
$290 million. Those are the three components that just give you the numbers behind kind
of context that Richard just provided.

Q - Andrei Stadnik

{BIO 18854292 <GO>}

Thank you. And my second question, I wanted to ask around cost. So cost control is
particularly impressive in this first half, but what should we be thinking about the second
half ? Should we be thinking there will be some wage pressures and some bonus
pressures emerging given competition for underwriting talent and just overall very strong
results of the business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

I'll let Inder answer that. Just first of all, yes, there's always a battle for talent in different
parts of the world and we deal with that every day, but I think we feel we are well
provisioned in the short term to cover that. You know, we have various cost initiatives, the
old one that we're sort of retiring because we've pretty much delivered on and as we
said, we're starting to challenge ourselves on new operational structures, which Todd
certainly started to do effectively in North America, but I'll let Inder talk you through the
numbers.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes. Andrei, I mean, I think we've been very conscious as we've talked about our efficiency
initiatives, that inflation remains a risk, right. So as Richard said, we've got a ton of work
underway around relooking at our technology and modernization of that and a lot of
program work shifting infrastructure to the cloud and looking at location strategy. We're
looking at operating model. We're looking at the functional setup. So there's a ton of work
going on, which will drive efficiencies to help offset some of that inflation. And really, our
hope is to create some positive jaws as we go forward, right, just to make sure that the
expense rates grows modestly relative to the premium base and we get that operating
leverage come through.
So -- but we recognize that there are going to be some challenges around wage inflation
and also we need to create some capacity to grow. And so, that -- as we think about our
targets, the target we put out around 13% expense ratio, that's very much framed with

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

the risk of inflation in mind. But also a real determination to go after some of the
opportunities we see including the efficiency utilization.

Q - Andrei Stadnik

{BIO 18854292 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrei. Our next question is from Andrew Buncombe at Macquarie. Go ahead,
Andrew.

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Just two questions for me. The first one, maybe if you can just give us some
color on the potential impact of German floods on your book in the third quarter, please?
That's something that pretty much everybody globally has been calling out on these calls.
Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

So, yes. We've done a piece of work on that. Our initial expectation on that is, it's a
reinsurance loss for us more than insurance loss because we have QBE Re which write
business in that region, particularly through our Belgium distribution point. But we're not
going to give a number, that I think you'll probably say that we are -- it doesn't materially
in any way really impact the international provisions for cat so far in this quarter. So yes, it's
a decent-sized loss but it's not anything that's going to materially impact our cat
provisions at this time.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Just the numbers on that, Andrew. So we had a bit of cat IBNR booked at the end of the
first half, some of that is proving a little bit redundant now and so it help to cover part of
this. And the other thing is, obviously, it's been taken into account as we think about our
premium liabilities that get deducted from capital as at the half year. So it is effectively
included in a component of our capital that we reported at the half year.

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

That makes sense. And then just my other question was, just if you could remind us how
much cyber business QBE was writing globally and whether some of the changes recently
has impacted that appetite? Thanks.

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Well, interestingly, it hasn't impacted our appetite, because I would say the market has
largely moved towards our appetite. We had a very tight appetite on cyber smaller limits,
very, very disciplined approach to certain sectors. So our global premium is less than $50
million and it's probably closer to $40 million, $35 million depending on where we are in
any moment in time, but it's not a material portfolio and it's not a portfolio. Most of it's
written here and it is not a portfolio where we have lost money.
Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Andrew. Next question is from Matt Dunger from Bank of America. Go ahead,
Matt.

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Hi, Matt.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Are you there, Matt? We'll come back to you, Matt. Next question from Sid from
JPMorgan. Go ahead, Sid.

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

All right, gentlemen. Can you hear me okay?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Well, go ahead, Sid.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

Okay, great. Okay, thank you. So just a couple of questions if I can. Firstly, just on claims
inflation. Richard, I was hoping you could make some comments about exactly what you
are seeing by region, maybe short tail and long tail. Obviously, you'd called out before
that I think that you were seeing some elevated signs in certain long-tail lines. I was just
wondering if you could provide us an update on your thinking around that. And just maybe
some comments just on short tail as well. Just you mentioned that you think some of the
inflation is transitory. Maybe you could just help us provide some numbers to what you're
seeing and how that's impacting your numbers?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Okay, happy to, Sid. I think as everybody probably knows when what we said in February
where we gave guidance on our inflation assumptions of 3, 3, and 5; 5 being in North
America, 3 in the other divisions, which rolled up to about 4% to the group. And we're still
comfortable with that assumption. As for the area where we've seen the most is short tail,
which we talk about supply impacted labor and materials, and where that's really probably
come through the most is in North America and in (inaudible). And a lot of other people in
the market have realized that we always used to have something called demand surge
after a cat loss where cost of materials and labor went up. That's been more exacerbated
this time probably than ever before and I think that is partly the COVID impact of less
supply and difficult to get labor and to get materials.

Page 17 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

So probably the most heightened place we are seeing is in catastrophe type losses and
we probably would have seen a bit of that in Australia as well. So -- and the other thing
that probably impacts Australia, as you would know better than me is, the borders are
shut and there's less transitory labor, then that does put some demand on labor as well.
So it really is very much a short tail. It's not -- we couldn't call it permanent yet, because it
may be related to these larger events. As in elsewhere, we talked a little bit about
Western Australia, U.K. liability, we're looking at a little bit here, but generally on the
whole, it's okay. I suppose one thing I would caution everybody is on social inflation. The
courts have not been that active in the U.S. for a while because of obviously the COVID
impact. And if there is a heightened backlog of court cases, then you could see some
social inflation activity coming through sort of the back end of this year and going into next
depending on when normal services resume in the course.

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for that. Thank you for that color. Maybe just a second question if I can,
just around the comments you made around signs of moderating in the cycle particularly
in international. Could you just provide some color as to exactly what is guiding your
thinking there and also how that compares with the 3% claims inflation and maybe some
comments on the duration of the cycle? I know that's difficult but -- to predict but maybe if
you can just make some comments around that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Yes. I think pretty much everywhere where other than maybe the odd short-tail class I just
referred to, we're comfortable that we're getting more rates than inflation and in some
areas materially more. The two places where we've probably seen -- three places we've
probably seen the most moderation of rate in international markets with the -- in financial
lines, international loggers in natural resources. Now they're all 10% to 20% rate increase
still, but they -- some of them like financial lines would have been materially more double
last year, and I think keep natural resources now just over 10 and it was 20. So that's why
we say the momentum is slowing. It is still materially above and actually natural resources
is an area where we say claims inflation actually is very low, so that is margin enhancing
there. So that's why it's happening the most, but it's actually the lines that went up the
most, they are not increasing as much rather than the pressurized lines that didn't have
much rate increase. Now going back down, if that makes any sense. So it's still margin
enhancing and it's not in any way eroded the whole rate increase eroded by inflation.

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thank you. Just the last question for me just on crop. Just -- could you
provide us just a little bit more color in the picking of a 95% combined ratio for the first
half ? Just -- could you perhaps book in how you've seen the development so over the
year versus perhaps your worst year, which I think was 102% combined ratio, if I remember
rightly?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

2012, I think was the worst one. Wasn't it?

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

I think so, yes.

FINAL

A - Richard Pryce

Yes. Well, we are not there yet, Sid. Look, as you know, North America is, as we're baking
in, hot in some palaces at the moment, particularly as Inder called out, the Dakotas and
Minnesota and California is big challenge, but fortunately, it's heavily irrigated and they
haven't turned off the water. Inder and I spent some time with the crop team yesterday,
going through their synergy, it's very fluid. I don't view 95 as conservative because it could
get worse, but it's very difficult for us to call because we don't -- the profits got to come
through from the profitable states and Inder can talk to this more intelligent than I can, but
there's some states that are performing very well. And as others are performing very
badly, we have pretty much written off the Dakotas and Minnesota, but there's some
marginal space which could then cause whether it goes up or down from the 95. But Inder
can -- Inder is the expert on this compare to me. So I'll pass over to him.

A - Inder Singh

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

I'm not sure how much more insight we can -- depending on how long you've got to. The
only comment I'd make is that when you look back to 2012, which was a drought year and
potentially comparable. The drought was a lot more widespread. I guess what we're
saying now is that the states that are impacted are fewer in number, albeit we do have a
decent market share in North Dakota. So yes, as Richard said, I think it's -- we could even
make assumptions about these states that are getting worse. The question is, how does
the other crops around the country develop which there are some positive signs
elsewhere. So look, I think the 95 sort of reflects our current assessment. We're also
conscious that you don't get real numbers until you get meaningfully into the second half,
so it's just -- for us to give you any more precise guidance, but just wouldn't be sensible
because it's probably a conversation we better off having as we get through the second
half and get better visibility.

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thanks, Sid. We will try Matt Dunger at Bank of America. Are you there, Matt?

Q - Matt Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Can you hear me, gentlemen?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

We can hear you, Matt. Hi.

Q - Matt Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Appreciate your time. Thanks for taking my questions. So I had a question on North
America, some substantial growth in crop, which is particularly cat exposed. You are
delivering growth ahead of race in the U.S., but are you happy with the growth given
arguably growth in crop does push you more towards catastrophe exposure?

FINAL

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

We're very aware of that and interesting, obviously, two-thirds of the GWP growth in crop
is because the commodity prices. So -- and the other third is targeted and particularly in
places like Illinois where we have recruited a team and fortunately Illinois is not challenged
at the moment as far as profitability. So the targeted growth actually has gone into an
area that should enhance our margin in a challenging year for crop.
One of the (inaudible) team are meeting at the moment today some of them in Bermuda,
with Sam Harris, our Chief Underwriting Officer. When we talk about portfolio optimization
really in North America and I referred to a monoline catastrophe. We are catastrophe
exposed or weather exposed in crop, so we can't -- we've got to balance it. So we're
going to be very careful and selective around the monoline catastrophe business that we
support going forward. And that's why we've backed financial lines and also retail, as our
growth opportunities, because they do diversify away from the heavier weather exposed
of crop and the monoline catastrophe business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we are in the phase of a portfolio shift in North America. You can't do it overnight, you
can't do it in one year, but we're encouragingly making the right progress to deal with the
concern that you probably correctly just raised around the exposure to weather. Does that
answer your question?

Q - Matt Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thank you. Can you do this organically, this portfolio shift. Or do you need to look at
options in North America to add teams, businesses?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

While the teams is our option and we bought the financial lines teams from Berkshire last
year and that's turned out to be a success. And we would and are looking at other teams
if the right people, the right culture come along, then we would look to organically help to
shift the portfolio and that's one of the things that Todd is looking at in the North
American business.

Q - Matt Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thank you. If I could just ask a final question. On the $130 million of COVID claims, you're
hoping to come in below that. Can you just give us a bit of a rationale as to why you're
holding on to $60 million for lenders mortgage insurance given the improving trends in
that business and also retaining elevated probability of adequacy? What's the timing for
assessing release of some of these provisions?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}
Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

I'll let Inder to answer that one.

FINAL

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Matt, I mean, I think as we are sitting in the middle of the prolonged lockdown here in
Australia, in New South Wales, potentially further lockdowns to come as we go through
the rest of the year. The environment remains uncertain, right? And so, yes, we feel
better about it than what we did as we exited the end of last year, but we're sort of six
months on. And we really need to see how the book performs. We're not seeing anything
in terms of arrears development, we've been very cautious about where we're writing
new business in a way supporting existing partners with focus and the origination is very
much focused on first-time buyers and owner-occupiers, what a quota share on the
business that's a bit bigger than last year. So, we remain cautious, environment remains
uncertain. We will take another look at it at the end of the year.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

I think, Matt, you done there. Okay. Next question is Nigel from Citigroup. Go ahead, Nigel.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Thanks very much. So, good morning, gentlemen. Just first of all, just a quick follow-up on
the crop. I mean, am I right in thinking that those sort of heat wave impacted states are
mostly soybean rather than corn, is that a correct assessment of the situation?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

The impact for us Nigel -- yes, sorry. (Multiple Speakers) --the weather impact, so we're
not expert farmers here, but what happens when you get this drought, it impacts corn
and ability of corn to recover with late-season rain is more limited. So it's, a, the mix of
business in the state but also corn is going to be more heavily impacted because its ability
to recover with any rain we see now is going to be more limited whereas soybeans can
recover with a bit of rain as we get closer to the harvest. So we wouldn't want to get crop
specific. We feel that these states are at risk and we try to factor that in where we book
the combined ratio at the half year.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Yes. So I was just trying to sort of, I think there's been some industry commentary that
soybean was most impacted. So I thought that would limit the impact but you are saying
there's a fair amount of corn exposure as well.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes, and the corn doesn't look like it's going to recover, Nigel. That's the other problem.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Yes. Fair enough. Moving on, just on the commission ratio. I mean that was a bit lower than
expected and obviously, in the pack, I think you're saying it's due to mix of business and
also obviously the extent of the crop growth. Can you maybe just sort of unpack that a
Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

little bit more to how much of that sort of is a group gain, how much is at risk of bouncing
back again?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

FINAL

You want to take that one, Inder?

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes, happy to. Nigel, I think when we talk about what's genuinely sustainable recurring, the
improvements in attritional the improvements in the expense ratio and then commission
yes, we're happy with the progress. It is mix related. I mean, obviously with crop we get
commission reimbursed partly from the federal government so that the more crop
contributes to the overall portfolio, the lower the commission ratio in essence. And then in
some of these areas that have been growing a bit more, we've deliberately put quite
shares on such as LMI, financial lines, trade credit or impact of the commission ratio.
So I would say it's the mix and it's the reinsurance. Now we can argue some of this we
potentially recurring but we're not banking that as a recurring benefit as we think about
the outlook going forward, Nigel, is not all of that's going to recur because it is subject to
mix and subjective to reinsurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

I think Nigel, if you take out the issues of crop and some of the reinsurance programs, the
business mix is important. If we grow in QBE Re, QBE Re is a low commission business.
Europe has a lower commission ratio than the U.K. and then across the company we've
been a lot more circumspect on MGA's [ph] delicated and binders and so on, where
we're paying other people to work for us. And if we reduce our capacity in some of those,
then that will bring the commission ratio down because we're paying them to do quite a
lot of the work.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

And then just, apologies, if you did cover this, but in the outlook statement, you'll say
you'll consider more strategic reinsurance to enhance returns and further optimize the
portfolio. Can you give sort of any more color on your line of thinking in that regard?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

I think that may be slightly misinterpreted in some ways because that maybe, if we
decided to do some form of LPT type transactions to deal with some legacy portfolios
which has got very little left to do. There's not a lot of strategic reinsurance buying that
one can do anymore. And as I said, I think we are now more focused on getting the
portfolios right and managing the inwards business and then we'll deal with reassurance
as possible. We don't want to become overly reliant on reinsurance and we don't want to
use reinsurance to short-term fix portfolios, we'd fix them then use reinsurance as a shortterm lever because that wouldn't necessarily be a reoccurring benefit that we can have.
So we're very much about front-end fixing the reinsurance, but of course, we'd always

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

look if there is some optimal way to deal with a particular problem in the short term but
that wouldn't necessarily be an overriding strategy of the company.

FINAL

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yes. It's just another tool around capital as well, Nigel, as we think -- we're not trying to
look at portfolios where we necessarily worried about but it's more how do we think
about the total cost of capital. How do we manage our appetite in some of these areas
and that's kind of having think about the role of reinsurance, but as Richard said, it's really
more about allocating our capital to the right areas. That's really the focus primarily. And
then reinsurance is a source of capital in one sentence.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

And then maybe just finally, I mean, it would be remiss with it being Richard's last results
and all your experience. Richard, not to ask you about Lloyd's and how you think about the
future of Lloyd's and whether or not you think QBE will be writing more or less business
through Lloyd's as we move forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

You put me in a difficult place at my own cost. The great thing we have here with Bill over
the last eight years as we have a mixed franchise. So we aren't overly reliant on Lloyd's.
So if Lloyd's is success, we will be part of it and will be a vibrant part of it. If it's difficult or
problematic, we don't need to be part of it. So we've built an option. We've built an
option in Europe. So we have one of the most viable alternatives post Brexit. We also
have our U.K. business. So, I think we want Lloyd's to be a success. My personal view is I
think they need to move quicker and they need to be more dynamic and deal with stuff.
It's still a place where you would think it's inefficient and the cost of doing business is too
high and the acquisition cost is too high. But it's something we want to see successful and
we want to be part of it but we're very pleased that we've got options if it doesn't suit
QBE's strategy.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thanks, Nigel. We've got two final questions.
Next question is from Steve (inaudible) from Hester. Are you there, Steve?

Q - Analyst
Yes, I am. Can you hear me okay?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Hi, Steve.

Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Fantastic. Richard, spot on a great set of numbers and to the team as well. Came down
the center how you're monitoring your people and key underwriters and how you seen
the health and the turnover within those kind of really important people within the
business?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

That's the one area we've probably focused a lot more since we've had the COVID
experience. And unfortunately you guys have got a bit in Australia what we've had here in
the past. So we're sort of bit of past masters in the company. We do far more regular
check-ins with staff, these are formally and informally with surveys and quick snap surveys.
And managers are very aware of keeping connected with people. In the office here, we're
seeing a lot more of the underwriters and the young underwriters come in, so that's
good.

Bloomberg Transcript

We want to stay connected with our customers and with our staff. I think it's incumbent
and when we say to all our managers, they've got to be far more active and proactive in
trying to make sure that people are -- feel part of the organization, particularly new joiners
because we're still hiring people. We do online training courses. I know there was a big
one right up here yesterday for professional indemnity.
So we're really working quite hard to find any way we can to connect with people. As far
as monitoring them, we're pretty granular around ourselves and we know which
underwriters work and which don't. Our underwriting authorities are very strict. We don't
have people who can write all sorts of different business. You very much are authorized to
write in one area in your expertise or in one country or whatever. So we can very quickly
look at performance of the sale and the team who work within that. So we can align
individual performance to their sales and they're remunerated on that basis as well. So
then we look very carefully to make sure that the profitability and the activity is right,
including the growth and the profitability, but also the health and the well-being of our
people which has become obviously our biggest concern over the last 18 months as we
lived through these difficult times.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Thanks, Steve. Final question is from Doran [ph] from Credit Swiss. Go ahead, Doran [ph]?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

I think you're on mute.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

You are on mute, Doran [ph].

Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Q - Analyst
Sorry about that. Can you hear me now?

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, Doran [ph]. Yes.

Q - Analyst
Thank you. So just looking at reserve releases, they were very quite a big top-ups last
year. I was just wondering it seems quite soon after just six months experience to be
releasing some of that prior already. So maybe just a bit more colored motivations around
that and I suppose also just in the context of social inflation as you've mentioned, there
hasn't been much coming through but still cautious on how that plays out when courts
reopen in the second half ?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Yes. That's a really fair observation definitely and I'll let Inder answer in some detail if
needed, but we are not going looking to reduce our reserves, quite contrary. And when
you look at the IBNR in the large loss and what we're doing there we are holding more
IBNR than we ever have because we're not dropping it at each quarter like we could have
done in the past. What's come out of releases this time is really almost in matter of the
mathematical process rather than any judgment calls, we've made no judgment calls as
far as I'm aware of saying, oh, that's a lot better, so we're going to do it. To the contrary
and things like financial lines, we're not touching anything in financial lines. So we worked
out as 2017/'18 was a massive watershed in financial lines and we've seen all this rate,
we've got relatively high loss picks and we're not touching it.
Where we did get some reserve release and particularly here which probably did inflate
the overall numbers, is we didn't take some of the lockdown savings that came through in
motor and casualty, particularly in the U.K. at the back end of last year and we didn't
release those as part of the year-end process 2020 and some of that has come through
and we just wanted to make sure that was definitely there and that's how I view that. We
actually will think, take two or three steps before we make a decision to release reserves
or make decisions. We are a lot more cautious on all of that.
So we're certainly not going looking and we haven't had any judgment changes.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Richard, I might just add one or two things. So, Doran [ph], we haven't released -- none of
these releases come from any of the areas we spent the last year. The other thing I'd say
is you're looking at numbers that are net numbers and within that there's a bunch of
movement. So if you look at Australia, within the net number of $24 million, we have -- if
you look last 12 months, right, we strengthened in my ability, we strengthened the workers
comp, in the aggregate amount that strengthening is probably close to $150 million. So -and offsetting that is some releases in areas like CTP, trade credit, et cetera, so what
we're looking at is really net numbers and as Richard mentioned in the U.K., you've got to
Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

do some further strengthening in financial lines in that net number. And similarly in the U.S.,
we're not releasing anything even though we're not actually seeing some of the claim
trends in line with some of the social inflation assumptions we've made because courts
have been closed and there's a backlog. So what you're hearing from us is a level of
caution around reserves.

A - Tony Jackson

{BIO 1729093 <GO>}

Okay. I think we'll wrap it up there. There's no further questions. So I'll hand back to you,
Richard to close.

A - Richard Pryce

{BIO 5184927 <GO>}

Thank you, Tony. And thank you everybody for joining us today. And I wish you all a good
day. And it's 2 a.m. I'm going to try and get some sleep. Thank you very much for joining
us.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

