Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Annemiek van Melick, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jos Baeten, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michel Hulters, Investor Relations Director

Other Participants
Andrew Baker
Benoit Petrarque
Cor Kluis
Fulin Liang
Michael Huttner
Robin van den Broek
Steven Haywood

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the ASR Nederland Investor Call Interim Results 2021. This call
is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Michel Hulters. Please go ahead
sir.

Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Thank you operator. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us today.
Welcome to the ASR conference call on our ﬁrst half 2021 results. On the call with me are
Jos Baeten, our CEO; and Annemiek van Melick, our CFO. Jos as customary will kick oﬀ
with some of the highlights of our ﬁnancial results, and he will also discuss the business
performance of course. Annemiek will then talk about the developments in our capital
position and solvency, and after that we'll open up for Q&A. We've got scheduled for a
full hour for this call, including the presentation and the Q&A. And as usual please do
review the disclaimer that we have in the back of the presentation slide for any forwardlooking statements.
So having said that Jos -- over to Jos.

Page 1 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Michel. And also from my side good morning to everybody and thanks for joining
us on this call. I've understood some of you are calling in from their holiday addresses so
that has become in the meantime the importance of this of this call for you. I hope you're
doing well. I noticed that we are the only insurance company today with results. So I guess
this must be a pretty relaxing day for an analyst covering the insurance sector.
I'm sure you will understand that we are very pleased to present the strong set of results
for the ﬁrst half of this year. Momentum in our operation has remained strong, driven by
happy and loyal customers. Our ﬁnancial performance exceeds last year's record results
with a considerable margin. We continue to operate our business with very strong
balance sheet with a robust solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to thank our employees who are the driving force behind this performance. I'm
proud of the fact that our employees have continued to keep morale high in this
challenging period. In a recent survey executed by Eﬀectory, ASR is chosen as the best
employer in the Netherlands.
Now, without further ado, let's turn to Slide 2, and take a closer look at our ﬁnancial
results. I presume you all have seen the data we released this morning. So I only will
highlight the most important developments. As this dashboard shows, our performance
in the ﬁrst half of 2021 has been really strong. The substantial increase of 20% in the
operating results to EUR536 million is driven by higher results in all of our segments,
combined ratio stood at 90.2%, well ahead of our targets of between 94% and 96%,
excluding COVID by the way, the combined ratio improved to 94.1% from 94.5% H1 last
year at a lower end of our target range. Our Solvency II ratio continues to be robust at
197% still at the standard formula, after interim dividend and share buyback and
absorbing the impact from the lowering of the UFR.
Of course, Annemiek will provide further detail on this. The OCC improved by EUR74
million to EUR372 million, which means we are well on track of achieving our midterm
target of EUR500 million of OCC by the end of this year. The increase is a result of strong
business performance and slightly increased investment returns. Operating return of
17.8% remains high and very well above the target of 12% to 14%. The increase in IFRs net
result reﬂects the higher operating results in the absence of large negative incidents and
one-oﬀs which we have seen in the ﬁrst half of 2020. We are happy to oﬀer an interim
dividend of EUR0.82 per share which is an increase of almost 8%, and represents 40% of
last year's dividend.
Let's now move to our non-ﬁnancial targets on slide number 3. As I'm sure you are aware,
we are committed to deliver sustainable value to all of our stakeholders, speciﬁcally our
customers investors employees and the society at large. Our ongoing focus on customer
satisfaction has led to a solid net promoter score of 48 and already well above the
medium-term target of 44.

Page 2 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

We are well on track to achieve the objective of measuring the CO2 footprint of 95% of
our investment portfolio, and our impact investments are already ahead of this year's
objectives -- objective. Due to the lockdown restrictions and social distancing rules, our
employees have not been able to do many of the activities we typically do for society. As
soon as the social distancing measures are relieved we will scale up again.
As we focus on sustainable long-term value creation for all stakeholders, we are very
pleased with the recognition and ESG benchmarks. Sustainalytics assigned ASR 10 points
in its ESG risk rating, which makes us today the worldwide leader in our industry. In
addition, to being included in the Dow Jones sustainability world index is a welcoming
recognition.
Let me now highlight some key developments and achievements in executing our
business strategy on Slide number 4. Some business developments I would like to
highlight. The non-life business is performing very well with strong organic growth,
positive developments in our reintegration company and a successful conversion to a new
IT platform within our commercial P&C business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Life department, we delivered on creating synergies by reducing the number of
applications and converting the systems to a software-as-a-service platform, in April this
year, we have decided on centralizing and modernizing our main pension IT system, to
key lanes software-as-a-service platform Plexus which by the way is the same provider as
our individual Life business already is. With this, ASR takes an important step in the
preparation for the national pension reforms which will be fully eﬀective from the 1st of
Jan 2026.
Furthermore, we achieved good revenue growth in the WerknemersPensioen, which was
up 31% in the ﬁrst half and transfers the pension scheme of our own employees from a DB
to DC scheme. Our fee based businesses are also doing very well. Third-party assets
under management have increased by EUR1.5 billion to EUR25.8 billion, mainly driven by
growth in a mortgage fund and Pension DC funds. Our mortgage origination amounted
EUR2.6 billion in the ﬁrst half of 2021 on track to exceed last year's production of EUR4.6
billion. And lastly, we now have fully ﬁnished the divestments we set out at our CMD of
2018 and therefore have no current divestments.
Now, let's move to Slide 5, to elaborate a little bit on our non-life result. A record ﬁrst half
in non-life with our operating result, increasing to EUR179 million, driven by an
improvement of claims in disability and strong organic growth in all product lines. In
disability, we have seen considerable improvement also in sickness leave, despite some
reserve strengthening, driven by the adverse trends in absenteeism from stress and
burnouts.
We have started a new campaign to make people more aware of these risks. Also, we
have invested in our reintegration service which aims to help both in prevention and
reintegration. And as you can see in the numbers that worked out quite well over the ﬁrst
half.

Page 3 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

P&C saw a favorable claims experience, partially oﬀset by a one-oﬀ reserve strengthening
related to motor vehicle liability, including lowering of the actuarial interest rates related
to a recent court-ruling. Weather related calamities were on a low level in the ﬁrst six
months of this year. We currently estimate the impact from the ﬂoods in the beginning of
Q3 in Limburg, somewhere between EUR20 million and EUR30 million and this will be
included in the results for the second half of this year.
Combined ratio improved by 2.6 points to 90.2 for P&C and disability combined, beating
the target of 94 to 96, excluding COVID-19 related eﬀects the combined ratio asset is
94.1%, compared to the 94.5% in H1 last year and therefore at a lower end of our target
range.
Organic growth in GWP in disability and P&C amounted to 5.2 above our target of three
to ﬁve per annum. And ﬁnally, the increase in health gross written premium of 43%
reﬂects the commercial success of the beneﬁt in current insurance product which we
launched at the end of 2019, and a non-recurring premium that was received from the
health insurance act.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's talk about our Life business at slide number 6. Some highlights to mention on our
Life segment here operating results of the Life segment increased by EUR18 million to
EUR379 with a less negative impact of COVID-19, amounting to a negative of EUR30
million compared to a negative of EUR25 million last year. The increase in operating result
is mostly driven by a higher investment margin, reﬂecting the recovery of the ﬁnancial
markets with higher dividend income, rerisking beneﬁts on a lower required interest due
to the run-up of higher guarantees in the life book.
Gross written premium of our Life business fell by 8% to 928. This is due to diﬀerent
impacts within our pension scheme and non-recurring single premium paid in the ﬁrst
half of 2020 as well as timing diﬀerences in premium income, related to the transition
from DB to DC, which will show a catchup in the second half of the year.
At the same time, we achieved good growth in our pension DC product, which show an
increase in premiums of 31% to EUR342 million of the ﬁrst half. Furthermore, our cost
eﬃciency improved to 42 bps, a share of the basic nominal provision which is below our
target range for 2021. This is driven by lower costs through eﬃciency from earlier
conversions and lower operating expenses, in addition to a higher nominal provision due
to the strong inﬂow in DC.
Let's now turn to Slide 7 for the other segments. The operating result on the two fee
generating segments, asset management and distribution and services combined
amounts EUR34 million, up from EUR28 million in the ﬁrst half of last year, so a growth of
21%.
This conﬁrms that we are running comfortably ahead of the medium-term target for 2021
of 5% growth per annum. Asset management results improved by EUR3 million, which
was driven by continued growth in the mortgage fund and to a lesser extent to the growth
in the DC pension product.
Page 4 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

Operating results of the distribution and services segment increased EUR3 million, mainly
driven by small acquisitions and organic growth due to the expansion of services
provided. Operating result of the holding amounted to a minus EUR56 million as already
announced at full year 2020, this is mainly due to the fact that as of the beginning of this
year our pension plan for ASR employees moved to a DC product resulting in lower costs.
So now let's turn to slide number 8 about our capital management. I'm always keen to
show this slide as it displays our strong discipline and track record in oﬀering attractive
returns to our shareholders. This half year we announced an interim dividend per share of
EUR0.82, an increase of almost 8% compared to the interim dividend of EUR0.76 at the
half year 2020, and equals 40% of the regular dividend over 2020, in line with our
dividend policy.
Since our IPO in 2016, we have been committed to oﬀering shareholders attractive returns
in dividends and supplemented by share buybacks. During this period, ASR showed
growth in DPS of over 12% per year and returned around EUR1.7 billion of capital to our
shareholders, this roughly equals 38% of our market cap at June 30. We continue to
allocate our capital in a rational manner, as we have shown in the past, with a strong
balance sheet and robust solvency position.
Having said that, I will wrap up after Annemiek has told you through all the solvency
numbers and the OCC numbers. So I'm happy to hand over to you, Annemiek.

Bloomberg Transcript

Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Thanks, Jos. Let's turn to Slide 10, then for stock solvency. As you can see, our solvency
ratio remains very robust at 197%, which as you all know, is based on a standard model.
This ﬁgure includes the interim dividend of EUR111 million as well as a buyback, we
executed earlier this year. It also absorbs the further UFR decline of 4 percentage points.
Unrestricted Tier 1 capital represents 74% of our own funds and hence, we continue to
have ample headroom available within the Solvency II framework. We have around EUR1
billion of restricted Tier 1 and over EUR500 million in Tier 2 and Tier 3 headroom, as you
can see. SCR decreased by around EUR28 million, primarily driven by the decrease in
insurance risk for life and health due to higher interest rates.
Now let's turn to ﬂow on Page 11. Obviously, we started the year at 199% and lost around 1
percentage points from the impact of acquisitions, mainly related to the Brand New Day
IORP acquisition. OCC came in very strong with EUR372 million or 9% point in solvency,
driven by strong business capital generation in all segments and on loan speciﬁcally. And
I'll talk about the OCC in more detail on the next slide later on.
The minus 5% for market and operational development includes the impact of the
lowering of the UFR at around 4% points and the other market and operational
developments of roughly oﬀsetting each other with some positive impact from interest
rates and spread movements as well as real estate valuations being oﬀset by negative
impacts from lower VA, some near adjustments and impact of rising equity markets due to
Page 5 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

the equity dampener. Before capital distribution, our solvency stood at 202% and after
deducting the interim dividend and share buyback, we executed in H1, we get to 197%.
Now onto Slide 12 for some detail on the OCC. As said, the OCC came in at EUR372
million, which is an increase of 25% or EUR74 million compared to the ﬁrst half of last year,
which is mainly driven by a strong increase in business capital generation, which added
EUR58 million versus H1 last year. The increase in business capital generation was
primarily driven by improved performance in the non-life segment and higher excess
returns. Within non-life, we saw a larger positive contribution from COVID than last year.
However, this was largely oﬀset by additional reserve strengthening as already
mentioned.
Underlying, we really saw a better performance of both P&C and Disability, for disability
speciﬁcally and sickness, better operating performance, as well as the impact of repricing
and disability. The higher excess returns were driven by re-risking mainly by increased
exposure in mortgages and partly in other illiquid credits and an increase in equity and
real estate valuations. The increase in capital release was mainly driven by SCR release
due to interest rate movements.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, please bear in mind that in the second half of the year, we always absorb an
additional new business stream from renewals in our Disability business and to a lesser
extent in our Health business. H2 last year this led to hardly any capital release for
instance.
Interest rate in the ﬁrst half of the year went up which almost fully absorbed the negative
UFR echo from last year, hence reﬂect technical movement that you can see on the slide.
Given the result in H1, we're obviously very comfortable in achieving our target of EUR500
million OCC at the end of this year. As mentioned before you can't just take H1 OCC and
multiply that by 2 for the full year, given the new business stream seasonality we typically
have in H2 and given the strong non-life results in H1.
If we probably be more appropriate to take H2 of 2020 as a base, and the EUR200 million
we had in the second half of last year, and adjust that for current circumstances like lower
rates and the impact from the July ﬂooding. And then obviously, it depends a bit on what
will happen with COVID for the remainder of the year, et cetera, obviously where interest
rates would go.
All in all very strong OCC, improved underlying performance in non-life, higher
investment returns as well as a beneﬁt from COVID, and us being quite comfortable
obviously on the full-year guidance for OCC.
Now let's go to Slide 13 for a few words on balance sheet. Balance sheet remains very
strong, as said, we have ample ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, ﬁnancial leverage decreased by 2% to
26.3%, due to an increase in equity interest coverage increases well, mostly due to the
improved IFRS results, and our S&P rating was conﬁrmed in June.

Page 6 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

On liquidity on Slide 14. Holding liquidity ended at EUR456 million, which is in line with
our policy of maintaining capital at the operating companies and upstream cash to cover
dividends, coupons and holding expenses for the current year.
Last year, due to the COVID uncertainties, we didn't remit from the non-life entity and this
year, we've remitted EUR73 million from the non-life entity and EUR251 million from Life
with the remaining EUR32 million coming from other segments. Our debt maturity proﬁle
as you can see is very robust with the next maturity date in 2024. Solvency group, we
already discussed, robust at 197%, ratios for non-life and life entities are 166 and 188
respectively, after remittance and both are well above our targets of 150% and 160%
respectively.
And with that, I'd like to hand it back to Jos.

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Annemiek. And to conclude, ASR remains in a very strong position and has
delivered a very strong performance in the ﬁrst half of 2021, which we're generally proud
of. Looking ahead, we are positive about the commercial and operational outlook for ASR
in the second half of 2021 and delivering on our 2021 target.
Now, I guess, you'll be looking how to arrive at a sensible full year estimate. In doing so, I
should caution you to not multiply the outstanding performance of the ﬁrst half by two. I
guess a reasonable starting point for your analysis would be to look at the operating
result of the second half of last year being or 40%. I also having said this kindly invite you
to our investor update, which is scheduled for the 7th of December, where we will
elaborate on our new medium-term strategy, including an update on our ﬁnancial and
non-ﬁnancial targets.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the presentation of Annemiek and myself, and we
are very happy to take your questions now.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We'll now take our ﬁrst question from Cor Kluis.
Please go ahead.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning, I'm Cor Kluis of ABN AMRO, and congratulations with the results
obviously. And got a couple of questions, ﬁrst of all, disability insurance -- and better
combined ratio of 92.1% in H1. Could you help us a little bit to give an idea of the trend
how that went through the ﬁrst half of the year? And somewhat higher combined ratios
Page 7 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

and (inaudible) EBIT came down due to lower level, (inaudible) you said continuing in July
and August after when the ﬁrst COVID period just on disability combined ratio
improvement.
And second question is also about Non-life. We see health premiums went up by I think
44% quite in the past you always mentioned is important and combined ratios now are
great actually, in this business line. How do you feel about the proﬁtability going forward
and in which product lines are you growing? Because that deviates a little bit strong as the
growth trend that we have seen in the past and got then a question about the OCC,
especially the direct going forward, I did some back of the envelope calculations, but
maybe you to help us a little bit through it, but I think in H1 your (inaudible) 2 million I
would say for H2 including the attrition for H1 I think it's minus 120 and for next year, I
would say, if rates would not change minus 220 that maybe you could help us share
through that a little bit? And the last question is about M&A of course, you cannot commit
too much about it to during COVID special bit more diﬃcult for me to enter in such kind
of stocks, any comments on that will be, which would be appreciated because since the
IPO ASR always have been yes quite good in doing acquisitions, but is it easier now those
kind of questions. Those are my questions. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Cor. I think the question on disability and non-life, I will take like M&A
and OCC will be covered by Annemiek. On disability, where does the increase in results
come from and what is the trend? Well, a couple of things. First of all, we signiﬁcantly
increase premiums in sickness leave for the 1st of Jan recently, and also seen a premium
increase in an individual disability for new customers. So that was helpful. Secondly, in the
ﬁrst half last year, we weren't able to do the things necessary to help people to return to
work and already in the second half that we were able to pick up again and that's
continued in the ﬁrst half even despite the lockdowns we had to deal with. Without
already projecting the full year result, but the positive vibe in the disability business, which
we have seen in the ﬁrst half, seems to continue. So the negative result on sickness leave
which we had last year, probably will not be the case in the full year this year as far as we
can judge today, so the positive trend started in the last half of last year seems to continue
going forward. On non-life, on health -- the growth in health we were happy with that.
We're still doing this business on very strict targets in terms of combined ratio. And as far
as we are able to judge now this business line will be able to deliver on those on the
combined ratio targets and health is for us -- has become more important because of the
connection with disability. And as you may have noticed, we've seen signiﬁcant growth in
disability in the ﬁrst half, but also last year and that's partially related to the fact that we
oﬀer combined products between health and disability. And part of your question was
where do you see the growth going forward, I think we aim at continuing the growth as
we have seen in the ﬁrst half. So in pension DC, P&C and disability, so the main growth
drivers should come from those business lines.
And maybe, Annemiek you can elaborate a little bit on OCC and I will come back on
M&A.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Page 8 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

The calculation that you made on high-level work that seems about right to us and
probably to give some -- to give a bit of a sensitivity a ﬁgure I think we also provided at
last year. If interest rates compared to the June 30 ﬁgures that represent that if interest
rates could go down by around 50 bps. We would lose around EUR55 million in OCC
which is basically driven by a plus EUR70 million and partially mitigated by a bit higher
capital release. Now with interest rates not having gone down 50, but around 30 bps,
your (inaudible) estimate is about right.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you. And on M&A, you rightfully said that we've done lot of M&A transactions
actually 15 over the last couple of years. It is still part of our strategy 2020 ended up being
diﬃcult to start conversations with potential targets. And as we all know, there is a bit
more -- there are more possibilities to meet people again. So it remains an important part
of our strategy and we are aiming at possibilities, but it's always diﬃcult to give any
comments, whether we are having conversations right now or we are looking forward to
have a conversation, but you can be assured it is an important part of our strategy also
going forward.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Very clear.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew Baker. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So three from me, please. First one is just on the
non-life business. If there was a net COVID beneﬁt in the ﬁrst half about EUR 16 million,
just curious, how you are thinking about that developing in the second half? And then just
secondly again back to M&A, I guess, how rational are you seeing the pricing of deals
right now, especially as we recently saw one of your peers, I guess accept a lower return
on a distribution business which presumably with a business that you will say looking at?
And then, ﬁnally, if I just in terms of sort of capital deployment, obviously a solvency in
excess of your threshold for additional capital distribution, your capital generation's been
strong. So just curious how you're thinking right now about your -- I guess preference and
likelihood of M&A versus buyback in the near-term for that excess capital. Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well on your on your non-life question, it's -- to be honest, it's diﬃcult to predict, it is our
feeling that and if we look at for example, traﬃc in the Netherlands, I think it has roughly
returned to quite normal. So, one could argue that the beneﬁt from a lower traﬃc level
will disappear in the second half. On the other hand, more people keep on working from
home, for example, ASR now has decided that our employees have to come to the oﬃce
at least two days per week. So, that would mean that they are allowed to work from home
for the other two or three days. So, there's also an argument that traﬃc will remain a bit
lower than it has been in the past. We don't know yet whether we can put a number on
Page 9 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

that, but I think there are arguments to expect that the pressure on that traﬃc will be lower
going forward. And whether that will result in signiﬁcant numbers in the results, because
on the other hand, we do see more pressure on bodily injury claims and whether that will
level out or at the end of the day, will be a positive is to be seen, but we're following on
that of course, it's also important for the 7th of December, where we have to shared new
targets on our combined ratio, for example, and those kind of questions are taken into
account in all the discussions we're having on the new targets going forward.
On your question, how rational we remain in terms of M&A, especially in the distribution
area, of course, we have seen the decision of one of our beloved competitors. You can
imagine that we have looked at the same opportunity and from our perspective, it was
diﬃcult to meet our hurdles and that is probably the reason that we then did end up
being the buyer. On the other hand, we can imagine the decision of the management of
our competitor. We already started a couple of years ago to build a strong distribution
franchise, they however hadn't any signiﬁcant distribution franchise, so probably so,
probably they looked at our strategy and are happy to copy this part of our strategy and
then you have to make signiﬁcant investments to pick up. So, from a rational point -- from
an investment point of view, I think it's a tough decision, but from a competitive point of
view, I can imagine.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

And then your question on excess capital let me kind of break it down and ﬁrst focus on
this year. And as you know, we have a dividend policy that also includes a payout ratio of
at the minimum 45%. As you can judge by our stories today, we're quite bullish on the full
year operating results. And hence, I wouldn't rule out a very healthy dividend to come out
of that based on that 45% payout ratio. In addition, we also said that provided that
solvency ratio will be above 180%. We will also continue with the buyback program, which
is still scheduled for one year ahead. And I want that solvency but obviously, rates have
come down since June, since we reported 197% -- has come down a bit as well. So, there
will be some pressure just from market movements on solvency will obviously dividend
out quite a healthy chunk, but all in all, we remain comfortable that we can also perform
the buyback asset. So for this year, I think, we're looking at a healthy capital return from
our perspective. Now going forward and on what level will base of capital return and how
to deal with the quality of the underlying earnings as this year, we obviously have the
COVID beneﬁt in there et cetera. What will happen with the buyback program that's all
the topic that's scheduled to be discussed on the 7th of December. But for this year, I
think we're quite conﬁdent with the capital returns.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 3694545 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much.

Operator
Michel Huttner. Please go ahead. Your line is open. Michael Huttner. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}
Page 10 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

Fantastic. Can you hear me?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Yes.

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Yes. Fantastic. Thank you so much and congratulations on a fantastic number. I have three
questions. The ﬁrst one is you mentioned some observing on motor liability and I just
wondered, if you could, maybe explain a little bit, if there's any concerns or what the
trends are here and then you mentioned it a little bit? The second is, you focused a lot on
the capital strength and the show, I think it's normal, it's not, because I thought I get
confused. But you seem to have EUR1.5 billion of headroom, if you wish to do a deal. And
here my question is with EUR1.5 billion of headroom how much business can that buy?
How big a portfolio can you buy? I don't know if you can answer that in any way because
it's supposed the question's a bit vague. And then you remark of 10 on ESG sounds like a
amazing gold medal kind of Olympic score. What does it actually mean in terms of -- it's
wonderful to be green and I think what does it mean in terms of beneﬁt to you in terms of
how investors perceive or your customers or your employees? Is it a real topic of
conversation because it brings stuﬀ or is it kind of just a nice thing to have with people
just tick? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Thanks for all your questions. Let me start with the start with the additional reserving that
we did on the P&C side. It's really driven it's really related to the motor and vehicle
liability. That was ruining where basically the actuality of interest rate is set to also,
possibly become negative. So in our reserving, we have to take care of that negative
actuarial interest rate, which led to some additions and also, in terms of bodily injury we
see lots of you know, people jumping into that market and the claims tend to drag along
a bit longer and it's an area that the Dutch industry for the last couple of years really had
to take some additional reserve strengthening to deal with that part, I think we're fully
there now on the old years, et cetera. And quite frankly this year also provided a very
good reputation and opportunity to deﬁnitely look at that reserve strengthening.
In terms of headroom, the EUR1.5 billion it's not cumulative. If you do, if you want hearing
you add a bit then you have less room on the other -- so it's not necessarily cumulative.
And what you can buy for it obviously depends on the price multiples on the distribution
side of business tends to be a bit higher than obviously multiples for instance a life book.
On the other end, life book requires a lot more capital, so it really depends on the
opportunity that you're looking at. I think in general, it's fair to say that if we see a very
eﬀective opportunity, we would have ample room to transact on it either by our current
solvency or by actually using a bit of the headroom that we have there. And in addition to
that, there are some other ways that we could create some more headroom in our capital
structure for instance by longevity transactions etcetera. So it's we're in a comfortable
position to have that headroom to support either inorganic or organic growth.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

And on your last question on -- sorry go ahead, Michael.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

FINAL

No, no. No, it's just you're so kind of -- I'm interrupting but is it big enough that you can
buy out the (inaudible) business?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

It depends on the price slide has gone up for it.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

If we could buy it out with this headroom we would deﬁnitely like to have a conversation
with (inaudible). And I think our shareholders would welcome them as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

On your last question on the 10 points on the ESG at Sustainalytics the way sustainalytics
looks at those kinds of ratings is they try to get a weight on the risk that companies run
from a climate change perspective, they take into account, the governance of company,
the portfolio of company, the assets that are owned by the company et cetera and the
lower the number, the higher the score. So, we were quite proud and happy with the
outcome that we ended up at this moment in time being the number one of all insurance
companies worldwide and how important is it to us. When we IPO days -- we already said
we want to become the most sustainable insurance company in the Netherlands and I
think by now diﬀerent ratings prove that we are the most sustainable company from our
own. The way we run our buildings et cetera, but also from a portfolio and business
perspective. In the ﬁrst couple of years after the IPO, nobody discussed it, it wasn't
important, it wasn't important for investors, but over time and also given the recent new
reporting on climate, it's becoming increasingly important.
On the other hand, already a couple of years, even before the IPO, employees and
customers do care about the proﬁle of a company. Actually, it is for us in a diﬃcult labor
market increasingly simple to ﬁnd people not on every people need we do have, but
because of the proﬁle we have in the Netherlands as a sustainable company, especially
young people love to work for sustainable companies and also our customers for
example, in the pension DC business. We see increasingly companies saying well we only
want that the premium we pay will be invested on a sustainable way and then it is very
helpful that there is independent proof from outside ASR, ASR is a sustainable company.
So we're not only proud, but it is helping us in the business growth and as you have seen
31% growth in pension DC over the ﬁrst half that is also driven by our proﬁle as being the
most sustainable company. Same happened in health, we've done a couple of surveys,
why young people have chosen to take health insurance at ASR and the main answer is
because you are a sustainable company. So it's helping the business also.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

And to add to that is it helps on a DC side, but also on the asset management business
side as Jos said, because we have around 26 billion that we manage for third parties and
Page 12 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

FINAL

that's really we manage it for smaller Dutch pension funds for Dutch insurance companies
and a lot of semi government and the niche that we are active there really ESG aside such
mortgages and that real estate and there ESG proﬁle needs to be sincere and it's
deﬁnitely a selling item also with the increasing number of more American oriented
investment companies in the Netherlands.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

That's helpful. Fantastic. Thank you.

Operator
Benoit Petrarque. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, good morning, Benoit Petrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. The ﬁrst one is on the very
strong non-life 94% combined ratio ex COVID, and it's probably around the 91%, 92%
while adjusting for the reserve strengthening you have done. So, is it kind of 91%, 92%
clean ﬁgure for you in H1 and -- or did you kind of determine the COVID beneﬁt you've
guided for because it could be even potentially a bit more beneﬁt actually in H1 from
COVID, looking at the 91%, 92% level? And how do you think about kind of reconcile 91%,
92% to the 94%, 96% target I think it is pretty large gap there. Then, looking at the asset
management strategy and we have seen disposal format and IP as well as -- how do you
look at your kind of strategy? And I know you are more of a niche player and but scale is
also important and you have EUR25 billion third-party assets. So, how do you think about
asset management going forward? And I mean -- action, for example, the target for you or
what do you think about M&A around asset management? And then the ﬁnal one is on
the excess investment return looking into H2, we have seen further spread tightening, a
bit of widening on mortgages, but how do you see your investment returns moving in the
second part of the year? Can you maintain the H1 level or do you see a bit of pressure and
linked to that where you want the on the re-risking as well? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thanks, Benoit. Annemiek will talk you through the second and the third question. On
your ﬁrst question if I listened carefully, it's also asking how will, going forward, the
combined ratio target look like? As you know on the 7th of December, we will talk about
strategy and targets going forward. For the moment, we are comfortable with the 94%
96% target and if we take out all the so-called beneﬁts from COVID, we're now at the
lower end of the target as we have currently. When we introduced the start, we always
have said in a year we don't see hardly any weather-related claims et cetera, we aimed at
94% in years where we do see average weather related claims et cetera, we might be
more closely to 96%. You should take into account that ﬁrst half, there were no weather
related claims and in the second half, as you may know, we will have weather related
claims the roughly EUR20 to EUR30 million, but then our projections we always do
assume a certain amount of weather-related claims. So we think, we can be comfortable
that we also for this year, if nothing strange is going to happen for the remainder of the
year that we are able to meet, excluding COVID, the lower end of the 94% of combined

Page 13 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

ratio and how that will translate into targets for the future, that will be discussed on the 7th
of December, if you are okay with that?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

To go to your point on asset management, but obviously, we've also seen the news of an
IP, and if we look at our own asset management business, a couple of things to note there:
I think for us given the size that we have to actually have the knowledge that's on the
that's really combining the knowledge of asset management and how to deal with
solvency is very beneﬁcial for us and it's a knowledge that we would like to keep in-house.
Obviously, we will only keep that in-house if we can deliver that on a eﬃcient basis and
each year we review the eﬃciency of our asset management business we take on board
some studies last year. We did it with BCG, we compare it with other captive aﬃliates and
I have to say we score very well in terms of eﬃciency. So the actual cost beneﬁt of
outsourcing our asset management business is going to be very limited we expect.
In addition to that, it's a sustainable kind of low capital consuming fee business obviously
that we have with the EUR26 billion of external party access on a management and its
really niche focus out of the EUR26 billion, the majority is really for Dutch mortgages,
Dutch real estate, which also -- which is also a business out of that we would like to have
for our own investment portfolio. So keeping that fee business and keeping the relatively
so far sustainable level of growth that we see in there, keeping the knowledge inside and
being able to do that on a cost eﬃcient way for us, and I was a reason to keep the asset
management business within our -- within ASR. Could it be opportunities on the M&A side
potentially, but I think it would be more related to getting some people or some fund
managers, and some group of people stepping over to us, like we've also done last year
from another asset manager to increase our experience of given the any liquid credits? So
I would I would expect it to be more on that side rather than for us to go and acquire
other smaller size asset management businesses.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

In terms of the investment return, if you look at the OCC, ﬁrst half-year, the investment
return increased. It was a combination of eﬀects that we saw in there. Obviously, there was
a negative impact from the decreasing spreads for that was kind of oﬀset by the --, which
also decreases, which has a positive impact on the OCC excess returns. So, if you adjust
for that, the real increase comes from the equity increase, the value just increase in over
that value. You just take the obviously 6.6 % return as well as the addition that we did to
our mortgage book. Net, we added close to EUR800 million of mortgages in terms of
derisking and that 800 million addition kind of more than covered for the degrees and
spreads that we've seen on the mortgage business. We also added a bit of structured
ﬁnance and private loans and we expect to continue that derisking and add I think at full
year, we said that we aim to add around 1.3 billion net of mortgages. We're still on track to
deliver that and we're looking to add around 2 billion in total for this year, being
processed -- and part actually invested into private loans and structured ﬁnance. Now

Page 14 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

whether that ultimately will you additional access returns also, obviously the bit on where
spreads are going or equity prices are going and where interest rate is going.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Thank you.

Operator
Robin van den Broek. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, sir. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. More follow-up on
questions already asked. The ﬁrst one on the -- excess spread just directionally thinking I
guess we should see a positive net impact on the back of today's feasibility other than the
UFO track. Is that correctly I summarized that correctly from your answer just now. And
secondly, the deals more for you and I appreciate you what you probably want to keep
most of this reserved for 7th of December, but just directionally on the combined
operating ratio targets it feels that the conservation in the market with mostly done by
your big other than in Nederlands. It does feel like the pricing dynamics of become more
disciplined. So directions speaking, we could be expecting better command opening
ratios for the entire industry, may be on the back of that. And second to that it also seems
that the narrative on travel could be a bit more positive compared to the targets you set
out in this management plan. So let me just directionally thinking whether that's right.
And lastly, just a small question and announce to the grocery premium in life is down, but
considerably year-on-year, thinking the presentation, you ﬂagged the timing issues, but
can you just conﬁrm that, when you look at 2021 versus 2020, you're not expecting a big
drop there? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

I think the ﬁrst one was for Annemiek.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Yes, that would follow up on the excess spread. And I mean, Robin is it's hard to guess,
what will happen obviously in H2 other than the of our direct which, based on current
interest rates, that's relatively, easy to -- race wouldn't, wouldn't move. So far it's looking
good, but it's really dependent on what equity prices will do, because that will drive the
kind of value of equity on which we put the access return, as well as the development on
mortgage spreads, if they would continue to come down a bit further. And we, generate
additional mortgages and maybe we cannot add out, if spreads improve a bit on
mortgages then potentially that bit of access return coming out of there.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Okay, then on your second question, you actually already gave the answer in your
question that I would love to go to answer this on the 7th of December. But in general,
what we do see in the market, yes, there is more pricing discipline and over the last ﬁve
Page 15 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

years, I think ASR has been signiﬁcantly ahead of competition in terms of managing the
non-life business. And as you can imagine, also going forward, we want to be the leading
provider of non-life business and we would have diﬃculties to give up our leading
position and that will be taken into account in the discussion on what will be the
combined ratio targets going forward. So, we will deﬁnitely take into account that we have
been the leading party over the last couple of years that there is more discipline in the
area of non-life than ever before and the diﬃcult part will be projecting what will happen
with traﬃc in the Netherlands now more companies allow their employees to work from
home. So all those factors will be taken into account and the winning number will be
presented on the 7th of December.
On your last question the GWP in life, I already mentioned it in the introduction the main
reason that it looks like a big drop is the one oﬀ we had last year in the ﬁrst half on our
own pension contract. Timing diﬀerences if you want to predict -- predict it for the full
year. I would take a look at Page 35, I've in the presentation where we show the runoﬀ of
the life book and our best guess for this year is that the winning number at the end of the
year, will be roughly in line with the general run-oﬀ the life book, which is 2.7% per
annum.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

It's very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Fulin Liang. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello, thank you given the time. I'm just getting two questions. The ﬁrst one is the derisking. So you de-risking your assets to get the higher spread. I just wonder, actually how
much you will see the ﬁrst half kind of OCC is from, your de-risking? And how much we
should expect going forward because Annemiek just said that, you're going to continue
and doing the de-risking. So that's one thing. And then secondly is the, talking about
M&A headrooms. You just mentioned about longevity hedge to increase your headroom.
So just wonder, I guess two questions. The ﬁrst one, what are the other kind of possibility?
For example, would you consider like selling your asset management business to raise
fund? And would you consider actually raising fund from the shareholders for all from the
market to execute that? And also how quickly actually, if you want to do like longevity
hedge. You want to respond how quickly, actually you can ramp up there the headrooms
for larger M&As? Thank you.

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

Thanks, -- . In terms of every risking, I said, what we've done last year is around plus 8 of a
lot of year, around EUR800 million of mortgages, we added. We also shifted a bit within
credits where we reduced certain credits at the expense of adding close to 500 million
into liquids and we reduce the bid our sovereign portfolio. Now, I think the total derisking property added around 7 million of ROCC in H1, it goes gradually and obviously
also speciﬁcally on the mortgage side kind of depends on the spread development how
Page 16 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

much we would make out of that in the second half of the year, but let's say that in a total,
you could just multiply that and we're still as we said at full-year expect to generate versus
last year in total around EUR15 million more, one-ﬁve million more OCC this year based
on the derisking that we're doing.
Now in terms of headroom as I just said in response to the question raised earlier on asset
management, we don't anticipate selling the asset management that's deﬁnitely not on
the table now, so we wouldn't expect any proceeds from there. The headroom in Tier 1,
Tier 2, 3 that's relatively easily and readily available. We're ready to go there. Longevity is
something that we always look at and given the fact that we're still awaiting the ﬁnal
language on the EIOPA review speciﬁcally surrounding the DVA because that actual
language on DVA and how that's incorporated it kind of triggers the attractiveness of
either moving -- or not. You want to have that in place, but if we were to do a longevity
transaction longevity insurance rate, we would like to have a pick-up cause in there. Just
in case we would move to a came in the future, we would kind of not have given, but I've
given away part of the beneﬁt already and paid for that. So, including a breakup clause it
would be kind of mid-single digit, the positive impact of longevity transaction, which will
probably take us around a year or something to execute. So, headroom easily available,
longevity would take around half a year, a year to execute such a transaction. Obviously, if
we were thinking about moving to a pin that has a longer lead time that would take from
the point when you take the decision, it would take around three years to get that done.
And that's not only to build the model but that's really related to the supervisory project
that you would have to go through and use that you would have to demonstrate, et
cetera.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you. Sorry just a just a follow-up on the headroom of raising capital. Would it be
possible, if you want to raise equities more than that?

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

I think it would also be possible, but it would always be possible. What is kind of depends
on the story that you raise the equity for, right? And that depends on the companion that
of the nature we can then oﬀer to our shareholders of the reason why we going to raise
equity. And in the absence of any signiﬁcant large M&A raise as we currently see there,
there would deﬁnitely be no need to raise equities.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Steven Haywood. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much. On your OCC, it's obviously given some very
helpful guidance and it certainly was very notable and it looks like you're heading towards
Page 17 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

EUR 550 million OCC for 2021 if you take second half in 2020 and deduct the ﬂood
losses. And is there anything additional that I should be thinking about, when looking at
that EUR550 million starting point for the full year, when OCC and where should we be
thinking about going forward 2022 and beyond? And obviously, learning UFR slightly
helps raise the OCC and the non-life business is growing for how much of the life
business oﬀsets this growth in OCC? And secondly, from me, on the operating result for
2021 and obviously, you said it's signiﬁcant increase and again, you can do the math to
get through to it sort of EUR950 million pre-tax operating result for the ﬁrst half, but is
there -- encompasses the ﬁrst half result and the second half of 2022 at -- 2021 and after
the ﬂoods again. Is there anything else? Obviously similar question to the ﬁrst question on
the OCC, was there anything else that we should be thinking about progression in 2021,
and related to this you've highlighted that it should be a healthy dividend or the year. My
question is more about thoughts behind dividend policy and have you thought
potentially by moving to a progressive DPS policy rather than a payout ratio? Thank you
very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Annemiek van Melick

{BIO 20317450 <GO>}

All right. To start oﬀ with your last point and obviously, I can understand the question of
including a very positive year, including COVID beneﬁts to them drop the payout on this
to progressive the nature of the dividend but that's a topic deﬁnitely have on the agenda
on the 7th of December. So that's too early to allude to that now. For now we just focus on
this year's on this year's outlook. In terms of OCC that the EUR550 million target is your
target that you just said that you just mentioned. I think what we've said on the OCC is for
H2, and the look at last year's H2, which was around EUR200 million, the --your higher
impact. I would say roughly is around 15 million as of today. And then also, look at the
some of the COVID impacts that we, that we have in there as well, and especially look at
the ﬂooding that's still expected to come.
So, if you deduct for you over and around 15, if you deduct for the ﬂoods, let's take the
midpoint do the post actually deduct another '20 year end at around 165 and then it's
obviously a question how much positive COVID beneﬁt will still be in there? And we'll
probably have some additional beneﬁt of -- as I just said, so that's a bit the outset that we - the layout that we have for this year on COVID. And if you then -- and then on the 7th of
December, we'll talk a bit more about what the underlying nature, and what the
predictions on OCC is going forward is going to be. Similar goes a bit to the operating
result outside where we also said just take last year H2 could be some positive impact
from COVID coming, we obviously have some underlying business improvement, but as
far as we can judge now, it'll be EUR20 million to EUR30 million of the ﬂoods. Adjust for
that, you may end up net around the same number of last year depending on the COVID
situation in the second half of the year, you get too close to EUR1 billion. That's kind of the
math that we're doing and I guess, you are doing here as well. And with that, I can give
you converted a last year that we would consider that a favorable improvement.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Great.

Operator
Page 18 of 19



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2021-08-25

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) There are currently no further --

FINAL

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Okay. I understand. There are no questions. So I think this is a record in terms of how long
our calls take normally. I think -- and myself have reduced the introduction a little bit so it
was very helpful to end up this call within an hour. Thanks for joining us. As said, we are
proud on the results. We delivered not only in ﬁnancial perspective, but also other points
we have talked about today. Thank you for joining. We had hoped to start traveling at
from tonight, that will not be the case, so hopefully the full year numbers will allow us to
travel or even the update of the 7th of December Michel, Annemiek and myself are
looking forward to meet you in person again and to talk about ASR end results. And
having said that, for those who are still on holidays, we do wish a pleasant continuation of
the holidays and for those who started working again, have fun.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

