Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Neil Manser, Acting Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Penny James, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden
Faizan Lakhani
Freya Kong
Ivan Bokhmat
Jon Denham
Kamran Hossain
Ming Zhu
Oliver Steel
Thomas Bateman
Will Hardcastle

Bloomberg Transcript

Youdish Chicooree

Presentation
Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm delighted to be here live in London for the ﬁrst time this
year, and I'm joined by Neil Manser, who many of you know well and is our Acting CFO.
It's actually really nice to be together in the same room for the ﬁrst time in almost a year.
Before I hand over to Neil, let me reﬂect on what has been an extraordinary year for all of
us and how far we've come at DLT during that time.
In March last year, we were business with virtually all of our people were in the oﬃce fulltime. And that leads to a business that had all of our people working from home within
the space of a weak. Within the ﬁrst month, we found new ways to work and communicate
and have refocused on keeping our transformation on track.
Thanks for the commitment and energy of our people despite the many COVID
challenges, once again, we've traded well through the year. Our own brand policy count
growing by 2.2% driven by strong segments of growth across the business and our model
of disciplined underwriting helping us deliver a combined operating ratio of 91% and
improved sustainability of our earnings. The investments that we're making in our

Page 1 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

capability is designed over time to step change our competitiveness and deliver
proﬁtable growth. And it's already driven improvements in our ﬁnancial performance,
which has enabled us once again to return surplus capital to our shareholders.

FINAL

Today, we are proposing a ﬁnal regular dividend of GBP0.147 per share, an increase of
2.1% over 2019. But we're also announcing a GBP100 million share buyback program as
we begin moving back towards the middle of our risk appetite range.
Finally, our vision for insurance is of a world where we are a Force for Good. As we've
navigated the challenges that 2020 has presented, this vision has been at the forefront of
our thinking. And that's why we have actively chosen to invest in supporting our
customers through a range of ﬁnancial measures, our pleasing physical, mental and
ﬁnancial well-being and our communities through donations to charities helping
thousands of families cope with the eﬀects of the pandemic.
I'll talk more about my thoughts on the future of the business later in the presentation, but
for now I'll hand you over to Neil who's going to take you through the ﬁnancials.

Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks Penny, and good morning, everyone. This is my ﬁrst time in London for almost a
year, so I'm really excited to be here and it's slightly strange presenting without the risk of
one of my kids or the cat interrupting. I'm going to take you through the 2020 ﬁnancials.
And show how they set us up well for 2021 and beyond. So let me start with the highlights
on Slide 5.
Now Penny's talked to some of these already, but given their importance, I think it's worth
repeating them. Operating proﬁt was GBP522 million, another year of operating proﬁt in
excess of GBP500 million. We grew our direct own brands policy count by 2.2% with
strong momentum across many parts of our business. We made progress in reducing
underlying costs and today, have announced a new property site strategy, which is
incremental to our original plans. And we also saw underlying current year improvements
across the book and together with a modest COVID tailwind, we grew current year
contribution to 65%. And ﬁnally, we delivered another year of strong returns to
shareholders and are commencing a buyback.
Turning to the results summary on Side 6, now let's start with the obvious. As a result of
extraordinary events last year, there are many more moving parts than average year. And
as I go through the presentation, I will try to pull out as far as possible the one-oﬀ impacts
of COVID. But increasingly as we've gone through the year, we've quickly adapted to turn
the impacts of the pandemic much more into business as usual. So putting to one side the
modest COVID beneﬁt, the main macro message I want you to take away is that we've
made good progress on the underlying current year performance, which has helped
oﬀset the expected lower level of prior year reserve releases.
So taking underwriting proﬁt ﬁrst, this is well ahead of 2019, and there are three key
movements to highlight. First, the impact of COVID. On the positive side, we have
Page 2 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

reduced claims frequency in motor and commercial, but this was partly oﬀset by a
number of factors including the investments we chose to make to support our customers,
our people and society, the impact on our travel business and COVID-related business
interruption claims. Secondly and most importantly, within the underwriting result, we
made good progress in improving the group's underlying current year proﬁtability. This is
from increased pricing and writing sophistication and counter-fraud capability and
especially true in motor and commercial. And when we take these two facts together, they
more than oﬀset the higher weather costs in 2020 and lower prior year reserve releases.
Now COVID also aﬀected instalment and other income, which was 12% lower due to the
impact of reduced motor premiums instalment income and claims volume on other
income. Investment returns of GBP95 million is down 30%, reﬂecting lower reinvestment
rates and some write-downs, a respectable result in a challenging market. Finally, we once
again delivered a return on tangible equity well ahead of our 15% hurdle rate at 19.9%. So
overall a good set of results delivering against our ﬁnancial targets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to policy count and premium on Slide 7, the most important ﬁgure on this slide is
the 2.2% policy growth we delivered across our direct own brand portfolio. This is a good
result as these are the brands that create the most value. Now there are a number of
factors driving this, but I'll pull out two of note. First, we've talked before about how we
set up a price comparison website or PCW hub within motor and home and this has really
starting to come through in growth. This improved focus and capability including
Churchill being a clear PCW ﬁrst brand has helped us to win more business. Secondly,
we're seeing growth where investments in our transformation are furthest ahead
particularly in Green Flag and Direct line for business.
Outside of own brands, you can also see growth coming through in NIG. It's been
delivering great service this year compared to some of its peers, and this is showing
through in its numbers.
Moving to the right-hand side of the slide, you can see policy count, I've talked about
translation of premium growth across most own brand segments, the one exception
being motor which we'll cover on the next slide. So overall we're pleased with how we
traded to the unique conditions for 2020 with strong momentum across many parts of our
business.
Now let me move on to the segmental results, starting with motor on Slide 8. As
expected, this is where we've seen the main impact from COVID. But crucially, we traded
well in spite of circumstances and saw underlying progress in the loss ratio. Now there's a
lot of details you can see on the slide, so I want to pick up on a few of these points to you
a sense of our performance.
First, looking at policy count, now 2020 was a challenging year for new business with
fewer new cars and new drivers entering the market and generally lower shopping. But
despite this, own brand policy count was up 0.6%. And we delivered a number of support
measures for our customers throughout the year, and we saw this payoﬀ in high levels of
retention. In addition, both Churchill and our newest brand Darwin continue to deliver

Page 3 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

strong growth. Own brand premiums were down 1.5%, partly due to lower risk mix, but
also broader market deﬂation, which accelerated during the second half of the year.
Secondly, turning to underwriting proﬁt, underwriting proﬁt was up substantially with a 14
point reduction in the current year loss ratio. As you'd expect, most of the improvement
was due to lower claims frequency, which in Q2 is running around half usual levels, but
this was in part oﬀset by severity being higher than the 3% to 5% medium-term
expectation and this was a result of longer car hire periods and high cleaning costs.
But there's a really important trend in here, which I don't want you to miss. If you strip out
the COVID impact, our ongoing pricing and underwriting actions account for around 2
points improvement to the current year loss ratio. And as Penny will come on later, this is a
trend that we can expect to continue as the beneﬁts of the new motor system come onstream this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally, turning to reinsurance, reinsurance pricing has been rising in recent years, but
our claims performance has been strong. So in this context, we revisited the level of cover
we're buying and whilst we've kept the excess unchanged at GBP1 million, we've chosen
to retain 25% more risk on the layers below GBP10 million. We've also introduced an
aggregate retention claims above GBP10 million. In most years, this will give us a better
result.
Let me move on to Slide 9, where I look at the current trends in the motor market as we
look ahead to the rest of 2021. Now earlier, I spoke about the prudent deﬂation in motor
that we saw across the second half of 2020 and this has continued into 2021. Now I don't
think it should be a major surprise as claims frequencies remain subdued during
lockdown. However, looking forward, we would expect the deﬂationary pressure to ease
oﬀ as we come out of lockdown. Like many insurers, we look ahead 12 months and the
underlying trend, the severity of inﬂation has not gone away, running at or above the top
end of our normal range.
Whiplash reforms coming from May and this could partially oﬀset inﬂation in the shortterm, but it's diﬃcult to know how much of this is already in the system. So the ﬁrst
quarter, let's start in the same vein at the end of last year. Over the course of 2021, as the
primary rebound, we would expect to see pricing more closely resembling underlying
claims inﬂation.
And in terms of translation, we know that by handling around 50% of our accident and
damage claims, our accidental per centers give us a real edge here. We've already been
able to partially mitigate some of the severity strains through additional shift patterns to
keep productivity high, while importantly managing the safety of our people as we can at
a lockdown and the demand for payers grow, being able to control damage costs will
become increasingly important for proﬁtability. From a trading perspective, we will
continue to deliver great value and service to our existing customers and be disciplined
on new business where we think the market has gone too far.

Page 4 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

Now let me move on to the other segment results, starting on Slide 10. Starting at home,
where again we delivered good results. Home grew own brand policy count by 4.1% due
to strong growth in the PCW channel. Operating proﬁt was again over GBP100 million
and the combined operating ratio of 87.1%. Now underwriting proﬁt was lower than 2019
due to an increase in weather claims early in 2020 alongside a reduction in prior year
reserve releases. And you'll recall, the 2019 was an exceptional year for both of these as
you can see in the table on the slide.
Excluding the impact of major weather, the current year attritional loss ratio improved by
around 1 point, continuing a positive trend. As I look into 2021, there are two key trends to
call out. First, the upbeat housing market continues to support new business. And
secondly, as we go through the year, the impact of pricing practices will become
increasingly important. And Penny will come onto this in more detail later on.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the right of the slide, it goes without saying that any business involved in travel
has got a really diﬃcult year and we are no exception. Other personal lines, which
includes travel but also pet, creditor and our mid- to high net worth business, reported a
loss of GBP44 million in 2020. This is broadly in line with where we were at the half year.
We continue to reserve cautiously for travel and also saw higher claims handling costs as
we increased the number of people to service the higher volume of travel customers who
needed our help. Now the next few months will be crucial in determining what the travel
market looks like. But as the market opens up again, we would expect to bring other
personal lines back towards breakeven by the end of the year.
Now turning to commercial and rescue on Slide 11. Commercial really has had an
outstanding year and we are seeing the beneﬁts of its transformation driving both proﬁt
and growth. It delivered strong top line across all of its brands and products. On a
normalized basis, operating proﬁt improved by GBP10 million. The current year attritional
loss ratio improved around 6 points, signiﬁcant improvement, and this is where the
beneﬁts of the transformation are really coming through. And Penny will touch on this in
more detail later.
Commercial and motor, which covers bands and ﬂeets beneﬁt from lower claims
frequency, but not to the same extent as personal motor, and this is largely oﬀset by
COVID-related business interruption claims. As you know we were not a party to a
Supreme Court case and we booked GBP6 million of estimated claims costs at year-end,
down from GBP10 million at the half year. So overall, 7% premium growth and a 3.5 point
improvement in the normalized core is a great result.
Moving across to rescue, another business doing fantastically well. Rescue delivered
double-digit proﬁt growth of the second year running with GBP51 million in 2020. And
this is partly down to the growth in Green Flag, Direct, oﬀsetting the reduction in linked
and partnership sales.
Now outside of a lockdown period, Green Flag saw some of its best-ever trading
moments, really demonstrating its challenger position in the market. A risk we also
improve the combined operating ratio by 5 points to 76.5%. And around half of this

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

improvement was COVID-related. So overall, both commercial and rescue delivered
strong results and exit 2020 in a very healthy position.
Now let me turn back to the group results. I'm going to start with expenses on Slide 12. As
a result of our continued focus on costs, we've made good progress across many expense
initiatives in 2020, which will support our longer term expense ambitions. Operating
proﬁt -- operating expenses, sorry, was GBP724 million in 2020, GBP30 million higher
than prior year, with the increase driven by our choice to invest in Force for Good
initiatives during the pandemic.
Excluding this COVID support and amortization, our underlying cash costs reduced by
around GBP10 million, reﬂecting progress on the group's cost transformation. Now we did
some initiatives move to the right in 2020, but on a run rate basis, we expect it back on
track by the end of this year. So overall, we're increasingly conﬁdent in delivering the
actions required to hit our 2023 20% expense ratio target, and I'll come on to that now on
Slide 13.

Bloomberg Transcript

So given the importance of cost reduction to our investment case, it's important to spend
a few minutes on this slide. Before I start, I want to reiterate that many of our initiatives are
not just about costs that pass from a wider transformation to deliver a step change in our
customer experience and eﬃciency. There are three key areas that I'd like to draw out:
First, our customer facing areas of claims and customer operations where we've been
targeting a 20% reduction in cost to serve. Now this is not to be confused with the overall
20% expense ratio target.
We have amazing people in our contact centers, who many of you have met in Doncaster,
but you've also seen the manual processes they happen to navigate day in day out. By
moving Churchill and Direct Line onto the new motor system this year, we will unlock
signiﬁcant digitalization and automation opportunities. We'll also be able to attack print
and mail costs. We've already started a paperless journey in Commercial and Green Flag
and seen dramatic reductions in the amount we've spend. That's a great example of triple
win, better for customers, cheaper for us and kinder to the environment.
Secondly, we are reducing the cost of our IT systems. As we've talked about before, we're
transitioning away from a legacy technology stack to one that is cheaper to run and
change. But where is the right thing to keep older technologies in the short-term, for
example, in the mainframe, we're reducing the cost of ownership through new providers
and optimizing usage. Both of these actions are reducing our overall IT run costs.
Thirdly, moving to more agile ways of working, following the success of agile ways
working in Commercial, we've restructured our trading change areas to a fully agile
operating model. By doing this, we can respond faster to changing customer demands,
reduce the cost of change and therefore contribute to both eﬃciency and growth. Now
the cost of all these vessels we've been making has been capitalized and so start to
amortize through the P&L over the coming years. As we've said before, this will pick-up in
2021. However, it's important to remember that this is non-cash and is already being

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

reﬂected in capital. Together, these plans give us the conﬁdence around delivering our
20% expense ratio target in 2023.
Now I spoke earlier about the impact that COVID has on our cost base in 2020, but it also
provides further longer term opportunities, which I'll talk to on Slide 14. I don't need to say
that there were not many of linings from the last year, but seeing how well our people can
deliver from home has presented us with new opportunities. So good for our people,
save us money and also better for our planet. We've created a new property site strategy
to address this which will give our people more ﬂexibility on how and where they work.
And as a result, we expect to reduce the space we occupy over the next two years. This, in
turn, delivers incremental run rate savings of more than GBP10 million per year from 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you know our biggest site for head oﬃce in Bromley and to enable to restructure this
site, we have acquired it by buying out the existing 17-year lease. By eﬀectively bringing
forward this liability, we will incur restructuring cost of GBP85 million this year. We will
look take further property actions over the course of this year and next year, but none are
expected to be as material as the Bromley transaction.
Now let me move on to investments on Slide 15. Total investment return was GBP95
million in 2020, GBP40 million lower than 2019 and this was due to a combination of
lower reinvestment rates and some modest write-downs in our investment portfolio. The
net investment income which is just 1.8% in 2020, in line with the guidance we gave at the
half year. Looking ahead, reduced reinvestment rates mean we're expecting a net
investment income yield of 1.5% in 2021 with minimal gains. If I stand back, the overall
quality of our investment portfolio held up well during a challenging environment in 2020
and leaves us well placed as we enter 2021.
Moving on to capital on Slide 19, the main news today is that we are commencing a share
buyback to begin to move us back towards the middle of our risk appetite range. I'm
proud of our long-term track record for returning capital to shareholders. I'm pleased that
we can continue that today with a buyback and an increase in the regular dividend. We
see this as a continued vital element of our investment case. The buyback will be for
GBP100 million, which GBP50 million is to be bought back in the ﬁrst half of 2021. And
after these distributions and adjusting for both the Tier 2 callable debt in 2022 and the
acquisition of the Bromley site, this leaves us with the pro forma capital coverage of 166%.
So let me ﬁnish with targets and outlook on Slide 17. As I've gone through, I've tried to put
-- there are a number of moving parts especially around the next phase of COVID, how
the motor market reacts to this and whiplash and our transition through pricing practices.
This will undoubtedly lead to some noise in the system. However, from what we can see
today, I'm conﬁdent in reiterating all of our existing targets, current year contribution,
expense ratio, combined operating ratio, and return on tangible equity. Today's results
show continued good performance, strong momentum across multiple parts of our
business and additional capital returns for shareholders.
Thank you. And with that, I'll hand back to Penny.

Page 7 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks Neil. Now let me start with a slide that I think you all be familiar with. It sets out our
vision and strategic objectives which has been a galvanizing force as we've navigated the
COVID challenges through 2020. They're about building an insurance company for the
future, driven by data and technology, which is fully digitally enabled and can operate in
an agile and low-cost way. A company with the customer right at its heart. To get there,
this means building a platform that has the technology stack to support increasing cost of
demand for digital channels, so customers can have seamless online experiences or
choose to deal with our fabulous colleagues. It means getting new products out to market
faster than any of our competitors, hence our introduction of multi-skilled agile teams.
And it means that our direct brands can increasingly personalized oﬀerings to meet
individuals' needs. But it also means that we need to completely innovate to continue to
provide exceptional customer service to deliver a best-in-class expertise in counter fraud
in card technology and in pricing, and through technology and automation to do this with
market-leading eﬃciency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I believe by delivering on this, we will step change our competitiveness and deliver
proﬁtable growth. I want to spend most of today talking about the progress we've made
towards our vision therefore and where we're positioned as we look beyond the
pandemic. But ﬁrst of all, I want to try and encapsulate what living up to our vision as a
Force for Good has actually meant.
Turning to Slide 20 then, our success as a business is predicated on the success of our
customers, our people, our suppliers and our communities. So supporting them through
this crisis is critical. And that is why we have actively chosen to invest to support them
through the turbulence that 2020 created. Starting with our people. Well, they wanted us
to make sure they were safe and secure, making home working as a norm, giving them
conﬁdence about their roles as well as oﬀering practical and well-being support. And in
return, they went the extra mile to deliver for us. Achieving these results whilst managing
the stresses and strains of lockdown life has been nothing short of remarkable. And to say
thank you, we're awarding everyone with GBP350 worth of shares. And for those who
don't normally receive bonuses this year, we're giving them a bank bonus of GBP400 in
their April salary. Investing in your people always pays back. We know that happy people
go the extra mile and that's what our customers have needed from us over the last year.
And nowhere has this been more crucial than in our travel business.
Hundreds of our people were diverted to the travel team. And together they handled
over 26,000 customer claims and repatriated over 900 customers stranded abroad. But
we haven't stopped there. We've also made numerous changes to our policies giving
over 450,000 customers' additional value through payment deferrals, waive cancellation
fees and refunds where people drove less. It's also given the group greater conﬁdence
that it can act at speed and provided a spark of new incentives such as mileage money
back for Direct Line motor customers. But of course, this pandemic had a huge impact on
our communities. So we donated over GBP7 million to charities in the last year to help
support some of society's most vulnerable. And we know that our communities will be
living with the consequences of COVID for many years to come. So our community fund
us back in 2021 to continue the work we started.

Page 8 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

Looking beyond the pandemic though, 2020 has highlighted the importance of playing
our part in tackling climate change, improving diversity and inclusion, and levelling up.
Bringing all of you to work is the value lived vibrantly across DLG. But after extensive
conversations with our people in the wake of the death of George Floyd, we launched a
new diversity and inclusion strategy and set ourselves stretching targets around ethnicity
and gender in our leadership, so that we are truly inclusive and reﬂect the customers we
serve. But we've also used the opportunity that home working oﬀered us recruit people
from areas with high levels of unemployment. Something that we simply could not have
done this time last year.
Turning to the planet, we've got a great track record in meeting our targets. Since 2013,
we've reduced our energy consumption by a third. We've used 100% renewable
electricity for our operations since 2014. We divert a 100% of our oﬃce waste from landﬁll
and our accident repair centers by about 97%. We've also delivered a 69% reduction in
our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. And as you know last August, we committed to set
science-based targets. So we can go further and faster to reduce our emissions by
including Scope 3, which covers our investments in supply chain, which we set out in our
ﬁrst climate-related ﬁnancial disclosure.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also become carbon neutral through oﬀsetting whilst aiming to reduce our
emissions year-on-year including by reducing the carbon intensity of our bond portfolio
by half by 2030 and by creating the most energy eﬃcient repair network in the UK by
investing in our estate and repair processes. In honestly, the whole industry needs to step
up. It requires cooperation across supply chains and it requires scientiﬁc developments,
but we intend to lead by example.
So what have we learned from 2020? And what does it tell us about our strategy to be the
insurance company of the future? Well ﬁrst, we've seen a huge shift in the number of
customers interacting through digital channels. As you know digitalization is at the heart
of our technology transformation. So this trend entirely aligns with our plans. But we now
know that customers will adopt the digital options available to those even in more
complex areas, so we can really focus on end-to-end digital journeys. Secondly, agility for
the month. Our trading and change areas now operate in a fully agile way, making it
easier for us to implement change quicker to products and services to fulﬁll changing
customer needs. We can learn a lot from ﬁntech, which is one of the reasons we acquired
Brolly last year, to help us develop more ﬂexible, personalized insurance products for
digital generation.
Third, the working model has changed forever. Now Neil has talked in some detail about
our property plans. Even pre-pandemic, we were in discussion about how our working
environment needed to change to support the cultural shift towards agility to the
speaking. The success of home working and our people's appetite to move to a hybrid
model is a huge opportunity, not only to save money but also to create more collaborative
working.
And ﬁnally, car technology continues to evolve rapidly. The move towards electric
vehicles is gathering pace. And having the largest insurer owned repair network enables
us to develop the technical expertise that we need for the future. We've even built a
Page 9 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

technology training center for our engineers and mechanics during lockdown in
preparation for the changes ahead. But in 2020, we also learned more about how the
FCA plans to ensure products oﬀer fair value to customers through the publication of its
Pricing Practices Report.
I've talked to you about this on many occasions. And now that we've seen the direction of
travel, we are conﬁdent that the combination of our diversiﬁed business model and the
actions that we've already taken across the business mean that we're both ready and well
placed to win. The growth in our own brand policy counts and the high levels of retention
that we've seen in 2020 don't happen by accident. It's because our brands are backed by
exemplary customer service and a high quality claims service, which is reﬂected in our
NPS scores. And our transformation is designed to deliver tailored propositions with
market-leading eﬃciency and pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you've seen, there remain a number of areas that the FCA still needs to clarify before
the industry can properly prepare. And as a result, I can't tell you today exactly how the
market will respond and where new business and renewal prices will reach their
equilibrium in each segment. But we've prepared a range of outcomes. With such a major
change, we expect a period of short-term volatility on introduction as the market settles.
But in the long run, it should result in lower levels of shopping around so with our strong
brand and great customer service, we will be at an advantage.
Now let me turn my attention to how we are transforming the business as we prepare for
the new world ahead. So back to a familiar picture on Slide 23. This slide really
demonstrates why I'm so proud of the sheer scale of what we've delivered over the last
two years. And what we have planned for 2021. And why I believe that you should have
conﬁdence in our delivery of the changes ahead. You've heard me talk about 2020 being
a critical change delivery year on our path to build the insurance company of the future.
Technology and data led, but with the customer at its heart. A company that has real
competitive edge and is able to grow proﬁtably. Well, I've been thrilled at our ability to
continue to deliver major transformational change even from our homes. We've made
signiﬁcant progress despite the extraordinary challenges, quadrupling the size of the
team supporting our travel customers, keeping our repair centers open and productive.
Moving the majority of our people to home working and managing the implications of
lockdowns across India, South Africa and the UK. Regardless, we've made fundamental
progress on both our technology and business transformation.
Over the next few slides, I'm hoping to bring this to life with examples of what we can do
today that we couldn't do a year ago and how these changes have begun to drive
improved sustainability of earnings and growth.
So I want to start with our Commercial division on Slide 24, because it's the furthest along
the transformation journey. Investments in technology and the adoption of agile ways of
working has enabled it to expand its product oﬀering and introduce more sophisticated
pricing, both of which have helped deliver growth at stronger margins. For instance in
2020 NIG expanded the use of its use its new pricing and underwriting system across
more products and step change the quality of its pricing model. And in doing so it's
delivered strong top line premium growth and improved current year proﬁtability. It was
Page 10 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

the only insurer to be awarded ﬁve star ratings two years running at software trading
house.
And in 2018, Direct Line of business was the ﬁrst part of the group to adopt agile ways of
working to deliver a new digital platform in the micro SME space. In 2020, it continued to
expand its product oﬀering, moving its core products of Tradesman and Van onto the new
platform. The resulting product of pricing improvements helped lead to van policy count
growth of over 9% year-on-year, despite signiﬁcant reductions in new business shopping
in the market in the second quarter. And in terms of innovation for the future, we won
contracts with digital on demand mobility providers Drover and, opening up future
opportunities in the ﬂeet market. And still small, but the commercial PCW space continue
to develop. And for us, that has delivered 62% premium growth in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning then to rescue on Slide 25, Green Flag, and our challenger brand is also well
advanced on a transformation agenda as it continued to deliver proﬁtable growth. As Neil
said, despite the lockdown, Green Flag has had some of its best ever trading months
during 2020. But our vision is bigger than that. It's of a fully digital ecosystem that not
only supports customers in the moment of a breakdown, but has the capability to support
them in their life cycle as a motorist, meeting their wider mobility needs and expanding
horizon of the brand.
So what it is then that Green Flag can do today that it couldn't do 12 months ago. Well,
we've moved our claims processes from end-of-life legacy systems to a digitally enabled
system. It enables greater eﬃciency, alongside fantastic customer service and experience,
which shows up in our NPS fall increasing for the fourth year in a row. And the refreshed
Green Flag Rescue Me app went from strength to strength, delivering an increase in
claims journeys completed digitally. While phone ﬁx continues to help our customers ﬁx
their cars over the phone, more cost eﬀective for us, quicker for the customer, kinder for
the planet.
Looking ahead to the next 12 months, Green Flag plans to launch a new policy and pricing
engine that lets it grow beyond oﬀering traditional breakdown services and created
customer portal enabling us to look after customers' motoring needs both in and out of
an emergency. We're already developing the capabilities of a vehicle repair, service and
maintenance. So why do I share all of this? Because I want you to see how a combination
of agility and technology can open the way for creativity and growth. Both Commercial
and Green Flag evidence that the investments we are making bring tangible beneﬁts.
Now on to home, in home, we focused on business transformation, whilst our technology
build focuses initially on motor. And we're already seeing the beneﬁts coming through
with good progress in both distribution and claims capabilities. Home expanded its use of
digital in claims enabling simple claims initially for jewellery and electrical groups to be
processed without the need for a customer call. But just as importantly, 18 months after
creating the multi-skilled and agile PCW hub, the impact is now clear. With 30% new
business growth in home PCW in 2020.

Page 11 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

Now we've talked before about our plan for increasingly personalized propositions for
Direct Line customers, tailoring the proposition for the individual using modular products
a little as we go in DLC. As I mentioned earlier, Brolly is helping us to step change our
product development capabilities and we're currently testing three new products:
Jewellery, watch and cycles cover. Our home partnership team continue to focus on
expanding our reach and leveraging our capabilities. We agreed at new two-year deal
with NatWest and launched new API capabilities to enable potential partners to test
straight through indicative innnovative home quotes using their data, a step towards the
future in a world of open ﬁnance. Of course, the key focus for 2021 is preparing to win in a
post for FCA pricing practices world. But alongside that, we will continue towards greater
digitalization of customer journeys and developing further products to build the
components of our DL oﬀering.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, we turn to motor. With the replacement of the M2M technology stack, the most
extensive as well, of our transformations is well under way. It's intended to make us more
competitive through improving cost eﬃciency and pricing eﬀectiveness. Now last year, we
took a cautious approach to roll out of homework embedded in, so it's really exciting that
we are now in the ﬁnal roll out of functionality across our brands. With privileged motor
renewals going live on the new platform during 2020, letting us test the platform at scale
and Churchill new business policies are beginning to be written live on the platform with
Direct Line due to follow in the coming weeks.
So what are the capabilities all of our brands will have once they're rolled out? Well, it
means customers can switch seamlessly between channels. The systems unlock greater
operational eﬃciency by automating the majority of back oﬃce processes. We now oﬀer
tiered products on all channels with an enhanced multi-car proposition. It provides
greater pricing sophistication, so we can deploy pricing changes much faster. It allows us
to add or change products with ease and it facilitates customer self-service for both claims
and service. We've been busy in claims too. We've expanded the use of automated online
processes to book in vehicles, drive total loss decisions and facilitate parts ordering, all
reducing the overall length of time to repair, cheaper for us and a better experience for
the customer.
But sadly an insurer's success also relies on its ability to detect fraud. And in 2020, we
launched our new market-leading counter fraud platform, enhancing our ability to both
reduce indemnity costs and write better quality business in the ﬁrst place. So how do we
plan to build on all of this in 2021? While we continue the rollout of our platform across
Churchill and Direct Line, whilst transforming ourselves in pricing and data in parallel to
take advantage of the tools that we have built. And as we do so we will turn technology
transformation into improved competitiveness, driving growth and improving the
sustainability of our earnings.
And Darwin, our in-house machine learning brand built for the PCW market, well, it
continues to test learn and adapt and has grown to over 50,000 policies in the 18 months
since its launch, really great progress and we expect it to continue to build its book. So
another busy year for motor, mostly behind the scenes and we expect to start seeing the
beneﬁts of all this investment ﬂow through later this year.

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So if we take a step back from all the detail, what does this tell us about the future of the
group? Well, above all notwithstanding the challenges of 2020. It tells us this business has
real momentum in three main ways: driving the beneﬁts and growth out of the
investments we have already made, landing the big technology deliveries and making
down payments on the future changing nature of the economy and society.
As I've said to you in previous presentations, we really do start from a position of strength.
We have strong brands, rich data and leading claim skills. They are hard to replicate and
we believe deliver real long-term value. We have a range of products and distribution
channels that give us real diversiﬁcation and scale that most of our UK-focused peers
simply do not have. And we're proudly a people business, which means we really care
and have a passion to serve our customers. But we're all about building on these
strengths and improving our capability so in the future, we are a fully digitally enabled
business which provides excellent customer service at market-leading eﬃciency, however
and wherever our customers choose to interact with us; a technology-driven business that
can oﬀer unique customer products and propositions through Direct Line and Green Flag
quickly and at low cost; a data-driven business that can leverage the wealth of its own and
its partner's data to drive better risk selection and deliver more tailored customer
products; an agile and lower-cost business that can quickly reorientate itself to focus on
the areas of highest value. We believe these labor foundations for the increasing the
sustainability of earnings and for driving future growth.
We're far from ﬁnished, but we're already seeing the eﬀects of the technology business
and data transformation emerge. And we're a business that is proud to challenge itself to
both be a Force for Good and to deliver strong returns for its shareholders. Extraordinary
circumstances of 2020 created a real sense of togetherness, pride in the business and
determination to succeed and I have 11,000 people to thank for that.
I've always believed in the potential of this business. And the last 12 months to reinforced
my belief that if we can achieve results like this while facing the seismic shift that COVID
has created then we can take that momentum and accelerate our strategy to be the techand data-driven insurance company of the future.
I really look forward to sharing more of our progress later with you -- later in the year with
you, hopefully this time in-person.
Thank you for listening. Both myself and Neil are really happy to answer any questions
that you have. And I'm going to hand over to Jess who's going to facilitate the Q&A for
us. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

Thank you. (Operator Instruction) We are aware that those joining the call will be following
the presentation in real-time, whereas viewers on the webcast will be watching with a
short time delay of between 5 to 15 seconds, so we'll leave extra time to allow you to join.
(Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst question comes from the line of Kamran Hossain from
RBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, Penny, Neil and team, I hope everyone's well. Please pass our best on
to Tim. We hope everything is going as best as it can for him. I got two questions from my
side. The ﬁrst one on reserve releases. I guess in the second half they were lower than
what we might consider to be normal, even though with the level reducing over time.
Could you maybe talk through what they read across from this is for the next couple of
years? Should we expect far low reserve releases? Or is there now the potential to be
more as you built up some prudence in the second half of 2020?
And the second question is, have you seen any meaningful frequency beneﬁts year-todate in 2021. Perhaps you could give some color on what this looks like versus what we
saw in Q4. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Kamran, and thanks for the kind thoughts. We'll pass them on to Tim. Do you
want to start with reserving PYD?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, Kamran, let me do reserving oven for you. So the ﬁrst thing says, I think it's always
best to look at the whole year rather than any half period, because you do get variation
between the halves. So always -- I think, always, the ﬁrst thing is just look at the full year. If
I take the full year, I think it's come down versus last year which is trajectory we've been
expecting. The reinsurance impact of the greater reinsurance program is now pretty much
-- is now working through the system. We set that up in 2014. So I think it's fair to say that
last year or 2020 as a whole, is kind of a low-watermark and where we'd expect reserve
releases to be for the book. And actually, as we look forward, reserve strength is good at
year end and I actually expect there to be some -- potentially some positive upside to the
level in 2020.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Neil. Frequency in 2021, so yes, clearly with the lockdown we're seeing reduced
levels of frequency in January and February. Not the same level as we did in the ﬁrst
lockdown last year, but deﬁnitely seeing some reduction. I think in terms of what that
means for the year, probably too early to tell for the year overall and as much as there's
lots of factors that will play out as we look forward, and certainly, as we're are looking at
pricing across the year, we're taking into account both what we think long-term driving
habits will be and what our views are on those, and some severity pressures that we're
seeing in the market around reinsurance levies and some temporary eﬀects that we've
seen in accidental damage areas, which mainly links to COVID-related practices. But when
we look at all of that and around, we're reiterating the 93% to 95%, and really, that -- the
Page 14 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

message there is that we expect to sort of carve through a middle course through all of
that and stick to those long-term trends.
Let's go to our next question, Jess.

FINAL

Operator
Yes. The next question comes from the line of Freya Kong from Bank of America. Please
go ahead.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Hi, Penny. Hi, Neil. On reinsurance, you've made a slight change to the
program. So you're now retaining a bit more risk on the motor excess of loss book. Does
this aﬀect your outlook for the attritional loss ratio in PYD and potentially capital
requirements as well?
And second question is pricing room seemed a little weak despite good policyholder
growth? Is this general competition that you're seeing in the market? Or is everyone
pushing through lower renewal prices?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Brilliant, why don't you take the ﬁrst one, Neil, and I'll take Home.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I'll take ﬁrst?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks for that. So on the reinsurance one, so yes, we have taken a bit more risk in
2021. If I stand back, why we're doing that? Well reinsurance pricing had been going up
for a number of years now particularly post the Ogden rolling couple of years ago. So we
saw a step change in reinsurance pricing up. And as we look at the program now we think
there's actually more value in retaining additional risk. Clearly, it's a risk attaching
program, so already half earned through this year or half earned through next year. So I
think it's quite a long time before we see any impact on PYD, given the current year
earnings to start with.
As I said in the presentation, in most years, we expect to see a better result because of
this program. And by that, I mean a modest improvement to the attritional loss ratio,
clearly in years where there's a very heavy BI claims frequency, it will be -- it might be a
slight negative. But in most years we'd expect a small positive. In terms of capital, which
was -- like, was the last part of the question, the impact is not material in the short-term.
Page 15 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

I'd say low tens of millions by the end of this year, and we expect additional capital
coming through. But in the context the capital base is not a material movement.

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Home, yes, we've seen pricing come oﬀ little bit. We've seen risk come oﬀ a lot a bit in
home, but only quite minor and some of that is eﬀects of did make some renewal
adjustments as we went through Q2, partly for operational reasons, partly for customer
reasons. And of course, we've continued to make conduct changes as we've talked about
many times with you, we continue to tighten those rates. Both of those have had a little bit
of eﬀect on the pricing overall.
I think the bigger eﬀects really in home and driving the growth is what we're really seeing
is the strength of delivery on the price comparison side as we put real focus on to it. And
the nature of the product there has got sort of slightly lower average premium overall. So
the bigger eﬀects tend to be in average premium rather than sort of pricing pound to
pound, if you like. But yes, all pretty muted eﬀects, I think in the home market. Jess?
The next question?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Your next question comes from the line of Jon Denham from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Hi, Penny. Hi, Neil. Thanks so much for taking the questions. You said that the property
site strategy is incremental to your cost target. Is there also upside from increased
consumer willingness to interact digitally? And secondly, you said you're growing very
strongly in home on PCWs. I think you just said it's lower average premium, but how do
the margins between PCW, Direct and Partnerships compare? Thanks.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Do you want to take the cost?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Should I -- cost?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yes.?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

So I'll take costs, John. So yes, as we look out, I think that we're increasingly conﬁdent of
hitting the 20% expense target in 2023. The property is incremental. To that which is
about GBP10 million, maybe slightly more? I think that there are a few -- a few reasons why
Page 16 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

we're conﬁdent. We talked a bit about this. I think we've done the heavy lifting on the tech
change. So that's un-locker of costs. I think you're right. I think digitalization agenda does
help. And we're putting in -- we've put in place -- you've seen much more digital journeys,
we put in place last year, with customers are very supportive of. So yes, it's a modest
tailwind to costs. I think -- as you said, and on top of that, I think our focus on agility is also
really important here. So it's not just kind of run -- cost -- there are all sorts of cost of
change. So actually, new technology stack is far -- cheaper to the change, and that plays
into the longer term cost agenda. So -- and I'd say increasingly conﬁdent that we can
meet those -- that 20% expense ratio target in 2023.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Brilliant. And on Home, so yes. So the margins -- as we've always said, the margins on our
direct book are the strongest across the organization, and that's true in Home as well as
other products. That said, the margins that we're writing on the PCW business are ahead
of our target returns, so we're really, really comfortable with putting that business onto the
book. And it's not coming at the expense of reductions in the direct book. The direct
book is still growing itself as well. So yes, slightly lower margins than on direct. So
retention is still very high on direct and we're still seeing same growth there as well.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Thomas Bateman from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, both. I hope you're doing well. Just on the FCA implementation, say
four months after the Q2 statement now. I guess given all the change that's going on in
the business and the pricing model changes that you've got, how conﬁdent are you that
you'll be up-to-date in time for that change?
And linked to that, you, obviously, reiterated all your targets. That must have been done in
consideration of what you think the impacts of the FCA review is going to be. Secondly,
just on pricing. I guess, you heard from after the year that you could have been quite
aggressive in H2. Can you talk about DRG's approach to pricing, particularly in the second
half of the year and your expectations for 2021? Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Sure, well, let's do the FCA ﬁrst. The ﬁrst and sort of overwhelming comment is yes, of
course, when we reiterate the 93% to 95%. We're looking at how we believe we will trade
through the FCA pricing practices changes when we make that statement as well. There's
clearly lots of uncertainty out there about how the market will react to diﬀerent points, but
we've scenario-tested, lots of diﬀerent versions of that, and we still conclude that we're
comfortable with the 93%, 95% reiteration. So that's sort of the ﬁrst point.
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In terms of preparedness, so we have a team set up with some of our best people in, as
you would imagine, squarely focused on delivering pricing practices change. And some
of that is in terms of what are the practical things that you need to do to change systems,
models, and communications and so on to be ready. And some of that work is about one
of closed trading strategies that you will take in particular segments and particular areas
of the business and were gaming diﬀerent scenarios. So all of that work is ongoing. And
as I say, the team is in place and kind of well advanced in what it's doing.
I do think that the timelines are too short. I think the entire industry was set back to the
FCA that it believes the timelines are inappropriately short, put unnecessary degrees of
risk into the market, and not all players have the same level of resources at disposal
exposal to address things. So we're kind of really conﬁdent on our preparation and our
plans and our progress. But we would still allow the FCA to take a little longer to make
sure it gets a safe landing across the market.
I think on pricing, okay. So what's been our approach? I mean, the ﬁrst thing to say is that
we always take a sort of long-term view of the structural input costs, if you like, when we're
pricing. So we're always trying to look out ahead. When you look over 2020, what actually
happened, well, overall we put just under 2% through on rates across the year. So not
quite what claims inﬂation is doing, but still some upwards movement in pricing. Most of
that was probably in the earlier part of the year, a little less in the latter part as it became
clear that longer lower driving levels were likely to perpetuate for further out. So we did
put some rate changes through right towards the latter end of the year and take a little bit
out, but always looking towards what we think long-term frequency rates will be and longterm structural claims inﬂation rates will be. I can't speak for what Admiral or anybody else
in the market has chosen to do in the way that they price, but that is our approach and
that remains our approach.
So as we go through 2021, what you'll see us do is, unlike normal circumstances where
you can look to historic data, we and everyone else will have to make assumptions about
what we believe future driving levels will do. And so you'll see us kind of I think adjusting
rates as we assess those views and more data points become clear. But that's the way we
focus on it. We always look to the long-term structural trends and that's what's driving our
pricing at the moment. Jess?

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Ivan.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, good afternoon. I've got two questions, please. The ﬁrst one will be on
growth. Clearly, a few things you've highlighted would mean to -- would lead to some
lower average premium over time, like the mix shift. And I think we saw some of that
eﬀect already in 2020. And then obviously, I think overall market pricing has also been
Page 18 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

down, at least in motor and home in 2020, and that will earn through. And ﬁnally, there's
the FCA impact which we don't know.
So it's fair to assume that the average premium might be heading downward a bit, and
correct me if I'm wrong. Against that, you obviously have the ability to take market share.
And I think you have done that successfully in motor already. So I'm just wondering if you
could give a little bit of an outlook of how you think your top line is going to be
developing this year and next.
And the second question is just on COVID. You had a very helpful table in your ﬁrst half
statement showing your net impact of COVID for the business. Would you be able to give
something similar for the full year, please? And perhaps we can then, from that draw
some conclusions on how the ﬁrst half impact would be. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll share the COVID one to you at a moment, Neil. So pricing and eﬀects on average
premium, I think there are lots of complexities in it, Ivan. So if we look at what shifted
average premium's focused initially on motor, there are some facts in there that will
unwind moving forward, so it's really driven by reduced numbers of new drivers in the
market, reduced levels of new vehicle sales reduced levels of mid-term amendments
adding drivers and so on so forth, all of which tend to drive average premium up. And so
as we've gone through 2020, we've seen that shrink. You'd expect to see that kind of
features reverse as we come back into a more normal world.
There are various elements of the input cost that you would expect to put some
inﬂationary pressures back into the market over time and have potentially an impact on
average premium. Those include levy costs reinsurance costs across the market. And
actually some of the severity features, so we've seen severity on damage running ahead
of our usual inﬂation levels. Some of those factors I think will reverse relatively swiftly.
Others are probably longer term features around the market. So some of the COVID
social distancing cleaning factors may well remain for some time, whereas others, I don't
know total losses are more expensive at the moment due to the second-hand car market.
We're not clear how that will develop over time. So there were some inﬂationary pressures
that we expect to come in. Then you've got Whiplash coming in that will probably counter
some of that, depending on how successful it is on introduction. And FCA over time, I
don't think it's clear that it would necessarily reduce average premium, but over time
probably reduces shopping around.
If I cut through all of that, what we are trying to do is make ourselves more competitive
and be able to take market share because of that. And so as those activities come on
stream and the motor systems rollout and we can apply that across the whole of the
books, and so on and so forth, then we would hope to see that competitiveness increase
that gives us more traction within the market. Which is why I say that they should support
longer term growth?

Page 19 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

So we've clearly got a period of transition as a lot of these COVID eﬀects are the steady
and reverse out. And it becomes clear most importantly what actual driving level is the
new norm. Is it 100% of what it was two years ago, is it 95%, 90%. So we make the answer
to that, I think knowing what the exact size of the market is uncertain. But I come back to
the fact that the more competitive we make ourselves, the better capability we give
ourselves, the much stronger chance we have to take motor share.
I think when you look across other product lines, you could already see those eﬀects
happening in commercial. And the growth we're seeing there is real IFP growth in
addition to some of the market rate movements that you're seeing in the commercial
market as well. So you're getting growth rates and volume growth there. We're seen
growth in Green Flag and include demonstrating, we can grow in Home as well. So I think
there are plenty of opportunities for growth, but we've got a period of transition to
navigate over the next 12 months or so. Neil, COVID.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks, Ivan. Let me try to pick this one up. So, I think, the ﬁrst thing to say is, it's
becoming increasingly diﬃcult to unpick the COVID factors. I mean, I think you appreciate
that at the half-year, your three months over the COVID period and now we've got nine
months. And take for example motor premium trying to work out how much of the motor
premium changes are due to COVID and non-COVID factors, is very diﬃcult.
Having said that, you will see that we made a statement in the prelim that we anticipated
COVID to have been a net modest impact. And it is relatively modest in the context of the
Group proﬁt. If I kind of help you piece some of the bits together, we talked a bit about
motor frequency and how much of that we thought was COVID-related and non-COVIDrelated. Clearly we said that we spent -- invested GBP93 million in force of good
initiatives. You can broadly see the impact on the travel result and obviously, it's bits and
bobs elsewhere, around BI claims, investments and instalment income. So if you add all
that together, it's a small modest positive. But as said, increasingly hard to allocate what's
COVID and what's not COVID.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess, have we got more questions?

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Faizan Lakhani from HSBC. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, all.

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning.

FINAL

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 20034558 <GO>}

Thank you for taking my questions. Just ﬁrstly on the Solvency II. I see the operational
capital generation is actually very, very strong and well above IFRS earnings. I know
there's a similar trend at half year, but I was expecting it to sort of start to normalize sort of
equal that. Can you explain what's driving then how we should think about that going
forward?
My next question is on PYD. I know we've discussed this already, but in home, which
probably don't see the same sort of impact on excess of loss, it was fair bit lower than the
ﬁve-year average. Can you explain why that is and how we should be thinking about
going forward? Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Can you take those?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Yes, let me take both of those. So let me start with capital generation. Yes, you're right,
strong this year. You'll know there's a few factors you need to adjust for when you
compare the IFRS proﬁt to capture and so you need to add back amortization and
investment gains/losses as well. So we do those adjustments. It is still relatively strong.
And the other factor that's very hard to predict is the diﬀerence in valuation basis between
the Solvency II technical revisions and the IFRS reserves. This year, it's been a more
positive or -- sorry, I should say, in 2020, it was a small positive. Over time, you'd expect
that to be pretty neutral, small positive last year, it's hard to forget would it be this year.
But ordinarily, you would expect the capital generation to be very close to the IFRS proﬁt
adjusted for amortization and investment gains/losses.
On to the PYD in Home, so you're right, it was a bit lower in 2020 than the previous year.
We said that the 2019 PYD was higher than normal. I'd say probably this year looks a bit
lower than normal. I wouldn't read too much into that. I think it's a kind of long-term run
rate, the P within in Home is somewhere between the '19 and '20 levels.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess, have we got another question?

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Ming.
Page 21 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon. I have a question on your capital, please. I think previously you've
always said you hold the capital for Brexit. And -- but now if I look at your 166% after a
bond lease side, I mean, are you comfortable with the Brexit outcome now? Or that is still
something you are holding back on? So I'm just trying to get a sense when that 166% and
moving forward. And also -- sorry, also just like to follow-up on that one is you've
announced GBP100 million buyback. Does that mean special is completely out of the way
for this year?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Neil, do you want to take capital?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Let me try and take that. So the 166% in Brexit. So although we've talked about Brexit
generally, the biggest risk we face is actually -- it would have been impact of Brexit on
credit spreads around Brexit itself. So it's the credit spread's exposure that's generally
been the reason why we've held back slightly to the 170.
Look, with is it on a pro-forma basis, 166%, the intent is we're moving back down towards
the middle of the range. So we've taken a good step forward this year. And I think as
uncertainty unwinds, the macro uncertainty unwinds, we would expect to take further
steps as and when you see that ﬁt. In terms of special versus buyback, if I got the question
right, at the moment, we think buybacks is a good way forward. Then the dividend yield is
still relatively high so at where the yields are today, where the shares are trading. We
think, although economically, it doesn't make a huge diﬀerence, buybacks is the best
route through returning capital today.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Jess, have we got another question?

Operator
Yes. So the next question comes from the line of Youdish Chicooree from Autonomous
Research. Please go ahead.

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi.

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions. My ﬁrst question is on motor
pricing. I mean, in your opening comments, you said the deﬂationary pressures in industry
Page 22 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

FINAL

pricing release, but you also indicated you will price in line with your long-term structural
view. I mean, this suggests to me you're prepared to sacriﬁce volumes presumably to
deliver further improvements in your current tier loss ratio. Is that -- am I reading your
statement correctly? That's my ﬁrst question. And then secondly on your expense ratio.
I'm wondering I mean, what I mean can you deliver on that 20% in 2023, if top line
doesn't progress much from here? Those are my two questions. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. I'll take the ﬁrst one on pricing and I'll pass the expense ratio one to Neil. So
pricing, so look, we have always said that we will focus on the value and the
appropriateness of our underwriting margins as a matter of philosophy if you like. And to
that extent, looking at the long-term rate for 12 months out if you like of what inﬂation is
doing and the input costs are doing is a core part of how we think about our pricing. So to
that extent, your comment is right. We'll prioritize underwriting discipline over volume
grabs, if you like, that undermine that.
Now in this environment that requires more judgments than it does usually. Insurance is
all about assessing what your cost of sales will be before you know it. And in this
environment, looking ahead of those long-term trends is a more complex piece and more
judgmental piece even than it is normally. So we are, all the time, reassessing that of what
the right place to strike that is as we look out across 12 months. But yes, we focus on what
we think the overall inﬂation and input cost trends were. It will be above this, across that
time of our premium way through pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

So on expense, thank you for the question, so baked into our projection is a very modest
level of growth to achieve that 20% expense ratio. I guess the answer is if we don't
achieve that, we work harder.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess?

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Will Hardcastle from UBS. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Will.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Good afternoon, Penny and Neil. You've discussed now that you can read products
quicker with the other technology capability. Is there any way in getting some
quantiﬁcation around this? How quickly can you reprice, adapt changes on to the
website? And perhaps do you now consider yourselves to be market-leading or which
quartile of the industry?
Page 23 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

And the second question is on investment yield. That 1.5% yield guidance for '21. Just
trying to -- it's a pretty precise question, but when was it struck? Is this as with rates at
year-end, or is this as of current levels? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Will. I'm going to leave Neil to the precision questions on investments. So what
do we think we can do in terms of pricing pace and where does it put us in the market?
So, I mean, right now I think anyone who was able to come to Doncaster, when Gus did a
pretty detailed presentation on where pricing was at and what we were trying to achieve
with it; we were pretty clear then that comp links rate changes, not simple, I'm going to
put 1% across the portfolio, but complex and segmental rate changes can take us a
number of weeks to do on occasion on the current system. And we also have to kind of
translate between diﬀerent languages to get it live into the system. And that combination
of things dilute to eﬀectiveness of the pricing en route, if you like, but also takes much
longer than some of our pay grade, who we believe, can make it certainly overnight and
maybe even in today changes.
So the capability that we are putting in takes us to the point that we can do those kinds of
changes at the same kind of pace. So certainly overnight type changes, and we are taking
weeks out of those translation processes. So it's a very, very material shift in capability. The
thing that is happening alongside that is that we obviously need to re-engineer all of our
pricing processes internally to be able to deal with that, if you like, if you've got a process
that normally takes six weeks and it's capable of for taking a day or two, then you needs to
re-gear into that. So there's quite a lot of transformation going alongside that to facilitator
using it. And obviously, the further we get through the brands and rollout of the book,
then that capability comes on stream at that point.
And where does it take us in terms of quartile? We believe, that it will give us the
capability that matches the leaders in the industry. And there are lots of diﬀerent facts that
determine who's most eﬀective at pricing in any one component in anyone area. But it
gives us the tool set that puts us amongst the leaders.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Sorry, Will. And on investment return this year. So it -- struck this year, I can't give you a
precise date when we struck it, since we struck, it though, I don't think there's been
anything moving in the market particularly to change. I mean credit, is pretty stable since
year-end.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess, we got any more questions?

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Please go
ahead.

Page 24 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good afternoon, Andreas.

FINAL

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my questions. I've got two
questions on the motor book if I may, please. The ﬁrst one is on retention rates. I
remember, earlier in the year when we had the ﬁrst wave, retention rates increased pretty
much across the motor industry. Could you maybe discuss how retention rates developed
in the second half of the year, how you're managing retentions going into 2021 and how
sticky you think retention rates will be through the year given all the volatility with
Whiplash reform? And obviously the FCA pricing review, what are you doing to keep
retention rates up?
And the second question is actually on Slide number 8, where you sort of carve out the
estimated COVID-19 impact of 12.5 percentage points on your attritional loss ratio in the
motor book. I just want to double check, is that a net number, i.e., this frequency plus sort
of minus severity and the sort of customer relief measures you have taken, is that all
included in there? And if so what would be the pure frequency beneﬁt in that number?
Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

So let me take the question, and I'll pass COVID to Neil in a second or CY to Neil in a
second. So retention, you're right that I think we ﬂagged probably at half year that
retention had been really strong through the sort of through Q2. I think it's been a feature
of all of the lockdowns that new business shopping has dropped in the market and the
heat is in the heart of those kind of pure lockdowns. It came up again became through the
summer and into the autumn and then dropped oﬀ again as we went into sort of the
lockdown in November sort of time and it sort of stayed down.
And the corollary of that is the retention across the market I think, has been pretty
buoyant. So actually throughout the year, retention has remained strong. And remained at
or above the levels that we target and are comfortable with and that's been a feature of
the market. So that looks good and that looks -- I think that's the case, really, across all
products, but motor in particular. I think as we look forward, there are lots of things that
will create some volatility in the market or there are several things. I think the thing that
will create most volatility in the market is the -- as we move into pricing practices, you'll
see renewal rates and new business rates moving around quite a lot, probably
inconsistently across segments. Maybe across distribution channels you'll see diﬀerent
things happening. And so at that point, you could see some diﬀerent features.
And one of the exercises as you prepare for pricing practices is to work out exactly where
you want those balances to be. So we strike the right place as we move into the market.
And I think as pricing practices comes in, again, you'll see a period where people kind of
maneuver around as the market ﬁnds its equilibrium, because on day one nobody will
know where everyone else going to play, so there'll be a period I think of adjustment
there. But in short, retention rate has been very strong. We always focus on them and

Page 25 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

customer service remains a key driver of retention rates and so NPS score's highly
correlated to retention rates. Neil?

FINAL

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Hi, Andreas, so on the frequency question on Slide 8. So yes, you're right. The 12.5%
points you've estimated is a COVID impact is both frequency and oﬀset by severity
eﬀectively, so you're spot on in saying a pure frequency number would be slightly higher,
so greater than 12.5%. I don't have that on me. But it would -- it'd be I think, slightly higher,
not materially higher than that.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess, next question.

Operator
Yes. The last question comes from the line of Oliver Steel from Deutsche Bank. Please go
ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good afternoon, Oliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Hi, Penny. Hi, Neil. Just one question, which is I'm just wondering about any sort of
guidance for payout ratios in terms of normal dividends, ordinary dividend going
forward? Because I think I remember a few years ago you actually raised the payout ratio.
But if I look back over the last few years, it's gone from around about a 50% payout ratio
to around about whatever it is, upper 80s in the last 12 months. And historically, you've
paid specials or buybacks on top. But I'm thinking that the capacity to keep on doing that
year after year is -- becomes more limited. So I mean bearing in mind that you sort of tried
to raise the ordinary dividend by about 2% per annum, is that a sustainable number? Do
you have a ﬁgure for ordinary payout ratio?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

So thanks for the question. As we look at this, I think the key is that it's a progressive
dividend policy. As you rightly said, a few years ago we rebased it. We had a lower
regular, but a high-growth rate. We rebased it so it's a higher payout ratio and the longterm growth rate is in line with business growth, which was a couple percent. I think we're
conﬁdent where the sustainability of that dividend is.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thank you. Exactly. Okay, yes. Any more questions come in? Or is that the last one?

Operator
Page 26 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-08

There are no further questions in the queue.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

In which case I would say, thank you to everybody for your time, for your questions and
your thoughts. I so look forward to doing the next one with you in the room so that we can
see your faces rather than cameras. But in the meantime, keep safe and thank you.

Operator
Thank you for joining today's call. You may now disconnect your lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

