Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Investor Update Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Brett Shirreffs , Head of Investor Relations
Kevin J. Rehnberg, Chief Executive Officer
Scott Kirk, Chief Financial Officer
Thomas Bradley, Non-executive Chairman of the Board

Other Participants
Bob Farnam
Greg Peters
Matt Carletti

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Welcome to Argo Group's Investor Update. Presenting on today's call will be Kevin
Rehnberg and Scott Kirk. Kevin is Argo's Chief Executive Officer, and Scott became Argo's
Chief Financial Officer following the filling of our 2020 10-K with the SEC. We also have
opening comments from Tom Bradley, Non-executive Chairman of the Argo Board of
Directors.
This presentation is being recorded and a replay will be available in the Investors section
of our website with along with the presentation.
As a result of this presentation, Argo management may make comments that reflect their
intentions, beliefs, and expectations for the future. Such forward-looking statements are
qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally
and may materially differ from actual future results involving any one or more of such
statements. Argo Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
statements as a result of events or developments subsequent to this call. For a more
detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see Argo Group's filings with
the SEC. Please also refer to the company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC earlier today.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin Rehnberg, President and Chief Executive Officer.

Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Good morning, and thank you for the introduction Brett. Welcome to everyone on the
Argo investor update call. Before we get started with our presentation, I want to address

Page 1 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

the 8-K that was filed this morning. As previously announced on March 1, the filing of our
Form 10-K was initially delayed due to unforeseen consequences of the winter storms in
San Antonio Texas, the company's primary financial reporting center.
As we finalized our financial statements during this period, we identified several
immaterial items that needed correcting resulting in a change from our earnings press
release we issued in February. These changes have a small impact on the combined ratio,
operating income, and on the balance sheet as well as changes that impacted foreign
exchange and tax related items below the line and are the result of corrections mainly to
intercompany transactions. These non material errors will be reflected in the 10-K for the
impact on current and prior years. To be clear, there are no material misstatements
identified in the company's previously issued financial statements.
In addition, we re-evaluated our assessment of internal control over financial reporting
and concluded that certain design and operating effectiveness deficiencies in the
company's internal controls when evaluated collectively aggregated to a material
weakness and internal control related to the processes identified in the 8-K.

Bloomberg Transcript

I have committed to you that we are a transparent organization, we are aligned with
shareholders interests. And as the leader of the organization, I will be transparent. So we
have already begun taking steps to remediate these issues. Additional details will be
provided in the company's Form 10-K, which the company intends to file prior to the end
of the permitted 15-day extension period.
Now let's turn to the beginning of our presentation. I'll refer to certain slides at various
points in my prepared remarks. The leadership team of Argo is very excited to present
our vision for the future of the company. Today's presentation will provide additional
insight into Argo's strategic vision and how we are executing that on that plan. The
purpose of this investor update is to share the roadmap of how Argo will achieve its
stated goals.
The execution of our strategy has three primary goals; growth in earned premium,
reducing volatility, and expanding our margins, generating higher earnings. During the
course of the presentation, we will provide additional detail as to how we will achieve
those goals. The entire management team is incredibly excited about the future. We are
positioned for success, however, there's a lot of important work yet to be completed. I
am highly confident we are moving in the right direction. We have the right business mix, a
talented workforce with invaluable skills, and we've taken comprehensive action to secure
leading positions in our specialty markets. The additional details of how Argo's specialty
platform is evolving will provide insight into how the company will look in terms of
business and financial profile as the transition continues.
During the presentation you will hear about the transition across all areas of the company;
business line optimization, underwriting improvement, expense management, and
technology enhancements. It is my privilege to introduce Tom Bradley, Non-executive
Chairman of the Board for some introductory comments ahead of the main presentation.
Tom?

Page 2 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Thomas Bradley

{BIO 3008900 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Kevin. It's an honor to be here today and a privilege, and I'll add my
greetings to all the participants and my thanks for your participation and interest in Argo.
I've been a member of the Argo Board for little less than 2.5 years and I have to say
amazed at the significant transformation of the business that has occurred under Kevin's
leadership. You'll recall a year ago, we have took a fair amount of governance updates -governance improvements relative to the Argo Board that included shrinking the Board
size from 13 to 11, declassified the Board, all shareholders now elected every year and we
also had the five longest serving members of the board retire and we added three new
members of the board and I became chair at that point. So this is a -- we call it a refresh
forward. It's a very refreshed forward, but I need to report you, this is in the past year as
we've met virtually in every meeting. This board is highly functional and very engaged in
its responsibilities and in the company and I can assure you many spirited discussions
across a variety of topics over the course of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to start out to affirm that this Board is aligned with shareholders. We have fiduciary
responsibility to a number of stakeholders and I'll get to some of that later, but we work
for you and we are focused on shareholder value. As chair, I use the concept that I picked
up from somewhere that the Board's responsibility is noses in fingers out. We are not
here to micromanage, Kevin and his team but we are very inquisitive about the goings
ons and in term particularly in a couple of key areas that I'll get to. There have been times
where we've asked Kevin to speed up, and other times to slow down, but when it comes
to these business areas, like for example, the development of the vision and the strategy
to culminate with what you're going to hear today.
That took -- that has taken place really over the course of the year on a number of
meetings, particularly outside of the usual quarterly meetings. We've had a number of
special or separate meetings to allow Kevin to bring his evolved thinking to the board get
our input, our feedback and our push back on where we are. kind of the first exposure
was that the third quarter earnings call when Kevin started talking about the expense
initiatives and giving some visibility into the future and kind of culminating with where we
are today and relative to this the full board met a week ago to review this presentation
with Kevin and Scott and give feedback and guidance and support to this process.
The another area that, I consider kind of Board level that we're actively involved in are
kind of the setting of financial targets and capital stewardship. The outgrowth of this
strategic planning process, obviously includes the financial plans and creating a robust
plan for the year that can be used to manage accountability both for operated
accountability and compensation is very important. But likewise all of the capital matters.
Capital accumulation -- or capital allocation, capital structures, usage of capital are also
important. Board was directly involved in the issue to issue the preferred stock, back in
July as an important part of our capital structure, the Ariel Re transaction which a big
transformation for the company and things we do going forward relative to capital
allocation and uses of capital will be important forward focuses in the future.

Page 3 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Also the board has been able and has been happy to also engage in a fair bit of
shareholder engagement part of it, frankly emanated from the fact of the our stay -- sayon-pay vote last year while it passed, it was not a compelling vote. So we while we have
consultants who tell us the right things that we need to do. We wanted to hear from
shareholders. We took a formal out-reach in the fall with myself and other board
members to talk to shareholders to make sure we're hearing that we're touching base on
the right issues relative to executive comp, and this year, in the past year, we've rolled out
new longer term incentive plans with increased performance periods, but specifically tied
to ROE and growth and book value which we believe to be prime drivers that align the
company's compensation plan which shareholder interests.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we also took this opportunity to talk to shareholders on non-comp issues. I love when I
get the opportunity to just talk about the business, talk about the strategy, talk about
where things were going and those -- those conversations I have been had, been able to
have over the course of the year have been very, very enlightening to me as well sitting at
the board level and not within management. So I want to finish with that slide by again
asking you to rest assured this board is aligned with shareholders. We also as I
mentioned, take our corporate responsibility matters very importantly. I mentioned we
have other fiduciary responsibilities and many of these fall into the ESG areas and during
that shareholder outreach, we heard from a number of investors how important it was for
us to, how important it is for us to have a formal approach to ESG matters that's formal
and thoughtful, and I think this goes along several different axis. We're committed to
enhanced disclosure of these issues. We published our first ESG annual report in 2020
and the 2121 report is due shortly. We published our climate wise report and we have
enhanced disclosures elsewhere 10-K proxy financial conditions reports.
We are committed internally and externally to improve our social impact. We've
implemented a formal diversity and inclusion program. This is obviously internal within the
company, but it is a board matter, formal reports and updates and critique from the board
as an agenda item twice a year. We've introduced paid caregiver leave and increase work
flexibility, sponsoring the Spencer's foundation diversity scholarship. And this year Argo
was a signatory to the UN principles for responsible investments. These are just a few of
our commitments and we'll continue to invest in and give back to our community. I already
addressed a number of the governance issues in my prior comments and there aren't a
lot of objective ways to think about ESG and what we're doing but no -- one our objected
that did come out this year is the NSCI ratings on companies. ESG take up and we're
happy to say, we really [ph] improved from B2B plus primarily on the corporate
governance changes and the responsible investment initiatives that we've undertaken.
We realize it's early in this journey on ESG, but particularly that this journey is a continuous
one as societal needs evolved, but we will stay on top of that and continue to monitor
that. So I know the real reason we're here is to hear from Kevin and Scott about the
business. So I'll turn back to that. But as I do, I just want to say as chairman, I want to let
investors know that the board fully supports this transformation plan and we are confident
that it will create significant shareholder value. So it's now my privilege to turn back to
Kevin.

Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}
Page 4 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Thanks, Tom. Argo is a focused -- U.S. focused specialty insurer and a leader in some very
profitable specialty lines. We are well established in our chosen markets with competitive
advantages in key segments which will translate to strong financial performance. Our
objective in each business is to have that business perform at or near 90% combined
ratio with an objective of a double-digit return on the capital allocated to that business.
Our focus is in areas we believe we have the ability to grow at a double-digit pace over
the long term and in many of our businesses, we have done that with all the actions we
have taken to date through resource application, underwriting and claims improvements
and business exits, we expect to achieve these objectives by the end of 2022.
Let's now please turn to Slide 8 and I'll introduce our leadership team. I have been in the
role of CEO for over year. I have eight years experience with Argo and 32 years in the
insurance industry. Scott Kirk, our new CFO to be as soon as the K is filed has been with
us for a little over a month and has more than 20 years in the business. Tim Carter, our
Chief Underwriting Officer has about a year in his current role and about a year and a half
with the company, while having 32 in the industry. Allison Kiene joined the group at the
end of the third quarter 2020 as General Counsel and she has 14 years of industry
experience. And Andrew Borst has been with us for seven years in a variety of business
and operations roles. He has served as our chief administrative officer for the past year
after having served in that CIO capacity for both our U.S. and international segments.
Andy has 25 years of industry experience. And Matt Harris has been with the company for
four years serving his current role as head of the international business for the past two
years. With 30 years in the industry.
Turning to the next slide, we've round out the leadership team as you can see some of
the executive leaders are relatively new to Argo but most have five years or more with
Argo and all of them have several years in the industry showing the depth of experience
the management team has.
So turning back to our business, as a U.S. focused specialty insurer our business today is
comprised of three main platforms. Our U.S. operations which represent approximately
two-thirds of our business followed by Syndicate 1200 and Bermuda Insurance. These
platforms are all focused on U.S. specialty risks, which is an area where we have
demonstrated our expertise and the ability to generate attractive underwriting margins
and returns. It's important to understand that the U.S. based customers seeking insurance,
source coverage through non U.S. channels primarily Bermuda and London when different
capacity or coverage is needed. Many U.S. specialty risks are placed in either or both of
the Bermuda and Lloyd's markets and Argo can participate in those markets because the
company has a strong presence in London through Syndicate 1200 and in Bermuda. Our
U.S. operations are incredibly strong offering differentiated ENS coverages as well as
having a well-established specialty admitted platform. Argo has a long history of
profitability and growth in the U.S. market.
So let's turn to the next slide and answer a question. That's should be posed more often
and that is what exactly is specialty insurance. To me and to our organization specialty
insurance is a specific product coverage or coverage for an industry group. In which
underwriting, claims or risk management expertise is valued by the customer. Additionally,
there are specialty brokers that are dedicated to those risks and insured to value of the
Page 5 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

products and services offered by the carrier. So with that in mind as we think about our
competitive advantages, we have -- Argo has been and continues to be successful in the
specialty insurance market. Because we have deep expertise and relationships across the
full spectrum of producers handling the business. By that, I mean wholesalers retailers and
MGAs or program producers. In the specialty market customers are not just seeking
insurance coverage they want a business partner in transferring or managing their risks.
Those insured by Argo rely on our industry expertise to help their businesses survive and
thrive. We offer innovative and customized solutions for our insured's needs, we can
provide comprehensive solutions quickly because our senior underwriters are
empowered to make decisions and we are able to attract top industry talent because of
our dedication solely to the specialty insurance business. Our responsiveness to
customers is a hallmark in a competitive advantage allowing us to win and maintain
business. And this service has been enhanced over the years by our commitment to
digital capabilities. Managers are rewarded for their successes and held accountable for
their shortcomings, all within a corporate framework that checks and controls the carefully
managed aggregate risk.
So turning now to Slide 13, we'll go through the vision of our transformation, as several
key priorities are expected to lead to better financial results. When we think about
optimization, Argo has a collection of great specialty insurance businesses where we are
a leader in multiple specialty lines such as New York construction, Surety and our Argo-Pro.
There are also businesses that we recognize are not currently meeting our return hurdles
and that do not have the prospect of achieving reasonable scale or profitability. We have
taken decisive action to exit those businesses that we don't believe will meaningfully
contribute to earnings we recognize that while our transition is underway the great
progress we have made to date in terms of optimizing the business and positioning Argo
for future growth is being masked by our legacy cost and runoff businesses. There are
also some businesses that have underperformed, but in our view have potential to be
profitable in the near to medium term, which we are remediating.
These actions generally include higher rates or better terms and conditions which will
reduce our exposed risk and improve profitability. If we can't obtain the results we
require, we will exit the line or business and we have several examples of this. More
importantly, we also have several significant businesses that are performing very well,
have solid underwriting margins and are commanding strong rates. We will devote
additional resources to those businesses in terms of personnel, capital and technology to
grow the business and build out our franchise. With respect to underwriting focus with the
hardening market, we are actively pursuing and obtaining higher rates and better terms
and conditions. The current market conditions allow us to write more premium while
maintaining or in some cases reducing the amount of risk exposed.
We expect this to lead to increased underwriting profitability while limiting volatility. On the
efficiency front you will hear later in the presentation, we have a number of technology
efforts underway. And those are improving our process flows and will achieve enhanced
productivity. Finally where the real peace matters is the financial targets. We have multiple
levers to pull to accelerate business growth and expand margins, optimizing our business

Page 6 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

mix, tightening our underwriting and improving efficiency will improve our operating
metrics and allow us to achieve our financial target.
So let's get into a bit more detail about those things, our business line optimization
process. I know this is a busy slide but it really is at the heart of what we do. We continually
assess our businesses based on three characteristics. First, a competitive standing within
the specialty line of insurance or business that we're in. Does Argo have a unique
expertise, are we offering a differentiated product, and are we getting the result we
expect. Then we look to the growth potential is the business at scale or scalable which for
us generally means $100 million to be a standalone business. Can we continue to grow
the business to make sure it's a meaningful contributor to our bottom line.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next we take a look at the current market events and evaluate rates and terms whether
the market conditions are allowing us to write profitable business. At a very high level
these three characteristics shape our decision process. On what resources the business
needs to expand, be maintained or if necessary remediated. If remediation is not
successful, we will then exit the line of business. Under all market conditions we seek to
preserve our flexibility and that is important because it allows us to adjust quickly to
market opportunities and changing environments. We use a structured framework to
review all our business and product lines on a monthly and quarterly basis. The business
evaluation is a dynamic and disciplined process where we apply a series of metrics to
assess the businesses.
Let's please now turn to Slide 15. We have several specialty lines where we have a leading
position. The opportunity to grow those businesses and we are adding resources to
actively pursue those opportunities. We will take decisive action in terms of aggressive
remediation measures as I mentioned earlier to fix the underperforming businesses and
exit those if we need to. We have the ability and this is important to dial up or down the
size of the business based on market conditions because we're able to main that -maintain that flexibility because we are not overly dependent on any one line or any one
coverage or any single business unit. We are known for our specialized expertise, our
insureds and our partners and it's our deep relationships that make Argo a preferred
provider. We dedicate more resources towards businesses that are scalable and we can
grow profitably. And where we can generate a double-digit return on allocated capital on
a sustainable basis.
Let's now please turn to some more examples of our underwriting focus and specifically
some actions we've taken to reduce volatility. The first one is that we've been actively
adjusting our book of business to significantly reduce that volatility. There are certain
types of risks that we don't want to underwrite and we're pulling back from in a deliberate
manner, for example, in property, we have been reducing our line sizes and lowering
geographic caps and exiting wild fire prone areas. By taking this decisive action, Argo has
already significantly reduced our exposure and we are targeting a reduction of another
40% in modelled risk as well as continued decline in PMLs overall. We expect that we can
reduce the model risk and volatility of the portfolio without having a significant impact on
the company's top line.

Page 7 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

So let's look at what this means in action. Next slide, please. There are several specific
actions we identified to help reduce our exposure to the property volatility. First, was the
sale of Ariel and that was the most impactful as it reduces the net average annual loss by
25% and there is a continuing decrease of average limits deployed while focusing risk
appetite on U.S. property risks. A reduced appetite for binding or delegated authority
business in both the U.S. and London including limits on our geographic footprint. The
modest growth that we expect in the attractive Bermuda property portfolio to balance
that and have some increase is important because Bermuda was the best performing
property business in 2020 and the Bob Hansberry led business had a combined ratio of
below 70 including tax [ph] during a really challenging year. So in total, we expect these
actions will result in a net reduction of around 40% over the next two years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now turn to Slide 18 for another example, by focusing on our liability lines. In liability,
we focused on limits, terms and conditions while also getting strong rate that everyone's
heard about in the marketplace. It's important to understand this was done by choice
through judicious underwriting, limit reduction, reducing concentrations of risk with the
effect of volatility reduction. We're focused on doing this on a gross basis versus net basis
through managing limits, paying close attention to attachment points as well as
implementing terms and conditions that are tighter than had been in the marketplace for
a while. We achieved significant limit reductions in certain key products, specifically the
average commercial D&L limits have declined 13% over the past three years cumulatively.
The average U.S. excess casualty limits have declined almost 23% from that same time
period and the average Bermuda excess casualty limits have declined 36% during that
time period. Meanwhile, we achieved rates increases north of a 20% in these three lines
and well in excess of that in particular cases.
So let's take a moment to go to the next slide and spend this a little bit of time on what
remediation is and what it means. As I mentioned during the discussion on that
optimization framework, there are times when a business or product line is challenged.
Through our results, market or environment factors including macro conditions. When
these are identified through our review processes as the combined ratio of a business
drifts to the high 90s or is challenged to get the scale, we will embark on a process fixing
it and it is generally a 12 to 24 month period then if the actions work, it will be back in the
grow and invest category, if not, we will pursue an exit with a sale, obviously preferable to
a shutdown.
So let's turn to Slide 20 and we'll spend a little time on what remediation means in
practice. Our contract binding business or a delegated authority business focused on
small account property and casualty risks in the wholesale market is challenged as is the
U.S. specialty property book. We are in the process of getting the rates and terms we
need or we don't write the accounts. Taking this approach, reduces risk while maintaining
premium levels through rate. The relationships with the unprofitable distribution partners
are worked on or terminated with the effect of the remaining book of business being of
higher quality. As we progress through the year, we will share details by quarter on how
those businesses have fared.
So if we please turn to the next slide for some additional examples of how this process
has played out over time. We'll look at one that was successful and one that wasn't. In our
Page 8 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

commercial programs area, we had a small and not meaningful business of about $25
million in 2014, but one with the opportunity if used appropriately to grow in some
specialty areas with an efficient and variable cost structure, we brought in a new leader
Andy Borst, who is now our Chief Administrative Officer and he joined the organization,
added to our staff instituted some changes to appetite and guidelines, created an
efficient and service-oriented business which has allowed us to win some excellent
program opportunities. In 2020, this business was over $150 million in gross written
premium, had a combined ratio under 80.
On the other hand, we had Argo Insurance, our grocery and retail insurance business
which had been performing poorly and went through several remediations over the
course of that time, where we eventually found a place in the market focusing on risk
managed accounts and the use of excellent risk management technology. Despite a
leadership change and some good additions to staff, we could not get the business to
scale as it was stuck in a $30 million to $40 million GWP range. So we exited it in the fourth
quarter of 2020. They're just a couple of examples of how we approach that process.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now if we turn the page to Slide 22. This is a list that some of you have seen and we just
want to have it for everyone to have access to that we have exited a number of business
lines over the past 18 months. We have taken decisive action with regard to
underperforming businesses and some of these exits will over time result in the
elimination of legal entities and certain regulatory and reporting requirements. Although, it
takes a little longer to completely exit a business unit when it requires shutting down a
legal entity. We expect there to be some benefits from these actions that Scott will
address later in the presentation.
I'd like to focus now on some selected business lines, and we wanted to take this
opportunity to dig a little deeper into some of the individual businesses and provide a
little insight later on, but as a group, these businesses were highlighting collectively
represent over a $1 billion of premium and have grown at a combined at a roughly 20%
CAGR with a combined ratio solidly in the mid-80s for the past three years. They each
have distinct competitive advantages and we'll highlight each business. They are
predominantly liability businesses with coverages that have an average claims tail in the
three to five year range. Three years ago, these businesses represented 45% of the U.S.
business. We expect them to be 60% by the end of 2021. The specialty lines have
favorable rates and terms coupled with Argo's leadership in the market than can be
scaled to size and contribute meaningfully to the company's earnings growth. They
represent some of the most profitable businesses we have, so we'll spend a few minutes
on each one in the next section.
he first business will highlight is Argo Pro. It is about 10 years old and has been organically
grown for the most part in the U.S. with parts of the business having been part of our E&S
group prior to its launch and a couple of acquisitions of professional liability books along
the way. We write a variety of management professional coverages for about 60% of the
book and professional liability products for another 30 with the additional 10% coming
through program business. The business is now more than $400 million in gross written
premium and all the lines are written on a claims-made basis. Several years ago, Craig
Landi, an experienced industry veteran with a strong record of performance and
Page 9 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

innovation joined the organization to lead its growth and he has attracted some excellent
underwriting and claims staff to the organization.
Argo Pro has a broad-based distribution network of both wholesale and retail producers.
We focus on small to medium-sized accounts and we have developed digital solutions
that increase service and efficiency. But more importantly, assist in risk selection through
expert underwriting tools that help our underwriters select the appropriate classes and
program placements on the public company D&O business. This particular tool is being
rolled out as well for private companies and will lead to more consistent underwriting
across the portfolio and the ability to monitor the impact of new accounts on the portfolio.
The concepts developed around these digital tools are also applicable to other areas of
the organization and are under development. Market conditions in these lines are very
favorable currently and certain segments of this business have gotten more than 80
points of rate over the last two years on a combined basis. We expect Argo Pro will
continue to grow solidly in the double digits.
Let's turn now to Casualty on Slide 26. We have participated in the Casualty E&S business
since we acquired Colony about 20 years ago. We use Casualty as an incubator for new
businesses within this space. And as an example, we moved construction, which I'll talk
about in a moment to be a standalone business a couple of years ago. In our Casualty
unit, we write primary and excess coverage with a split of about 50% each. This business
is approaching a $100 million, which may surprise many of you but we broke out almost
$300 million of it when we set the construction unit up. And we -- as I mentioned earlier,
we dial up and we dial down our involvement in certain parts of the market based on
market conditions. This was applied to the Casualty line in the latter part of the past
decade as the broader E&S Casualty market became much more competitive than what
we were willing to support.
So as the market has changed and we are operating the business under new leader, Chris
Harmon, who has longer ties to our Chief Underwriting Officer, Tim Carter, we have a
consistent approach to the Casualty business throughout Argo Group broadly. Today, we
find the market in a much better place and the leadership team is taking advantage of the
strong rate environment. We have primarily wholesale distribution approach -- primarily
wholesale distribution approach to the market and a small to medium customer base like
most of our businesses. The Casualty group was the trailblazer for the U.S. business with
respect to workflow, system change, and digital solutions. So the efficiency and the ability
to turn around quotes very quickly is a competitive advantage with the ability to quote in
one hour versus what had been one day and more than that when the initiative started 10
years ago, which is a nice transition point to talk about our next business on Slide 27.
As I mentioned, our Construction Group was part of Casualty and has been growing over
the past decade and to what has been a growth profit and digital leader for the
organization. Construction operates through wholesale distribution and is focused on
small to medium contractors. We have very strong expertise in certain areas, including
New York risks, and we broadly focus on interior renovation and service repair customers.
The book is predominantly primary with all the excess that we write done on a supported
basis, meaning we write the underlying account as well. The leader of this business Jim
Cornwell has successfully led both our Casualty and construction businesses and
Page 10 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

embraced workflow, system and digital enhancements over the past 10 years. So from a
digital perspective, we have pioneered and refined several of our best digital tools and
processes in this business. One digital tool of interest is our Owner's Edge platform for
owner's interest policies, which is completely accessible and provides quick response
times with a much greater efficiency than all of our other products. The premium per
employee in this area is $8 plus million. There is another very significant digital process
application which was developed by the Construction team, which I will speak about later
when we highlight digital tools.
Moving now to Slide 28 and the environmental business. It has been a strong performer
for us over the past 10 years and is continuing to grow while remaining an efficient
business. We did have some turnover in the business last year which impacted our growth
but the business is overseen by Marsh Duncan, who did a great job of building the
business in the first place. We had moved him on to other roles within Argo and he is now
again sitting in an oversight role. He was able to attract a new leader David Corey, with
strong industry experience and a following in the marketplace, who has subsequently
hired a staff of skilled underwriters and we are located with a broader geographic
footprint which will further enhance growth opportunities. The appetite is for small to
medium risks written primarily through wholesale distribution, is mostly claims-made and
liability policies. Rates have not been as strong in this area as some other business units
over the last two years but environmental is in a strong position of profitability.
Now let's turn to Slide 29 and talk about our Inland Marine business. We have written
Inland Marine coverages on and off for the past nine to ten years, but had not come
anywhere near scale or done well with it financially. So we hired a new leader several
years ago, David Headley, who has had extensive history in the business and has
overseen a sizable and very profitable book of this business in his past. We are using the
business as a model for a fully digital approach to new business units, and it has been
growing at a triple digit rate which will continue for a near term as we expand the staff,
the geographic footprint and the use of digital tools and processes. This is a very large
market place where we can offer specialized program and provide service as a
differentiator, which will allow us to capture profitable business while we access
wholesale, retail, and MGA channels.
Now let's turn to Surety which is a very successful and profitable business for us, that was
started by a group including our leader Josh Betz, and his Chief Underwriting Officer, Mark
Farina over 10 years ago. We are able to compete on larger programs and excellent
business through the strength of our underwriting and claims approaches including the
use of engineers in the risk management and underwriting process. We focus on the
commercial and contract Surety business with the former being the largest part of the
book. Additionally, we serve the needs of some of our clients through the international
operations. The business has grown organically and is now a $150 million business with
excellent results. Over the past year, increased competition and the economic slowdown
have had an impact on both losses and opportunities in the industry broadly, so we are
not looking for growth at the same rate we had historically but the profit potential remains
strong. And the team is very disciplined in their approach to underwriting and managing
claims.

Page 11 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

So let's briefly turn to Slide 31. And while all these things are great and are happening and
the businesses are positioned for profitable growth, we feel confident in our ability to
continue our long-term growth trajectory. Another key to our success has been the
willingness to walk away from unprofitable business. Since I joined Argo in 2013, we have
exited 27 businesses or product lines that have totaled approximately $700 million in
premium over that time frame. You will notice from the chart on the page though that the
magnitude has gotten smaller in recent years as we have already dealt with the most of
the problematic businesses. However, our disciplined review of business prospects is an
ongoing process, and I earlier spoke about initiatives underway in contract binding and
property.
As markets and opportunities change over time, we constantly re-evaluate whether we
should be deploying our capital and resources into a business. If the growth and return
potential is not there, we would rather provide the resources to a business with better
prospects. As you can see this approach has not hurt our ability for growth and the U.S.
top line has nearly doubled since 2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I'd like to spend a few minutes on our international platform. Let's start with market
potential. I want to take this opportunity to clear up a misperception about international
markets. Our international business is focused on U.S. based non admitted risks.
According to our producers, the Bermuda Insurance market is approximately 90% U.S.
domiciled risks, and more than half of all risks written through Lloyds are from U.S. and
Canada.
Syndicate 1200 and Bermuda Insurance provide platforms to write U.S. focused specialty
business in hardening markets with favorable outlooks for rates and terms. This is exactly
the type of market we want exposure to and the ability to participate in. Argo has some
competitive advantages in terms of our underwriting skills in the lines we write. Our
existing presence and infrastructure and the fact we are an established player in both
markets. These businesses are scalable with rates and terms that meet our risk and return
requirements. It is important to emphasize that Lloyd's is the largest writer of U.S. E&S
business with a 22.5% market share.
On Slide 38, one way we are able to measure the success of some of our digital
investments is by looking at premium per employee. As our investments have increased
automation and developed better workflow systems they have been able to become
much more efficient. When I joined the organization in 2013, the U.S. business was running
about $1.6 million per employee, which is not a good ratio for a flexible and successful
specialty operation. Since then, we have nearly doubled the amount of premium per
employee and written profitable business along the way. The investments may have
allowed us to only need to grow staff at 2% annual rate while growing premium at around
10% annual rate. More importantly back to the point, I made earlier in the presentation
about dialing businesses up and down these improvements will not put an expense drain
on the organization if we need to dial some businesses some businesses down. On the
next two slides, I will provide examples of certain digital investments in action.
One of the best contributors to service, efficiency and profitability is a series of tools
combined into something we call the wrapper [ph]. The wrapper system was started
Page 12 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

seven years ago when -- by Jim Cornwell after we had a discussion about incomplete
submission information slowing the quoting process. It has evolved to something where
the wrapper pulls data and consolidates underwriting information allowing faster quoting.
We have used it to implement and refine filters on the submissions so it leads to strong
margins through eliminating unwanted business and tasks. When combined with workflow
enhancements, we get even more benefits. The wrappers report about $100 million book
of business that has produced U.S. business leading margins consistently for the past
three years. This digital enhancement allowed us to get great returns from our digital
investments and is indicative of the opportunities we have as we continue to roll out tools
for the organization.
On the next page, I will focus on how we're integrating artificial intelligence to improve
our efficiency. Our investments in AI have helped our operations in a few areas. First, we
have developed tools that help prioritize submissions for our underwriters. What happens
often in the specialty market is a broker will blast the submission to many carriers and this
can create a backlog of submissions that is mixed in terms of quality or not aligned with
our risk appetite. We only want our underwriters focusing on the highest quality
opportunities. We started a process several years ago where we started down this path,
with the AI technologies help us prioritize submissions as they come in the door so that
our underwriter review opportunities that we're most likely to write first. The focus for us
is quality over quantity, we also have capabilities that allow us to monitor workflow of our
staff. We are able to reallocate tasks to areas where there is capacity so fewer resources
are ever sitting idle. Lastly our AI capabilities can auto-populate submissions into our
system. This allows us to respond more quickly improves our service to producers and
allows us to adjust staffing in certain areas as well as being more certain about clarity of
the information offer. Turnaround time is a key factor in winning businesses in certain lines,
and these investments have helped us significantly improve how quickly we are able to
respond to quotes.
Now I like to turn over to Scott Kirk.

Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks Kevin, and good morning and good afternoon everybody. My name is Scott
Kirk and as Kevin and Brett said at the top of the call. I'll be taking over the CFO role from
Jay Bullock after we file our 10-K. Although I'm new to Argo I am not new to the CFO role.
I had 20 plus years of experience in the insurance industry and most recently as CFO and
a similar-sized insurance broker. Quickly getting my feet under [ph] the table I'm thinking
about the way forward here at Argo. And as you heard from Kevin, there's been a lot of
change over the last few years and these are exciting times to be part of the Argo story. It
has been good to meet the number of you over the last couple of weeks through the
investor conferences and for those of you that I haven't met, I really look forward to
seeing you at some point soon.
We listened to the feedback from these recent meetings, and in this next section next
section, I'm laying out several key data points to help you think about the financial
trajectory for Argo over the near term. And breaking these down in the following areas.
I'm going to talk about growth expectations, changes in ceded reinsurance, expenses,
Page 13 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

investments, capital management, and then I'll try to draw all of these components
together to provide you with a view of our key financial metrics and attempt to give you a
visual of the key building blocks perhaps beyond 2021.
So first let me talk about the growth expectations which are on Slide 43. Now here on this
slide, you'll see that the company's been very busy executing on a simplification strategy,
exiting a number of non-core businesses. The graphic on the right side of the page peels
away the impact of these exits to the businesses to show the strong underlying growth
story in the go forward business. We anticipate high single-digit growth in premiums for
2021, reflecting those key underwriting initiatives that Kevin provided in his earlier remarks.
It is worth pointing out that the business we exited in 2020 continues to run-off in 2021
and beyond. However, by 2022, the impact on gross written premium is going to be very,
very small.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I'll turn to the changes in our ceded reinsurance requirements in 2021. And this is on
Slide 44. This is an important change as we are expecting to reduce the level of ceded
reinsurance that we purchase in 2021 and beyond. We've been able to achieve this
through a combination of the exiting poorly performing lines, exiting the reinsurance
business and reducing our use of third-party capital layer, reducing our property
exposures and reducing our gross limits across a number of insurance lines. The reduced
need for ceded reinsurance increases our own earnings without any meaningful change in
the trajectory of the group's risk profile.
Now, this is the key driver of net earned premiums as we move forward through 2021 and
beyond, which we'll see as we turn to the next slide on Slide 45. This slide provides an
outline of the impact of the exited businesses on net earned premium in each of our
segments. Now under normal circumstances, you might expect to see net earned
premiums go down as we exit businesses. In our case we've exited the more volatile
reinsurance business which has in turn led to a reduction in our need to purchase ceded
reinsurance and this allows our net earned premium to grow in 2021. This is particularly
evident in the international segment where the reinsurance business was reported
historically. The increase in net earned premium combined with what we hope will be a
more normal tax [ph] year, is a key contributor to the anticipated improvement in the
combined ratio in 2021.
Now let me move on to expenses on Slide 46. Now before I go into the numbers, I sort of
want to highlight where we are on the process of improving the efficiency of our
operations, and broadly speaking we're at the start of that journey. And although
progress was made on our expense target in 2020, we are really dealing with the lowhanging fruit here. And this is what I'm going to call Phase 1 and it will take us through to
the end of 2022.
Now turning to the numbers on the slide. I wanted to clarify and reset what we are doing
with regards to the $100 billion expense initiative we announced last year. Yes, specifically,
I wanted to focus our attention on the above the line expenses, and what I mean by that
is that we said we will reduce expenses by a $100 million through 2022 based on
expenses we reported at the end of 2019. Now of these circa $40 million were below the
line other corporate expenses, which are not included in the combined ratio. Now what I
Page 14 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

want to do is refocus our attention towards those expenses which impacts the combined
ratio where the goal here is to save $60 million of expenses through 2022. And by no
means am I attempting to back away from the target for the established, but I want to
focus on the core operating expenses of the business.
You can see the detail behind the remaining $40 million of expense savings on the top
right-hand side of the slide. These savings will be driven by a combination of business
rationalization, where we will see a full-year impact of the cost reductions of those
businesses we exited. In addition to some reorganization costs and further general
expense reductions. We will continue to drive efficiencies in this operation.

Bloomberg Transcript

I believe the more important metric to consider over is on the next slide, Slide 47 where
I'm highlighting the impact on the expense ratio of these reductions and other
contributing components. Now this slide brings together many pieces of the discussion to
show a trajectory of the expense ratio through 2022. Now in terms of these pieces, it
incorporates our growth expectations, changes in business mix reduced level of ceded
reinsurance, as well as reductions in our operating expenses. As you will see, and
consistent with the recent discussions in our earnings call, we anticipate the expense ratio
will be in the range of 37.5% to 38% in 2021. Now the new piece of news here is that we
said we reached the 36% expense ratio target by the end of 2020, however, I believe we
can get there a little faster and over 36% expense ratio for the full-year 2022.
Going forward, we'll also look to improve the transparency of these components within
our quarterly materials. The expense story does not end here and I definitely believe
there were further in efficiencies to be driven out of the business. I'm going to call this
Phase 2 of the expense initiative, and I'm going to lay out some of the key principles on
Slide 48.
Phase 2 requires a more strategic view of operations and will combine a deep dive into
the group support functions and we'll look to transform our operations into a more fit for
purpose and scalable infrastructure. This will take time to evaluate and it will take care to
execute. The outcome of Phase 2 will be where I'll be focusing my energy through 2021,
and something that I've had success in my past.
Shifting gears, I want to highlight the changes in the investment portfolio that have been
made over the last two years on Slide 49 and then I'll look at the impact these shifts have
on our expectations for net investment income on Slide 50.
On Slide 49, we're constantly reviewing our capital position ensuring that we're deploying
our capital to areas where we believe we can achieve the best rates of return. And with
regards to invest -- over the last couple of years we have been derisking as we have seen
opportunities to deploy our capital towards underwriting opportunities. With this derisking
in mind, going forward, we will continue to evaluate our allocation to alternative
investments given the relatively high capital charges that these investments tracked. And
in all likelihood we'll see this portion of the portfolio reduced and be redeployed
elsewhere in the portfolio. I look forward to updating you on these changes we are
making over the coming quarters. However, our philosophy with regard to the assumption

Page 15 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

of risk here is that we assume risk from our underwriting business and we do not take
excess risk in our investment portfolio.

FINAL

Now, let me turn to our expectations for net investment income in 2021 on Slide 50.
Duration of the fixed income portfolio is decreased from about 3 years in 2019 to about
2.5 years at the end of 2020 while book yield ex cash is just under 2.25%. And new money
rates are in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
With regards to our short term view, and as Jay mentioned on the recent earnings call, we
are seeing compression in new issued credit spreads and this combined with the
continuing low interest rate environment we anticipate that income contributed from our
core investment portfolio will be a little lower than we saw in 2020. It is worth noting that
the net investment income from the core investment portfolio excluding are alternatives
was $23.5 million in Q4 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to our alternative investments. The recent reflation has improve the outlook
but predictions as to the quarterly impact on lease on our investment returns is really
difficult. Now, however, we would anticipate that the contribution from these assets you
made marginally higher than the $9 million we reported in 2020.
Turning out a capital on Slide 51, I just wanted to highlight our philosophy with regards to
capital management. And first and foremost, we are committed to ensuring strong levels
of capital are maintained to support our regulatory and rating agency obligations. In terms
of any capital management decisions we'll first ensure that strong capital position are
maintained with our regulators and rating agencies, and we would then look to deploy
that capital in the business if there are opportunities to do so. If we had excess capital at
that point, we would look to return that to shareholders.
-- up with regards to the key metrics that we're providing other page. These do not
contemplate any material capital management actions during 2021. This of course may
change before if opportunities arise.
Bringing all these pieces together on I wanted to turn to Slide 52, where we're providing
expectations of acute financial metrics for 2021. We acknowledge that there's been a
meaningful amount of change over the last 12 to 18 months in Argo. There are still a
number of factors at play that can have a meaningful impact on our financial results such
as the size and frequency of natural catastrophes, the impact on global financial markets
and to get legal reforms. But on this slide, we try to give our best view of the year ahead.
First on topline you can see the premium expectations for 2021, on an underlying basis we
expect mid to high single digit growth for the go forward business. We also expect to see
a higher ratio of net written premium to gross written premium in our reported results,
and I discussed this earlier. All-in we expect the combined ratio of 95% to 97% assuming a
normalized view of catastrophe losses during 2021. I will note though that these targets
do not make any additional allowance for the impact from the winter storms in Texas that
occurred in February.

Page 16 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

If I move over onto Slide 53, but I've done here is attempt to give you a visual of the key
building blocks the glide path for ROE. Largely focusing on 2021, but obviously, I've given
you some pieces to that puzzle beyond there.
Here on Slide 53, I'm attempting to show the key steps to achieving our ROE targets in
2021 and give a really high level view of the building blocks for '22. Looking at '21 as a key
driver, it's our expect -- the key parts to this is the reduced COVID and Cap losses from
those that we incurred in 2020 and you can see that towards the left hand side of this.
And beyond this I've already covered our expectations for expenses underwriting
initiatives and investment income. Link to bridge is you think about it beyond 2021 is
directional only at this stage and highlights the key drivers for our OEM improvement.
And with this I'll now turn the call back to Kevin for some closing remarks.

Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks Scott. In closing, I'd like to say that we are committed to executing our strategy
and meeting our financial targets. We believe that we are well-positioned in the current
environment. With more than 90% of our premiums focused on U.S. domiciled risks. This is
an area where we have demonstrated our expertise and ability to produce attractive
markets. Further we are benefiting from favorable market conditions that are allowing us
to achieve rate and better terms and conditions as well. We will pursue growth in a
dynamic and disciplined manner with a focus on bottom line results. As Scott discussed in
detail, we have an expense initiative to remove costs and we expect to achieve 36%
expense ratio in 2022.
Today, we've also laid out additional operating and return targets for '21 and '22. This
includes reaching a double-digit ROI by the end of 2022. We have identified steps and
actions to achieve those targets and look forward to updating you on our progress along
the way. We will continue to invest in technology applications that support both our
efficiency and growth objectives. All of this is supported by a balanced investment
portfolio and a strong balance sheet. Thanks for your attention today. I will now turn it back
to Brett to begin the question-and-answer portion of this session.

Questions And Answers
A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)
Thanks Kevin. Right now, we're beginning the Q&A portion of the call. (Operator
Instructions) First up is Casey Alexander, Casey, please ask your question.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Hey, good morning, Casey. -- I can't hear and perhaps he's on mute.

Page 17 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Yes, Kevin. I can't hear anything either just to let Casey know. Okay, we will move on to the
next question and come back to Casey. Next up, we've got Bob Farnam.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

FINAL

Morning, Rob.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Can you hear me?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes loud and clear.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Okay. Great. I can hear you and see you. So thanks a lot for a nice presentation --

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

-- I liked the segment disclosures. Could you really best for Kevin? I think it's not apparent
to me that excess casualty written from Bermuda fits the specialty characterization. Can
you explain sort of the justification for remaining in that business? Thanks.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, I think that could be looked at that way across the group when I talk about how we
have small to medium risk profiles as there are mostly in that market larger accounts that
doesn't mean they're exclusively larger accounts. We have participated there over a
number of years and at the moment the average volume size is probably a quarter of
what it was when we initially started there.
So we have with the market as well taking the exposures down and are at a position
where we are capable of participating. given the size of the organization and with the
narrowed focus we may not have as much growth out of there, but we still think we can
participate in that market.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

It doesn't seem to me intrinsically that it has the characterization of Argo maintaining a
competitive advantage insureds appreciating the underwriting talent of Argo. Again as an
excess player, it seems much more candidly like a commodity opportunity albeit at one or
maybe the wind is at the lines back but longer term it seems like it's got commodity
orientations. That's why really the root of what I asked.

Page 18 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, I guess I appreciate that perspective having spent a couple of years in that
marketplace there are a number of different types of risks that do show up there and, the
fact that we're writing casualty does in that market help us on the professional liability and
property side so there are some ancillary benefits. But it is something that we as I
mentioned earlier we look at the businesses on a quarterly basis and we'll continue to
review that one.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Thanks again.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Sure.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Okay, let's try to go back to Casey Alexander again, Casey, you're up. Casey, we're still
having trouble hearing you, so we're going to move on here. Next up is Greg Peters.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, loud and clear. Good morning.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

So I wanted to talk to you for a second, structurally or have you address -- you're trying to
lower your expense ratio. Can you talk to me structurally about in the international
business the amount of business that is done on a coverholder basis because it's my
impression that that's run at a higher expense ratio than other types of business? And
then of course, you also mentioned and highlighted your Surety business and my
impression of the Surety business is that is also a higher expense ratio type of business
relative to the others. So ultimately what I'm getting at is to address these businesses that
I think have higher just embedded expense ratios as you're trying to push the expense
ratio lower for the consolidated organization?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. Greg, those are good points. Thank you for bringing them up because -- I'll start with
the first one. In the London operation we started a couple of years ago with the action to
take the coverholder businesses down that were challenged from an underwriting
standpoint. But we've also addressed that on an expense standpoint. So that's a work in
progress and has been being moved through over the last several years. The challenge
with coverholder business is you can't get off and immediately, there are generally terms
and conditions about the timeline to remove yourself from that. So we expect over time
that, that will continue to diminish.
Page 19 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

With respect to the Surety business, it is an inherently high cost structure in that line of
business across the industry. The balance of it is though that the industry loss ratios for
the previous several years had been in the low teens. On an industry basis last year, they
crept up to the low 20s. We have performed generally better than the industry. So when
you combine the two it's something that will take that pill and handle the expense portion
in the U.S. book as long as we get the Surety results.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

So just to follow up. I think you wrote for 2020 about $1.8 billion of total net premium
written. How much of that would be structurally higher expense ratio business,
coverholder business, Surety business, stuff that -- it's going to be very difficult to have
sort of expense ratio improvement in the near term?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

On a percentage basis, I don't know that off the top of my head. I really --

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

It's okay. And sorry about that.

A - Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No, but -- Greg it's a good question. So we'll make sure we get an answer on that.
Doesn't need to be a secret.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Well, if it's not material, it's not material. You would know that I guess if it were material,
so the fact that you don't have the answer right at your tip of your tongue would suggest
it's an immaterial number or not as well --

A - Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

Well, I guess part of it is, we're not doing everything just about expenses, right? There's a
number of levers that are being pulled. So as an example, Surety is -- we just accept that's
going to increase our expense ratio. That's just because of the overall performance of it
and the great returns. It's just something that we have to bear, as an example.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Yes. I guess the second question is going to fall under the comments both of you guys
made about normal CAT year and you said your return -- operating return on common
equity target for '21 and assuming normalized CAT years, and if I'm not mistaken during
the course of the comments Scott also sort of as if -- or excluded Texas. So I guess what
I'm trying to understand is what's a normal CAT year? What should we -- assume is like
your CAT load is part of your guidance just so we have a benchmark to know whether
you're in a normal experience or not?

Page 20 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. Again, another question we get, fairly regularly. We have in the past spoken that it's in
the 3% to 4% range and it will remain there. But what it's really important to note is that
overall for the organization the PMLs have continued to decrease and the net exposures
have decreased as a result of that through the exits we make. So if you think about it the
reduction in -- in exposures with the maintenance of the -- level for what we consider a
normalized CAT at the same level as it was before is actually an increase in our view on
that.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

So is 3% to 4% over the course of a year and obviously it's early days as far as Texas but
clearly it's had an impact on your operations. I guess instead of telling us what the number
is or what you think the number is, can you talk to us about your reinsurance structure for
2020 and what we should think about just as a per event retention? Is it $20 million? Is it
$50 million? When we see a hurricane come across or we see an event like what
happened in Texas, how should we as investors be thinking about, okay, it's going to be -their reinsurance structure set up, so the retention is X and we could sort of work on that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. So our exposures as a group were significantly higher last year and as the 2020 year
of account for Ariel runs out through the course of this year and as the underwriting
actions we took in some other lines have taken effect. We've also had the opportunity to
reset some of the reinsurance that is put together for this business. In the past, we had
the need to buy a lot of cover because of what could potentially happen through the top
of the program based on the CAT exposure with Ariel Re.
So when you have a very large program like that, your retentions are higher and those
have been lowered over time through the course of the last renewal season and as we're
going through this year for two reasons, one is the exposure is not as high and two the
type of insurance programs that we have are different. So I'm not giving you the dollar
amount you were looking for because it is in transition, but it is moving down on a
significant basis and the slides we pointed out I can't remember the number of the slide,
but we talked about the volatility reduction helps point to that.
Is there anything you want to add to that Scott? Okay.

A - Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

I don't think so, Kevin I thing you answered it as clearly as we can at this point.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

So just as a one follow-up on this and this is my last point. So there -- I should infer from
your comments that there's going to be some lingering exposure from Ariel this year to
Texas or some other event as you comes off your books. And your reinsurance changes
that you've made include the risks of going all through the top of that or you said, you
guys used to have to buy a lot of reinsurance to protect going through the top. So I guess
Page 21 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

what I'm trying to get at is, I assume you covered all those bases with your reinsurance
change, but it just bears the based on your answer just the follow-up was important to
that.

FINAL

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. I'm happy to address that. So again, we've reduced the exposures but just to clarify,
and you pointed it out, the 2020 year of account does play out through the course of this
year for risks that were written either for one or in some instance 7 1 -- through seven one.
So those accounts would be exposed through that portion of the year. There are always
winter storms. So, it's not like we haven't seen them ever like that in that part of Texas,
but there have been winter storms and those are contemplated in insurance programs.
But our need for overall insurance and how we put the reinsurance programs together did
change as we reduced the PMLs across the organization as well as moved away from
Ariel's book. So across the board it is a lower exposure and we do have a lower retention
on the new programs going forward.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for your answers.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

I just provide a reminder that if you'd like to ask a question, please raise your hand and I
can open your mic. While we're waiting on that, I did get a chat question from Casey
Alexander who's having some audio difficulties. He asks Kevin discussed leaving markets
when the macro environment is unfavorable, insurance underwriting is cyclical. How do you
prevent leaving markets to early simply because you're in an underwriting cycle?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, that's a -- again these are all great questions. And occasionally, we do make a
mistake and that may happen. But more importantly the specialty market is not as cyclical
as the regular insurance market. Every single year in my career that I've been in specialty
business, which is over 25. There has been a hard market in something and in the middle
of this hardening market, we had certain specialty lines where there were decreases
partly because they were addressed three to five years ago in that particular -- in those
particular lines of business. So you really have to -- we have to think about what are the
opportunities for us. And it's not just about -- that's why that dialing up and down is
important because we're looking at where should we deploy capital now in terms of what
we see is the best opportunities in the near to mid-term.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Great. Our next question comes from Matt Carletti.

Page 22 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

Q - Matt Carletti

{BIO 5249827 <GO>}

Hey, thanks. Good morning, Kevin. Good morning Scott. Hope you guys can hear me.
Okay?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, good morning. How are you Matt?

Q - Matt Carletti

{BIO 5249827 <GO>}

Great, Great. Little bit of a pointed question. But I just hoping you could talk for a minute
about the Latin America business Argo Seguros and it looks from the disclosures 8% of
international. Maybe that's about a $100 million or so. Just kind of as you analyze what
businesses to keep the what businesses to continue on with kind of what your
assessment of that business is and how we should think about that going forward?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Matt, sorry -- you cut out for me for a second, maybe me. What -- which business were
you speaking about?

Q - Matt Carletti

{BIO 5249827 <GO>}

The Latin American business Argo Seguros.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Oh, okay. So the -- you mean the Brazil business?

Q - Matt Carletti

{BIO 5249827 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. So it's a small business for us but has been through a remediation process
previously and is continuing to improve in terms of profit. It's important to note that, that
business was the original place that the real digital business started. And there has been
co-operative work that has been beneficial to both the U.S. and the Brazilian operation.
That business back over seven or eight years ago was creating a direct to consumer
product that was used for professional liability and became the foundation and basis for
some of the things that we use in the U.S. and. So while, it's not big it's been improving
and it is just part of the portfolio.

Q - Matt Carletti

{BIO 5249827 <GO>}

Great. Thank you for the color.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Brett I think there's a question in chat.
Page 23 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Yes. The next question is a chat question. And this is probably for both Scott and Kevin.
What was or will be the impact of the transactions such as the Ariel Re deal and Italy
transaction on your equity and capital?

FINAL

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, I think in his part of the presentation Scott has addressed that in a couple of different
areas. So why don't I just let you continue on with that theme, Scott?

A - Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

Yes, that's right. I mean in terms of the impact firstly on net and premium I gave that you
can see that there's about $50 million or thereabouts we expect in 2021, I think though
that question coming down to what do we expect the impact to have on capital and I think
what you're talking about there is are we expecting to make any significant gains or losses
perhaps on the sale of these businesses. And I think we already talked about what the
Ariel transaction looked like with regards to the others. Look at this point, I don't expect
there to be anything meaningful at this point, obviously if that change we'd update you
but nothing at this point.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

I would just add to that if the question was actually about freeing up capital for the
organization to put to use would it be excess and that may have been the tone. And if
that was in fact what you were looking for --? Well, I would suggest that we have
opportunities that on the underwriting side where we'll probably put it to use on that U.S.
focus specialty business.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Our next question comes from Bob Farnam, Bob, go ahead.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, and thanks for the presentation. That was very helpful.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Good morning. Thanks Bob.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

So the question I had is when you're able to increase or decrease premium based on the
profitability of a line. My question is based on what are the incentives for underwriters. If
there -- is there a component of their compensation is based on production? Or is it just
premium -- is just a probability that they're worried about?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Page 24 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

Though. It is historically been really focused on profitability. And that's what we look at and
I always tell when I was running a group of businesses. I always told folks your job is to
make money. My job is to find the new stuff that keeps us growing, right? And that's just a
cultural thing that's in people's heads. And at times it's difficult for underwriters to sit idle.
So that's why what we're trying to do is rather than rely on just on significant amounts of
people power to try to harness what we can from a technology standpoint so that people
can stay busy. Even if the overall production targets for the business fall. And we've got
opportunities for folks to move around in the organization as well. So it's -- there is a lot of
danger when putting growth targets out there for people you could underwrite yourself
to oblivion. But we are cognizant of that and really focus on underwriting profit with them.

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Yes. That was my concern. If they're worried about shrinking a book because it's not
profitable but the competition is going to go down accordingly it's probably a disincentive
for them to do it. So I just wanted to make sure --

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. No. It's a fair point and unfortunately, it's something in the earlier parts of my career I
had to manage through some difficult things. So I understand what that role is like and
how folks want to be addressed going into it and deal with it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Bob Farnam

{BIO 15005467 <GO>}

Right. Okay. Thanks for that. And thanks for the presentation again.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Yes, I think we just got one more question on the chat line. This is a question for Kevin or
Tom it seems are those some of the parts may be higher than the company's whole
market value. As the Board considered spin-off to shareholders of high-performing
businesses related to this. Can you discuss the status of the old Colony business that
was?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

I can read it acquired years ago and whether it faces the same business opportunities as
Kinsale $4 billion market cap for James River. So there's really two parts of that question.
Do we think about opportunities to part ways with some businesses and from time to
time?
Yes, but generally not to capitalize on what might be the market opportunity for sale at
that given time if it's going to present us with continued opportunities for growth and
delivering shareholder value well into the future. So that's the first part. The second part is
Page 25 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

FINAL

comparing Colony as an EMS business very specifically to either Kinsale or James River.
Interestingly, they're all related well back in if you trace everybody's history.
So there's a common nexus point in their past. But Colony has been roughly the same
size for a while and it's, somewhere between seven -- at one point it was over $1 billion,
it's gotten down as low as seven -- the low 700s, it's now again around $1 billion. And we
move businesses that we write in and out of there as I talked about as an incubator. So
sometimes the products we're writing in there are better served by the admitted market.
So having something straight up comparison for a business like that, which we use as a
tool for accessing an important marketplace and dealing with customers is a different
profile to something that was De Novo business and has had a growth trajectory that's
just very different. So they're very similar, but I don't think the kind of growth that you'd
see specifically out of that the way we're using it might be exactly the same but it certainly
begs the question that the valuation given it's an important part of what we have is
something to look at.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Kevin I'm seeing one more question from the --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, we'll answer his question. So the question from Kevin Price is, would you ever
consider getting back into classes of business that you've exited? And if, so under what
circumstances? And the question on that is absolutely. If we have exited a business due to
a sale, there are generally terms around those sales that we're -- that prohibit us from -they're normally a three-year period reentering in a competitive basis. So I say that
because and Scott you can nod your head if you've seen this true, but it's normally three
or sometimes it's less and sometimes it's more, depending on what the business is. So
that's the first barrier.
The second is that it depends on how big it was and how the exit went down, was it
considered well in the marketplace some companies when they exit. I've worked in places
where a generation later trying to get back into a business was very difficult, right? So it I
think it's a little different for what we do both in the Syndicate, in Bermuda and certainly in
the U.S. E&S market. So it's a little bit more challenging than the admitted markets.
So it really depends on what the business is. And we're always looking at opportunities.
And sometimes some of the things we exited in the past eight years as an example are
tied to other businesses that were for sale, so if something came back around it doesn't
mean that we wouldn't consider it, it could be well past any timeframe we have around a
non-compete.

A - Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Okay. I'm not seeing any more questions in the queue. So Kevin, I will turn it back to you
for any closing remarks.

Page 26 of 27



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2021-03-12

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thanks Brett, and thanks for everybody for participating this morning. Thank you for
your interest your continued support. We look forward to interacting with you in the future
and are open to you reaching out on anything. So again, we really do appreciate your
interest. Have a good day. Take care.

A - Scott Kirk

{BIO 18973074 <GO>}

Thanks everybody.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

