Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

Annual General Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

David Alan Cole, Independent Chair of the Supervisory Board
David E. Knibbe, Chairman of Executive Board
Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo, Vice Chairman of Management Board
Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort, Independent Vice-Chair of the Supervisory Board

Other Participants
Armand Kersten, Analyst
Cecilia Reyes, Analyst
Inga Beale, Analyst
Mart van Kuijk, Analyst
Peti De Wit, Analyst
Rob Lelieveld, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. A warm welcome to our shareholders to the NN Group Annual
General Meeting, which this year is again hosted as a virtual event. That means that we
cannot shake hands or have the sort of interaction that we normally like to have during the
Annual General Meeting, and we sincerely regret that. However we're glad that Dutch law,
in the form of the temporary Act COVID-19 Justice and Security, allows us to hold our
Annual General Meeting in a fully virtual way. This year, we've oﬀered our shareholders
the additional option to vote electronically during the meeting and to ask questions via
live video or audio connection. We're happy to see that a number of shareholders has
indicated they wish to ask questions during the meeting, and we look forward to giving
them the ﬂoor later today.
When I spoke to you in May last year, we knew little about the actual impact and duration
of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the meantime, the picture is clear. COVID-19 has impacted
our lives in many ways and on diﬀerent levels. The pandemic is inﬂicting massive
hardship. But luckily, we are also able to focus on the conditions that can support a solid
and sustainable recovery. While uncertainties remain regarding the diﬀerent strains of the
virus, there now seems to be light at the end of the tunnel. More and more people around
the world are being vaccinated every day and many parts of our economies that were
forced to close down are now slowly opening up again. On that positive note, I'd like to
start our meeting today. On behalf of my colleagues in the Supervisory Board and the
Management Board, I hope that you're doing well. We're broadcasting to you from our
headquarters in The Hague this morning.
Page 1 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

Here with me on the far right, are Hélène Vletter-van Dort, Vice-Chair of the Supervisory
Board and Chair of the Supervisory Board's Remuneration Committee; on my immediate
right, NN Group CEO, David Knibbe; and on my left, NN Group's CFO, Delﬁn Rueda. I'd
also like to introduce you to Janet Stuijt, Company Secretary and member of the
Management Board as General Counsel. Janet is participating in this meeting via video
connection this morning. The other members of the Supervisory Board and Management
Board are either in the room or following the meeting via the webcast.
In addition to you, our shareholders, I'm pleased to welcome and introduce to you some
other guests. First, our external auditor, Mr. De Wit, representing KPMG, who's joining this
meeting via video connection.
Our notary, Ms. Cremers of Stibbe, who also joins the meeting online and who will cast all
votes on the basis of the electronic proxies with voting instructions granted to her; and
ﬁnally, Cecilia Reyes, Rob Lelieveld, Inga Beale, who have all been nominated for
appointment of Supervisory Board member and who are also joining us today in a virtual
way.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you may have noticed, I'll chair the meeting in English and all other speakers today will
also be presenting in English. The webcast, however is available in both English and
Dutch, so you'll be able to listen to the meeting in your preferred language.
Before we start, just a few announcements, some formal, some less formal. First, the
formal. The shareholders have been convened in accordance with the applicable law and
the company's articles of association. The general meeting is thus able to validly adopt
resolutions. I note no shareholders have submitted proposals to be included on the
agenda.
As of the record date, which was the 22nd of April 2021, the issued share capital consisted
of 330,278,210 ordinary shares. 21,123,602 ordinary shares are held by NN Group N.V.
itself, so no votes can be cast on these shares. So altogether, 309,154,608 votes are
eligible for casting. I will inform you on the present and represented share capital prior to
the ﬁrst voting item. Also note, the entire meeting will be recorded in order to be able to
minute the meeting. Just a few other procedural announcements. Shareholders have
been given the opportunity to submit questions on agenda items in advance of the
meeting. I'd like to thank all shareholders who made use of this option. The questions we
receive will be answered during this meeting, some of them combined by theme. The
answers will be available on the company's website via the webcast, which will continue
to be available for replay. The questions and answers will also be included in the minutes
of this meeting. Those shareholders who've registered to virtually attend and vote during
this meeting may also ask questions during the meeting.
Some voting items will be brieﬂy summarized. An extensive explanation of these items is
included in the convocation notice. The proposals that will be put to a vote regard the full
proposals as included in the convocation notice. Shareholders who've registered to
virtually attend and vote during this meeting can cast their votes at any time during the
meeting. As you see, voting is already open, and you'll be able to continue voting until

Page 2 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

the end of agenda item 10, which is the last voting item on the agenda. Voting results will
therefore only be shown at the very end of the meeting after the close of the agenda item
11.
So let me now turn to the ﬁrst matter on the agenda, which is agenda item 2. Here, I'd like
to refer to the 2020 annual review, part one of the 2020 annual report as well as the 2020
ﬁnancial report, part two of the 2020 annual report and more speciﬁcally, Pages 1 through
32 as well as Page 44. I'd like to give the ﬂoor to David Knibbe, CEO of NN Group. David
will give an explanation of the annual report and will look back on the ﬁnancial year 2020,
including the ﬁnancial results. The adoption of the annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year
2020 will be addressed in agenda item 3. David?

Bloomberg Transcript

David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everyone, and I hope you're doing well. For the second year in a row,
our Annual General Meeting is a virtual event, so it goes without saying that I wish we
were able to speak and meet in person. But it's good to have the opportunity to connect
with you via this virtual meeting. Moreover, as Dave indicated, we added a new feature to
the virtual AGM this year. You're being given the option to vote live during this meeting,
which is one of the many examples showing the transformative impact of COVID-19 on
technology and the pace of change. In my presentation today I will ﬁrst reﬂect on how NN
Group navigated this extraordinary year and how the company performed. Secondly, I will
speak about our new strategy, our role in society and how we aim to create value for all of
our stakeholders as well as the priorities for the coming years. But let's start with the
reality of today. The COVID-19 virus is still impacting people and their livelihoods all over
the world. It has changed the way we live, work, travel, communicate, consume and
interact.
As a company, we, too, had to adapt to the new situation overnight. Working from home
became the new normal, replacing daily commutes, moving meetings online and oﬀering
ﬂexible working hours. Our employees embraced this new way of working, which allowed
us to continue servicing our customers.
Amidst the pandemic, customer satisfaction remained broadly stable with 4 of our
businesses, scoring an above-average market in Net Promoter Score. I'm impressed by
the resilience of our people showed and how they continue to support each other, our
customers and our communities. For example, in several countries, we introduced digital
sales and client signature process, enabling our sales force to remotely serve customers.
Our sales processes have moved almost entirely online, and we can serve our customers
fully digitally. In these changed conditions, NN Group's ﬁnancial and commercial
performance in 2020 was strong. The impact of COVID-19 on the operating result was
relatively limited at EUR 53 million on a total operating of EUR 1.9 billion.
Now let me share a couple of highlights. In the Netherlands, our Life & Pension business
posted strong results. Commercially, we maintained our deﬁned contribution market
share of around 40%. In the Dutch Non-life business, we showed again a strong

Page 3 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

combined ratio of 95.3%. An increase in the disability claims was oﬀset by favorable
claims development in Property & Casualty, and we completed the acquisition of VIVAT
Non-life, making us the leading player in the Dutch nonlife insurance market.
NN Investment Partners saw its total assets under management increased to EUR 300
billion with a net inﬂow of third-party assets of more than EUR 13 billion. NN Bank, which is
now the ﬁfth retail bank in the Netherlands, continued to show growth and originated
new mortgages for a total amount of more than EUR 8 billion. Most of these mortgages
are transferred to the investment portfolios of our insurance companies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now while new sales in Europe and Japan were hit by the pandemic lockdown in the ﬁrst
half of 2020, we saw sales rebound in the second half of the year. It reﬂected how well our
brokers and agents in particular have adapted to the new digital ways of reaching
customers.
Our operating capital generation was impacted by the exceptional market circumstances
and low interest rates as well as the suspension of bank dividends. On the other hand, the
accelerated shift to higher-yielding assets provided some oﬀset in the form of higher
investment margin. Total OCG for 2020 came to almost EUR 1 billion, and we are on track
to reach our 2023 target. During the year, further expense savings were realized across
the company, allowing us to achieve our cost-saving target of EUR 400 million. It
improved our eﬃciency. Our Solvency II ratio remained strong at 210%, which allows for
resilient capital returns in line with the commitments we have made in our dividend
policy. Our 2020 results show that NN is in a strong position. Together with our 15,000
colleagues, we serve approximately 18 million customers in 20 countries, supporting them
in every phase of their lives. We provide travel insurance, help young professionals
looking to buy their ﬁrst home, and we support pensioners looking for a carefree
retirement. We can make a diﬀerence in the life of our customers, and that gives us a solid
foundation for the future.
But of course there's more work to do. The world around us is changing rapidly. Customer
demands, seamless digital experience and more sustainable products. New competitors
are entering and disrupting the market. In the meantime, our industry continues to face a
challenge of low interest rate environment. Climate change is aﬀecting our living
environment. Against this background, we presented our new strategy at our Capital
Markets Day in June after talking to and getting feedback from many diﬀerent stakeholder
groups.
It all starts with our purpose. Why do we exist? It is our purpose to help people care for
what matters most of them, and we do so guided by our values, care, clear, commit and
by our brand promise, You matter. In order to make our purpose more tangible, we also
deﬁned our ambition for the next 5 to 10 years. In other words, what do we want to be
known for?
It is our ambition to be an industry leader known for customer engagement, talented
people and contribution to society. Then our strategy, this is the how, which is written in 5
strategic commitments. Underlying all of this is the belief that if we take good care of

Page 4 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

customers, employees and society, this will also result in solid long-term returns for
shareholders. Therefore, we have not only set ﬁnancial but also nonﬁnancial targets.
So let me probe a bit deeper into the 2 strategic commitments around customer
distribution and products and services. In order to enhance customer experience and
engagement, we need to make sure that we further increase our speed, adjust our
business model and optimize processes. More and more, we are becoming active at the
front end of customer engagement by our agents and other distribution channels and by
actively participating in platforms such as around carefree retirement. The power of
technologies, such as artiﬁcial intelligence and data analytics, enables us to invigorate our
service to customers.
With that aim, we are looking at developing new platforms for retail as well as business
clients. These are platforms developed in-house, platforms that we set up together with
partners or we join a platform owned by a partner. To give you a few examples, Powerly
support people with tailored advice on making their homes more energy-eﬃcient, for
example, by installing solar panels or a heat pump. Kagyo Aid was launched in Japan for
the children of SME owners, so they can interlink and assist each other in preparing for a
successful business takeover from their parents.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another strategic commitment is around ﬁnancial strength and return to our shareholders.
We have set out a clear investment proposition, which is based on 3 pillars. First, we
prioritize a strong balance sheet so that we are well positioned to navigate market
volatility. Second, we are taking management actions to secure strong cash ﬂows in the
Netherlands.
Thirdly, we are pursuing proﬁtable growth opportunities in attractive markets in Europe
and Japan. This should allow resilient and growing long-term capital generation. We
target an operating capital generation, or OCG, of EUR 1.5 billion in 2023 as well as midsingle-digit annual growth of OCG over time. Although OCG is a new metric, we believe
that it better aligns with how we manage the business for value. Our targets form the
basis for delivering on our capital return policy, consisting of a progressive dividend per
share and an annual share buyback program of at least EUR 250 million. Additional
excess capital will be returned to shareholders unless it can be used for value-creating
opportunities.
For 2020, we have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.47 per ordinary share. The interim
dividend of EUR 2.26 per ordinary share that we paid last September comprised EUR 1.40,
equal to the amount of the 2019 ﬁnal dividend that was suspended in April last year, plus
EUR 0.86 equal to the regular 2020 interim dividend. Together, the proposed 2020 ﬁnal
dividend and the regular 2020 interim dividend gives a pro forma total dividend of EUR
2.33 per ordinary share.
This is an increase of almost 8% compared with 2019. We also announced a new share
buyback program of EUR 250 million in February this year. Our attractive investment
proposition is underpinned by our focus on growing long-term capital generation in
combination with our commitment to return capital to shareholders. In 2020, we paid out

Page 5 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

total dividend of around EUR 700 million and executed a EUR 250 million share buyback.
Altogether, the total shareholder return in 2020 was 11.7%. As a group, we have an
international footprint, and this is one of our strengths. As part of our strategic process,
we form assessments of our individual businesses on a regular basis.
We do this to ensure that we manage our portfolio in the most optimal way with the aim
to create value for our stakeholders. In general, the Central and Eastern European region
is of strategic importance to NN as these are attractive markets oﬀering growth potential.
However as part of our regular review, we decided to divest our Bulgarian activities as
well as our Turkish broker business, Sigorta Cini.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe this is in the best interest of our local customers, business partners,
employees and shareholders. And recently, we announced a review of strategic options
for our asset manager, NN Investment Partners. This review covers a broad range of
options, including merger, joint venture or a partial divestment and is aimed at assessing
opportunities to create a broader platform that enables NN IP to accelerate its growth. In
considering these diﬀerent strategic alternatives, particular focus will be given on how NN
IP can continue to provide the best investment oﬀering and service to enhance insurance
business and Asset Management clients in a rapidly evolving industry. We will give an
update when appropriate.
As I already mentioned, we formulated in 2020 a set of nonﬁnancial targets as part of our
strategic framework. These targets support our ambition of wanting to be an industry
leader known for customer engagement, talented people and contribution to society. We
have made a promising start delivering on these objectives. Our employee engagement
increased substantially with an overall score of 7.9, up from 7.4 in 2019. At the end of 2020,
33% of senior management were women. This shows there's still work to be done to
reach our target of 40% by 2023. Both diversity and engagement are important drivers for
our strategic commitment around people. Last but not least, we included a strategic
commitment regarding our contribution to society, also underpinned by various targets.
We are pleased that our ESG-integrated assets under management increased to 74% from
68% in 2019. With the aim to contribute to the well-being of people and planet, our asset
manager engaged with hundreds of investee companies on the range of ESG topics and
voted for change at shareholder meetings. Through these actions, we work on realizing
our target to transition our proprietary investment portfolio to net-zero carbon emissions
by 2050. Playing our part in helping the real economy to decarbonize serves as a guiding
principle in our approach.
Furthermore, in the coming period, we will be signiﬁcantly upscaling the contribution to
our communities by pledging to invest 1% of our operating result in cash donations and
hours of volunteering by 2023. To reach this ambitious target, we will grow existing and
start new partnerships. For example, in the Czech Republic, employees have been
supporting single-parent families and people in senior care homes with care packages. In
the Netherlands, 350 colleagues were trained as home administration volunteers, helping
family members and friends when facing diﬃcult ﬁnancial circumstances.

Page 6 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

We are pleased to have received external recognition for our ESG performance by being
included again in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and by our improved CDP climate
change disclosure A- rating. In 2020 across the globe, there has been a lot of attention to
increased inequality, both social and economic. These are important themes for NN, and
we plan -- we shared our plans for a more inclusive workforce, customer experience and
communities in NN's diversity and inclusion statement.
Let me conclude. For 175 years, our values and purpose have underpinned what we do,
and these will continue to be imperative as we adapt NN Group to changing customer
expectations in an evolving economic, political and digital landscape. During our journey,
shareholders have played an important role and have continued to support us along the
way. We are truly grateful for your continued trust and loyalty. As societies and economies
are step-by-step opening again we can slowly see the silhouettes of a post-COVID-19
world. Our focus will remain on all the people we work with and for: our customers,
employees, business partners, the communities we serve and, of course you, our
shareholders. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, David. We will now answer questions that were submitted by shareholders in
advance of the meeting. After that, we'll answer questions from the shareholders who are
virtually attending this meeting. Let's start with the questions submitted by Mr. Sy [ph]
about the Dutch pension agreement and the potential impact on NN Group's pension
business. Mr. Sy quotes the NN Group 2020 annual report, which states, "The Dutch
pension agreement announced in 2020 will lead to major changes for our Pension
business, including eventually phasing out deﬁned beneﬁt products, which will be quite a
task." In light of this, Mr. Sy has 3 questions.
Firstly, how well is NN Group equipped to transition current DB, deﬁned beneﬁt, pension
clients to the DC, deﬁned contribution, pension products that NN oﬀers? Second, does
NN see any signs that current DB pension clients are changing back to their original
sector pension fund as a result of the new pension agreement, and subsequently, new
pension law? And ﬁnally, how will NN compete or bring in new business now that
guarantees of traditional pension funds are gone and pension funds and pension insurers
are competing in the same level playing ﬁeld under the new pension agreement? David,
can you please address these questions?

David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, sure. Well ﬁrst of all, I think it's good news that we have a pension reform took place.
The implementation will take a while. What is very important is that we will now shift to
what we call a ﬂat premium rate. So essentially, it means that the insurance market today
and the pension fund market, that the system will be more aligned. We will have a more
similar scheme for the full pension market, which is, I think good news. It also means that
we have the advantage, that we've been operating actually in the DC market for a long
time, mostly through life cycle investment, so we're very well equipped to play a role in
this market. I mean on the question of pension funds.

Page 7 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

We haven't seen any real movement back to these type of pension funds. I think for
probably a decade now, we've seen a trend where the number of pension funds is
reducing. Insurance companies like ourselves can play a role in that, for example, through
pension buyouts. That trend, we expect to continue. In terms of our own positioning,
we're very well positioned for this pension reform. The market is now moving with a ﬂat
premium more and more to DC-type of arrangements. We are already market leader with
40% market share. DC is very much around do you have an eﬃcient administration
platform that you can run at low cost? Do you have good performance, strong life cycle?
And do you have very good portals to service and inform your employees? And I think all
the 3, we have in place, that's why we also have such a strong market share. So I expect
that the more we move in that -- the market will move in that direction will be supportive
for our position in the Dutch pension market.

David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you. We've received a couple of questions from the VEB on the announcement of
the strategic review of NN Investment Partners or NN IP. I think we can deal with some of
these questions together. So the ﬁrst question is as follows: As NN is considering the
divestment of in an NN IP, is it not worried that a further reduction in the diversiﬁcation of
its activities may be seen as a conﬁrmation of its perceived lack of clear international
ambitions? And on the same subject, the VEB notes that NN IP rather than NN Group that
has signed up to the Finance for Biodiversity Pledge and asked whether NN Group will
endorse this initiative after it divest NN IP. So David, I'll turn to you for these answers.

Bloomberg Transcript

David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Well ﬁrst, let me clarify our announcement. So we have announced that as part of a
regular assessment that we do of our individual businesses that we're reviewing strategic
options for our Asset Management business. This is done to see if we can accelerate the
growth of NN IP by giving it a broader platform. That means all options are on the table.
We're not ruling anything out, but the main options that we're looking at are a merger, a
joint venture, a partial or a full divestment, as we stated also in our press release. In terms
of our international footprint, we are a very international company. I mean most of the -for example, in Spain, we already went into the '80s into these markets. We've been in
Japan for over 30 years. When the wall came down, we were one of the ﬁrst companies
actually to go into Central and Eastern Europe.
So the international footprint is very much part of NN Group. It also provides a lot of
advantages. There's, of course ﬁnancial diversiﬁcation eﬀects, there is the advantage of
that quite a few of these markets internationally that we operate in are a very important
pillar of growth for our company, as you can see, for example, through our VNB, our value
new business numbers, but also diversity and talent.
We can attract a larger talent base by operating in all these markets. So the international
footprint has been in the past and will continue to be an important part of NN Group.
Then last, the question on the commitments we have done. Indeed, some commitments
we do at group level, some commitments we do at NN IP level. But make no mistake, the - all these commitments are important for NN Group. I was just saying earlier, part of our
Page 8 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

ambition is contribution to society. We have 5 strategic commitments, and one of them is
very much around society and sustainability. So we will continue to support these pledges
in any scenario.

FINAL

David Alan Cole

Thank you, David. Let's continue with another question from the VEB. The VEB notes that
2 of NN IP's investment teams have recently left the company, including a team of
sustainable investment specialists, which they say is bad news in light of the current
demand for sustainable investment expertise. The VEB asked whether investors should
question NN's ability to retain sustainable investment experts, as they believe this is
precisely where NN Group should make a diﬀerence if it is to achieve its sustainability
ambitions. So David, once again would you like to take this question?

David E. Knibbe

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Sure. Well I mean ﬁrst of all, as you all know, asset management is very much a global and
a highly competitive business, and team lift-outs happen. I mean we've seen it across the
industry and team lift-outs happen, and we are not immune to that. Very important, we
have shown that if that happens, we can very quickly take action, protect the interest of
our customers and also rebuild quickly. That's also exactly what happened with the
sustainability team. We made sure that we contained very much the portfolios so the
client interest were preserved. And in fact, we have already rebuilt the team. We recruited
some very talented people in the ﬁeld of sustainability. So the team is rebuilt, and we now
have a very strong position, again in a sustainable market. You're absolutely right. This is
really important. This is one of our most prominent features of our investment proposition,
not just within NN IP, but also for NN Group. So this is and will remain an important
priority for us.

David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, David. Now let's move to another topic. The VEB notes that NN identiﬁes
good corporate citizenship as one of its key risk. However the VEB considers this to be
more of an opportunity than a risk unless it concerns the risk of legal liability. So there are
two parts to this question. First, if NN identiﬁes good corporate citizenship as a key risk,
why is this not included in the materiality analysis? And second, is there a clear
substantiation of the legal liability component of provisions as included on the balance
sheet? So David, perhaps you can answer the ﬁrst part of the question on corporate
citizenship. And after that, Delﬁn, could you explain the provisioning of legal liabilities.

David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. So I think ﬁrst of all, I mean corporate citizenship. So we deﬁne it as how do you
balance -- or do you adequately balance all the stakeholder interests that deviate from
society's norms around responsible investment, environment protection, equality? So
there's many interest that we need to balance. The question on good corporate
citizenship is do we do that in the right way? That's how we deﬁne it. And of course I
agree, this is more an opportunity than a risk. This is also why it is part of our ambition and
Page 9 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

this is also why it's part of our strategic commitments that we have set. However when
we're doing this analysis, it was in the context of a risk report. So therefore, you can also
view it from the risk perspective. Your question on the materiality index. Well the actual
word is not in there, but actually, it's quite a general term. Therefore, if you would look
into the material index, you would see that, at a more detailed level, there's quite a few
elements that are referring to this, for example, ESG integration, green recovery. So these
elements are represented in the index, and you've probably also seen that actually the
importance of that relatively has increased in the materiality index. And I think on the
provisioning, we move to Delﬁn there.

Questions And Answers
A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So thanks, David. This question refers to the risk of legal liabilities and, in particular, the
unit-linked cases in the Netherlands. Let me start by explaining how we provision for this
risk. As you all know, our annual accounts are prepared in accordance with IFRS, and we
therefore need to strictly follow the IFRS requirements on both how to recognize and
measure provisions, including provisions for legal claims. Among other requirements,
IFRS prescribes that a provision has to be recognized if and only if it meets two
conditions. The ﬁrst is that there has to be an obligation for which it is probable that a
cash outﬂow will be required to settle that obligation. With probable, it is meant with a
likelihood of more than 50%.
The second condition is that this cash outﬂow can be reliably estimated. We, therefore,
periodically assess our exposure to potential legal claims for both likelihood and
estimate. If a legal exposure can be reliably estimated and its likelihood is assessed to be
probable, a provision is recognized. If not, no provision is recognized under IFRS. But in
this case, the exposure is disclosed, of course unless the exposure is considered very
remote. The potential outcome of the legal claims related to unit-linked products in the
Netherlands cannot be reliably estimated or quantiﬁed. As such, no provisions is
recognized. But the exposure is adequately disclosed in our annual accounts. I trust this
answers the question.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, David and Delﬁn. Here's another question from the VEB on NN's key risk.
According to the VEB, it's not immediately clear how NN has prioritized its key risk as
disclosed in its annual report, particularly given the formulation of strategic challenges. In
this respect, VEB would like to hear how NN has complied with best practice 1.4.2 of the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code. So Delﬁn, would you please address this question?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Of course. Thanks, Dave. Let me cover ﬁrst the second part of the question about
compliance with the best practice of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code that you
referred to. This best practice, 1.4.2 is very broad and requires, among other aspects that
we explained in the management report, the principal risk we face in relationship to our
risk appetite, how the design and operation of the internal risk management and control

Page 10 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

systems have operated during the past ﬁnancial year, and if there has been any major
failings in the internal risk management and control systems. I'm glad to say that with
extensive information on our operating environment and risk management that we have
disclosed in our annual report, we believe that we have complied with the relevant
provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, including this particular one.
To the question about how we prioritize the material topics, key risks and opportunities
disclosed in the annual report, the short answer is that we follow a structured approach
using quantitative and qualitative techniques like scenario analysis and heat maps. We
have a thorough process to identify and prioritize relevant challenges and material topics
aﬀecting our company and key stakeholders. This is part of our regular risk management
activities, including the elaboration of our own risk and solvency assessment and the
identiﬁcation of emerging risks. We also use input and intelligence coming from external
parties like the World Economic Forum, the CRO Forum and other national and
international bodies. For the identiﬁcation of material topics, for example, we start with a
long list compiled by internal and external resources, and we narrowed that list after
several interactions and input from management and diﬀerent stakeholders, including the
NN Group's Purpose Council. This year, we ended up with 16 material topics, as reﬂected
in the annual report. And from there, we derived the list of key risk and opportunities. I
hope I've been clear on my explanation, and thanks to VEB for their question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Delﬁn. Now let's turn to a question on inﬂation risk submitted by PGGM, also
on behalf of a number of Eumedion participants. PGGM notes that almost 88% of NN
Group's portfolio is concentrated in low- or negative-yielding assets. Therefore, what is
the impact for NN of the signiﬁcant rise in inﬂation? Delﬁn, I think in your role as CFO,
probably you're best placed to answer this. I'll turn it to you.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Dave, and thanks for the question raised. Indeed, some market participants
are predicting a potential signiﬁcant increase of inﬂation due to the normalization of the
economic activity once the vaccination rate has reached a suﬃciently high level, and the
consequences of the enormous monetary and ﬁscal stimuli put in place by governments
all around the world to mitigate the negative economic impact of the COVID-19
pandemic.
The latter has naturally increased public deﬁcits, and with it, the ability for states to borrow
at low or even negative rates might come to an end. Inﬂation per se is not such a material
risk for NN as both revenues and expenses will likely move up with potential price
increases. There are, of course some expense components that are linked to inﬂation.
However I would say that the impact from inﬂation changes on expenses is manageable.
And when looking at our liabilities, inﬂation risk is also limited as it is hedged to a very
large extent. The vast majority of NN's pension contracts do not include any guaranteed
payout linked to inﬂation development. This is true, except for a limited number of
contracts of the former Delta Lloyd Life entity, which are hedged with inﬂation-linked
instruments. This covers the risk of higher inﬂation per se. If this were to come together
Page 11 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

with an associated increase of interest rates, that would have a net positive impact on the
operating environment for life insurance in general and on NN in particular. I hope this
suﬃciently answers the question.

FINAL

A - David Alan Cole

Thank you, Delﬁn. The next question from the VEB is about purpose statements, which
they consider to be particularly relevant in the light of the public debate about the various
interests to be taken into account by companies and their management. NN's purpose
statement is, "We help people to care for what matters most to them." The VEB ﬁnds it
hard to establish what NN's goal is as it sounds more like a statement of fact and ask, what
is the goal in NN's purpose statement and how would NN like to be measured against it.
In other words, what are the concrete ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial performance objectives
that can be used to hold NN accountable? So David, I think this one's for you.

A - David E. Knibbe

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Yes, absolutely. Yes. Thanks for the question because I guess it gives another
opportunity to explain why we're doing it the way we're doing it. I think ﬁrst of all, I mean
you're referring to the purpose, which is the why, which is always a statement, relatively
high level. It's why do we exist. Indeed, we have written a purpose on the kind of
company that we would like to be. But then you want to make it one level more concrete,
which is the what. That's the ambition we have set. And ambition, typically, we deﬁne as
what we want to be in 5 to 10 years. Obviously this one we have deﬁned as we want to be
known as an industry leader known for customer engagement, talented people, and
contribution to society. So that's the ambition where we want to be. So if you would, in an
ideal world, ask people or our customers in 5 to 10 years what you think of NN, this is the
type of ambition that we have. But to your question on what does it exactly mean we also
translate into the how. So how do you want to achieve this ambition in 5 to 10 years? And
that is the what. So when you look at that ambition, we deﬁned the 5 strategic
commitments, and these are the commitments that we're working on in the business units
to drive eventually to get to the purpose. Now in terms of target setting, we therefore,
have also the ﬁve strategic commitments translated into targets. Therefore, you probably
have seen that we've set not only ﬁnancial targets, but also nonﬁnancial targets.
So the ﬁve strategic commitments are, for example, around products, they are around
customer, they're around contribution to society and they're around people, next to
ﬁnancials. Therefore, you also see that we have nonﬁnancial targets. Indeed, around
people, around engagement, around diversity, for example, but also around
sustainability, meaning the amount of ESG-integrated assets under management that we
have, where we set a target, for example, of 80% or the 1% and -- that we want to
contribute of our operating result. So you'll see that actually, when we start indeed with a
fairly high-level purpose on why do we exist, we do translate it into what do we mean the
ambition, and then the how, which is the 5 strategic commitments. That is then translated
into KPIs, both ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial. That means that we'll continue to report on that,
and you can also follow our progress then on a semiannual basis.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Page 12 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

We now have several questions around the theme of sustainability and the reduction of
CO2 emissions. First, a question from the VBDO. In 2020, NN set itself the target to have a
net-zero carbon proprietary investment portfolio by 2050. The VBDO says that it
appreciates NN Group's choice to link its strategy to the ambitious 1.5-degree scenario.
The question is when will interval objectives and a clear implementation strategy for all
asset classes be set. And how will NN ensure that it not only reduces the CO2 emissions
of its portfolio on paper, but that it also has a positive eﬀect on the prevention and
reduction of CO2 emissions in the real economy? So David, may I ask you to address the
question?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sure. So indeed, in June 2020, we launched our ambition that we signed up for the
Paris Agreement, and we want to achieve a net-zero greenhouse gas emission by 2050.
Since then, we have what we call internally a Paris Alignment Council, and here, we're
developing our speciﬁc approaches. This obviously goes in a step by step. So we have
deﬁned our strategy, for example, for sovereign bonds in the beginning of 2021, and
we're currently working on the alignment strategy, for example, for corporate bonds and
equity. All of this, we will translate into what we call a Paris Alignment road map, and this
will include intermediary targets and also actions.
We will publish this in our annual report next year, so the annual report of 2021, which we
expect to publish in March 2022. Now obviously if we ﬁnalize this road map earlier and
we see an opportunity, we can also inform our stakeholders before that. But you will see
this commitment coming next year, also, not only on the 2050, but also on the
intermediary steps. Now obviously the other question is around realizing real change, and
I think that's also key to our approach. So for now, we categorize a lot of investments in
certain categories, and we need to deﬁne how they will contribute to the decarbonization
in the real economy. Essentially, it means for most existing investments, we go for
engagement. So we have engagement, we have stewardship actions, sometimes
individually, sometimes collectively with other -- and with other investors to try and
inﬂuence and positively support the companies that we invest in, in their road map
towards decarbonization. For new investments, of course we try to look at best-in-class. So
we incentivize -- we look actively at companies that are best-in-class and that are leading
the way in the transition. Then we can also increase allocation in these type of climate
solution companies. Exclusion also is on the table. But of course our preference route is to
do this via engagement.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Okay. On a similar topic, we have a question from PGGM, also on behalf of a number of
Eumedion participants. NN has a target to reduce direct CO2 emissions by 3% per FTE
per annum. In contrast to the net-zero carbon ambition for the proprietary investment
portfolio, there's no long-term target for the reduction of direct emissions, although NN is
considering setting a science-based target for this in the future. So PGGM asked, will you
also set a science-based target for scope 3 emissions and does NN have a 2050 net-zero
ambition for this scope as well? David?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}
Page 13 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

Yes. Well so as I already mentioned, so for what we call scope 3, which is around
proprietary investment portfolio, we set the target of 2050 to carbon-neutral, virtually no
coal also in 2030. I think that we're well on our way to develop plans as I -- and implement
those. Indeed, our own ambition, which is, I guess more scope 1 and 2, our own emission
and then also related to, in scope 2 on, let's say the type of energy that we use internally
in our company, also here, we're setting intermediary targets. So we are working on the
formulation of science-based targets for our direct emissions, so not only scope 3, but
also scope 1 and 2. And also here, we expect to have these intermediary targets before
the end of the year. In any case, we will also include them again in the next annual report
so that also shareholders can follow our ambition and whether we are on track to deliver
on these commitments that we have set.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Okay. We've received several questions on diversity, which I think we can deal
with together. The ﬁrst question is from PGGM, also on behalf of a number of Eumedion
participants. The question is as follows. NN has stated that it aims to support gender
diversity in senior management positions and that succession planning is an important
element of this. PGGM's question is how does NN intend to appoint more women
through succession planning. Which other initiatives is NN taking to appoint women to
senior management positions? The VBDO has raised a similar question regarding NN's
target of 40% women in senior management by 2023 and notes that this percentage
dropped from 36% to 33% in 2020. The VBDO also notes that NN has appointed a new
diversity manager. The question from VBDO is the following. What speciﬁc programs will
NN and its new diversity manager deploy to achieve this goal? David, may I turn to you
for the answers?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Sure. Yes. So indeed, so diversity is an important topic for us. This is also why I was talking
earlier around the nonﬁnancial targets. This is also why we set a separate target on it. We
set a target of 40%. So indeed, we dropped from 36% to around 33%. There was a small
change in deﬁnition, but it makes clear that we still have some way to go in order to get to
the 40%. To be honest, the target and the number by itself is not the most important
thing. I think the most important thing is actually what we're doing in order to get to the
40%. There, there is happening a lot. So ﬁrst of all, we have ongoing talent management
conversations where there's extra attention paid to the role of women and the career
paths of women.
We have fast-track leadership programs, where we also make sure that there is a good
representation of women. If we end up hiring external, we will always make sure that at
least -- of the external candidates, at least 50% of the candidates that we will talk to is
female. Trainee programs, also there. We make sure that there is a signiﬁcant and often
more than half representation of women in the trainee programs. So there is a lot
happening internally.
The other thing we're doing is actually we're doing an unconscious bias training. I think all
have our biases, and this will apply to everybody, but it's also important to be aware of
that, so also within the company, and the same will apply for the Management Board, for
Page 14 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

the Supervisory Board, who will also participate in that, we will take unconscious bias
training also to further create awareness of our own biases when we're hiring and
promoting people. So in short, there's a lot happening also externally. We sponsor the
TEDx Women in Amsterdam. We're supporting leadership networks. We're looking at also
a female mentor program. So I think what is really important right now is not so much the
number, but is all the activities that we're taking to make sure that we create a much
broader talent bench also. Therefore -- and that will support us to get to the 40% target
that we have set.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you. Let's follow this with another question on diversity. This one from PGGM, also
on behalf of a number of Eumedion participants. PGGM notes that NN published its
statement on diversity and inclusion in December 2020, in which the importance of
ethical diversity -- ethnical diversity, sorry, is highlighted. Which initiatives is NN taking to
improve the ethnical diversity in the organizations and in management positions? David?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Also here, this is also an important topic to make sure that as an NN, we stand for
diversity, we stand for inclusion, and also very importantly, we stand for equal
opportunities. So it is important for us to have an inclusive culture. This is also reﬂected in
the statement that have made on diversity and inclusion. And a signiﬁcant part of these
diversity and inclusion activities also focuses on building this inclusive culture that we're
trying to build. Now this come through in the NN values, but also in the NN Code of
Conduct. Apart from that, we're putting an eﬀort in supporting and professionalizing, let's
say internal employee networks. We believe this is also an eﬀective way to promote
diversity and inclusion. These networks are supported also by us in the organization. Also
here, I'd like to mention that the same unconscious bias training, also unconscious bias
obviously in this theme, plays an important role.
Finally, we have been taking a careful look at our communication. So our website and a lot
of communication that we have done has been rewritten to write it in a more gender- and
more culture-neutral way. So yes, there's still a lot to do. We have the policies in place.
We're taking steps, and we'll continue to actively work on ensuring that we have an
inclusive culture within NN Group.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you. The following question is from the VBDO regarding NN's analysis of the
gender pay gap and the conclusion that no diﬀerences in remuneration were found.
VBDO asked if NN will report more extensively on the method and results of this analysis
in its next annual report. And furthermore, VBDO would like to see these results divided
into nonmanagement, mid-management and management. So David, how do we
respond?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. So indeed, this is something that we have looked at. We concluded the gender is not
an underlying driver of pay diﬀerence. So there is equal pay for equal work. We do see
Page 15 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

diﬀerences. If you do the statistical analysis, then you do see diﬀerences. But these can be
explained by important factors like, for example, the job grade or Hay level, as we call it,
job family, but also the amount of years of experience or the age. So from -- but from that
analysis shows that there is no gap. Now we will continue to pay attention to that. In fact,
we had -- when we were reviewing all the salaries, pay increases also for the year, also
within the Management Board, we had speciﬁc attention what's happening between male
and female, and do we see anything speciﬁc happening there that we need to pay
attention to. So this is clearly on our radar. Going forward, we will extend the analysis. So
this analysis has been done for the Netherlands. We would like to extend it for several of
our largest business units also outside of the Netherlands to make sure that we cover the,
let's say the vast majority of the population at NN Group. Yes. And based on the results of
the analysis, we will see what we can report on it in the annual report of 2021. We'll take
into account your request on diﬀerent management levels. We'll take that into
consideration whether we should also report separately on that.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you. And now a question from PGGM, also on behalf of a number of Eumedion
participants. PGGM asks which steps NN is currently taking to support human rights in its
procurement processes or to mitigate or rectify violations. David?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. So in general -- so we have, of course reviewed this. In general, if we look at the way
we set this up, we meet the criteria and the -- as you can expect obviously from a
company like ourselves. We have seen that when we're looking at, for example,
procurement, that -- and that's why we also made it a priority, that we can pay extra
attention to the partners that we work with. Therefore, we've also said that we divided -or developed a separate policy on the procurement side so that we can monitor also and
help select whenever we're dealing with procurement and the hiring of external partners,
external suppliers, that we will also take this into account going forward. That's where -that's an area where we've now set the policy, and we believe we can further strengthen
our own approach.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, David. And now we come to the ﬁnal question that was submitted to us in
advance for this agenda item. This one is from PGGM, also on behalf of a number of
Eumedion participants and relates to the 3 proposed Supervisory Board members. The
question reads as follows: the section self-assessment in the report of the Supervisory
Board states that, "Attention should be paid to ensure an appropriate level of experience
in relation to technology and transformation competencies, the broader insurance
industry and listed large corporations." For the 3 nominated Supervisory Board of
Directors, can you highlight which speciﬁc experience they have in these areas? So I think
this one is probably for me as Chair of the Supervisory Board, so I'll provide the answer.
And let me start with a general comment.
We think the three candidates bring a wealth of experience to the Supervisory Board and
the NN Group, and we're very pleased with their proposed appointment. And allow me to
provide a little bit more detail, and I'll start with Inga Beale. She has extensive experience
Page 16 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

in the insurance sector, most recently as Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Lloyd's of London, the
world's specialist insurance and reinsurance market. Before joining Lloyd's, Inga held a
variety of executive roles at Canopius Group and Zurich Insurance Group, publicly listed
insurance company. Inga is a modernizer with proven digital and operational
transformational experience, alongside cultural transformation with a strong focus on
performance and growth. And now let me turn to Rob Lelieveld, who in the past 30 years,
has held various roles with EY, one of the Big Four accountancy ﬁrms. Rob's primary focus
has been on the insurance industry as he's been responsible and involved as audit
professional, including lead partner, for ING Group and NN Group, Aegon and asr in the
past.
As such, Rob has a lot of experience working with large international corporates and he's
frequently acted as sparring partner to an Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
And ﬁnally, Cecilia Reyes, over 25 years of experience in international ﬁnancial markets.
She had a variety of roles at ING and Credit Suisse before joining Zurich Insurance Group,
where she served as Chief Investment Oﬃcer and as Chief Risk Oﬃcer of the publicly
listed insurance company. Cecilia has unique experience in both investment management
and risk management at the highest level of the insurance company.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we believe that with these 3 candidates, we bring new perspectives and further
strengthen the composition of the Supervisory Board with a focus on transformation.
We're looking forward to working with them, and we welcome them to the NN Group. So
thanks for your patience. Those were the questions submitted by shareholders prior to
this meeting. I'd like to now ask to see if there are any questions from the shareholders
who are virtually attending this meeting. I see we have a raised hand from Mr. Armand
Kersten from VEB. So Mr. Kersten, may I turn to you?

Q - Armand Kersten
Yes. Thank you very much. First of all, I wanted to thank all of you for the replies to the
questions that VEB had posed in advance. So my appreciation for that. I was intrigued,
and I think it was, of course nothing but a slip of the tongue, but by the brainteaser from
you Mr. Chairman on ethical diversity. There are two questions that I wanted to put to you
also in view of the remarks that have been made so far with the full awareness on my part
that the ﬁrst question is perhaps rather to the annual accounts itself than to a more
general discussion. However it is following up to a remark that was made by your CEO.
This is to do with the eﬀect of the pandemic, the eﬀects of the pandemic.
One of the things that we see is that in your new sales Life insurance, there's been a drop
from over EUR 1.7 billion in 2019 to 1-point -- just over EUR 1.1 billion last year and that this
is explained as being the result of the COVID restrictions. I was interested to hear what
part of the drop in the returns is -- because it's over 30%, mind you, is indeed, whatever
you call it, but basically, due to the eﬀects of the pandemic.
The question in this regard is what the lessons learned are from the pandemic. For
example, would the impact of COVID-19 have been relatively more limited if NN was more
advanced with the digitalization of its products and sales channels? And on a completely
diﬀerent matter, the NN IP options that you are analyzing, if -- and indeed, of course I'm
Page 17 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

fully aware that you've stated its -- we're looking at all the options available. If it were to
come to selling it oﬀ and disposing of it, of course we realize that there is over EUR 300
million of goodwill in NN IP. To us, it seems somewhat improbable that a purchaser would
be prepared to also pay that premium. So that is a second question, if you will.

FINAL

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Mr. Kersten. Let me just brieﬂy summarize. So ﬁrst question is
regarding the impact of COVID on our sales of Life product, asking for an indication of
what part of the drop may have been related speciﬁcally to COVID as well as a follow-on
question, are there lessons that we've learned from the COVID pandemic that we may
wish to take forward in our business. The second was related to the announcement
regarding our strategic review of NN IP, asking questions about the impact on us as a
group going forward subsequent to such a potential divestment. So David, I think for
these, I'll turn to you.

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Kersten, for your questions. So on sales, so what we have seen in
the ﬁrst half of the year was actually a drop in sales. What we've particularly seen is that
with countries going into lockdown that for, I guess for obvious reasons, our sales
dropped. What I thought was really remarkable and actually quite impressive is that we've
seen in the second half of the year that the sales, the value of new business in Europe and
especially in Japan actually increased versus the second half of 2019. So we've seen the
VNB, for example, in Japan, it went up from EUR 18 million to EUR 46 million.
In Japan -- oh, sorry, in Europe, there was a bit of a smaller increase. But we all know that
the second half of '19 was a, let's say a non-COVID period, while the second half of 2020,
most countries were in partial or full lockdown. I think -- so what we have seen there is that
especially the proprietary channels, so our tied agent channel and to a certain extent,
brokers, we're very resilient. We saw banks -- our bank sales was a bit more under
pressure. Banks were very actively looking at all sorts of things during the crisis, but
insurance sales was a bit less high on their priority list. So it shows that the specialized
proprietary channels that we have are very resilient. So when they are -- even in lockdown,
they're able to do it. So what's the lesson here?
I think we've been -- if I'm very honest, we've been, for a long time, wanting to digitalize
our channels more. And for a long time, we wanted to do a lot more online sales via
screens, and the progress that we made there was limited. There was still a high wish from
some customers and agents to have really a face-to-face meeting, especially in the South
and in the Eastern part of Europe. That has fundamentally changed now. Also there, it is
very accepted now to have an advice via webcam and the technology-enabled.
So I think we all know the joke on who's driving the technology in companies, is it the
CEO, the CTO or COVID. Well I'm not going to answer it. But COVID certainly helped
speeding up the digitalization. The good news now is also that we've seen banks also
recover in terms of sales. So I'm actually optimistic that the sales channels have been
navigating through the COVID crisis in such a positive way. It also -- even if the economies
open more up, we will continue to beneﬁt from the fact that we were able to digitalize our
Page 18 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

channels. So I think there is, in any crisis, some silver lining. On NN IP, well, obviously so
we have announced a strategic review. There's multiple options on the table.
We have given the main options, which is a joint venture, a merger, a partial sale or a full
sale. Now any of these options -- and we haven't ruled out any of the other options -- any
of these options we will ultimately judge on, long-term, what is the best way to service
insurance customers and the asset manager and both the institutional and the retail
customers. So that is how we will judge the options going forward. Other elements
obviously around sustainability and all sorts of elements also play an important role. So
there's multiple factors. And based on that, we'll have to take a decision on what is the
best way forward to accelerate the growth for NN IP. And underlying, of course the main
criteria is how do we, long-term, service best the customers that we have.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, David. I see we have another question from Mr. van Kuijk from the VBDO. Mr.
van Kuijk, please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Mart van Kuijk
Yes. Thank you. I represent the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable
Development. We do appreciate this opportunity to speak live. Let's hope we can meet
again next year in The Hague. So thank you for clear answers to our questions. I have one
more question related to NN IP, and I think was also addressed in the last answer. But
perhaps you could elaborate on again. I will ﬁrst start with the question, ﬁrst. So for the
ﬁrst time last month, and again in this meeting, you speak about the intention to sell NN
IP or ﬁnd another form of collaboration and then emphasized NN IP is a leader in
sustainable investing, which we agree on. However after several consolidations in the
asset manager market, we have some concerns that a new owner might have diﬀerent
priorities related to sustainability. So yes, we would like to have or would like to hear
something more about how you will take sustainability into account as an aspect for a
possible takeover or merger.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you for your question. David?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Good morning, Mr. Kuijk, and indeed, hopefully, we can next time in person
again. Well as I said, so we announced a strategic review and there's multiple options on
the table. So let's not try and draw any interim conclusions or speculate on it. There's 4
main options on the table and we haven't ruled out the other options. Indeed, the
question on criteria, I said something also in my previous answer on that. Long term, we
want to service the institutional, the retail and the insurance customers, what is the best
way to service these customers going forward in an industry that has been consolidating,
where there's further specialization ongoing, there's a shift to passive, there's fee
pressure. There's -- clearly, there's a lot happening in that industry.

Page 19 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

The question is how can we accelerate the growth of NN IP by giving it a broader
platform. So that's what we're investigating. Now I think you're asking also how do you
judge in those options in the context of sustainability. Well sustainability is an important
pillar for us. As I mentioned earlier, we have -- in our ambition, we said we want to be
known in 5 to 10 years for -- as an industry leader for customer engagement, talented
people and contribution to society. Of course sustainability is an important element of
contribution to society. When we translate that ambition into our 5 strategic
commitments, one of them is again around society and sustainability. And this is also why
you see it within our targets, for example, the 80% ESG-integrated assets, the 2050
carbon-neutral that I already spoke about. So these targets are integrated because they
are an integral part of our strategy but also of our ambition. So based on that, you can
also trust that questions around how do we -- how important is sustainability also going
forward in your investment decision and portfolio, that will remain the case. So it is an
important criteria when judging all the strategic options that I mentioned.

Q - Mart van Kuijk
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you very much, David. I'd just highlight it's also very important to the Supervisory
Board of the NN Group, so fully concur with David's comments just now. At this point, I
see there are no further questions, so I'd like to thank all the shareholders who have
submitted their questions either in advance or during the course of the meeting. As I
mentioned at the start, your questions as well as our answers will be taken up in the
minutes of the meeting. So you'll be able to see those back in the minutes once they're
published. So I'd like to now close this item. Before we move on to the next item, I think I
owe you the present and represented share capital. So as you can see on the screen here,
the present and represented share of capital today amounts to 72.39%.
With that, we'll move on to the next item on the agenda, which is agenda item 3, which is
a proposal to give a positive advice on the 2020 remuneration report. Here, I'll refer to
the 2020 remuneration report Pages 33 to 42 of the 2020 ﬁnancial report. I'd like to give
the ﬂoor to Hélène Vletter-van Dort, Chair of the Remuneration Committee of the NN
Group Supervisory Board. Hélène will give an explanation of agenda item 3.

A - Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort
Thank you, Dave. Indeed, I'm happy to provide some context and background in relation
to the remuneration report for the year 2020. And let me start by giving an overview of
the most relevant topics in the remuneration report and what we've discussed in the
Remuneration Committee. Then I will sort of quickly go through the most important
remunerations decisions that have been taken by the Supervisory Board, including setting
their variable remuneration awards for the year 2020 and determining the at-target
compensation packages of the members of the Executive Board for the year 2021.
Overall, it's fair to conclude, and I'm saying nothing new, that 2020 was a challenging
year in which many relevant topics were discussed in the Supervisory Board. During the

Page 20 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

annual meeting this year -- or I should say the Annual Meeting 2020, so that was over the
-- it was last year's general meeting, we put to our shareholders the NN Group's
remuneration policy for the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board because they
have been brought in line with the new legal requirements of the Shareholders Rights
Directive. Now the remuneration policy for the Executive Board was adopted with well
over 94% of the votes.
The remuneration policy for Supervisory Board was adopted with a little over 95% in favor
of the proposal. The proposal to give a positive advice on the 2019 remuneration report
was also adopted by a huge majority. 2020, as has been said, was marked by the COVID
pandemic and the launch of the company's new strategy, which David spoke about. The
Supervisory Board held various consultation sessions with stakeholders, including
shareholders, proxy advisers, shareholder interest groups and employee representatives.
The purpose of all of those meetings was to get their feedback on how the COVID-19
pandemic should be reﬂected in executive remuneration. Of course the ﬁrst question we
posed was should we reﬂect that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We took all of the views into consideration during the decision-making process on the
discussions that followed, and including, by the way in the decisions to determine the
2021 compensation packages and the 2020 variable remuneration awards. I take this
opportunity to thank everyone once again who gave their time to provide the Supervisory
Board with their observations. And as I announced, we intend to continue to reach out to
relevant parties in the future. We thought it was a very beneﬁcial dialogue.
Another subject that was brought up during the stakeholders' meetings was the need to
provide further transparency in relation to the performance objectives of the Executive
Board. Supervisory Board is pleased to present more detailed and elaborate information
in relation to the 2020 performance objectives and the achievements for each of those
objectives in remuneration report. Disclosures in relation to the year 2020 are a step
forward compared with previous years, and as I promised last year, Supervisory Board is
committed to make further steps in the future.
Now let me move on to the remuneration decisions taken by the Supervisory Board for
the members of the Executive Board. To recap, our remuneration framework is designed
to allow a clear and transparent remuneration policy. At the same time, it should also be
adequate to attract and retain expert leaders, senior staﬀ and other highly qualiﬁed
employees. It aims to focus on creating long-term value for all stakeholders and keeps the
future in mind. Remuneration of executive and senior staﬀ is frequently benchmarked with
relevant national and international peers.
They are both within and outside the ﬁnancial sector. The peer group consists of
companies which are similar to NN in various terms, for instance, number of employees,
revenue, market capitalization and total assets. We also involve external experts, and we
ask them their advice on the determination of the peer group.
In line with the remuneration policy for the members of the Executive Board, Supervisory
Board aims to set the remuneration levels below market median for the Executive Board

Page 21 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

members. When determining the remuneration of the Executive Board members, the
Supervisory Board takes into account the interests of all relevant stakeholders, customers,
shareholders, employees, society, both within and outside of the Netherlands. And after a
balanced assessment, Supervisory Board decided not to grant an increase of the base
salary for the Executive Board members, so that's David and Delﬁn, for the year 2020.
Their base salaries will also remain unchanged for the year 2021.
Now in relation to the variable remuneration for the year 2020 and as mentioned in the
remuneration report, the performance objectives and ambition levels that we had set,
they remain unchanged. The Executive Board performance was therefore assessed
against the performance objectives as set by the Supervisory Board in January 2020, so
pre-COVID. Details of the performance assessments of the ﬁnancial and the nonﬁnancial
objectives have been provided in our report. When establishing the variable
remuneration awards, additional consideration has been given to the views and interest of
the various stakeholders of NN Group. And as I explained, we speciﬁcally focused on the
eﬀects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course we took into account other factors as well when we determined the height of
the variable remuneration award. For example, we looked at the fact that dividend
payments and share buyback program were temporarily suspended in April 2020 in
response to regulatory restrictions and that they were resumed in August. Several actions
were taken to ensure an uninterrupted service to our customers and to enhance the new
ways of working for NN Group employees.
From a societal perspective, NN Group did not apply for government support during the
pandemic and has continued to focus on supporting our communities during the COVID19 crisis through various initiatives. It's obvious that the pandemic provided for an
exceptional leadership challenge, requiring many actions to be taken to minimize the
impact of the pandemic. Even though last year was an extraordinary year, Supervisory
Board concluded that the NN Group has succeeded in continuing its business and
delivering ongoing value to its stakeholders, including shareholders, customers,
employees and society at large.
All in all, it was deemed appropriate to apply the Executive Board remuneration policy, as
was adopted in the general meeting last year, without invoking discretionary adjustments.
This approach is in line with the conclusions that were drawn from the stakeholder reachout that we did. Supervisory Board concluded that the Executive Board delivered a strong
performance in what we should probably call an unprecedented year.
When assessing the performance of the Executive Board member against the
performance objectives, diﬀerent weighting percentages apply for each Board member.
This is in line with the requirements of the Dutch regulatory regime, as is applicable to our
group and generally leads to diﬀerent outcomes per group -- per Board member. David,
in his capacity as CEO, has been granted a variable remuneration of 16% of his base
salary, which is on target. In addition to his regular duties as CFO, Delﬁn has also assumed
the CRO responsibilities on an at-interim basis during the ﬁrst part of last year. Delﬁn has
been granted a variable remuneration of around 17.5% of his base salary, which is about
109% oﬀ-target. I would like to end this agenda item with mentioning that NN Group
Page 22 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

recognizes the ongoing impact the COVID pandemic still has on societies and economies
in the world. Towards the future, we will continue to closely monitor the developments
and the impact on our stakeholders. Thank you.

FINAL

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Hélène. We will now address a question that was submitted by a shareholder
in advance of the meeting. After that, we'll answer questions from the shareholders who
are virtually attending this meeting. (Operator Instructions) We received a question from
the VEB on this item. The VEB notes that only 40% of the CEO's 2020 performance
objectives are ﬁnancial targets and is concerned that as a consequence, it's diﬃcult to
measure, let alone, obtain assurance on Mr. Knibbe's performance against his objectives.
The VEB also notes that to the extent that Mr. Knibbe's performance could be measured
against quantiﬁable targets, he did not achieve at least one of the objectives as NN
Group's remuneration report states that the operating capital generation target was not
met in 2020. Nonetheless, it's indicated that overall, the CEO achieved 100% of target for
the purpose of variable remuneration. The VEB ask whether NN agrees that external
parties could consider the CEO's performance objectives to be soft and overly subjective
given that only 40% of the objectives are measurable against ﬁnancial targets. Hélène,
could you please address the questions?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort
Yes. Thank you. And let me provide some relevant context. As we've explained in our
remuneration report, but I'm happy to have the opportunity to explain a bit further now,
we use nonﬁnancial objectives in addition to ﬁnancial objectives. That is in line with our
new strategy that is designed to meet the interests of various stakeholders. Examples are
employee and customer engagement, brand consideration, sustainability measures and
the gender diversity ratio. We've set clear targets, and the progress we report is reviewed
by our external auditor. Supervisory Board gathers information and insights to obtain a
solid understanding of the factual situation and to minimize subjectivity. In this process,
Supervisory Board is supported by relevant experts, typically acting in independent
control functions, to report on the progress made versus the clearly deﬁned ambition
levels that were set for the year. As you probably know, in line with Dutch legislation for
the ﬁnancial industry, a maximum of 50% of the performance objectives relate to the
ﬁnancial performance of NN Group. We have decided on a 40% weighting for the CEO,
which underscores our commitment to keep in mind the long-term interest of the various
stakeholders.
Regarding the question on Mr. Knibbe's variable remuneration, Supervisory Board looked
at all of our CEO's targets. Supervisory Board was impressed by how NN quickly adapted
to the new circumstances and continued to care for each other, our customers and
communities. On some performance objectives, our CEO clearly outperformed,
especially taking into account the challenging circumstances of last year, for example, on
employee engagement. The operating capital generation was, as he explained, impacted
by the exceptional market circumstances and low interest rates as well as the suspension
of bank dividends. Taking all of these factors into account, we came to the conclusion that
overall, and looking at the total picture, Mr. Knibbe met his targets. Thank you.

Page 23 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Hélène. That was the only question submitted by a shareholder prior to this
meeting. I'm looking now to see if there are any questions from shareholders who are
virtually participating, but at this point, I do not see any. So I'd like to then close this item.
Note that the voting on this proposal to give a positive advice on the 2020 remuneration
report as included in agenda 3 -- agenda item 3 is open until the end of the meeting. I'd
like to now move to the next agenda item, item 4, speciﬁcally 4A, which is proposal to
adopt the annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year 2020. Once again this is a voting item. I'll
refer here to the annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year 2020, as included in the 2020
ﬁnancial report, speciﬁcally Pages 45 through 186, as well as the presentation David
provided as part of agenda item 2.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just a brief bit of explanation. The annual accounts were drawn up by the Executive Board
in English on the 10th of March 2021 and have been available on the website of NN Group
as from the 11th of March 2021. The annual accounts are also available free of charge in
NN Group's head oﬃce for inspection by shareholders. The annual accounts were
audited by the external auditor. He's issued an unqualiﬁed auditor's report, 2020 ﬁnancial
report, Pages 187 through 203. You can ﬁnd the independent auditor's report. I'd like to
note the Supervisory Board advises to adopt the annual accounts.
Before I give the ﬂoor to Peti de Wit from KPMG, our external auditor, I'd like to note that
the NN Group has released KPMG from its obligation to maintain conﬁdentiality in order
for Peti to be free to comment on the audit performed on the auditor reports for the
purposes of this meeting. The external auditor has an obligation to rectify in Dutch,
herstel (Speaking via interpreter), which means that in case of statements in relation to the
annual accounts or the auditor's report that might give a materially inaccurate view of the
aﬀairs of the company, Peti De Wit may request the corrections be made either during this
meeting or prior to the adoption of the minutes of this meeting. And with that, I'll now
give the ﬂoor to Peti De Wit of KPMG, the external auditor.

Q - Peti De Wit
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well dear shareholders, I'm pleased with the opportunity to
present on the audit that we have performed. As been said, my name is Peti de Wit. On
behalf of KPMG, I signed the independent auditor's report, as included in the 2020
ﬁnancial report. This was the ﬁfth time that I was ultimately responsible for the external
audit of NN Group, and I'm pleased to address you on our 2020 audit, although, as been
said before, I regret that like last year, we cannot meet in person. The Chairman also
conﬁrmed that during the duration of the Annual General Meeting, we are released from
client conﬁdentiality restrictions. Therefore, I'm free to talk to you about our audit and the
results thereof. I would like to start by explaining our audit and auditor's opinion. I start
with what did we audit. Well we audited the 2020 parent company and consolidated
annual accounts of NN Group. We issued, as been said, unqualiﬁed auditor's opinion on
these accounts. We also performed the review of the half year interim accounts of NN
Group and a review resulted in an unqualiﬁed review report on these interim accounts. In
line with prior years, we also reviewed the nonﬁnancial information as included in the
2020 annual review.

Page 24 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

We issued an assurance report, concluding that nothing has come to our attention to
believe that the information related to material nonﬁnancial topics is not prepared, in all
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria applied by NN Group. You can
ﬁnd our assurance report on Pages 70 to 72 of the annual review. I would now like to focus
on the ﬁnancial audit. Our independent auditor's report on the parent company and
consolidated annual accounts can be found on Pages 187 to 203 after ﬁnancial report. I
will now navigate to the components of the opinion.
So ﬁrst, the conclusion. Based on the audit work performed, we concluded that the
annual accounts give a true and fair view of the ﬁnancial position of NN Group as at
December 31, 2020 and of its result and cash ﬂows for the year then ended. It's also
important to conﬁrm to you that as from October 1, 2015 onwards, we have been
independent of NN Group. In 2020, we conﬁrmed our auditor's independence to the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on a quarterly basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I continue to present on the other elements of the audit opinion, I would like to
pause and talk about the COVID-19 impact on the audit ﬁrst. During most of 2020, NN
employees worked from home. The KPMG audit was almost completely performed
remotely. How did this impact on our audit? I would like to talk to you about 5 elements.
The ﬁrst is the going concern assumption of accounting. When the uncertainties came,
management prepared a going concern analysis supporting the assumption underlying
the preparation of the annual accounts.
In our audit, we found this assumption adequately supported. The second item is
materiality. Management prepared, during 2020, additional ﬁnancial forecast based on a
number of scenarios in response to COVID-19. We have discussed these scenarios and
forecasts and concluded that the ﬁnancial implications for the group were relatively
limited. Therefore, we did not change our approach to materiality.
A third element is the audit of accounting estimates, including the valuation of insurance
contract liabilities and the reserve adequacy test, Solvency II own funds and SCR
calculations and the valuation of investments with a focus on what we call hard-to-value
assets, such as real estate investments and private equity investments. In auditing these
accounting estimates, we duly considered the COVID-19 implications on management's
assumption setting, methods and models and interpretation of the outcomes. I will get
back to this when discussing our key audit matters in the 2020 audit opinion.
The fourth item that I would like to mention to you is the audit of disclosures related to
COVID-19, such as Note 2 that is speciﬁcally addressing the COVID-19 pandemic, Note 36
about the fair value of nonﬁnancial assets, and Note 51 on risk management. Based on the
audit work performed, we found these disclosures appropriate, including the disclosure
on estimation uncertainties.
The last item, the ﬁfth item, is how did COVID-19 impact on us obtaining suﬃcient and
appropriate audit evidence. While we adapted our testing methods to respond to
changes in the business, including the timing of our testing, for example, related to
impairment indications, the nature of the testing, for example, remote access to NN's

Page 25 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

books, records and ﬁnancial reporting, and the extent of the testing, so we modiﬁed our
procedures such as alternative procedures to get comfort over, for example, the
authenticity of documentation that is provided to us. Because of travel restrictions, we
could not visit NN's foreign businesses and their auditors, like we did in previous years.
However we have had remote interviews with local management, for example, in Japan,
Belgium and Romania.
In line with our audit planning, we remotely reviewed the audit work performed by all
component auditors, both in the Netherlands and abroad. This allowed us to conclude on
the audit and issue our audit opinion. Now I would like to go back to what is, in your
opinion, an important element is materiality. Since our ﬁrst year audit in 2016, we
determined materiality on the basis of what we call core equity, being the total equity
minus the revaluation reserves. As I mentioned before, for the 2020 audit, we did not see
a reason to change this approach, and we audited the annual accounts using a materiality
of EUR 140 million or 1% of this core equity benchmark. This is consistent with our 2019
outlook. Some parts of the annual accounts, however we audit with a higher level of
precision as a response to the nature of certain disclosures. This so-called qualitative
materiality is, for example, applicable to the audit of the management remuneration
disclosures.
We also paid speciﬁc attention to the appropriateness of the COVID-19 pandemic
disclosure on Page 68 of the ﬁnancial report. All identiﬁed and unadjusted audit
misstatements in excess of EUR 7 million have been reported in writing to the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board. These misstatements are both individually and in
aggregate not material to general accounts. In line with last year, the number of
misstatements is low, taking into account the size and complexity of the NN Group annual
accounts containing both IFRS and Solvency II ﬁnancial information.
The next item is on the scope of the audit. In order to take full responsibility for the audit
of the annual accounts, we instruct local auditors to perform audit procedures on our
behalf. We determine which entity and with what level of materiality these local audits
need to be performed. In doing so, we consider the impact of COVID-19 on both the risk
proﬁle and the ﬁnancial relevance of the components to the group as a whole. This year,
we included VIVAT Non-life in the scope of our audit as this business was acquired by NN
Group on the 1st of April 2020. All audits have been performed by KPMG audit teams.
Then a word on the audit in relation to fraud risk. In the design and execution of the
external audit, we consider the risk of fraud. We evaluated management's response to
fraud risk and the functioning of the 3 lines of defense in that regard. We also evaluated
the presumed fraud risk of management override of controls by performing substantive
audit procedures such as data analysis on high-risk journal entries.
The next section in the opinion deals with compliance with laws and regulations. In our
audit, we identiﬁed areas of law and regulations that could reasonably be expected to
have a material eﬀect on the annual accounts based on our general understanding and
sector experience and through discussion with, for example, group compliance and also
the Management Board and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.

Page 26 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

We made a distinction between laws and regulations with a direct impact on the annual
accounts, such as corporate income tax regulation or Solvency II regulation, and laws and
regulations with an indirect eﬀect, such as ﬁnancial and economic crime regulation or
data privacy regulation. Then I would like your attention on what we call signiﬁcant risks
and key audit matters. Based on our professional judgment, we identiﬁed signiﬁcant risks.
What are they?
Well signiﬁcant risks have a higher probability of a material misstatement of the annual
accounts. Signiﬁcant risks are often linked to signiﬁcant nonroutine transactions or to
matters that require signiﬁcant management judgment. For each signiﬁcant risk, we
obtained an understanding of the design, existence and eﬀectiveness of the internal
controls that NN Group put in place to mitigate such risks. In addition, we performed
speciﬁc substantive audit procedures to obtain suﬃcient and appropriate audit evidence
that these risks did not result in material misstatements in the 2020 annual accounts.

Bloomberg Transcript

Based on our audit of signiﬁcant risks, we then identiﬁed 5 key audit matters, and these
have been included in our auditor's opinion, and they related to: one, the valuation of the
insurance contract liabilities and the reserve adequacy test; two, the valuation of hard-tovalue assets; three, the unit-linked exposure; four, Solvency II disclosure; and number ﬁve,
IT, general and cybersecurity controls. Compared to last year, our audit opinion contains
one new key audit matter for valuation of hard-to-value assets.
Let me give you some further explanation. With hard-to-value assets, I refer to unquoted
investments reported at fair value, either in the balance sheet or in the notes to the
accounts. Given the inherent subjectivity of the valuation of unquoted investments, socalled level 3 assets, we consider the valuation of these as a signiﬁcant risk like we did in
2019. However as a result of COVID-19, we observed a signiﬁcant increase in valuation
uncertainty and a drop in liquidity for certain asset classes and, in particular, for certain
categories of real estate and private equity investments. Therefore, we consider this a key
audit matter for a 2020 audit.
Our response consists of a mix of testing of internal controls and substantive test
procedures tailored to the size and risk proﬁle of parts of the portfolio, in particular real
estate, private equity and mortgages. We extended the involvement of our real estate and
corporate ﬁnance valuation specialists in performing such procedures.
Our audit procedures led to the conclusion that management's valuations at year-end
2020 were reasonable. For an explanation of the other key audit matters, I would like to
refer to you to the text in our independent auditor's report. Dear shareholders, in
summary, our audit work provided us with suﬃcient and appropriate audit evidence to
support our conclusion that the 2020 annual accounts give you a true and fair view on the
basis of which, you, our shareholders in NN Group, can form your own conclusions.
Before I hand over to the Chairman of this meeting, I would like to mention that auditor's
independence regulations set a maximum term of ﬁve years for the signing external audit
partner. Therefore, my time as your external auditor will come to an end after this
meeting. In the last year, I have worked closely with my successor, Dick Korf, who will be

Page 27 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

your external auditor as from 2021 onwards. I am conﬁdent that this handover will bring
you both the sustained quality and the freshness that the audit independence
requirements have in mind. I would like to thank you, as shareholders, but also the
Supervisory Board, the Executive and Management Boards and all employees of NN
Group for the trust and collaboration in the last ﬁve years. Mr. Chairman, that ends my
presentation, and I'm available for any questions related to our audit.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Peti. I will address you personally a little bit later in the meeting. For now, we
will address the questions that were submitted by shareholders in advance of the
meeting. And following that, we'll answer questions from the shareholders who are
virtually attending this meeting. We received two questions from the VEB on this item. Let
me start with the ﬁrst question, which is a question for KPMG. The VEB notes that NN
Group considers good corporate citizenship to be one of its key strategic risk. At the
same time, none of the key audit matters include a material aspect to reﬂect this, although
KPMG does refer to fraud risk in the form of management by passing control measures.
VEB asked for a clariﬁcation on how the assessment of materiality, the risk appetite
adopted by management and the corresponding prioritization of strategic risks are
consistent with the key audit matters that the auditor has identiﬁed. So Peti, over to you
for answers to this question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peti De Wit
Yes. Thank you for the question. Yes, ﬁrst, I would like to point at Pages 57 to 60 of the
annual review where management describes key risks linked to NN's strategic framework
and related strategic commitments. One of the key risks is good corporate citizenship. I
would also like to refer to management's responses to the questions earlier on this topic.
But what does this mean for the audit of the annual accounts and for our audit opinion?
First, management's strategic commitments and related key risks are directed towards
long-term value creation. In our audit of the annual accounts, we discuss management's
long-term value creation perspectives and the key risks they identiﬁed. This is part of our
risk assessments and planning procedures related to what auditors call understanding the
entity and its environment. The outcome of our risk assessment is, however directed to
the annual accounts and our audit thereof. This also means that we apply materiality as
explained earlier, with an amount of EUR 140 million. The fact that management identiﬁed,
for example, good corporate citizenship as a key risk demonstrates that NN is aware of
societal expectations and the developments thereof.
The third element of my answer is the annual accounts are prepared on the basis of EU
IFRS and Solvency II regulatory frameworks. In our audit, that is, of course dominant norm
against which our test work is being performed. Our audit work is, however deeper and
more nuanced than just doing that. I will give you an example related to the recognition
and measurement of legal provisions. As the CFO explained earlier, there are certain
recognition and measurement criteria to be respected in the accounting for legal
provisions. The application of those criteria requires, amongst others, making estimates of
future cash ﬂows.

Page 28 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

As part of our audit work related to NN's unit-linked exposure, our key audit matter 3 on
Page 197 of the ﬁnancial report, we discussed and challenged management's estimate of
future cash ﬂows in the ﬁeld where legal developments are taking place in a developing
societal context. These developments relate to and NN speciﬁcally and to broader market
participants. Based on the work performed and how we observe management's approach
to addressing this topic, we found that management's conclusion that the ﬁnancial
consequences of the unit-linked exposure cannot be reliably estimated, and therefore, no
provision is recognized in the December 31, 2020 balance sheet to be suﬃciently
substantiated. We also found the disclosure in Note 44 to be adequate.
Finally, in our audit of the annual accounts, management override of controls is a
presumed fraud risk. We performed risk assessment procedures, such as reading and
discussing management's approach to, for example, setting the tone at the top and
establishing a Purpose Council. But we also performed detailed test work on, for
example, high-risk journal entries to obtain evidence that the actual preparation of the
annual accounts was not impacted by inappropriate management behavior in overriding
internal controls. Overall, our test work did not result in signiﬁcant ﬁndings. That would be
my answer to the question, Mr. Chairman.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Peti. The second question from the VEB is about the nonﬁnancial statement
within the meaning of the decree on disclosure of nonﬁnancial information. The VEB
points out that the NN Group annual report does not include a nonﬁnancial statement,
and it has not been able to establish on what grounds this statement has not been
included. The VEB asked for an elaboration on the relevance of the nonﬁnancial
statement and the considerations underlying the decision not to include it, at least not
explicitly. David, would you like to address the question?

A - David E. Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, sure. So in practice, the requirements of the decree are interpreted as reporting on
all elements of the nonﬁnancial statement in a coherent report, so -- as opposed to
disclosing it in a separate statement. This is also a common approach taken by other
companies. So in the NN Group, annual review contains all elements of a nonﬁnancial
statement, and therefore, we believe that we've met the requirement of this decree. This
view has also been conﬁrmed by our external auditor, KPMG.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you. Okay. Those were the questions submitted by shareholders prior to the
meeting. I'm looking to see if there are any additional questions coming during the
meeting. I see there are none at this point in time. I'd just like to remind you that voting on
the proposal to adopt the annual accounts for the ﬁnancial year 2020, as included in
agenda item 4A, is open until the end of the meeting. With that, I'll close this item, and
we'll move to the next item. Agenda item 4B, which is the explanation of our dividend
policy. It's a discussion item.

Page 29 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

I'd like to refer to the dividend policy as published on NN Group's website. You see a
summary of that here also on the screen. According to NN Group's dividend policy, NN
Group intends to pay a progressive ordinary dividend per share. Under normal
circumstances, NN Group intends to declare an interim dividend, which will be calculated
at approximately 40% of the prior year's full year dividend with the disclosure of its ﬁrst
year -- ﬁrst half year results, and to propose a ﬁnal dividend at the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders.
NN Group intends to pay dividends either in cash after deduction of withholding tax, if
applicable, or in ordinary shares at the election of the shareholder. Earlier this year, it was
decided that dividends paid in the form of ordinary shares will be delivered from NN
Group's treasury shares. If and to the extent that treasury shares are not used for the
payment of stock dividend, dividend paid in the form of ordinary shares will be issued
from the share premium reserve.

Bloomberg Transcript

NN Group intends to neutralize the dilutive eﬀect of the stock dividend through
repurchase of ordinary shares. The group also intends to execute a recurring annual share
buyback of at least EUR 250 million. Additional excess capital is to be returned to
shareholders unless it can be used for value-creating opportunities. When proposing a
dividend or announcing a buyback, the NN Group will take into account, amongst other
things, its capital position, leverage and liquidity positions, regulatory requirements and
strategic considerations as well as the expected developments thereof.
I'd just like to note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of
the meeting. I'd like to check and see if there are any questions from shareholders who
are attending virtually. I see no hands have been raised, therefore, I'd like to close this
item, which was a discussion item only. We'll move to the next item on the agenda. So
we're now at item 4C, which is a proposal to pay out dividend. I'll refer to the proposal to
pay out dividend, which was already mentioned by David in his presentation and will now
oﬃcially be put to a vote. Here, I refer speciﬁcally to the proposal to pay out dividend as
included in the convocation notice on Page 4. Let me ﬁrst explain the situation in 2020,
which is somewhat diﬀerent than in prior years.
As announced on the 6th of April 2020, NN Group acted in accordance with the
recommendations of EIOPA and the Dutch Central Bank, as published on the 2nd of April
2020, which urged insurers to temporarily suspend their dividend distributions and share
buyback programs as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although NN Group
was well capitalized and had a strong liquidity position, it postponed the payment of
dividends on its ordinary shares in line with EIOPA and DNB recommendations. The
proposal to pay a 2019 ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.40 per ordinary share was therefore not
included on the agenda of last year's Annual General Meeting.
In line with NN Group's intention that this distribution to shareholders would still be made
in the second half of 2020, if and at such time that in the opinion of the Executive and
Supervisory Boards this would be appropriate in light of COVID-19 developments, the
interim dividend that was paid last September comprised of EUR 1.4 per ordinary share,
equal to the amount of the suspended 2019 ﬁnal dividend; plus EUR 0.86 per ordinary
share, equal to the regular 2020 interim dividend, resulting in a total amount of EUR 2.26
Page 30 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

per share. Today's proposal is to pay out a ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.47 per ordinary share.
The proposed 2020 ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.47 per ordinary share, plus the regular 2020
interim dividend of EUR 0.86 per ordinary share, gives a pro forma total dividend for
2020 of EUR 2.33 per ordinary share. The key dates for the proposed dividend are shown
on the following slide.
I note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the meeting.
(Operator Instructions) I see that no one has raised their hand. Therefore, I would like to
close this item. I'd like to note that voting on this proposal to pay out dividend as included
in item 4.C is open until the end of the meeting. With that, we'll move to the next agenda
item, 5A, release from liability. Here, the proposal is to release members of the Executive
Board from liability for their respective duties performed during the ﬁnancial year 2020.
This is a voting item.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd like to note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the
meeting. (Operator Instructions) I see no hands have been raised. I'd like to note that the
voting on the proposal to release the members of the Executive Board from liability for
their respective duties performed during the ﬁnancial year 2020 as included in our
agenda item 5A is open until the end of this meeting. I'll now close this agenda item.
We'll move to the next item, 5B. Here, the proposal is to release the members of the
Supervisory Board from liability for their respective duties performed during the ﬁnancial
year 2020.
Once again this is a voting item. This proposal was included in the convocation notice on
Page 4. I'd also just like to note that in addition to the current members of the Supervisory
Board, this proposal also includes the release from liability of Mr. Dick Harryvan, former
Vice-Chair of the Supervisory Board, whose term of appointment ended at the close of
the Annual General Meeting on the 28th of May 2020, as well as the release from liability
of Mr. Rob Ruijter, whose term of appointment ended on the 12th of April 2020.
I note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the meeting.
(Operator Instructions) I see no hands have been raised. So I'll note once again that
voting on the proposal to release the members of the Supervisory Board from liability for
their respective duties performed during the ﬁnancial year 2020, as included in agenda
item 5B, is open until the end of this meeting. Now I'd like to close this item and move to
the next agenda, item 6, composition of the Supervisory Board, and more speciﬁcally,
item 6A, proposal to appoint Cecilia Reyes as member of the Supervisory Board. This is a
voting item. This proposal was included in the convocation notice on Page 5.
As announced, the number of members of the Supervisory Board of the company will be
increased to 9. The ﬁrst person the Supervisory Board has nominated for appointment as
member of the Supervisory Board a term of four years is Cecilia Reyes. Cecilia, thank you
for joining today's meeting in a virtual way. If adopted, Cecilia's appointment shall
become eﬀective as from the close of this meeting and ends at the close of the Annual
General Meeting in 2025. As announced, it is intended that Cecilia will also become a
member of the Supervisory Board's Remuneration Committee and Risk Committee.

Page 31 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

A short biography of Cecilia is included in the convocation notice as well as in the
presentation. Cecilia has been nominated for appointment on the basis of her extensive
experience in international insurance and ﬁnancial markets, her solid knowledge and
experience on investment management as well as risk management as well as her
experience as an executive and nonexecutive director. The nomination of Cecilia is in
accordance with the proﬁle of the Supervisory Board, which can be found on the
company's website. The Central Works Council has informed the Supervisory Board that it
does not have recommendations for this nomination and that it supports the appointment
of Cecilia. The proposed appointment of Cecilia has been approved by the Dutch Central
Bank, and more information can be found in the convocation notice, once again on Page
5.
The nomination of Cecilia is subject to the condition that the general meeting will not
recommend any other person for nomination. We've not received any such
recommendations in advance in the meeting. I'm just looking to see if there are any
members participating -- shareholders participating who'd like to make such a
recommendation. I assume that's not the case. Therefore, since the general meeting does
not recommend any other persons for nomination, the proposal to appoint Cecilia Reyes
as a member of the Supervisory Board will oﬃcially be put to a vote. And before we go to
the vote, I'd like to invite Cecilia, if she'd like to say a few words. Cecilia?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Cecilia Reyes

{BIO 3934728 <GO>}

Thank you very much, David, for your very strong words of support. It will be an honor for
me to serve as member of the Supervisory Board of NN. It is such an exciting time and
kind of uniquely challenging environment to come on board, and I look forward to
working very hard with colleagues to deliver success for NN under the leadership of
David Cole as Chair and David Knibbe as CEO. Thank you.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Cecilia. I note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in
advance of the meeting. I'll look to see if any of the shareholders participating virtually
would like to ask questions. I see that there are none. Therefore, I'd like to just remind
everyone that voting on the proposal to appoint Cecilia Reyes as a member of the
Supervisory Board as included in the agenda item 6A is open until the end of this
meeting. I'll close this item and move to Item 6B, proposal to appoint Rob Lelieveld as
member of the Supervisory Board. Once again this is a voting item. This item was also
included in the convocation notice on Page 5.
Let me provide a bit of explanation. The Supervisory Board has also nominated Rob
Lelieveld for appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board for a term of four years.
Hello, Rob, thank you for joining us as well, virtually. If adopted, Rob's appointment shall
become eﬀective as of the 1st of September 2021 and ends at the close of the Annual
General Meeting in 2025. As announced, it's intended that Rob will also become a
member of the Supervisory Board's Audit Committee as well as Nomination and
Corporate Governance Committee. In addition, if appointed, Rob will also become a
member of the Remuneration Committee.

Page 32 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

The Central Works Council of the company has made use of its enhanced
recommendation rights and has asked the Supervisory Board to nominate Rob as the
person recommended by the Central Workers Council. A short biography of Rob is
included in the convocation notice as well as in the presentation. Rob has been
nominated for appointment on the basis of his extensive knowledge and experience in
the audit and insurance industry, his profound understanding of the regulatory framework
and corporate governance as well as his experience as a Board member.
The nomination of Rob is in accordance with the proﬁle of the Supervisory Board. The
proposed appointment of Rob has been approved by the Dutch Central Bank. More
information regarding Rob can be found in the convocation notice, as I mentioned. The
nomination of Rob is subject to the condition that the general meeting will not
recommend any other person for nomination.
I'd like to note, we've not received any such recommendations in advance of the meeting.
We'll assume the general meeting does not wish to recommend any other person. Paul is
to conﬁrm that. Since the general meeting does not recommend any other persons for
nomination, the proposal to appoint Rob Lelieveld as a member of the Supervisory Board
will oﬃcially be put to a vote. Rob, once again before we go to a vote regarding your
nomination, would you like to say something to our shareholders?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Rob Lelieveld
Yes. I will. Thank you, Dave. Yes. I'm really honored to be proposed as a member NN
Supervisory Board that have been involved in the insurance industry for a very long time.
I'm looking forward to working with all your stakeholders. And especially, I want to thank
the Works Council for their trust. Thank you.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you, Rob. No questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the
meeting. Check to see if the shareholders participating virtually in the meeting would like
to ask any questions. I see that's not the case. Just remind you that the voting on the
proposal to appoint Rob Lelieveld as a member of the Supervisory Board as included on
the agenda Item 6 billion is open until the end of the meeting. With that, we'll close this
item and move to Item 6C, which is the proposal to appoint Inga Beale as member of the
Supervisory Board, once again a voting item.
This proposal was included in the complication notice on Page 6. A brief explanation. The
Supervisory Board has also nominated Inga Beale for appointment as a member of the
Supervisory Board for a term of four years. Inga is also joining us today. Hello, Inga,
welcome. If adopted Inga's appointment shall become eﬀective as from the close of this
meeting and ends at the close of the Annual General Meeting in 2025.
As announced, it is intended that Inga will also become a member of the Supervisory
Board's Risk Committee and the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. A
short biography of Inga was included in the convocation notice as well as in the
presentation today. Inga has been nominated for appointment on the basis of her

Page 33 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

experience in international insurance and ﬁnancial markets, our extensive knowledge and
experience on digitalization and transformation, our commitment to diversity and
inclusiveness as well as her experience as an executive and nonexecutive director.
The nomination of Inga is in accordance with the proﬁle of the Supervisory Board. The
Central Works Council has informed the Supervisory Board and does not have
recommendations for this nomination and that it supports the appointment of Inga. I'd
also like to announce the proposed appointment of Inga has meanwhile been approved
by the Dutch Central Bank.
As earlier indicated, more information and background can be found in the complication
notice on Page 6. The nomination of Inga is subject to the condition that the general
meeting will not recommend any other person for nomination. We've not received any
such recommendations in advance of this meeting. I'll just check to see if any of the virtual
participants would like to nominate someone else. I see that's not the case. Since the
general meeting does not recommend any other person for nomination, the proposal to
appoint Inga Beale as a member of the Supervisory Board will oﬃcially be put to a vote.
Before doing so, Inga, once again I'd like to ask if you'd like to share something before we
go to a formal vote. Over to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Inga Beale
Well thank you very much, Dave. I'm very, very keen to receive the support of
shareholders today. I would also like to thank you and all of the other NN Supervisory
Board members and the Central Works Council who have already shown conﬁdence in
me by supporting my nomination. I would so look forward to contributing to NN Group's
future. I would feel extremely proud to be associated with an organization that has put
people at the very heart of its purpose. Thank you.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Indeed. Thank you, Inga. I note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in
advance of the meeting. Check to see if the virtual participants would like to ask any
questions. I see this not the case. Again just a friendly reminder, the voting on the
proposal to appoint Inga Beale as a member of the Supervisory Board as included in
agenda item 6C is open until the end of this meeting. With that, we'll close this item and
move on to the next agenda item.
Item 7, which is a proposal to approve an increase of the variable remuneration caps in
special circumstances. Again this is a voting item. The proposal was included in the
complication notice on Page 6. Here, I'd like to give the ﬂoor again to the Chair of our
Remuneration Committee, on Hélène Vletter-van Dort to give an explanation of this item.
Hélène?

A - Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort
Sorry. Sorry, I forgot to put my mic on. Thank you, Dave. I will try to do this again with the
mic on. Agenda Item number7 relates to proposal to approve an increase of the variable

Page 34 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

remuneration caps in special circumstances. Actually, it's a continuation of the existing
policy, but I'll provide a little bit of background.
The Dutch Financial Supervision Act to the AFT. It contains a restriction on the ratio
between ﬁxed and variable remuneration for staﬀ of the NN Group. The act requires that
the variable remuneration of employees working within the Netherlands is capped at 20%
of ﬁxed remuneration, and the cap is 100% for individuals working outside of the
Netherlands. Some of NN's international peers and competitors are subject to less
stringent restrictions concerning variable remuneration.
And in particular, NN investment partners -- sorry, NNIP operates in markets outside of the
European economic area, and that do not have these local limitations on remuneration.
Under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, NN is permitted to set a cap higher than 100%
of ﬁxed remuneration in exceptional circumstances for individuals working outside of The
EEA provided at the higher cap is approved by shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the 1st of June 2017, the general meeting approved any and all resolutions regarding
the increase of the maximum ratio between the ﬁxed and variable components from 100%
to 200% for a limited number of employees working in the NNIP business outside of the
EEA for performance years up to and including this year.
So 2020 -- last year for 2020. In order to maintain NNIP's competitive position and to
minimize any disadvantages in its ability to recruit and retain key employees, Executive
Board and the Supervisory Board deemed in the best interest of the company to continue
the option to increase the cap up to and including 200% for a limited number of
approximately 25 staﬀ members working for NNIP outside the European economic area,
primarily the U.S., Asia and the U.K. for each of the performance years 2021, '22 and '23.
Remuneration for this speciﬁc group of employees will not be increased as a result of this
resolution.

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you for the explanation, Hélène. I note that no questions have been submitted by
shareholders in advance of the meeting. However I see that we have a question now from
Mr. Kersten from the Bay. Mr. Kersten, over to you.

Q - Armand Kersten
Thank you very much. Firstly, this has nothing to do with the question I wanted to ask is
I'm extremely pleased to see that with Mr. Lelieveld joining the Supervisory Board, given
his position with the market house. There is now In any case, also in his person, upping of
the cultural wherewithal within the Board, and that is always something that we hide. But
on the speciﬁc matter of upping the gap, from 100% to 200% for a number of employees.
We see that you say it's for approximately 25 employees.
Two questions in that regard. One is, is it in actual factor also 25 employees that -- for
whom this arrangement is, in fact, being utilized. Secondly, can you be somewhat more
precise as to exactly what type of employees we are talking about. So what jobs are they?
Page 35 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

A - Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort
My mic is on. My mic is on. Sorry, my mic is on. I hope I'm audible. Yes. Okay. Good. Sorry,
Mr. Kersten slightly oﬀ-track here. The -- you were asking about, is it indeed 25
employees? Well last year, it was even less. So we're asking for a maximum of 25. So that
can be less or more depending -- or less and I mean more than last year. So maximum of
25. Now when it comes to what kind of people, these are investment professionals only.
So those are the only people that are -- that this -- and again I explain one is a
continuation of the current policy. We're not doing anything new. Does that answer the
question?

Q - Armand Kersten
Indeed, it does.

A - Hélène Maria Vletter-van Dort
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Alan Cole

{BIO 7251632 <GO>}

Thank you for your question and Helene for the answers. I see there are no other
questions on this item. So I'll just remind everyone that voting on the proposal to approve
an increase in the variable remuneration caps in special circumstances as included in Item
7 is open until the end meeting. With that, we'll move to the next item. Item 8, authority to
issue shares and to grant rights to subscribe for the shares, more speciﬁcally 8A. Which is
a proposal to designate the Executive Board is conﬁdent body to resolve to issue ordinary
shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares. This is a voting item. This item
was included in the complication notice on Page 7. And I'm going to assume that you're
familiar with this agenda item, which was also submitted to you in previous years. Given
the extensive explanation to this item as included in the complication notice, I assume
there's no need for further explanation or to repeat explanation.
I know that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the
meeting. Just quickly check to see if the participating shareholders would like to raise any
questions. I see none. So I will remind that the voting on this proposal to designate the
Executive Board as the competent body to resolve to issue ordinary shares and to grant
rights to subscribe for ordinary shares as an agenda item 8.i [ph] is open until the end of
the meeting.
We'll close this item, and we'll move to the next item, which is 8Aii [ph], which is proposed
to designate the Executive Board as the company body to resolve to limit or exclude
preemptive rights of existing shareholders when issuing ordinary shares and granting
rights to subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to agenda Item 8Ai [ph]. Also this is a
voting item. This item was explained extensively in the convocation notice on Page 7. I do
believe you're familiar with this agenda item, which is as the previous one been submitted
to you in previous years.
Therefore, also for this proposal, I won't go into an extensive explanation but referring
you to the complication notice. I note that no questions have been submitted by
Page 36 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

FINAL

shareholders in advance of the meeting to see if any of the participating shareholders
would like to pause a question. I see that's not the case.
So I'll note the voting on the proposal to designate the Executive Board as the competent
body to resolve to limit or exclude preemptive rights of existing shareholders when
issuing ordinary shares and granting rights to subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to
agenda Item 8Ai [ph] as included in agenda item 8A2i [ph] is open until the end of this
meeting. So with that, we'll close this item.
We'll move to the next item, which is 8B, which is a proposal to designate the Executive
Board as the competent body to resolve to issue ordinary shares and to grant rights to
subscribe for ordinary shares by way of a rights issuance. Now this is a voting item. This
item was extensively explained in the complication notice on Pages 7 and 8.
And as this agenda item has also been committed to you before, I assume there's no
need to further explain or repeat the extensive explanation included in the complication
notice. I note that no questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the
meeting. I check to see if any of the participating shareholders would like to raise a
question. I see that's not the case.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, I just remind that voting on the proposal to designate the Executive Board as
the company body to resolve to issue ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for
ordinary shares by way of our rights issue as included in agenda item 8 billion is open
until the end of this meeting.
With that, we can move to agenda Item 9, which is a proposal to authorize the Executive
Board to acquire ordinary shares in the company's share capital. Again this is a voting
item. This item was included in complication notice and explained on Page 8. I again refer
to the extensive explanation to this agenda item as included in the complication notice
and assume there's no need to further explain or repeat this explanation. Also here, no
questions have been submitted by shareholders in advance of the meeting. I check to see
if the participating shareholders would like to raise a question at this point. I see that's not
the case, and we'll note that the voting on the proposal to authorize the Executive Board
to acquire ordinary shares in the company's share capital as included in agenda Item 9 is
open until the end of this meeting.
With that, we can move to Item 10, which is a proposal to reduce the issued share capital
by cancellation of ordinary shares held by the company. This is a voting item. This item
was explained in the communication notice on Page 8, rather extensively. And as the
previous proposals has also been submitted to you in previous years. I assume the
explanation and the complication notice will service for this. I note that no questions have
been submitted by shareholders in advance of the meeting. I see that no questions are
now being readied by the participating shareholders. So also here, I'll note that the voting
on this proposal to reduce the issued share capital by cancellation of ordinary shares held
by the company as included in the agenda Item 10, is open until the end of the meeting.
With that comment, I also like to note that this was the last voting item on the agenda.

Page 37 of 39



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

Therefore, in a few moments, we will close the voting. So if you've not yet already cast
your votes, please do so now.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

(Voting)
So we've closed the voting. We'll share the voting results with you at the end of the
meeting, which will come after agenda item 11. I'd like to thank you all very much for your
participation and for your voting today. We'll now move to Item 11, any other business. No
questions were submitted by shareholders in advance of the meeting. If the virtual -- the
participating shareholders would like to ask a question, you can do so now. I see there are
no questions. Therefore, we'll close this agenda item, and it's time for us to show you the
voting results. Give us just a moment, please. Okay. Here, you can see on the screen the
voting results of agenda items 3, 4A and 4C. All 3 agenda items were approved with a
signiﬁcant majority. Thank you very much.
On the next slide, we can see the agenda items 5A and 5B, have also been approved with
a signiﬁcant majority. Once again thank you very much. And now we go to voting item 6A,
6 billion and 6C. And also here, we can see that all items have been approved with a
tremendous majority. Thank you very much. And ﬁnally, agenda item 7, 8Ai [ph] and 8A2i
[ph]. Also, all 3 have been approved. While I said ﬁnally, we, of course have one more
slide. It's 8B, 9 and 10, where we see that all items have been adopted by the general
meeting. And I'd like to express the appreciation of the Supervisory Board and the
Management Board for your voting and for the tremendous show of support. That also
means, of course it Sicily raise, Rob Lelieveld and Inga Beale, have all been appointed as
a member of the Supervisory Board of the NN Group. I'd like to congratulate them on
their appointments. Also on behalf of my fellow Supervisory Board members, and I very
much look forward to working with you going forward.
As mentioned earlier, I'd also like to come back now to Page Debit from KPMG, and I'd
like to take this opportunity to thank him. Peti is joining us today as he indicated, as the
last time as our external auditor. It will be succeeded by Dick Kroph, also from KPMG, who
will be the ultimate responsible for the external audit of the NN Group as from ﬁnancial
year 2021. Peti personally, I'd like to express our thanks to you for all the work you've done
for the NN Group over the past ﬁve years. Thank you for the constructive and pleasant
working relationship.
Also on behalf of my fellow Supervisory Board of members and particularly on behalf of
Hans Hoon, as you know, is the Chair of our Audit Committee. He's informed me how
much he has also enjoyed working with you very much over the course of the past ﬁve
years. So once again thank you very much. Hi hood. Just a few announcements to close
the meeting. The draft minutes of this meeting will be published on the company's
website within three months. The ﬁnal voting results will be published on the company's
website within a few days. With that, I'd like to thank all of our shareholders on behalf of
my colleagues in the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. I'd also like to thank
you for attending this virtual Annual General Meeting of the NN Group. Stay safe, stay
healthy. Yes. We certainly look forward to seeing you hopefully in person next year. Have a
good day.

Page 38 of 39



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-05-20

Page 39 of 39

