Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Investor and Analyst Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

David Knibbe, Chairman of Executive Board & CEO
Fabian Rupprecht, CEO of International Insurance & Member of Management Board
Jelmer Lantinga, Head of IR
Leon van Riet, CEO of Netherlands Life & Pensions and Member of the Management
Board

Other Participants
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Benoit Petrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
David Barma, Analyst
Farquhar Murray, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Nasib Ahmed, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our second Deep Dive Webinar.
Today's event will focus on the long-term growth prospects of NN Group. This is a topic
that is high on our priority list. All in order [ph] to achieve our growth ambitions.
At the same time, we believe that our growth proﬁle of the group is not always fully
considered by the market. That is why in today's webinar, we would like to give you more
insight into our growth outlook and the opportunities that we see.
We have three presenters for you today. Starting with our CEO, David Knibbe, who will
talk about the group perspective on long-term growth. Followed by our business leaders
Fabian Rupprecht on Insurance International. The presentations will be followed by a Q&A
session in which you will be able to ask all your questions.
Now let me hand over to David.

Page 1 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Jelmer. Good morning, everyone.
Over the past two years, we have worked hard on shaping and executing enhanced
investor proposition. Your feedback during that period has been extremely valuable, and I
believe that we have made good progress in key areas, such as we have formulated a
clear capital return policy linking to our operating capital generation target, we have
provided additional information to explain our limited sensitivity to interest rates. Last
year, we proactively communicated the expected limited impact of the EIOPA review. And
we have set out criteria that we use to assess our portfolio of businesses, and we have
already taken action to optimize our footprint. However, in many of my conversations with
investors and analysts, it is clear to me that we have not explained well enough how we
can grow our businesses in the longer term. We are convinced that we can achieve a midsingle-digit annual growth of OCG beyond 2023. Therefore, I am very excited to talk
about the drivers underlying this growth outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today's webinar is attractive growing businesses. At the Capital Markets Day last year, we
presented NN Group's strategy and discussed the targets that we have set for 2023.
Besides these short-term targets, we also explained that long-term proﬁtable growth is
very important to us and that we are convinced that we can grow capital over the longer
term.
Yes. We have an in-force portfolio of Dutch pension and individual life policies that will
run over for a long period of time. However, at Netherlands Life, the OCG from this inforce book is broadly stable. On top of that, we expect growth from the DC pension
business as well as potential future pension buyout opportunities.
In addition, we see healthy growth areas such as in Europe and Japan as well as at NonLife. So today, we would like to talk about the growth engines at NN Group that give us
conﬁdence to grow long-term capital generation by a mid-single-digit growth rate per
annum.
So let me start with our key messages on Slide -- NN Group's strategy is to create longterm value for our stakeholders. With the underlying belief that if we take good care of
our customers, our colleagues and contribute to society, then this will also be good for
our shareholders. We announced ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial targets at the Capital Markets
Day in June 2020, and we are making good progress to achieving these.
We reconﬁrmed the group's OCG target earlier this year as we expect the capital
generation lost on the disposal of our asset manager will be oﬀset by the additional
capital generation coming from the acquisition of MetLife Poland and Greece, the
acquisition of Heinenoord in the Netherlands as well as strong business performance
across the group.
And also beyond 2023, we expect mid-single-digit annual growth of OCG over time. This
outlook is based on the organic growth opportunities of our businesses. It is supported by
Page 2 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

long-term market trends as well as the actions we have recently taken to optimize our
portfolio. In line with our guidance, this long-term OCG growth will translate into growing
free cash ﬂow and growing capital returns to shareholders.
On Slide 3, you can see our proposition to investors as presented last year, which sets out
our commitment to achieve resilient growth and cash generation over time. This is
reﬂected in our ﬁnancial targets and dividend policy. But as I already said, our strategy is
broader than that. Our aim is to create value for all our stakeholders. And that is why we
have set ourselves a number of nonﬁnancial targets, reﬂecting our responsibility to
customers, employees and society at large.
A few words on our goals, which is to make a positive contribution to supporting the
transition to a low carbon economy. We are doing this in various ways. Firstly, we have our
own carbon footprint which comes mainly from our oﬃce buildings and travel. Even
though this footprint is limited, we aim to signiﬁcantly reduce emissions of our own
business operations in the coming years and have set ourselves targets for this.
Secondly, in terms of our assets, we have the ambition to reach net zero carbon
proprietary investment portfolio by 2050. As part of the road map to achieve this, we
recently announced interim targets for 2025 and 2030.

Bloomberg Transcript

And thirdly, we are also aiming to develop more sustainable customer propositions. We
have joined the net-zero insurance alliance to pour all our knowledge and goals with
other insurers. Together with the other participating insurers, we have committed to
transition to a net-zero insurance underwriting portfolio by 2050.
Moving on to our ﬁnancial targets. We aim to realize $1.5 billion of operating capital
generation by 2023, and we are well on track to achieve this. We also expect free cash
ﬂow to develop in a range around OCG over time. On the next slide, I will talk more about
our outlook for growth of the operating capital generation in the longer-term.
The graph on this slide will look familiar to you. We have provided this long term outlook
for capital generation at our Capital Markets Day last year, and we have now updated it to
give more granularity in the life pension business but also to reﬂect changes in our
portfolio. Our guidance of mid-single-digit annual growth of OCG is based on organic
growth only, and all of our business units contribute to that growth.
Let me ﬁrst touch on the two segments that we are covering in more depth in this webinar
which is Insurance International Netherlands Life. Our international activities in Europe
and Japan are expected to deliver mid- to high single-digit growth. This is supported by
the local economic environment as well as an increasing awareness for the need for
protection. Fabian will tell you more about the product and distribution initiatives that are
driving growth in these countries.
For Netherlands Life, we expect sustainable capital generation with potential upside. This
is a combination of a proﬁtable in-force book, providing stable capital generation,
together with growth opportunities in the pension business. Leon will later talk about how
Page 3 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

we aim on capture the ongoing growth in the deﬁned contribution. He will also address
the opportunities from the Dutch pension reform and how this will boost the DC business
and accelerate the pension buyout market.
Then we have Netherlands Non-life. NN is market leader in the Dutch Non-life market,
which in itself is growing at a low to mid-single-digit rate. As Janet explained, during the
deep dive webinar in May this year, we are in a unique position to beneﬁt from our scale,
both in terms of eﬃciency and on the single-digit OCG growth in the long term.
Finally, volumes of mortgages, most of which are sold on to the group's insurance
companies for their investment portfolios. Our focus is on originating high-quality
mortgages at good margins. Assuming that the Dutch mortgage market remains attractive
past couple of years, we expect capital generation in NN Bank to continue to support our
growth proﬁle.
Current market trends are supportive for our growth ambition, and we are investing in
many initiatives and solutions, which address the evolving demands and needs of our
customers. Let me give you a few examples that we show on Slide 5.

Bloomberg Transcript

Woonnu oﬀers mortgage solutions for the purchase or improvement of energy-eﬃcient
homes. Customers receive a discount on the interest rate based on the energy label. The
platform also helps customers to identify potential sustainable improvements. Total
mortgages originated by Woonnu since the launch in August last year has recently passed
the EUR1 billion mark.
Heinenoord is a strong player in the service provider market, enabling us to further
enhance engagement by moving closer to the customer. It has achieved signiﬁcant
growth so far, and we are conﬁdent that this will continue. Another example is our bike
insurance product with Cowboy, which is a start-up electric bike manufacturer. We
provide a one-click theft and damage insurance. This can be purchased together with the
bike directly from the dealer or store, which is easy and convenient for the customer. We
already have provided this protection product through multiple partnerships in the
Netherlands, Belgium, France, and Germany. It is a scalable concept, and we are currently
expanding the oﬀering through other bike manufacturers in more European countries.
Fabian will talk about Kagyo Aid in his presentation.
We believe that to remain relevant in the life of customers, we need to continue to
enhance customer engagement and oﬀer them solutions that go beyond ﬁnancial
services to meet their changing demands.
Moving now to Slide 6. Here, I want to talk about our link between our conviction that we
can sustainably grow capital generation and capital return prospects. Let me ﬁrst assure
you that growth in itself is not our goal. Our aim is to achieve proﬁtable growth, and this
will result in higher operating capital generation and higher free cash ﬂow.
We have said that we expect free cash ﬂow to develop in a range around operating
capital generation over time. This is driven by sustainable remittances from all our
Page 4 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

segments based on solid capital positions. So the mid-single-digit growth outlook for
OCG is expected to translate into growing cash ﬂows, too.
We are committed to paying a progressive dividend per share, in line with our strong
track record, as you can see in the chart. Going forward, the growth of the annual
dividend is ultimately linked to the growth of capital generation. On top of this, we have
committed to a minimum annual share buyback of EUR250 million. There's potential
upside to this minimum amount, should we have additional excess capital that cannot be
deployed in other value-creating opportunity. We always had a disciplined approach to
capital deployment, and this will remain the same in the future.
Now let me wrap up on Slide 7. Looking ahead, we expect healthy growth in all of our
business segments as they build on their strong market positions and customer
propositions. For NN group as a whole, we expect to realize a mid-single-digit annual
growth of operating capital generation in the long term. This outlook is based on organic
business performance.
Besides this, the portfolio management decisions we have made in the past year are
supportive for OCG growth, and we will continue to actively manage our portfolio of
businesses. The growth potential of the group that we are outlining today will translate
into growing capital generation and free cash ﬂow. This will lead to sustainable and
growing capital returns to shareholders, in line with our dividend policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now with that, I will hand you over to Fabian, who will talk about the growth opportunities
in Insurance International.

Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Thank you, David. Today, I would like to explain to you why we are convinced that our
international activities will sustainably grow over the next year. We are present in market
segments that show a lot of opportunities to grow, and we have been constantly
delivering growth since our IPO. And we have the right setup and position to deliver this
growth as well further in the future. And that is thanks to a focused strategy on protection,
a diversiﬁed distribution footprint and our large existing customer base that we can
leverage by combining agents and digital capabilities. This growth of our new business
single-digit annual OCG growth over the long term.
Let me now start with the Europe segment. As you can see from the map, outside the
Netherlands, we are active in nine countries. These countries are located in Central and
Southern Europe and Belgium.
These markets stand out in two ways. First, they are expected to grow faster than the
European average. Second, they overall show a penetration level, which is likely to
increase with growth and our current experienced customer research clearly shows that
the relevance of health and protection product they make across all markets.

Page 5 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

So we are clearly getting tailwinds from being in the right business in the right place and
at the right time. At the Capital Market Day last year, we set our objective to grow OCG to
EUR325 million in 2023, and we are well on track to reach this target. At the same time,
also our long term growth prospects are good. Let me explain to you the key drivers of
our long-term OCG growth and how they contribute. The most important source of
growth is the new business contribution, which mainly reﬂects new sales and renewals of
protection products. So we expect that new business contribution will grow strongly, in
line with VNB growth, and therefore be the strongest driver of OCG in the long run. I will
come to this laster. we expect modest growth of our investment return, mainly driven by
rerisk large balance sheets like in Belgium.
Lastly, a more volatile growth from our non-Solvency II entities, which includes the
pension funds for our pension funds, the contribution to OCG equals the local net proﬁts
where growth can vary year-by-year as they depend on assets under management and
performance fee levels. This year actually happens to be a rather good year for pension
funds. You might remember our strong half year results in that segment. So all these three
drivers translate together 1into a mid to high single digit for our businesses in Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

You might ask yourself why we focus on VNB and this. VNB is the key growth KPI used in
the insurance industry because it reﬂects the economic value that comes from the new
business written in a speciﬁc year. So it is used to steer the business, both for volumes and
for driving the right product mix. So steering our channels based on VNB has allowed us
to focus our distribution [ph] on high-value protection products rather than traditional
business with lower margins.
Every now and then, we get the question on how VNB and OCG relate to each other. So I
will now explain this and become slightly more technical. Let's do this based on the
example of a term insurance with annual renewal. This term insurance is sold in year one
and then renewed automatically every year. Experience from our books allow us to
determine the expected number of renewals, and thus, the expected duration of the
contract. The VNB is then calculated as a discounted value of this duration of the contract.
With OCG, rules are deﬁned by the Solvency II framework. So for example, with a yearly
contract boundary, only the ﬁrst year of the contract is valued. And then with every
renewal of the term contract later on, the value of one further year of duration is reﬂected
as new business contribution in the respective future year.
So today's new business is only partly review business contribution. The remaining part
comes through OCG in future years or a kind of locked-in driver of OCG growth. In other
words, if we experience a good new business year, we know already that this will
strengthen our OCG new business contribution in the coming years, and that eﬀect will
even be stronger with good customer retention. So the new business contribution in OCG
will over time grow at the same speed as the VNB and be the main driver of OCG growth.
Let me now explain why we are convinced that we can maintain the new business growth
going forward. First of all, in our markets, we will take advantage of the above-average
GDP growth and the upside potential in insurance penetration. But most importantly, with

Page 6 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

our focused strategy, which the teams and I are really excited and executing on a daily
basis in all our units. This consists of growth in attractive protection business, being the
preferred partner for third-party distributors and leveraging and growing our customer
base through our own channels.
I will now explain each growth pillar in the next slides, since IPO, we have shifted our
business to protection, contributing around 1/2 to 2/3 to total VNB in Europe. We were an
early mover into this segment, which gives us a competitive advantage as it allowed us to
build up a strong and large tight agent channel as well as a signiﬁcant market share
across the regions. For example, 22% in Hungary or in Belgium, 15%. And all of that with
attractive margins and a strong growth potential. We have built over the last years,
extensive knowledge in running the protection business, and we are well positioned to
capture increased consumer relevance of health and protection products as a result of the
pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next to that, we're taking action to enhance further future growth by investing into
capabilities, convenience and simplicity of product innovation. To give you an example,
our cloud-based platform enables us to develop new products in a very short timeframe.
We launched over 20 new or upgraded protection cover. Or in Poland, we have achieved
60% rate, and our goal is to reach 80% state through processing in the next years. So in
the coming period, we expect to continue the strong VNB growth trend of protection
products. Overall, we have a very diversiﬁed distribution footprint. Still, the biggest share
is bancassurance where we have added new banking relationships that meanwhile
contribute to more than 50% of our total VNB. And we are leveraging our bank partners
as product providers for our own customer base. So with this, we turn a one-sided
distribution agreement into a real partnership.
In some countries, for example, Spain, we distribute already more than 20% of the
mortgages of our partner. So we become an essential distributor for them, too. And we
have a strong position in selected markets where we work with brokers. There, we
concentrate on speciﬁc value-creating segments in each market.
For example, in Belgium, we are leading the move to protection and unit-linked, and
consequently have completely left the segment of traditional insurance. Our recent back
book transaction has contributed to that. A growing share today and even more in the
future are the tight agent channels through which, we serve our own customers. We are
convinced that there is signiﬁcant potential through building and leveraging our own
customer base.
We have identiﬁed four areas which we invest into leveraging and building our customer
base. First, the systematic use of all data. Second, fully digitalized and optimized
processes for lead generation and next best action. Third, completely integrated
customer journeys that smartly combine digital processes and personal advice. And
fourth, the expansion of our product oﬀer into Non-life, banking products and services
that allowed to penetrate our customer base and increase our customers relevance.
These four levers work all very well together and strengthen each other..

Page 7 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

To give you an example, with fully integrated channels, it is easier to sell relevant services
or products can be cross-sold digitally don't take away the capacity of agents. Then the
agents can continue to focus on advise needed for the more complex products. Another
example, with more products from an extended oﬀer, we generate more data, know more
about the customer, and that then can be reused to improve our next best actions. So
these four focus areas can play well together with our strong assets in international: the
40 million customers, the 10,000 agents, the strong brand in our key markets and the
good cooperation with our bank partners that will give us a unique position compared to
purely digital players or companies with less digital capabilities.
And the ﬁrst experience are encouraging. We already see the value of data use cases
multiplying. We have grown the value of our data use cases by 200% over the last two
years. For example, we built a proactive retention tooling to identify valuable customers
with signiﬁcant propensity to leave in the near future. And we approach them with an
action which will eliminate the potential churn. Also, lead generation has increased
signiﬁcantly in the frontrunner markets and nearly doubled overall since 2018. Leads
strongly increased the eﬀectiveness of our agents, while customers can enjoy a more
personal approach. With integrated channels and improved with communication,
customer satisfaction, measured as NPS, increases.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are already well above market average in Romania, in Spain and in Hungary. This is a
key requirement for successful cross-sell and customer retention. And the value coming
from distribution of third-party is adding close to 10% to our VNB. This is highly attractive.
There's no capital needed, and we enjoy the direct beneﬁts in form of the commissions
from the product providers.
So we see ﬁrst the potential in two ways. First, even in the frontrunner markets, there is
more potential to grow. And second, we will leverage the best practices by rolling them
out to all other markets. It is important to keep in mind that the impact of the diﬀerent
levers will vary in time. So for example, leads and optimized processes for agents will kick
in faster. Customer engagement through integrated channels will likely become more
powerful in the medium term. I'm very excited about the opportunity -- positive macro,
the protection focus with increased customer relevance, our strong and diversiﬁed
distribution and the potential of leveraging our large customer base will allow VNB in the
future.
Let me now present to you the Japan segment. In Japan, we are a dominant player with a
market share of around 10% in the COLI segment, which by itself is a large market. It's
around 2.5x the total Belgium life market. COLI stands for corporate-owned life insurance
products to SMEs to prepare for an immediate or a planned cash-out need later in the
future.
We expect further signiﬁcant potential in the market overall. We're active in the SME
market since 1986. We have built unique capabilities over the year around it and cover
more and more needs around protection. We're known as a leading SME insurer with
focus on agent education, innovative products, and the ability to adapt quickly. We are
the largest distributors through independent agents and bancassurance.

Page 8 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

After the tax rule change in the beginning of 2019, sales volumes have recovered
substantially as a result of increased activity. I am very proud of the teams in Japan who
have demonstrated that NN in Japan were able to respond quickly to the changes and
return as a winner into the market. This was possible, thanks to the quick time to market of
adjusted products and training of the agents to deal with the higher complexity of the
new tech system.
Next to that, margins have improved as competitors left the COLI space after the tax
reform, which gave us more pricing power. This was further supported by the shift to the
protection business. So both higher sales volumes as well as improved margins have
resulted in that strong VNB growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this year's performance, we are well on track to reach our VNB target of at least
EUR150 million. A very attractive long-term growth market for us. We're convinced that
with our strategy and unique position in the SME market segment, we can further grow
VNB. The Japanese business is among the businesses with the highest IRR and VNB within
our group. OCG for Japan is in line with local JGAAP proﬁts, and there is no concept
oﬀtake under JGAAP. Proﬁtable sales create a high new business strain at the time of sale,
which is then compensated over time by sizable in-force proﬁts.
So contrary to Europe, higher sales in a given year result in a lower OCG, but then
increase OCG over time. And this works the same way for our dividends. We have the inforce proﬁts that grow over time, part of the proceeds are used to ﬁnance the new
business. With an IRR of 13% and a ﬁxed year payback, we consider that as a highly
attractive investment opportunity. This investment will translate into higher dividend pays
than over time. And so the remaining part is then paid out as a dividend. Because of the
low sales after the tax reform, we were able to pay out a signiﬁcant dividend this year.
We covered two needs. We oﬀer ﬁnancial solutions as a vehicle to combine protection
and savings. This business is more volatile, not only due to the changes in the tax
treatment but as well as the economic situation of the companies might vary. So in
addition, we have grown the protection business, which is there to protect owners and
their families in case of deaths or illness. This is a business that we intend to develop
further through new products and services. And as you can see from the chart, this
business is less sensitive to tax rule changes and can deliver a more stable growth over
time. Even though the agents we work with are independent, we invest into their training
and a unique and strong support oﬀer have successfully diﬀerentiated ourselves from our
peers, which make us less commission sensitive. This is demonstrated by our increasing
agent NPS that went even during the COVID-19 crisis from four to 17.
Similar to Europe, we invest in Japan to build and leverage our customer base. We have
passed, for the ﬁrst time in history, the mark of 100,000 SME customers. For years, we're
investing in technology and data skills. We're doing so by rapidly growing our
engineering base, and we are also upscaling all our employees in technical domains
covering this year, 70% of all stuﬀ.

Page 9 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

We're successful in using algorithms to create customer base. We're now running pilots
with bank partners on their customer base. If successful, we have close to 100 bank
partners, so the -- this year, we partnered with Data Robot. It's a company involved in
machine learning systems. In three years, 30% of the insurance policies will go unmanned
as artiﬁcial intelligence is used to analyze results of health and medical check ups of
executors. In the past, it took two or three business days to be insured. But with the
unmanned systems, the process can be completed just within a few minutes.
And lastly, we launched Kagyo Aid. This is a fast-growing community platform for
business successes through which we aim to increase our customer interaction. SME
owners' children can connect and assist each other in preparing for a successful business
takeover from their parents. This is actually one of the most used SME platform as of the
moment in Japan and would oﬀer the opportunity to introduce products and services in a
tailored way over time. I shared with you today why I am convinced that we will be able to
continue the strong track record of VNB group we have already shown in the past. This
growth will be driven by macro trends, evolving customer needs, and a tailored customerfocused strategy, both in insurance Europe and in Japan. I'm really very excited about the
opportunities we -- and with that, the increasing contribution, which we can bring to NN
Group.
Thank you for your attention. I now hand over to Leon for his presentation on Netherlands
Life.

Bloomberg Transcript

Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Thank you, Fabian, and good morning, everyone. Last year, at the Capital Markets Day, I
explained how we will achieve the target for Netherlands Life to generate EUR900 million
of operating capital by 2023. I'm pleased to conﬁrm today that we are well on track to
reach this target.
One of the main drivers is the shift to higher-yielding assets, but also new business
propositions, such as our deﬁned contribution business contribute to that. Today, the
main focus of my presentation is on how we are winning in the changing Dutch pension
market and how we secure long-term growth.
My key messages for today are: ﬁrstly, the Dutch life market is an attractive market. Some
say it's only a runoﬀ business, but we see attractive growth opportunities.
Yes. The deﬁned beneﬁt book is running oﬀ, but we expect the operating capital
generation from this deﬁned beneﬁt book to remain broadly stable. The lower UFR,
including the step down of the UFR largely compensates the runoﬀ of the portfolio.
Next to this, the shift to higher-yielding assets will result in additional operating capital
generation. And on top of that, business opportunities will contribute to further growth of
capital generation. Let me highlight the two main ones. Firstly, the buildup of the deﬁned
contribution market is developing rapidly. The shifts from deﬁned beneﬁt to deﬁned
contribution continues. This is becoming an attractive segment with healthy margins,
Page 10 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

growth and volume potential, that in the coming 10 to 15 years will grow to a level of
assets under management that is comparable to the current deﬁned beneﬁt market in the
Netherlands. As the market leader, we are well positioned in this growing market with our
strong innovative propositions, our broad customer base and excellent relationship with
the distribution partners.
Secondly, the upcoming Dutch pension reform creates additional opportunities. As a
result of the new legislation, all pension plans will be based on deﬁned contribution
schemes. This will bring the market for pensions funds closer together. We expect that
many pension funds will seek an alternative solution. This is likely to result in an
addressable market that is twice the size of our current market and then is well positioned
in this market. We can oﬀer these pension fund solutions for both past and coming
services. We already see signs that the buyout market is accelerating. And over time, we
expect this will also contribute to further growth of the deﬁned contribution market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let me start with our current position in the Dutch life market and then as market
leader in Dutch life and pension market with a 40% market share. With more than 3
million customers, we have the largest customer base and the broadest in the
Netherlands. We aim to optimize the cash generation from the runoﬀ of our in-force book,
by optimizing the investment return of assets, at the same time, manage the expenses of
the in-force book down, in line with the development of the portfolio. our existing services
include a growing number of valued ESG products and services.
Let me give you a few examples. We provide these reports [ph] to our customers,
showing them the impact of their life cycle investments in terms of CO2 reduction. Our
PPI, BeFrank, is the ﬁrst pension provider oﬀering a CO2-neutral pension, and our life
cycle funds have a high percentage of ESG-integrated investments. I'm proud to see that
our advisory and participant scores are high. However, more needs to be done. We have
the ambition to become the market leader in advisory satisfaction again like we were in
2017. High advisor and participant satisfaction scores are a really important driver for
growth in these markets. We aim to improve this KPI by further improving our customer
service and having a constant dialogue with the pension advisors. I'm personally involved
in many of these activities, and I invest a lot of time talking to pension advisors during
various roundtables and one-on-one meetings to further grow our deﬁned contribution
business and to capture the opportunities that arise from the new pension agreement.
I will show this translates into capital generation. At the Capital Markets Day in June last
year, I explained how we will grow our operating capital generation towards the EUR900
million target pension company by 2023. Given the progress we have made so far, we are
conﬁdent that we will reach this target. The shift to higher-yielding assets will support the
growth of our capital generation. With our improved speciﬁc asset allocation, we aim to
improve capital generation whilst maintaining a resilient balance sheet.
As part of the improved strategic asset allocation, we will continue to further increase our
allocation to mortgages, loans and real estate. This will mainly be funded by a the
reduction of our exposure to government bonds. Furthermore, we expect the pressure
from the runoﬀ of the in-force portfolio in the medium term to be largely oﬀset by the
reduction of the UFR drag. The reason for this is mainly technical, but both the step down
Page 11 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

of the UFR and the portfolio runoﬀ will further reduce the UFR drag. The combination of
these factors is expected to result in additional growth of our operating capital generation
in the coming years, followed by a relatively stable level of capital generation in the long
term. You may expect the operating capital generation may ﬂuctuate year-to-year due to
market circumstances.
Then when the deﬁned contribution pension business further matures, we expect
additional growth of capital generation to come from this business. On top of that, we
expect pension reform to result in a potential expansion of our addressable market in the
next six years, with opportunities for buyouts and additional deﬁned contribution growth.
We are quite optimistic about our prospects to capture some of the opportunities that will
arise, but we have been prudent reﬂecting this in our guidance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before explaining the changes we foresee in the Dutch pension market, let me start with a
brief overview of the Dutch pension system on Slide 5. The Dutch pension system consists
of three pillars. Pillar one includes the state retirement pension. This oﬀers a minimum
pension income for all Dutch citizens. Pillar three comprises of the voluntary individual
savings. In the Netherlands, this is a relatively modest market. And Pillar two consists of
the employer pension plans. This is a relatively large market with over EUR2 trillion in
assets under management.
In short, three diﬀerent types of parties are active in the second pillar: industry-wide
pension funds with mandatory participation for employers in certain industries, corporate
pension funds without mandatory participation, and then the insurers. The corporate
pension funds and the insurers each represent around 15% of the market, and the
remainder 70% of the market sits with the industry-wide pension funds. Within the
insurance segment, NN is the market leader with a market share of around 40%.
We oﬀer four diﬀerent types of products. And later in my presentation, I will explain why.
First, let's turn to Slide 6. The Dutch bench reform is expected to become eﬀective at the
end of next year. The reform refers to Pillar two that you saw on the previous slide. As a
result of the new legislation, all pension plans will become deﬁnite over a 5-year transition
period starting in 2023. The mandatory participation for industry-wide pension funds
remains in place for now, but the market for pension funds, and especially the corporate
pension funds and insurers will move closer together, creating more of a level playing
ﬁeld. We have 15 years of deep experience products.
For pension funds, this is a new area where they lack capabilities. So under the new
legislation, we can expand our addressable markets to also directly serve the corporate
pension funds. This means that the EUR300 billion corporate pension fund market opens
up for us during the 5-year transition period. This actually doubles our addressable
market. We expect that the increase in cost for administration and the regulatory burden
will trigger smaller and midsized corporate pension funds to seek an alternative solution,
and this represents a total of around EUR75 billion of assets under management.
And this brings us two opportunities for coming services, in other words, the future
pension accrual, we oﬀer deﬁned contribution schemes. And for the existing liabilities, we

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

have two oﬀerings, a pension buyout, ensuring accrued pension rights; and our general
pension fund, the Nationale. And of course, when it comes to pricing and capital
allocation regarding pension buy-outs. We have seen the buyout market picking up in the
last couple of months. This is a clear solution and the expected market shift is emerging.
Our current pipeline of potential buyout is substantial and amounts to several billion of
accrued rights. Of course, it's uncertain how much of this will eventually materialize in a
transaction, but this could be a very promising opportunity for NN. On the next slide, I will
show you why we have such a strong position in the Dutch pension market. And is the
only company in the Netherlands that oﬀers a full spectrum of pension solutions,
consisting of: deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution via the NN label, PPI via our
specialized BeFrank label, an APF solution, which is a general pension fund via the
Nationale as well as pension fund administration services via the ability to oﬀer all these
solutions is a real unique selling point for us. In relation with advisers and employers, I
noticed how much they appreciate that we can oﬀer integrated solutions to their pension
advisers, such as Mercer, Willis, Towers Watson, and AON also mentioned the importance
of a one-stop shop solution. That is an important advantage, which they also emphasize in
their advice.

Bloomberg Transcript

A clear example of the attractiveness of having a one-stop shop solution is the buyout of
the Henkel pension fund that we transacted in July this year. One of the reasons for
winning this buyout was because the employer wanted to do business with one party for
both past and coming services. But there's another advantage of being able to oﬀer a full
range of solutions. The deﬁned contribution market is still evolving. It's not clear yet what
direction the market will eventually take. Therefore, we want to remain ﬂexible by having
all options available.
Besides oﬀering all options, we have a strong position for the following reasons. We have
a strong track record of introducing new innovative products to the market, for example,
by addressing the expanding interest for ESG products, like I explained before. We have
excellent relationships with the distribution partners. For group pensions, these are
generally the actuarial advisers and the pension advisers. We also beneﬁt from the
strength of the balance sheet as well as the well-known and trusted NN brand. We have
many years of experience customers from deﬁned beneﬁt to deﬁned contribution. We
know what sort of information employers and participants want to receive, and we have
made this process as simple as possible for participants, advisers and employers. This is
all supported by our extensive seamless customer journeys.
And last but not least, the invest performance of our life cycle funds has been in the top
quartile in the past years. So based on this, I'm conﬁdent that NN will capture the
opportunities that will arise in the Dutch pension market.
Now let me zoom in on our deﬁned contribution oﬀering on Slide 8. Currently 80% of our
new premium income relates to deﬁned contribution pensions. We have a consistent
market share of around 40% in the group pension market. We expect this market to
continue to grow and to show attractive growth in the next years. This is mainly driven by
the growth of the Dutch economy and is starting transition from company pension funds

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

to insured deﬁned contribution, and then oﬀers two diﬀerent pension propositions to
target diﬀerent market segments.
Our NN label oﬀers insured DC with a focus on the SME market and, BeFrank oﬀers a PPI
solution, which is focused on the large corporates. Also would like to mention here that
BeFrank is well-known for its full and seamless online oﬀering. More than 95% of the
participants we serve invest in our life cycle funds. We oﬀer a broad range of life cycle
funds consisting of a number of passively managed life cycles next to our range of actively
managed life cycle funds. And we recently also added a full range of impact investing
green life cycles.
We expect that the future partnership with Goldman Sachs Asset Management will further
grow the range of high-quality funds that we can oﬀer. And consequently, we will further
increase the satisfaction scores from our participants.
Now let's move on to the numbers for DC on Slide 9. Today, our capital light deﬁned
contribution business is proﬁtable. We expect the proﬁtability to further grow, driven by
an increased scale as well as the implementation of additional eﬃciency measures in
processes and systems. This will immediately translate into higher proﬁts and capital
generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last year, at the Capital Markets Day, I mentioned that we expect to achieve EUR32 billion
of assets under management in DC in 2025. Given the strong growth we have seen, we
now expect to reach this level of EUR32 billion one year earlier in 2024. This is, of course,
assuming normal market circumstances.
We expect a shift from deﬁned beneﬁt to deﬁned contribution pensions to continue, and
the maturing of the DC portfolio will continue over the coming years. The level of assets
under management in DC will therefore continue to grow. In about 10 years, I expect our
assets under management in DC will be well above EUR60 billion.
In terms of revenues, we have a balanced combination of income sources, also after the
sales of NNIP. This translates into an attractive margin of 15 to 20 basis points of the assets
under management by 2025. And afterwards, with a growing asset base, the revenues will
further grow. Deﬁned contribution products consist of two diﬀerent phases, each with a
diﬀerent earning proﬁle.
The accumulation phase is mainly fee-based. We earn a service fee on the fund selection
of the life cycle and the guarantee funds. Together with the administration fee, this covers
the expenses. Furthermore, we have earnings from the oﬀering of risk oﬀers for pension
payments in case a participant becomes disabled or dies. In the deccumulation phase,
the main source of income is the (inaudible) next to the earnings from risk oﬀers and the
administration fee.
On top of that, we see potential for oﬀering additional services in both phases. For
example, in the areas of carefree retirement, sustainable employability, vitality and

Page 14 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

continuing to work after retirement age. But as a sizable and fast-growing volume and a
capital-light business model, deﬁned contribution is an attractive line of business for us.

FINAL

Also after the sale of NNIP, today, I have explained that the Dutch Life market is an
attractive growth market and not a business in runoﬀ. The operating capital generation
from the deﬁned beneﬁt book is expected to remain broadly stable. The lower UFR drag
compensates largely the runoﬀ of this portfolio.
On top of that, we continue to shift our investment portfolio to higher-yielding assets, and
this will result in additional operating capital generation. Then we have the business
opportunities. We are in pole position in the growing deﬁned contribution market in the
Netherlands. We are a market leader. We have a large installed client base of more than 3
million customers, we have strong product propositions, and we have excellent
relationships with the distribution partners.
With the ongoing growth, the DC market is becoming a large and attractive segment for
us with healthy margins of 15 to 20 basis points over the asset base as well as growth. The
Dutch pension reform creates additional opportunities, which in 6 years time is likely to
result in an addressable market that is twice the size of our current deﬁned contribution
market and is well positioned to capture these opportunities with the buyout propositions
for pension funds, for the existing pension accruals and the DC oﬀering accruals. We
already see clear signals that this market is accelerating.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, I would like to wrap up my presentation, and thank you for your attention.

Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Leon, for your presentation on Netherlands Life. So let us now move to the
Q&A session, for which we have about 30 minutes. So you can all now raise your hands
virtually if you have a question to ask, and please limit yourself to two questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

So let us start with the ﬁrst question from Steven Haywood from HSBC.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Two questions then is on -- ﬁrstly, on M&A. Where are you kind of looking and what types
of business are you looking at in terms of trying to support any inorganic additional
growth in these regions? What type of businesses? What type of products? And you
mentioned previously about the Belgium back book, is there any other back books that
could be up for potential disposals? And secondly, from the -- obviously, there's been a
lot of focus on your OCG now, and you've kind moved away from operating proﬁt IFRS.
Now is this because IFRS 17 is a mess for the Dutch Life and Pensions business? Is it
impossible for us to interpret and analyze? Can you give us any sort of clue around this?

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Two good questions, Steven.

FINAL

David, I think it's probably best if you take them both. First on M&A. Then secondly on
IFRS.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Thank you, Steven.
Yes. So on M&A, I think you know it, our base case is really organic growth. And I think we
also emphasized that in the presentations that we did. We focused a lot on transforming
and growing organically our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So when we're looking at M&A, I think the question always for us is what can we add?
What value can we add and are we the right owner? And that means there's strategic
criteria for us, and there's ﬁnancial criteria. And maybe the MetLife is a good example of
that. So why did we invest in MetLife Greece and Poland? Well, strategic considerations.
Poland, obviously, is a large market. It's a growing market. There's a lot of consolidation
ongoing, and we felt that it was important also strategically to be -- to keep a very strong
leading position there.
Strategic consideration for Greece, where we are a large player. You probably know
there's a lot of hospitalization business. There's a very big overlap between MetLife
Greece and NN Greece. But also because it's hospitalization, a lot is outsourced in
Greece, hospital services, ambulance services. So purchasing power is very important.
And that's what you get by becoming, number one, we increase our purchasing power.
So typically, we always look at strategic considerations and then ﬁnancial considerations
there. The MetLife deal showed a double-digit return. So these are the type of
considerations that we have when we look at M&A. But again, the base case in everything
today is really around organic growth.
Back books, indeed, we divested a Belgium back book, what we call the Delta Lloyd
book. The reason was also to simplify our operation and we could make a good return on
that book. We will continue to look at optimizing our portfolio. There's not a lot of back
books comparable to the size that we have in Belgium. But if we see opportunities then -and it makes sense, we obviously will do it.
IFRS 17, well, our main target, as you know, is OCG. So when we talk about the EUR5
billion, when we talk about mid-single-digit growth for the coming 10 years, this is all
around OCG, and that is not impacted, of course, by IFRS 17. Of course, we're currently in
the process of implementing IFRS expect that likely next year, in the second half of next
year, we'll be giving an update on the impacts of IFRS 17. But it will not change, let's say,
our main targets because those are around operating capital generation and free cash
ﬂow.

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, David. Let's then move to the next one, which is Fulin Liang from Morgan
Stanley.

FINAL

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

And I -- two questions, I guess, all for Netherlands. The ﬁrst one is we'll mention that the
addressable market because of the pension reform, the addressable market, size of the
market levels. But actually in terms of the proﬁt pool, could you give us some kind of
estimates in terms of the proﬁt pool? And then the second one is I was wondering,
because the IRR, you said the buyout, the pension buyouts IRR is -- seems to be just, at
best, high single digits. And why do you want to participate in this segment at all because,
apparently, the other segments of the business is all earning double-digit IRR?

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Fulin. Indeed, two questions on Netherlands Life. Leon, could you answer the
questions on the -- well, the addressable market and the margins that you would expect in
that market and also the pension buyout opportunities that you see, and why that makes
sense from your perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you, Fulin. Thank you for the questions. The ﬁrst one around the
addressable market as a result of the upcoming pension legislation, we expect that we
can at least double the market we're in because we will be in one market with the same
products, the deﬁned contribution-based products, which we can start oﬀering to
corporate pension funds.
The proﬁt pool, so the DC business is a market which is dependent on volumes. So the
more volumes, the more interesting the margins will be based. It's skill-based. So the
more volume we add, the least additional variable cost we have. So yes, the proﬁt pool
will increase once we really can start addressing the corporate pension fund market.
Then related to your second question, the buyout opportunities, so we aim for a buyout
internal rate of return of low double digit. And for us, it's an attractive market. We have all
the capabilities. We have the knowledge. We have the distribution. We have these
systems in place. So we have everything in place and it's adding additional volume. So
also, it's basically an additional uplift of the volumes.
And next to that, what I also explained, sometimes, also the past service and the coming
service, the DC business goes along. So by attracting via the example I gave with the
Henkel buyout, we also are able to attract the future business. And all in all, it's an
attractive package for us.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. And maybe if I can add, maybe I can add brieﬂy here to this. So indeed, also we aim
for a low double digit. I think in practice, we've also seen high single-digit IRRs, and that
Page 17 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

could also make sense because we can often reinsure the longevity risk and it helps a lot
by keeping a size of book and maintaining our cost per policy. So there's other
considerations as well, and that's why you've also seen that high single-digit buyout with a
positive VNB, in our view, can also be attractive.

FINAL

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Dave and Leon. Next question then is from Michael Huttner from
Berenberg.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

So one is on the presentation and the other one is more general. On Belgium, you
showed the progression of new business, and you've compared that with the OCG, which
is really helpful. Can you do the same on Japan? I know you'd probably say you've done
it, but can you do exactly the same? And so I can just kind of almost like overlay them. I
was confused, sorry. Maybe you could talk me through that, that would be very helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the more general question is on the OCG. So you eﬀectively raised your target,
right? You've sold 125 million of OCG, and you're saying, no, no, it's the same. So it's like
proﬁts up, and the opposite of a proﬁt warning. And I just wondered if you could explain
the little levers. I know you said Heinenoord and MetLife, but the others, if you could
explain the little levers. And I'm not sure if I'm allowed the last question. It's very cheeky.
I'm old, right? I'm the oldest guy here today, and COVID is not going away, does that
have a kind of impact either way on the longevity book?

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Michael. That is indeed cheeky with three questions. But David, maybe you
can start with the group targets and what we see in the business, why you still are
comfortable with the EUR1.5 billion. And then on COVID, maybe you can also say
something about longevity. And Fabian, could you end with the relationship in Japan with
OCG remittances of VNB. Say something on that. Thanks.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Michael, of course. Yes. Indeed we're very well on track to get to the EUR1.5 billion.
So I think there's a couple of items there. Indeed, in terms of M&A, and we are losing
around EUR125 million with the divestment of our asset manager. In terms of acquisitions,
we're bringing about EUR75 million, even though the timing is not completely the same
as some is in '24, so probably a bit less than EUR75 million, if you would take 2023.
So indeed, that leaves a gap of a bit more than EUR50 million. The reason why we stick to
our guidance of EUR1.5 billion is because the business performance is just doing really
well. I think there's a couple of items that are important here. The re-risking, as we spoke
about, has been -- there were some unique opportunities in 2020. Dutch mortgages
going forward are still attractive. So we see re-risking as an important item.

Page 18 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

I think the non-life business, the integration of VIVAT has certainly been running ahead of
schedule. Some of the combined ratios have been favorable. And VNB, a new business
contribution. I mean Europe has really been growing. We see a protection gap. We see
high awareness for COVID. After COVID, high awareness that people are vulnerable. So
there's more appetite in buying protection.
So yes, there's multiple items. And we actually see across the board, we see positive
contribution on -- from the segments, which made us comfortable to say, despite the
EUR50 million-plus gap in OCG following the M&A activities, that we'll stick to the EUR1.5
billion. So I think that's one.
Then on COVID. We don't expect a lot of impact from COVID the way it is now. I think
we've seen that on non-life, disability, some upward pressure, maybe P&C a bit more
favorable. These things, in broad terms, cancel each other out. The bigger impact, of
course, if we get into a full lockdown is on sales, on VNB. However, I think Fabian and his
team have done a really good job in digitalizing the front end, we've seen the tied agents
are very resilient. So also there, there had an impact. But we've seen, ﬁrst of all, that we
can manage it, and also there's a catch-up eﬀect going -- tends to happen after things
open up again, as you have seen in our VNB numbers that we're in Europe up more than
60%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of longevity risk, it's too small right now. I mean there is hospitalization,
unfortunately, I would say. But the impact there, fortunately, in people passing away due
to COVID right now is too small and also too short-term to really have an impact on our
longevity, and that's obviously good news as well.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Fabian, maybe on Japan?

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Yes. Michael, thanks for your question. So indeed, the VNB, which we have seen in this
half year, EUR92 million, we're really very happy after the changes in the tax treatment that
we were able so quickly to recover. And just last half year, we had EUR29 million. Now we
have EUR92 million. So it's a fantastic growth.
Now to your question on OCG and VNB relation, let me start with OCG in Japan. OCG in
Japan is the same as or very close to the JGAAP earnings, and we do that because the
JGAAP earnings deﬁne the dividend. And what you have in JGAAP earnings, you don't
have a debt treatment. So that means that when you write a lot of new business, you have
a new business strain. And when the VNB grows, you have a higher new business strain,
and therefore, you have that reverse relationship to the OCG. But the good news is this
new business strain actually gives you a return. It's like an investment, or it is an
investment that gives you a return of 13% with a 6-year payback. And that gives you as
well an idea of how it ﬂows back into the OCG. With that 6-year payback and an 8-year
contract duration, I think you get a sense of how quickly then the VNB is reﬂected in the
OCG over time.

Page 19 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Fabian. So let's then move on to the next question, which is from David Barma
from Exane.

FINAL

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

The ﬁrst one is on Dutch Life and on the chart you show on the OCG development. And
so there, the higher-yielding asset contribution is a big driver and probably longer in time
that I would have expected. Can you remind us what your assumptions are in terms of
maybe spreads and the asset classes you're trying to grow into and how much in billion
terms you're either of assets or SCR you're still lining to shift. So that's the ﬁrst one.
And then secondly, on Insurance Europe, I understood well, I think, the relationship you
ﬂagged between value of new business and OCG. Is it the same in IFRS? I mean if we look
at IFRS or volumes in the last few years in APE or else, the growth isn't so obvious. Is there
anything you can say there to reassure us on the growth assumptions you have for your
Eastern European business, please?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Maybe Fabian, would you like to start on Japan and the impact on the
operating result of sales. And then maybe Leon can follow up on the question on the shift
to higher-yielding assets and the moves we still expect to make.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Yes. So I mean on Europe, and yes -- so -- and our target and our focus is the growth of
OCG. So it is this growth of mid- to high single-digit OCG growth, and we do that
because I think that best reﬂect our capacity to grow. And with that, and with IFRS is really
secondary in the way we steer the business. And basically, the big diﬀerence between
IFRS and OCG at that point is, of course, that in OCG, part of the new business growth is,
of course, reﬂected as a present value, and that is not the case in IFRS. But there's no
question that with OCG, IFRS will as well grow in the years to come. And you have seen
that as well in the past that we had a very strong IFRS growth in the past.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Fabian. Leon, do you want to take the question on the shift to higheryielding assets?

A - Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Yes. Of course. Thank you, David. The question on the OCG development at Netherlands
Life, indeed, we are shifting to higher-yielding assets, and that's a very big driver in our
OCG development. Last year, we did some big steps during the market dislocation when
COVID started. This year, we stepped back to a more gradual investment plan where we
continue re-risking in mainly mortgages, loans and real estate, and we reduced our
exposure in government bonds. And we will continue that for -- yes, for the next coming
years, this gradual path to re-risking. So on a more modest path today.

Page 20 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. Let us then move to the next question, which is from Nasib Ahmed from UBS.

FINAL

Q - Nasib Ahmed
I think my ﬁrst question is a good segue from the previous one. So I was just thinking
about the regulator and how much liquidity you need to hold and how much re-risking
you can do. Is there a limit to how much government bonds you can sell and reinvest into
higher-yielding assets? And then secondly, just a question on solvency and related to
Insurance Europe, you showed the slide on the relationship with VNB and OCG. Is there
any sort of changes expected from the peer review of the guidance on contract
boundaries there?

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you, Nasib. Also two good questions. Maybe, David, you can take the ﬁrst one on
the impact from the EIOPA review in our businesses. And then, secondly, Leon, could you
take the question on the shift to higher-yielding assets and whether there's any hurdles or
restrictions to the moves you can make. David, please?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So the impact of EIOPA.
So when the EIOPA review came out, I think we were very -- we tried immediately to also
assess the impact, where we said we expect around a 5% negative impact on our solvency
in 2024, 2025. But in combination with that, an uplift of OCG of around EUR50 million. So
it is, for us, a very manageable eﬀect that is coming out of the EIOPA review. Of course,
since then, parliament has been getting involved. Typically, things get a bit better when
we go from, let's say, the phase from the regulators to the parliament phase. So let's see
what exactly comes out. But so far, what we've seen, ﬁrst indications are that it might be a
bit better. But even if it wouldn't, it's still -- the EIOPA impact again is very manageable for
us. So all in all, that is good news.
There will continuously be changes, obviously. Contract boundaries are all -- items are a
topic of discussion in the sector. So there's a broader discussion than just EIOPA, and that
will continue to happen. I think the good news is that if you look at our position, we have a
very strong Solvency II ratio, our cash position is strong, and our leverage position is
strong. So even if there are impacts coming, I think we have a strong balance sheet and
we can clearly absorb this type of regulatory impacts.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Important ﬁrst pillar of the investment proposition. Stable, strong balance sheet. And
Leon, on the shift to higher-yielding assets.

A - Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

Yes. Thanks for that question. Maybe good to start with that if you compare our
investment portfolio with market eﬀorts, we are still a bit on the conservative side with our
investment portfolio. Therefore, there is room for further re-risking. And indeed, liquidity
is one of our important criteria to develop and to decide upon our strategic asset
allocation. So we take it well into account. And we still have, with all the plans we have,
enough possibilities around liquidity to re-risk, basically.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks. Well, we have approximately 10 more minutes to go. Next question is from
Farquhar Murray from Autonomous.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Just two questions. One for Leon, and then another for Fabian. On the Dutch buyout, is
there any evidence of kind of improved pricing power in that market if you look back over
the last, let's say, ﬁve years or so? There has been some ﬂucs in terms of participation. So I
just wondered. And presuming you're still kind of competing against large pension funds
and some of the processes there. Are there any disciplinary evidence? And then on the
international business, just a quick question on Slide 9 of Fabian's pack. How does that
45% of VNB from the bancassurance channel, how does that split between your largest
partner and say, the other bank partners, just to get a sense of what progress you've
made in terms of diversifying the channel?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Yes. So maybe, Leon, you can take the ﬁrst question on the comparative landscape today
and the pension buyout space. And then, Fabian, could you take the second question on
the bancassurance piece?

A - Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Farquhar, for the question related to buyouts. So what we see happening
in the market is there is more and more appetite for buyouts due to the upcoming
legislation. So we expect more buyouts will come to the market. And indeed, we are
competing in some situations with large pension funds because then they have the
opportunity to merge with the other pension funds, but there are also a number of
situations where the pension fund prefers a buyout. And there, we then compete with the
insurers competitors in the Netherlands.
And related to pricing, so the interest rate level is an important element in the pricing. So
you can imagine that compared to end of last year, our buyout pricing is somewhat better
due to somewhat higher interest rate levels. Next to that, we can also make use of our rerisking I just explained, that will result in also more competitive pricing from us. And
therefore, yes, we are certain that we are -- that we have a good position in the buyout
markets. We are very happy we transacted that buyout last summer. And yes, we are in for
the market for the next few years to transact more of these buyouts.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Thank you, Leon.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Maybe if I can add. I think, Farquhar, your question was all right, so I think Leon is
absolutely right. And then the question was also going forward. I mean, if it's right, and it
looks like that there's signiﬁcant amount of buyouts coming to the market, I do think we
expect -- I mean, capacity is not unlimited on the insurance side. So typically, what we've
seen is that the ﬁrst buyouts are more competitive than the ones further down the road
because capacity for insurance companies is not unlimited. And if indeed signiﬁcant
amounts are coming to the market because of the pension reform, it is not unlikely that
over time, pricing becomes a bit less competitive. And we will always remain disciplined
on our pricing. But yes, we are expecting that over time, pricing could become a bit less
competitive and more attractive for us.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

That's helpful color. Fabian, please, on the bancassurance.

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thanks for your question. So our -- indeed, our bank insurance channel, we have
been able, over the last years since the IPO, to diversify it a lot and to optimize it. And we
have really strong experience there. And as you might know, there's a big diﬀerence
between having a bancassurance agreement and really making the maximum out of it
using data and other tools in order to really leverage such a partnership.
Now when you look who is in there, I mentioned before, ING still remains our biggest
partner. And then after that, we have a relationship experience in Greece, which has
developed very, very nicely. And beyond that, then the other partners are rather smaller
amongst those (inaudible) Moneta and other partners. So that's a little bit of an overview
on our bank's insurance activities as they present themselves today.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks for that. Let's then move to the next question, which is from Andrew Baker
from Citi.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

The ﬁrst is just on insurance here. You highlighted that you are an early movement in the
protection products. I guess just given the growth in margins for this type of business, we
are seeing many companies trying to pivot this way. So are you experiencing or expecting
to experience more competition in this space? And then secondly, just on Japan. So at
your Capital Markets Day last year, you were very clear that you believe you're the best
owner of this business. But at the time, you were in the process of trying to prove a sales
recovery following the tax reforms. So I guess just now that you've proved that and you've
sort of proved the future value of this business on a look-forward basis, is it still your view
that you're the best owner? Or has your view changed here in any way?

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Maybe David, you could maybe help with some perspective on Japan in
the group. And then Fabian, you could maybe follow up on the competition you see in
the protection business.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Yes. Indeed.
So ﬁrst of all, we're very pleased with the recovery of sales in Japan. And I think it shows
also that we have a strong distribution capabilities. It requires a lot of investment to help
brokers sell these products. I mean, if you're selling them on a tax beneﬁt, that's relatively
easy, but we focus a lot also on colleague protection, and that means that sales channels
need to be comfortable enough to actually oﬀer these products and address the
questions. And that's been a signiﬁcant investment by our Japanese unit, and we're
pleased to see that we actually saw in the ﬁrst half our VNB doubling versus ﬁrst half year
2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of ownership, I mean, Japan is a business we know very well. We built it
ourselves. It's a greenﬁeld to -- we've been there for over 30 years. It's a large market. So
we're able to deploy a lot of capital in that market.
Fabian made earlier the point when you get to an IRR of 13%, a payback period of six
years, that makes it a very attractive market for us to be in. And so by itself. And then
there's obviously some synergies also between in the SME space between the companies
and some diversiﬁcation eﬀects that we see from a group perspective between Japan and
European operation.
So there are some extra beneﬁts. But yes, we remain positive on our Japanese business,
and we're very pleased to see the progress that they're making, that this growth engine
that we've always seen was there, is actually also materializing again after the tax reform
knowing that there's still an attractive market there also after the tax reform.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thanks. Then on to Fabian.

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Yes. And then on protection, so there was already in the last years quite some competition
around protection, and we were still able to show a very attractive growth. But What is key
there is, of course, to have a very good distribution. So on one side, it is important to have
these strong bancassurance partnerships. On the other side, our agents trained and
experienced and focusing on that segment. And then you need to continue to invest, so
invest a lot into adding services, making underwriting much more targeted, make it
simpler for the customers. We invest into product innovation, you have heard me
speaking about the platforms which we use and with which we're able to launch regularly
new product. All of that needs to be there. But as we focus on that, we have a big
Page 24 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

advantage, because all our energy goes into that. And that, of course, gives us a strong
competitive advantage.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Okay. Let's then move to next question from Benoit Petrarque from Kepler.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

So my question is actually two questions. The ﬁrst one is on the bank insurance. Actually
I've got a couple of questions on that subject. Maybe focusing on ING and your
relationship with ING. Obviously, ING is growing fast in Spain and Romania. Could you
update us on how the distribution agreement works? What is the timing of the renewals?
And what you expect also for the long-term in terms of bank insurance relationships? Can
you maintain exclusivity? Or do you think about more platform type of relationships? And
could you also consider entering in a new country based on the kind of platform. So no
physical distribution, but just kind of big partner, kind of enter into a relationship with
large bank somewhere in Europe. That's the ﬁrst question.
And the second one will be on the mortgage margins, which have been under pressure
recently. So do you see that moving on the longer run, do you think kind of that it will
move back to the long-term average? Or just curious about your view on the current
mortgage margin and if it's still attractive?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thanks, Benoit. Yes. We have been discussing that indeed with ourselves as well, the
mortgage margin. Maybe David, you could start on that on the view on the mortgages.
And then Fabian, you could follow up on the ING distribution agreements.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Sure. Yes.
The Dutch mortgage -- we obviously know this market very well. We've been in there
active for a long time. We have a strong position there, the mortgages that we get in. We
underwrite ourselves via NN Bank. So it's also we know exactly what the underwriting
criteria are.
In terms of spreads, you're right, they have been coming in, I would say probably more in
the range of 160 to 180 basis points where they are now. Typically, we do see -- if interest
rates move quicker than commercial rates. So if rates go up a bit, it takes a bit of time for
the market to adjust those. So commercial rates upwards and the opposite happens when
market rates go down, you also tend to see a bit of spread widening. So I think one eﬀect
is just also timing. It's also fair to say that we're not the only ones that like the Dutch
merger market. So we have seen more entrants coming into the market, it puts a bit of
pressure on the spreads. At the same time, banks under Basel are -- might be a bit less
active in the mortgage market.

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

FINAL

So the conclusion for us is that it's still a very attractive business to be in. The market has
been very resilience, has been well tested in the ﬁnancial crisis, also now in the payment -or in the COVID crisis, we've seen that the payment discipline in the Netherlands is very
high. Actual losses are still below 1 basis point. So from a risk-return perspective, also in,
let's say, in the range of 160 to 180 basis point spread with this type of risk is, for us, still an
attractive asset class that we continue to invest in.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Okay. And to Fabian.

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Benoit, for your question on ING in Spain. That is an example of a
relationship where I think both parties are very, very happy with. It is -- the good -- what is
really best practice there is how we interact both together. So on one side, ING distributes
our products, and we have for all our products exclusivity and have as well just renewed
our relationship. And then on the other side, we bring the mortgages, we sell the
mortgages to our customers. And we have there, 20% of the mortgage sales of ING are
through our agents. And of course, this reciprocity works fantastic together because both
parties really strongly beneﬁt from that relationship.

Bloomberg Transcript

And by the way, the same in Romania. So there -- and you saw that on the chart, Spain is a
frontrunner, and Romania now just adopted this principle of reciprocity. So we will sell
now as well mortgages from ING, and I'm very excited that there is a lot of more potential
to gain on the Romanian side, where, by the way, the relationship as well is excellent.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you. That's great to see your excitement, Fabian. We have time for one last
question, which is coming from Cor Kluis from ABN AMRO.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

I've got two questions. First of all, about the Netherlands, on acquisitions there, especially
you did some acquisitions this year, of course, on the IFRS side. Would you be interested
doing more acquisitions in general? And maybe would you be interested in acquiring
funeral insurance companies there, especially from a natural hedge point of view, if one of
these parties would come to the market? So that's my ﬁrst question.
Second question would be about Japan. The VNB in Japan is, of course, quite strong this
year. So maybe not yet in full, but you're probably going to be quite close in reaching
already your 2023 target of EUR150 million this year. Why not increasing the VNB target
for 2023? Is there something speciﬁc this year? Or are there other reasons for that. And
then maybe one ﬁnal technical question, the 15 to 20 basis points operating margin, just
for the record, is that a revenue ﬁgure or not? That's just a technical question.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Page 26 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

Yes. So let's take your questions in the order that you asked them. Maybe David, you
could start on the M&A side in the Netherlands, and potentially, speciﬁcally on funeral
business.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. I think in general, I always talk about M&A and our focus on organic growth. I think
speciﬁcally for the Netherlands, when you talk about life insurance, there's not that many
books around, ﬁrst of all, if you see the market has been consolidating. We don't have to
do anything. I mean we're the largest player, we had a lot of scale. So we're -- from that
point of view, we're in a good position. If something very attractive comes along and we
can do it on attractive pricing, we will certainly take a look at it.
I mean, funeral, to be honest, it sounds really good, and in a way, it is. But typically, the
oﬀset that you get is quite small given the size of our balance sheet. So we also shouldn't
overemphasize the impact of the funeral policies on our total longevity exposure. I think
we've been actively, as you know, looking at longevity type of deals. They move, for us,
the needle a lot more than acquiring funeral businesses. It could be attractive from a point
of view of maintaining our cost per policy and further reducing our cost per policy. If you
bring extra books on board, we have a very eﬃcient engine doing that, that Leon is
running. But again, we don't have to do it. So we'll only do it if it makes ﬁnancially a lot of
sense to do it because given our size, we're already in a good position today.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you. Then over to Fabian on potentially the target of Japan, and whether you are
going to make the targets maybe even already earlier than 2023?

A - Fabian Rupprecht

{BIO 18064442 <GO>}

Yes. So we have -- indeed, we have the EUR92 million VNB in Japan. And now look at that,
that there's always seasonality in Japan. So be careful and don't just multiply it by two to
get to a year-end result. But overall, we are really well on track, really well on track. And
we will stick on our 2023 target of EUR150 million of VNB.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

Thank you. Then last, the more technical question on the 15 to 20 basis points -- what it
actually means.

A - Leon van Riet

{BIO 19683159 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Cor, for asking that question.
The 15 to 20 basis point target is a margin. So it's net proﬁt. Also excluding the proﬁts
from NNIP, we already substituted that from this target. And to dive a bit more into it, so
both the accumulation deccumulation phase are proﬁtable and will reach this target. And
it is that the accumulation phase is slightly less proﬁtable than the deccumulation phase.
But accumulation, of course, is important because it's sticky business, customers are likely

Page 27 of 28



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2021-11-25

to stay with us and make use of the rollover to deccumulation. But so answer is it's proﬁt,
the target.

A - Jelmer Lantinga

{BIO 20384884 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks. Okay. That brings end of the Q&A session.
Let me hand over to David for a couple of closing remarks.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Well, thank you very much all for participating. Thank you also for the questions,
which we really enjoyed.
We really hope that we have convinced you now that there is a long-term growth proﬁle in
NN Group, mid-single digit as we call it. We hope that we have convinced you that also
not only on the short term for the EUR1.5 billion OCG, but then also longer term, we see
some real good growth prospects for our company.

Bloomberg Transcript

So thank you very much for participating. Have a good day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

