Q4 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Charles Brindamour, Chief Executive Officer
Isabelle Girard, Senior Vice President, Personal Lines
Ken Anderson, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Development
Louis Marcotte , Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Barbeau, Senior Vice President, Claims

Other Participants
Doug Young
Geoffrey Kwan
Jaeme Gloyn
Mario Mendonca
Tom MacKinnon

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Intact Financial Corporation
Q4 2020 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).
Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ken Anderson, Senior Vice
President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development, Intact Financial Corporation. Thank you,
please go ahead.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining the call today. A link to our live
webcast and published information for this call is posted on our website at intactfc.com under the
Investors tab.
As usual, before we start, please refer to Slide 2 for cautionary language regarding the use of
forward-looking statements, which form part of this morning's remarks, and Slide 3 for a note on
the use of non-IFRS financial measures and important notes on adjustments, terms, and definitions
used in this presentation.
Our executives are again joining virtually today from across the country. In Toronto, we have our
CEO, Charles
Brindamour. Here in Montreal are Louis Marcotte, CFO; Isabelle Girard, SVP of Personal Lines; and
Patrick
Barbeau, SVP of Claims. And from Calgary we're joined by Darren Godfrey, SVP of Commercial
Lines. As usual, we'll begin with prepared remarks, followed by the Q&A.



With that, I'll turn the call to our CEO, Charles Brindamour.

FINAL

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. And thank you very much for joining us today. So we're in the second
wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the hardship on society continues to be significant.
Healthcare professionals and frontline workers have shouldered a lot, and we're very grateful for
their dedication. While the vaccine roll out provides a glimmer of hope, it's important that
businesses continue to protect and support their employees and communities through these
difficult times. We've stepped up by providing $530 million of relief to 1.2 million customers this
year. I will continue to embed longer term relief measures into our offerings including rate
strategies and product enhancements to protect and support our most impacted customers. Our
relief measures remain risk and needs based. Our outperformance and strong capital
management over the years enables us to provide substantial support to our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's turn to results. Yesterday evening we announced fourth quarter net operating income
per share of $3.18, a significant increase over Q4 2019. For the full-year net operating income per
share was up 61% to $9.92 on strong underwriting and distribution performance. Our strong results
translated into an operating ROE of 18.4%. ROE outperformance versus the industry continues to
exceed our 500 basis point objective with 600 basis points for the first nine months of 2020 and
closer to 700 basis points over the last three years.
Top-line growth was solid 8% in the quarter with Canada up 6% and the U.S. up 19%. The strong
combined ratio of 85.6% included $74 million of CAT with $23 million related to COVID-19. The
increase to our COVID-19 provision is related to our exposure in liability and entertainment, and
reflects the intensity of the second wave. In Canada, the combined ratio of 84% was strong while
our U.S. commercial lines delivered solid 92%.
Let's now look at our results by line of business starting right here in Canada. In personal auto,
premium growth was solid at 5%, our competitive position remains strong with north of 3% unit
growth after adjusting for our exit from British Columbia. The combined ratio of 82.6% benefited
from reduced driving our profitability actions and more favorable weather offset in part by
customer relief measures and increased severity. Overall, our personal auto business is solid, and I
expect it to operate in the low end of the mid-90s range in 2021, as claims activity gradually
returns to normal and as our customer relief is earned.
Looking at the industry, rate momentum has been impacted by the crisis, and we've seen some
short-term softening. However, with an industry combined ratio close to 100% for the first nine
months of 2020. We expect corrective rate measures to resume as claims frequency returns to
historical levels. In personal property, premiums grew 10% driven by unit growth, firm market
conditions and the GCNA acquisition. The combined ratio at 73.2% in the quarter and 81.7% for the
year was exceptionally strong and driven by our profitability actions over time and benign weather.
I expect this segment to continue to operate sub 95% in both good and in bad times.
In commercial lines, premium grew 5% with the GCNA acquisition adding 5 points, offset said by 6
points from our $50 million targeted relief program.
The 95.3% combined ratio in commercial lines were solid considering it included the 6 points
impact from that relief program and 2 points of COVID-19 CAT. The commercial lines industry is
entering its third year of hard market condition, which supports our view that this segment should
run in the low 90s.
Moving to our US commercial business, premiums grew a very strong 19% with the GCNA
acquisition adding 6 points. Hard market conditions and high customer retention drove the top line



this quarter. The combined ratio at 92% was solid. With continued profitability actions in place, this
business is positioned to deliver sustainable low 90s performance.

FINAL

Turning to strategy. We're moving diligently on the RSA acquisition and currently focusing on three
areas: closing the deal, value creation, and engaging with our colleagues at RSA.
First, we're progressing well towards the scheduled closing in the second quarter. We have
received approval from the Canadians Competition Bureau as well as from RSA shareholders. It's
all hands on deck as we continue to work with regulators in different countries for the remaining
approvals.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, we're gaining clear visibility on the value creation opportunities, as we work on the
integration and transition planning. We're reaffirming our NOIPS accretion targets, which have us
reaching high single-digit in the first 12 months, and increasing to upper teens within 36 months. As
well, we continue to expect mid teens operating ROE in the medium term and book value per
share is expected to be up 25% at closing.
Finally and most importantly, we're engaging with our colleagues at RSA. We've met with most of
the senior management team as we undertake strategic reviews of the business. I'm pleased with
the engagement in our shared pursuit of outperformance. And I look forward to welcoming our
RSA colleagues into the Intact family in the coming months. While we're working to ensure we hit
the ground running with RSA, we continue to strengthen our competitive advantages at home. A
great example of this is On Side restoration, a business we acquired over a year-ago. We've
grown its top line by over 20%, making it the clear leader in home restoration in Canada with
expanded operations in seven provinces. We've improved margins by one third, and we've
significantly increased customer satisfaction with job cycle times cut by 15%. The On Side team is
executing and there's lots of momentum in this business. We're also strengthening our digital and
data advantages. Our Intact and belairdirect apps have seen the number of monthly users more
than doubled this year. As well our data lab team has grown by over 40% in 2020, as they continue
to deploy close to 140 advanced models in the field to improve segmentation, support our
telematics strategy and contribute to better customer experience.
Overall, strengthening our competitive advantages is core to our outperformance mindset, as it
allows us to deliver value to our customers and create capabilities that are quite hard to replicate.
These industry-leading capabilities were built over a decade and will be particularly important as
we integrate RSA.
Before I conclude, I'll mention that February has typically -- when we increase our dividends which
we've done for the past 15 years, we fully intend to raise our dividends this year to the maintain
this track record. Given the current regulatory environment, we've postponed the increase to a
future quarter in 2021.
In conclusion, we've delivered outstanding results throughout the year provided relief to over one
million customers and continue to advance our strategy. We accelerated our diversity and inclusion
initiatives and our people are more engaged than ever before. GCNA has become an integral part
of our business and we announced the acquisition of RSA, which accelerates our strategy and
certainly strengthens our ability to outperform.
So to our people across North America, it's been a challenging year and I want to thank you, you
guys really stepped up. And as we enter into 2021, I know we have the best teams that we've
shown that our business is tremendously resilient and we have strong momentum to surpass our
financial objectives.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Louis Marcotte.



Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Charles. And good morning, everyone. We continue to see the profound impact of
pandemic is having on communities around the world and it's during these unprecedented times
that our purpose has never been clearer. To help people, businesses and society prosper in good
times and be resilient in bad times.
The fourth quarter was marked by the emergence of a steep second wave of COVID-19 cases and
the application of new lockdowns, work from home orders and curfews. At the same time, the
weather was fairly benign, interest rates were generally stable, but capital markets were strong.
With this backdrop in mind, it is important that we keep our focus on delivering strong operating
results and maintaining a strong balance sheet, allowing us to continue providing support to our
customers through the crisis and completing the RSA transaction as soon as it is approved.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have now provided more than 1.2 million customers with premium relief worth $530 million. The
vast majority of the premium relief has already flowed through our written premiums. However, the
unearned portion of these measures, which stood at $203 million at year-end, will lower net
earned premiums in future quarters, offsetting the impact of reduced claims frequency. The
intensity of the second wave has also led us to increase our COVID provisions by $23 million,
mainly related to liability exposure in Canada and entertainment cancellations in the U.S..
On results. Net operating income was up 54% versus last year to $467 million, driven by strong
underwriting and distribution performances. Underwriting income grew 81% over last year, as
better weather, reduced claims activity in personal lines and our ongoing profitability actions drove
lower claims frequency in Canada all of which were partially offset by our customer relief
measures.
Net investment income of a $143 million in the quarter was unchanged from last year, as the
benefit of higher invested assets was offset by lower reinvestment yields. On a full-year basis,
investment income was flat for the same reasons and we expect a similar result in 2021 before
reflecting the impact of RSA. Distribution EBITDA and other income grew 60% in the quarter and
32% for the year. This was better than expected. Thanks to solid organic growth, disciplined
expense management, higher variable commissions, as well as continuing M&A. The additions of
On Side and Frank Cowan also had a meaningful positive impact on this earnings stream. On the
back of a very strong 2020 performance, distribution income and other is expected to grow 10% in
2021.
Now let me move to lines of business. Personal auto premium growth was 6% for the full-year after
reflecting six points of relief measures. Market conditions helped drive 4 points of rate for the year
while units were up 2 points, as our action plans and relief measures generated strong customer
retention. Personal property had a strong year, growing 11% in 2020, despite 2 points from relief.
Firm market conditions, GCNA and unit growth drove top line throughout the year.
Turning to Canada commercial lines. The solid growth of 10% in 2020 was driven by hard market
conditions, and the acquisitions of GCNA, both of which were offset by 4 points of customer
release. The overall Canadian expense ratio of 29.5% for the quarter increased 1.7 points from last
year. This was mainly driven by the impact of relief measures on net earned premiums, as well as
higher variable commissions and increased investments in technology during the quarter. For the
full-year, the expense ratio was 30.2%, and we expect a similar level in 2021.
Looking at U.S. commercial, 9% top line growth for the year was driven by hard market conditions
and the GCNA acquisition. Partially offset by our discipline on lines under profit improvement plans
and lines impacted by COVID. The US expense ratio of 38.4% for the year increased by close to 1
point, mainly driven by higher commissions resulting from our expanding surety business. For 2021,
the expense ratio is expected to be in line with 2020.



FINAL

Since we acquired OneBeacon three years-ago, delivering a sustainable low 90s combined ratio
has been our main focus. We've taken several actions to get there, namely the exit of unprofitable
lines of business, the implementation of profit improvement plans and others, the realization of
synergies, as well as claims and underwriting actions. While we reported a 95% combined ratio in
2020 with elevated CAT activity including COVID losses, we believe our US business is very well
positioned to run in the low 90s going forward.
Moving to our balance sheet. We ended the quarter in a strong financial position with a total capital
margin of $2.7 billion and a debt to total capital ratio of 24.1%. Included in these figures is $600
million of medium-term notes issued to finance the RSA acquisition.
When I exclude this, our leverage is essentially at our 20% target. Remember the proceeds from
our $4.5 billion private placement subscription receipts are not yet reflected on our balance sheet.
Our book value per share increased 9% year-over-year to $58.79 million. Thanks to strong
operating performance and favorable capital markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now provide a few comments on the RSA deal, a transaction that moves the needle for IFC
both strategically and financially. Firstly, we have largely secured financing with 6 -- $5.6 billion
already raised and the remainder will be raised in the coming months.
Secondly, as we work through integration and transition planning, we are gaining further visibility on
our $250 million of pre-tax synergies. We are confident we can deliver these synergies within the
three-year time frame we originally planned. And finally, we continue to expect upper single-digit
accretion in the first year after close. Assuming we close the transaction at the end of Q2, we
expect this level of accretion to begin in the second-half of 2021. On the topic of 2021 in the light
of the uncertainty, it is worth giving you a sense of what to expect for the existing IFC business.
In summary, we anticipate overall top-line growth to be in the mid-single digit range and our
combined ratio to be at a low 90s level. In closing, during 2020, we maintained a position of
strength throughout this crisis and our business remains solid on both sides of the border. We are
well-positioned to execute on our objectives including adding meaningful value for all stakeholders
with the RSA transaction. This would not be possible without our most important assets, our
amazing people. They really stepped up this year to support our customers and communities as
we continue to deliver value for our shareholders. Thank you for another solid year.
With that, I'll turn the call back to Ken.

Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Thank you, Louis. In order to give everyone a chance to participate in the Q&A, we would kindly ask
that you limit yourselves to two questions per person. If there's time at the end, you can certainly
requeue for follow-ups. So Mike, we're ready to take questions now.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. My first question was for the COVID-19 CAT loss reserve that you had. Can you
give some examples of what types of claims you're going through? I think liability was one of the



areas. And then separately, like what would need to happen for you to have to reserve more
COVID-19 related charges?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

Why don't we thanks -- I'll just ask Patrick to give you a perspective on the profile so to speak and
what we would need to get to reserve more. Go ahead, Patrick.

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Geoff, as we mentioned, I think Charles mentioned it in his remarks, there's two main sources that
led us to increase our overall provision for COVID losses by $23 million in Q4. We had provisioned
at $83 million at the end of Q1 in the prudent way. But in light of the intensity of the second wave
there are two areas where we're seeing a little bit of pressure coming from that wave two, where
we wanted to be on the prudent side.

Bloomberg Transcript

So entertainment in the U.S. we the cost on our policies and entertainment is much higher when
events are canceled and when they are postponed. Initially there was a lot of events that were
more postponed and we're anticipating that some of them would be canceled, but in light of the
intensity of wave 2 we've seen a bit more of those events being cancelled and we reserve for that
trend going forward as well, that's just what we know at the moment.
And in liability in Canada, there's a few different types of liability that can happen in our portfolio.
This is nothing around business interruption just to be clear. It's really liability. So some of our
clients, being sued for negligent. There's a duty to defend in our policy. The plaintiff still need to
prove negligence, and so -- but they're just a little more activity. So on the liability side it's not really
linked to specific cases. Just the increase of activity given the intensity of the wave that lets us
decide to add a little bit of reserves in Canada as well.
What would it need for us to need to increase the reserves again? Well, it's tough to say but I will
share that, sitting here looking at this situation going forward. I think we are on the conservative
side meaning that it would have to be a significant adverse development of the situation globally
for us to need additional reserves. We don't expect we'll have to move it this year from this point.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yes, And if I can add a bit of color Geoff. You'd have to picture a third wave with the same intensity
of the second wave with severe lockdown measures potentially to be in a zone where we would
look again. But even then the pressure that comes from entertainment won't be at the same level.
Even if we go in a third wave, because we've moved from postponement to cancellation, there's
much less of that left in the system. And I would say, in aggregate the odds are very, very small at
this stage as far as we're concerned that we see a need to increase the ultimate.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. And just my other question was just the Metromile, the SPAC, just started
trading today. I'm wondering how we should kind of think about what the valuation upside relative
to original investments in the company, but also two like within Intact Ventures, like are there other
investments you would want to highlight as interesting and are ones that could meaningfully
surface value?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well first congratulations to the Metromile's team and Dan at Metromile's for a job well done and
we're quite pleased with the developments there. I'll ask Louis to give his perspective on that
specifically, we've got a number of other meaningful stakes in the Venture portfolio, but nothing
that I want to highlight at this stage Geoff, but I think we'll take your interests into account here and
potentially integrate that in upcoming quarters or at the Investors Day. So Louis, on Metromile?



FINAL

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yes, so very successful transaction that have taken place in the last two days. So very happy about
that. It will trigger a significant gain for the company. We are cautious here on valuations, of course
and so we're -- we're will be recording at fair value as soon as it trades, so it should be in Q1 of this
year. It will be meaningful. But if we consider it a non-operating gain as we put all our other similar
gains and those will be booked in Q1. Where it will land depends on the market value of the shares
as they trade on the market now. But we expect that to have a at this point have a positive impact
on non-operating earnings in Q1. And then we'll carry that fair value, so the ups and downs will flow
to earnings until we decide what we do with the shares.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Do you have the number of shares that you're owning on with the SPAC now trading?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

So we haven't shared that information. It's obviously, it's a small share of the overall corporation,
but we have not shared the numbers there, Geoffrey.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay. All right, thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Your next question comes from Mario Mendonca from TD Securities.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Good morning. Charles, this is obviously a very special year for the company. I'm just looking at
things like the underlying claims ratio in personal auto and in personal property. Just the
improvement we saw this year, and these look like record years in terms of where these ratios are
falling out. How does that influence your thinking about further premium relief or rate reductions in
2021? And does that inform you in any way about the capacity to drive higher pricing when COVID19 is behind us?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

So Mario, clearly, it's been a very strong year. There's no doubt about it. With an overall combined
ratio in Canada in the upper 80s all lines combined including the provisions we've taken for
COVID-19. The weather has helped a little bit. But macro level we are in a tight market place. I
mean the industry's combined ratio was a 100% at the end of Q3 this year, automobile insurance
was in around a 100% for the industry, and so we're in that phase of the cycle, again at the macro
level where the outperformance is really strong, but the industry has yet to catch up on the actions
we've been taking over the past three, four years.
And so I do think that 2021 remains a year where we can take advantage of market conditions
maintain solid out performance and grow the business in a very healthy fashion. And I see that in
personal property still I don't see personal prop softening, I think there's a fair bit of work that's
needed still at the industry level and one year of favorable weather is not going to slow that down.
In commercial lines we're in year three of what started as a firm market to what is now a hard
market and COVID has not been helpful. And I continue to see a fair bit of digestion needed in
commercial lines and certainly true in the U.S. Where we've got strong performance in first lines, I
think that the run rate performance is really strong and I -- we intend to grow our positions there,
and hopefully, expand the margins in the hard market, but grow the top line as well.



FINAL

Automobile is in a different zone Mario clearly. It is in the zone where the cost equation has
changed probably for a bit longer than what we anticipated in March and April, and that's why
we've gone from relief to rates, and I think you've seen the industry move in that direction as well
to a certain extent and when I look at rates sitting here today in automobile insurance, there's not
really rate increases flowing through the system on a written basis at this stage. I think you look at
the industry you see rate increases in some parts. You see rate decreases in other parts, I do think
it's temporary. I think that there's -- the industry's performance is not that great and I think the
trends we recognize in '16 and '17 are creating pressure for a number of players, you see this in the
prior year adverse development nine months into 2020.
So my view is you're probably in a flat environment from a rate point of view in automobile, but
one where the cost equation warrants it in my view, but I think as driving gets closer to normal, I do
think that will be in a fairly rational environment. Hard to tell, how long the return to normal we'll be
I suspect you've got at least a year of that. But I think, we can win in the near-term and capitalize on
strong performance in automobile and hopefully grow that platform.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

That's fair. As a follow-up. Could you talk a little bit about, I think in your MD&A, you do talk about
further premium relief beyond what the company has already announced. Is there any way you
could help size that? And maybe I'll ask it in this way, you've got $203 million left to be earned.
Would you see the premium relief, new premium relief in 2021, rivaling the $400 and some odd
million that was written in 2020? Is that conceivable for 2021?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

No, I don't think so. I think that I would be very, very surprised that we would be in that range,
Mario, because first of all, the difference in driving in the second wave is very different from the
driving in the first wave. Driving in the first wave at one point in time was down 50%, driving in the
second wave has dropped but nowhere near these levels and as such I don't see a logic for relief
to that same extent. Second point is far more people have embraced UBI and then rate reflects to
a certain extent than expectation of less driving. So I just don't see relief to that extent Mario in
2021, no.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Your next question comes from Jaeme Gloyn from National Bank Financial.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Hi, Jamie.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Sorry, good morning. I was on mute there. My question is around the distribution EBITDA and the
solid results we saw in 2020. And now Louis your guidance I believe is for a 10% growth in 2021.
Can you maybe breakdown that growth rate forecast in terms of organic growth and M&A growth?
And how you see the underlying businesses or business as it's constructed today with revenue
coming from On Side revenue coming from Frank Cowan and let's say other pre-existing brokers
in the distribution channel?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Sure. So, what you're seeing this year was, as I mentioned earlier was the organic growth, the
profitability of the underwriting some expense management. As an example during the crisis, the



FINAL

brokers pulled back on some of their marketing spend as an example, and there's a bit of M&A in
there. So this is like the ongoing M&A where they consolidate the market progressively. And then
the addition of On Side and Frank Cowan. So that led to the 32% overall. Next year we're guiding
to 10%. So firstly, we're off to a very -- we're comparing ourselves to a very strong 2020. So I guess
we're a bit of -- ahead of the game here in terms of the earnings where they stand today given
what we've delivered in 2020.
Then next year it's a share of mostly organic on the part of the brokers growing. So if you take the
10% I would say probably 40% of it is the organic growth of the brokers another 40% would be the
Frank Cowan and On Side growing. And then the rest would be a bit of M&A activity that will flow
in. If I split it out, that's roughly the makeup of this. So it's mostly organic, there is some M&A
momentum coming in, but mostly it's driven by our brokers growth as well as the addition of On
Side and Frank Cowan.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. No, I think worth mentioning On Side a little bit here. Just the strategic progress that the team
has done there under the leadership of Craig Hogarth and Alain Fortin, who's joined the team has
been outstanding. I mentioned in my remarks, the cycle time that is the time needed to get
customers back on track down 15% in short -- in a very short period of time, we're targeting 50%
cut in cycle time. The growth there is impressive. I think the margin has improved meaningfully as
well and I see a fair bit of upside.
But we're just starting and my own view of the upside there, there's a big capacity issue in that
space, there's a quality issue in that space. Its super fragmented. So our thought process on Side is
very much consistent with what we tried to do with broker link a decade ago, to build capacity at
scale and then do this profitably, and I would say we're probably ahead of where I thought we'd be
in this acquisition, and so we'll put more capital there and certainly leverage this platform in the
RSA integration, which will really help the platform as well and the customer experience. So I'd say
this is a second source of business that's, first of all, inversely correlated with the underwriting
performance that we should -- that investors should keep an eye on in the next three to five years.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Okay. And is On Side at a size at this stage where you're able to break out its contribution?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Not yet.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Okay. Otherwise great answer, thank you very much.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Your next question comes from Doug Young from Desjardins Capital.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Good morning. First question, can you just back to -- good morning, back to the outlook Charles.
And I think and correct me if I'm wrong, the outlook for personal property might have changed a
little bit. I think you're now looking at mid-single digits down from mid to high single-digit growth.
And I'm just wondering, what informed that shift down, because are we at that pivot point where



you've had a few great years in that business line or should we be anticipating a bit of a slowdown
in the pricing cycle here? Just hoping to get a little bit more color?

FINAL

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, very perceptive Doug. Indeed. I think between rates and some insured, I look at what's
running in the systems these days and you're little bit north of mid-single digit. I think it's been
many years of correction. The performance is outstanding. I think our outperformance is
outstanding and we want to make sure that we're in a very good position to grow that segment,
while continuing to expand the margin. I don't think the industry is necessarily there just yet. But it's
not the same sort of level as what we've seen last year or the past few years. Isabelle, do you
want to provide a bit more color on that if there's a need?

A - Isabelle Girard

{BIO 21256467 <GO>}

I wouldn't be as Charles that even if in personal property COVID has not materially impact that line
of business. We have seen us and some insurers tempering also the rates in that line of business
as well. So I think that's why we now expect the growth to be in the mid single-digit range for the
next 12 months.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, that's a very good point. As we deploy segmentation strategies, Doug, during the pandemic
we try to tame the increases that were the largest for some segments of customers and that plays
into the outlook as well.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

So, you're not anticipating a softening cycle just more of a tempering of the cycle at this point -we're not at the pivot point?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

No, I don't think so. I don't think so.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Okay. And then just add the follow-up. It relates to the exited lines and the adverse development
coverage. I mean exited lines this quarter had $39 million underwriting loss. I mean you had $5
million of negative prior year reserve developments in the U.S. and the coverage is gone for the
business. And I think the coverage was for prior to 2017 on the OneBeacon business. Should we be
worried that we're going to see a lot more balances in this? And I guess what I'm trying to get at is
especially on the exited lines, when does that number go to zero, because I think that's been
excluded from operating, because it's anticipated that this is going to run off and go to zero and
we haven't seen that. So just hoping to get some color on all of that? Thanks.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, when we closes the transaction Doug, we exited right then three lines of business or two lines
of business and then health care maybe a year later. And our view is that these should not be a
drag going forward. We try to make sure that it wouldn't be. And it certainly reinforced our view
that the call to exhit those lines of business was the right call, and I think we need to be, so I don't
expect the drag and when I look at the ongoing lines of business, I'm quite pleased with the
trajectory of the performance there, and you've seen a strong 92% in Q4, and a market that's very
supportive and I think from a reserving point of view, we've put ourselves in a position to avoid that
surprises from those lines.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}



So we shouldn't be anticipating. I mean 2020, there was some significant losses. I think it was
some $60 million underwriting if I'm correct. So that should essentially go in 2021, 2022 towards
zero. And maybe you can just -- if you can provide color what produced the loss in that exited
lines?

FINAL

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Patrick, do you want to give a bit of color on that or Darren?

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Yes, I can jump in, Charles I mean what was -- I mean as consistent with the past what we've seen
is obviously exited line activity with respect to the ADC. I mean in terms of exited lines themselves
that the predominant line that is healthcare, that took up the vast majority of the activity that we
saw in Q4 and also a little bit on the architects and engineers. Obviously, consistent with reserving
practices we expect zero of impact in 2021, from an exit line standpoint. Otherwise, we would have
taken a more prudent position on the reserves when we closed in 2020. So, yes, so we do expect
zero purely from a reserving standpoint in 2021.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Doug, I think a chunk of that is IBNR. In other words, it's aggregate provisioning. And then there
was one large loss in healthcare significant large loss in healthcare where we've strengthened the
case reserve.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Okay, great, thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from Tom MacKinnon from BMO Capital.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Yes, thanks very much. Good morning.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Good morning, Tom.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Yes, good morning, with respect to the further contemplated relief measures in Canada, I assume
these are all incorporated into the guidance that Louis gave for the existing Canadian or the
existing impact business of -- for 2021 of a low 90s combined in mid-single digit top-line growth?
Am I correct on that?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, you are.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Okay, so and then with respect to the RSA acquisition, in the call, you guys -- and there's further
visibility into value creation and certainly get an impression that there's further visibility into the
$250 million in synergies. What are you seeing now that maybe that you didn't see in your due
diligence what are you discovering here that gives you further confidence and more clear visibility
into the value creation of this acquisition?



A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Louis, why don't you take this one?

FINAL

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Sure. So, of course, our initial estimates were based on preliminary due diligence on -- I would say
limited information and past experience in terms of our own integrations. Now that we're a couple
of months in, we have a -- I guess more visibility on the structure of the organization where the
pockets of synergies we saw can actually be harvested. We have more people involved who are
basically confirming the level of synergies we can achieve.
So I think what we're saying here is the visibility gives us more confidence in the numbers that we
shared a couple of months ago. So this is really the essence of what we're saying. A bit the same
on the integration side being able to identify what we have to do and how much it will cost. So it's
more reaffirming a bit, the values now that we're three months in that we had stated at the outset
of the transaction when -- we were somewhat limited in terms of information sharing with the
target.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, I think -- a big difference, I would say between pre-deal pre-announcement and postannouncement is that you go from a top-down approach to what is much more of a bottom-up
approach at this stage we've got 27 teams transition teams that are looking at various parts of the
business working with RSA, each of those teams has a specific target that's informed by the
information that we've had access to. And therefore we gain confidence in our ability to deliver the
goods. I would say the other area that we feel good about is the loss ratio improvement potential
that I think will be available across the platform. And as we discover some of the assets in the UK&I
parameters, we see, a fair bit of value in some of the assets that we didn't know as well. So for all
these reasons, we're pretty confident in the guidance we've provided.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

And I believe the $250 million of expense synergies does not include the benefit of risk reflection
improvements or revenue synergies? So when you talk about loss ratio improvements for assets in
UK, these are things that are not in the $250 million in terms of expense synergies. Is that correct?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

That's correct.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
There are no further questions. I will turn the call back over to Ken Anderson.

A - Ken Anderson

{BIO 16846692 <GO>}

Well, thanks everyone for joining us today. Following the call a telephone replay will be available for
one week, and the webcast will be archived on our website for one year. A transcript will also be
available on our website in the Financial Reports and Filings section. In closing, our first quarter
2021 results are scheduled to be released after market close on Tuesday, May 11. Thank you again,
and this concludes our call for today.

Operator



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may
now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

