Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Analyst Meeting - Business Plan
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, President
Koichi Narasaki, CEO of Digital Business
Masahiro Hamada, Group CFO
Mikio Okumura, Group Co-CSO
Osamu Nose , Head of IR and Finance Department
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Hideyasu Ban, Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Anlayst
Koki Sato, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

I am Kengo Sakurada, Group CEO of Sompo Holdings. Good morning, ladies and
gentlemen. Thank you very much for taking time out of your busy schedule to attend our
IR presentation today. The goal of today's presentation is to help you deepen your
understanding on our new medium-term management plan, MTMP, that commences from
this fiscal year. As Mr. Nose mentioned earlier, we have the owners of each of our
businesses present today. Following my part, they will provide presentations by each
business on points of your strong interest. We will also have the Q&A session, and you will
be able to ask questions on all the businesses.
Please turn to Page 3. Here I have listed three points of the new medium-term
management plan. The first one is our purpose, simple purpose and SDG's management.
In the midst of calls for a shift from shareholder capitalism to market stakeholder
capitalism, I believe it is important to firmly define the values that Sompo provides.
Instead of simply advocating those values as taglines, we must properly raise economic
value through solving social issues. In other words, we believe it's important to monetize.

Page 1 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Next is steady profit growth and evolving our unique business model. We will build the real
data platform as the source of uniqueness, as indicated by the logo of Sompo amplified
by RDP. We'd like to deliver new solutions to society through RDP based on the strength
of our existing insurance and nursing care businesses. I will provide a more detailed
explanation later. But with the real data platform, we would like to provide new solution to
solve social issues, and that is the core of our purpose.
The third point is management targets and shareholder returns. First of all, we are
targeting adjusted consolidated profit of JPY 300 billion or more and ROE of over 10%.
These were set as medium- to long-term targets in the previous MTMP, and we will strive
to achieve them over the next three years. With regard to the important shareholder
return policy, we have decided to increase the ratio of dividends to total payout while
maintaining the basic policy of raising dividends in line with profit growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 4. This is how we view the external environment in formulating the
new MTMP. Among the many challenges that society will face in the medium to long term,
the most significant ones that Sompo should address now what we have experienced
under COVID-19, the new normal that we confront globally. The challenge for Japan, which
is aging society.
We then formulated the new MTMP by back casting the plan, while envisaging the social
changes that could occur in the decades ahead. By examining what is going to be
happening in the next few years. And by back casting we have set up the new business
plan. At the bottom of the slide, we've highlighted four key words that management
should be aware of. Based on these, we held a series of questions, discussions on what
the value creation story for Sompo should be. The following page show the purpose that
we agree on. Please turn to Page 5. Sompo's purpose state realize a society where
people can enjoy their lives in health and prosperity by building a theme park for security,
health and wellbeing. This is our purpose, our rezone trap.
As you have realized, we do not use the word insurance. The values that Sompo will
deliver to the society are shown in red in the bottom half of the page. We've identified
three values, which reflect keywords such as risk, health, diversity and society, and seven
priority issues. I would like each and every one of our employees to be aware of these
purposes and value we provide to society and own them and to feel that they are
appreciated by customers and are making contribution to the society through their daily
work. This will lead to sense of fulfillment for the employees.
This will also lead to the employee's personal values. And customers, which should
sample a second turn on. Through this virtual cycle, I believe the value of Sompo to surety
will be recognized and in turn, the value of the company will be enhanced. Please turn to
Page 6.
Titled Sompo's Challenges illustrate the path we have taken and the path we will pursue
in the future. The red area indicated at the very bottom of the diagram is the DNA of
Sompo and it represents the social value that we have been delivering since our founding,
which is to protect people from risk. Illustrated in green is the nursing care business.

Page 2 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Over the past five years of operation, there are many things that happened. We had
more and more opportunities to receive direct feedback from our customers, which has
increased our sense of being of service to society, particularly for the employees at the
front end. There is also heightened awareness and interest to Sompo, thanks to our
business in nursing care. Our new challenge is to build RDP, real data platform. At present,
we are exploring what will be possible with RDP in all of our businesses. Some of these
ideas are already under consideration for building a commercial case. In the new MTMP,
we will steadily implement measures in each of these areas to create the social value that
Sompo will deliver and move closer to achieving our purposes step-by-step by
showcasing the evidence and also track records.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 7. The following is the snapshot of what we have done so far in terms
of corporate value. The horizontal axis is profitability and the vertical axis is growth
expectation. From a financial perspective, the XY axis represent ROE and PER and the
products position is priced to book in the middle. Currently, unfortunately, Sompo's
positioning is at bottom left, less than 1x in PBR. The great mission of the new MTMP and
subsequent business management is how we can shift our position to upper rate,
specifically raise price to book. There will be two directions.
The first is the thick blue arrow, which is the approach to steadily increase the profitability
of existing businesses, primarily the insurance business and ensure their stability. So the
approach will be scale and diversification. The gray line with the steeper slope is to build
on the existing business while raising the group's growth expectations with RDP at the
core. So this approach is called the creation of new customer value. The important thing
here is to convince everyone that this future growth will be achieved with certainty. I would
like to explain this in more details later. So there is the enterprise value that creates social
value. And at the end of the day it will lead to profit. And as a result, it will lead to greater
market cap. So this is the process that we would like to pursue. This is what we will be
doing with conviction. The two approaches and the synergetic effective use approaches
would dramatically enhance the corporate value, which is a strategy that leverages
Sompo's uniqueness in the world that no other company can imitate.
Please turn to Page 9. I will now explain the new MTMP in more details. First, I'd like to
reflect the achievements of the previous MTMP in terms of management targets. During
the previous MTMP, the business was severely affected by natural disasters in Japan and
overseas. However we were able to contain the impact to a certain extent by improving
the resilience of the growth business portfolio and implementing appropriate reinsurance
strategies. In fiscal 2020, which was the final year under the previous MTMP, our adjusted
consolidated profit reached a record high of JPY 202.1 billion, with an ROE of 8%,
achieving our management target and largely fulfilling our promise to investors. With
regard to shareholder return, we've continued to hike dividends and have steadily
increased the total payout to our shareholders responding to their expectations.
Please turn to Page 10. This slide summarizes the major achievements under the previous
MTMP. I will not touch on individual measures. But I will say that we have made very
strategic moves to improve both the resiliency of our business portfolio and our future
growth potential. We've also implemented transformation that would drive the quality of

Page 3 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

evolution of the group. Now as a group, we feel that we are on the verge of realizing a
theme park for security, health and well-being.
The next page gives an overview of the new MTMP. Please turn to Page 12. This slide
shows samples purpose in the context of the new MTMP and the overall picture of the
new midterm management plan. In order to utilize our purpose, we have formulated the
new MTMP to over the next three years. The goal in three years is to realize our concept
of the port for security, health and well-being. We will pursue three management
strategies to achieve our goal. They are scale and diversification, creating customer value
and new work style.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the following pages, I will explain the management targets, basic strategies and the
group's business foundation in order. Please turn to Page 13. Let me start with the
management targets for the entire group. The most important KPIs for us, adjusted
consolidated profit and adjusted consolidated ROE. And as I mentioned at the outset,
they were set as mid- to long-term targets from the previous MTMP. We will be aiming for
over JPY 300 billion and for over 10% for fiscal '23. We have also set new targets to
improve the resilience of the group's business portfolio, improve the risk diversification
ratio compared to fiscal 2020 and aim for a steady overseas business ratio of 30% or
more. As these newly set targets. In addition, as RD strategy target, we aim to generate
external sales and profit of products and services in at least two businesses by fiscal
2023.
Please turn to Page 14. This page shows a list of KPIs that form the basis for management
targets by cascading them into the group targets to individual businesses. So this is the
first time that we are communicating our KPI to the investors in this manner. We would like
to share our KPI and with high transparency, we would like to manage our business.
Our policy is to thoroughly manage the progress based on these KPIs and take
appropriate measures as necessary. As I said earlier, we will continue to share the
achievement status of these KPIs so that investors can grasp the progress of the
medium-term management plan. I will now go through the three core strategies that I
mentioned earlier. The first core strategy of the new MTMP is to achieve further resilience
by pursuing scale and diversification.
As I explained at the beginning, the Sompo Group will enter a new stage of challenges,
and institute great challenges. It is paramount that we further enhance the profitability and
stability of the core insurance business and to firmly underpin the foundation of the
group's growth despite the rapidly changing environment. The KPIs for the insurance
business are listed here. We will do our best to achieve them with the leadership of Mr.
Nishawa, the owner of the domestic P&C business. We will continue to exploit M&A
opportunities with discipline as we have been doing so to date, mainly for the overseas
insurance businesses. In Ag right, we'll continue to lead the M&A strategies for the group.
Please turn to Page 17. As for domestic P&C business, Mr. Nishisawa will be explaining this
directly. So I'm not going into the details. But after FY 2019, we have started to work on
the earnings structure reform. We are assuming that the results to appear during the

Page 4 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

medium-term management plan. Please go to Page 18. Also about the overseas
insurance, our CEO of SI, Mr. Okumura will be talking to you from New York. So Sompo
International will be focused on the acquisition of the underwriters and the rate increase
as well as the Board-owned M&A and to grow the top line and they are growing much
higher than the peer groups. So we assume that their efforts will be realized during this
medium-term management plan.
Page 19. As a result of those efforts in FY 2023, we would like to achieve more than JPY
300 billion adjusted consolidated profit. We item business portfolio more diversified so
that we can improve the profitability and stability. This will lead to the improved resilience
of the group as a whole.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 20 shows our RDP, that is the second core strategy that is new customer value
creation. This is the very core of our RDP's tactics. So what do we want to achieve with
RDP. This is something that I'm trying to describe on this slide. Now the basis of the RDP is
to take advantage of our strength of Sompo that is the top player of the insurance
business and the nursing care business and to utilize the real data that we can gain from
our businesses and know-how. Those are not virtual data, but the real data and how to
utilize this data. And also to handle the data, and we have the leading partner Palantir
Technologies, so we can combine these technologies with real data. And by doing so, we
can develop solutions.
If we can improve the profitability with those bots, we would like to provides to external
parties as a software solution on the subscription basis, and so that we can generate
profits. And ultimately, we'll be working with outside players. So centering around Sompo
and affiliated companies. We can be a hub and we can create the ecosystem so that we
can make a contribution to resolution of the social issues. And as an operator of the
ecosystem, we would like to realize medium- to long-term profit growth. So that is the
overall picture of the RDP plan. And right now, the scale of business is expected to
exceed JPY 500 billion in the medium to long term. This could complement the insurance
business or could replace the insurance business in the future. This could be one of the
major pillars for us.
So here, we are describing the five sectors that we are currently studying. It shows the
overview as well as the road map and what we'd like to achieve in three years. In the area
of the nursing care, as I discussed this previously. In the final year of the medium-term
management plan, that is fiscal 2023, we would like to generate external sales and
profitability. In the area of the disaster prevention and mitigation, we have a knowledge at
Sompo Japan and data and we have a partner, one concern. So by utilizing their knowhow, we would also like to generate external sales and profitability in FY 2023. The details
will be discussed by Mr. Nagasaki, the CTO.
Now Page 22. This has done with the new work style in order to heighten the sense of
accomplishment and satisfaction of our employees. It's not just promoting the remote
work or telework. We need to reform the corporate culture and to change the work style
and also evaluation system and so forth. And for that, there are three core values that are
listed here. And by realizing those each one of the employees will be able to feel the
sense of mission and fulfillment and will be highly engaged and take advantage of their
Page 5 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

expertise autonomously. We will be able to give more power to the employees' diversity.
So that this would lead to the new value creation. So this is the last core part of our
strategy. This is something that we'll be working on as a management strategy.
Now Page 24. Now let me talk about the group management foundation, which will be
supporting the three core strategies. First is to improve the capital efficiency. The goal of
medium-term management plan is to achieve ROE of 10% or higher, the adjusted
consolidated ROE.
So from the risk and return perspective, we want to accelerate the allocation of the capital
and achieve the higher capital efficiency, which goes beyond the capital cost. More
specifically, since the beginning of the holding company, we have reduced the strategic
holding stocks by JPY 1.2 trillion, and we will continue this reduction. And as for the
HUMIRA Life, the interest rate risk we have expanded the purchase of the ultra-long-term
bonds to JPY 300 billion per year and this would lead to the lower risk. And also we would
utilize the surplus capital for the growth strategy and also improved return to the
shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next page, this has to do with the allocation plan of the capital. We'll be investing about
JPY 600 billion for the growth areas in this management plan. Now in terms of the scale
and diversification, we will be considering the overseas M&A, which can contribute to the
profitability and stability of the profit in the short term and in the area of the new
customer valuation, we'll be looking into capital allocation to the RDP and Healthcare,
which can contribute to a medium to long-term group's growth.
On the right-hand side of this slide, we are showing you the ESR target range, which is
changed to 200% to 270% during this new medium-term management plan. Now
between our risk model and the risk model of the rating agencies, there are different
recognition of the distribution effect. So this is in order to avoid any impact on the ratings.
Now with this new target range, even after the investment for the growth of JPY 600
billion, we will be able to achieve high capital efficiency as well as financial health. And as
for the growth investments, we will be conducting them in a disciplined manner project by
project. If the ESR exceeds the upper limit, then we would consider active shareholder
return when it exceeds 270 level.
Next is the shareholder return. We are changing the policy so that it will be easier for the
investors to understand. More specifically, we are thinking of 50% of the adjusted
consolidated profit as a base return. And as the profit and income growth during the
medium-term management plan, we will be steadily increasing this base return. In
addition, if the ESR level exceeds the upper limit of the target range for the -- all the time.
If there are some time when the profit declines temporarily, we would consider the
additional return. And as for the balance between the dividend and share buyback, we'll
be more focused on the dividend payment. More specifically, as the profit grows, we
would like to increase the dividend payment and increased percentage of the dividend
out of the shareholder return. So as we focus on the capital efficiency, we would like to
continue to provide attractive return to the shareholders. So please continue to watch us.

Page 6 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Next page shows the SDG management, which is extremely important from the
sustainable growth perspective. This is going to be something that we'll be working on in
a full-fledged manner. More specifically, in order to realize the purpose, we will be setting
up the materialities or KPI vis-a-vis the social challenges and strategies and actions, and
they will be incorporated into a management framework. The Sompo's strength is the
achievement that we made in terms of the contributions to the SDGs through our major
businesses of insurance and nursing care. By taking advantage of those strengths and
combining the real data and the network with the stakeholders, we'd like to act as a
platform to realize the social transformation and to generate the social value and
continuously improve the corporate value. That is to say to generate the social value and
that will lead to the profit for us. And as a result, that would lead to the higher market cap
for the company.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 29. In a sense, the most important thing is governance. Already, we have a BoD,
which has a number of the outside directors. We have a governance structure where the
BoD supervises execution. I myself in the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration
Committee. So the outside director of BoD actually does the supervision. In the area of
the execution, as we made the press release, the new CEO of Digital business and the
SVP of the Healthcare business were nominated so that we are ready to generate
businesses, which can contribute to our growth in the medium to long term. Also, we have
the Chief Digital Marketing Officer, now who will be in charge of the overall data
marketing across the Board.
Please turn to Page 30. Now in terms of our governance major change is this one. This is
the new press release. This is the new CEO of overseas insurance and reinsurance
business. As I mentioned at the beginning, from now on the overseas business
percentage will be higher in terms of our consolidated profit. So the emission of the
overseas insurance will be even more important. So as we made the press release, that
currently, we have a CEO, who is a joint Chairman, who will be replaced with Mr. James
Shea, as a new CEO of Overseas Insurance and Reinsurance business. Mr. Shea at AIG
and Zurich that is the global insurance companies. He has built a very rich career.
The corporate insurance also, he was the CEO of the insurance company. In the six
countries, he worked and through those experiences, You learned the importance of the
diversity. And also, he has a strong sense of crisis about the digital technologies and also
He has a lot of expertise in there, the retail business. So as our new CEO of the overseas
insurance and reinsurance business, we believe he is the best choice for us. Now Mr. John
Chairman had a very great leadership. So with that, the top line of the overseas business
has grown to JPY 1.3 trillion or USD 12 billion, and we have been growing much faster than
our peers. So from now, under new CEO, Mr. Shea, who has a global perspective, we
would like to evolve our overseas insurance business to the next level. And with that, I'd
like to end my part of presentation. Thank you for your attention.

Osamu Nose

{BIO 4205216 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Sakurada. Next, regarding the domestic P&C business. The presentation
will be delivered by Mr. Nishisawa. Over to you.

Page 7 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Unidentified Speaker
My name is Nishisawa. Thank you for having me today. So I'd like to talk about our
medium-term management plan for Sompo Japan. I will start from Page 32. First of all, I'd
like to look back at the previous midterm plan and the five years of it. Around 2017, in
particular, there were tremendous environmental changes that we felt. So we changed
the extension of our plans. And for 2019 and 2020, we looked out into the future, and we
decided to codify our business foundation and engage in structural reform. Especially for
structural reform, we engaged in sales network reform and earnings structure reform.
Moving on to Page 33. First of all, regarding adjusted profit in the previous midterm plan,
at the beginning of the medium-term management plan, the numbers that are shown
here were what we were upholding. However many things happened then after. There
were downward pressures of approximately JPY 69 billion against the downward
pressure. From the second half of the midterm plan, we engaged in earnings structure
reform and approximately JPY 47 billion of a boost was realized and due to COVID-19,
approximately JPY 41 billion of positive impact was seen. And as a result, in fiscal 2020,
we were able to reach JPY 130.1 billion.
Moving on to Page 34. Next, here are the specific earnings structure reform measures
that were taken. First of all, for all of the prices for pricing and underwriting, we thoroughly
did a review. There was some pain at the top line, but we engaged in reform in a dynamic
manner. As you can see, for pricing, we were able to see an impact of JPY 11.2 billion and
JPY 11.4 billion for underwriting. We also believe that we -- the number of people were
reduced by 4,070 people. And JPY 9.4 billion was the impact we saw that's equivalent to
2,480 people. In fiscal 2019, JPY 9.9 billion and JPY 32 billion in 2020 were the numbers
where we were able to realize that both exceeded our initial expectations.
Turning to Page 35. Here is the other piece of the structural reform, which is the sales
channel structure reform. Looking at the left-hand side chart, depending on the size of the
agent, when they are less than JPY 100 million in size, top line has been declining. Of
course even if they're small, some are still in the growth phase. There are some of those
types of agents to a certain degree. But in order to be chosen by the customer and to
continue to grow, we do believe that quality needs to be enhanced from a headcount
point of view as well as from a training point of view, and you do need a certain scale for
this to happen. For us, from fiscal 2017, we have been in dialogue with our agents from a
quality perspective and have been boldly pursuing cancellations and consolidations, and
we have also focused on training.
As a result, as you can see in the graph in the middle, the structure changed from
approximately 41,000 agents generating JPY 1.9 trillion in sales in fiscal '16 to 27,000
agents generating sales worth JPY 2.1 trillion in fiscal 2020. So we were able to go through
a large transformation. And as you can see on the right-hand side, as a result of our
efforts to date, the number of agents that are JPY 500 million or more in size increased
by about 19%. And for agents that are less than JPY 100 million in size, they went down by
38%. So we have been able to establish a new high-quality agent base.

Page 8 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Turning to Page 36. The structural reform of the sales network has also led to better
quality. As you can see, the sales network reform was conducted and we have been
engaging and enhancing the quality of our insurance claims service division. And for
automotive, satisfaction surveys by J.D. Power, as you can see here, we became number
one compared to all companies.
Starting from Page 37, I start my explanation about the new medium-term plan. First of all,
the Vision Mission brand slogans are shown here. The three pillars of the new mid-term
plan are acceleration of growth strategies, improved resilience and a stronger business
base. The key to accelerating the growth strategy will be to leverage marketing and
digital transformation in order to build a system to promote sales. While the key to
improving resilience will be to achieve a combined ratio of 91.7% by completing the
earnings structure reform that we have been working on since the previous midterm plan.
For solidifying the business foundation, a stronger business base, all the initiatives here
are important. But the update on the core system is something I would like to refer to
later on.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, please refer to Page 38. First, here's the profit plan under the new medium-term
management plan. Excluding the impact of COVID-19, the adjusted profit for fiscal 2020 is
-- was approximately JPY 90 billion. Although there was some downward pressure, such
as the -- we did engage in earnings structure reform. In fiscal 2023, we are going to aim
to achieve JPY 150 billion or more in adjusted profits. And for nat cat loss, in fiscal 2020,
we were expecting JPY 67 billion in the initial forecast. However during the new mediumterm management plan, we are expecting JPY 84 billion.
Next, please turn to Page 39. So this is the first pillar of the three pillars, which is the
acceleration of top line. In the previous five years of the midterm plan, we achieved top
line growth and there was some impact for decline in revenue. However CAGR resulted at
plus 1.4%. In the new midterm plan, we are anticipating a CAGR of plus 1.5%, which is on
par with the previous midterm plan. So with a high profitability, we believe this can be
achieved. And turning to Page 40. Therefore, for the top line plan in the new midterm
plan, this is something that we believe we must achieve.
We will employ additional growth strategies so that we could add on several tens of
billions of yen of top line, so that adjusted profit can be boosted even further. Specifically,
the items raised at the top will be addressed whether it be DX, marketing strategy
promotions and developing a newly setting agents as well as launching new products with
high profitability as well as developing new markets and so forth.
I'd like to particularly talk about marketing and digital transformation today. Please turn to
Page 41. So we have been inviting especially from outside from last year. And from this
fiscal year, for Marketing division and DX division was newly established. The department
was established digital marketing, including CRM and marketing automation. Things like
market survey product development, advertising PR branding in collaboration with highquality, fast-growing sales agent is something that we are going to embrace in order to
build a selling mechanism.

Page 9 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

We have already started the marketing POC trials for automobile insurance business in
Toyama Prefecture and Kochi prefecture. For example, looking at the sales of riders for
driving recorders in Toyama Prefecture, it increased by 7x compared to the previous
monthly average. In Kochi, it increased by 6x. And also in Toyama prefecture, the near
fleet, our new auto policies increased by 22.9%. In Kochi prefecture, it increased by 23.3%.
So we were able to see a very good effect. We will have to monitor if this is one-off or
sustainable, and we will be analyzing the result of test marketing. And gradually, we will be
expanding the geography and also product lineup.
Please go to Page 42. As a mid- to long-term growth strategy, we are already embarking
on a new area. Autonomous driving, mobility disaster prevention and mitigation. And for
all of these, they have a great affinity with the insurance business. In each of these
domains, we would like to establish a business model that generates profit and also strike
synergy during the course of this new midterm business plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 43. The second pillar is to raise resilience. This is about the earnings
structure reform. We are optimizing the pricing, and we will continue to try to optimize the
pricing for all of our product lineups. In particular, with the auto policies where the accident
rate is decreasing, we're expecting some price cut. But on the other hand, for fire
policies, we are assuming some price hike. And also in terms of underwriting, to date, we
have been monitoring a large 400 corporate policies in terms of monitoring as high lose
policies. But by using AI and planters analytical technologies, we will be monitoring around
8,000 contracts, including the SMEs. We have already completed the targeting, and we
have started this initiative from April. So this monitoring scale will be enhanced.
In terms of product improvement, with DX division, we will continue to utilize IT, and we
will be reducing the nonpersonnel expenses and also reducing headcounts by 2,600
people. And regarding the workforce optimization, we believe this will be feasible through
natural attrition stemming from the difference of -- between the number of people
retiring and also new hiring. As you can see in the middle, compared to 2020, we expect
improvement of JPY 57 billion approximately.
Page 44, please. So thanks to the result of earnings structural reform, in the past,
compared to the others, our combined ratio was far behind. But around fiscal '20, it has
been improved to the level close to the peers. Compared to company A, there is a
difference in the reinsurance programs. And also the impact of the natural catastrophe will
be different due to this factor. But reconciling for this, the combined ratio is very close to
the peers. And also in the new midterm business plan, We would also enhance our
combined ratio to achieve 91.7%. And as I mentioned earlier of achieving incremental top
line growth, we would like to further lower this 91.7% as an internal target.
Page 45, please. In terms of the earnings structure reform, we have optimized pricing and
also optimize underwriting. This is reflected in the improvement in loss ratio. Please refer
to this later at your convenient time.
Page 46, please. This is about sophisticating and penetrating the ERM. Now today I want
to talk about the management of the top two risks. The first one is the natural

Page 10 of 32



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

catastrophe risk. And going forward, as we grow the top line, we will also sophisticate our
ERM so that we can have the optimal reinsurance protection and appropriately control the
not yet risk. And also regarding strategic shareholdings, we will continue to reduce other
stock holdings, and this policy remains unchanged. However in our case, and the risk
amount of tesa stock holdings have been scaled down to a certain level. And also under
the current low interest environment, the dividend income from equities is also quite
substantial. So from a comprehensive judgment, We are aiming to reduce the stock
holdings by JPY 50 billion per year in total JPY 150 billion in three years.
Page 47, please. The third pillar is a stronger business base. We have been renewing the
core system. We have already renewed the system base and common base of products
to a large extent. In March 2021, we were able to release the first personal accident
product. And leading into fiscal '25, we will be releasing a new product in steps. So the
new system, as you can see, we are using the open system and also have been building
the API linking function. And regarding the size of the new system, it's about 1/5
compared to the previous one, the product development cycle can be reduced by 50%.
And also particularly for fiscal '23, in our main product in the auto poses, we will be
launching new products. So going forward, our productivity and profitability will be
enhanced significantly through this new system.
Page 48, please. This is the last slide. This is the list of the KGIs in the main KPIs. It's selfexplanatory. But as I have explained earlier, we have an internal stretch target. We will be
aiming for incremental top line growth. We would also like to aim for incremental profit
growth. After this internal stretch target, we have mandated the budget to the different
divisions and initiatives have been underway. So we would like to achieve this target. So
this will be the end of my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.

Osamu Nose

{BIO 4205216 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Nishikawa. Next is overseas insurance. Mr. Okumura, the speaker, will be
joining us remotely from New York. Mr. Okumura, please.

Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for the introduction. I am the CEO of Sompo International. My name is
Okumura. Before we start the presentation, our -- Mr. Sakurada, our CEO, said that as for
the succession of a joint Chairman, in the past 1.5 years, I have worked with them. So I'd
like to make some additional comments. Maybe you know that the John was in the
insurance business in the past 50 years. So half a century he was in the underwriting and
the management of the insurance company. In comparison to the others, commercial P&C
and the reinsurance usually is very much independent on people.
In Western countries, it is often the case that the people follow teams. So the succession
plan of John is something that after he joined the Sompo, during the five years of a
contract period, the timing of the succession and the skill and experience of the
successors. Those are the things that he carefully considered. Wanted to have a very
smooth transition, and I was actually looking at what he was doing. And last week, at
Atlanta as management members gathered and had to have a management meeting.
Page 11 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

In that meeting, Jiang himself talked about the succession plan, and he explained the
background behind it. So after joining Endurance, in 2013, the premium tripled. In 2017, he
joined the Sompo Group, and the premium doubled. In the commercial area, it exceeded
JPY 1 trillion. As for the strategies, SIH the retail companies are now under it and truly
integrated overseas platform foundation was built. And Endurance becoming the Sompo
family from 2017, John has promised to realize this. So from him, this foundation, and he
said that it needs to be enhanced and grown so that goes to the next level. That was the
kind of message he sent to the management team. So I myself as a management team
member, we'd like to work together with other team members and together with a Jim,
the successor, like to work closer with him to drive and lead the overseas insurance
business. So with that, I'd like to start the presentation of overseas insurance mediumterm management plan. Please go to Page 50. Now on this page, we are looking back at
the midterm management -- the previous midterm management plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

On this slide, one word I can say is the growth at higher scale and the disciplined
underwriting. So we are showing those, too. On the left, if you look at the graph, you see
that before the acquisition of the Endurance compared to the 2006, gross written
premium has doubled. In terms of CAGR, 23% increase was seen. So 23% of our growth
was achieved. And at the same time, on the right-hand side, there's another graph. And
excluding the cat and COVID, we're showing the combined ratio at the end of 2020, it will
-- it has a little less than 90%. Of course we have to talk about the cat and COVID later on.
In addition to the numericals, as you can see at the bottom, we have expanded our
underwriting team, and we had the bolt-on M&A strategically. Through those efforts, we
have sold the Cs for the future. The expansion of the scale is, together with the strong
financial foundation, the underwriting capability, strong underwriting capability was one of
the factors to realize this.
Now let me move on to Page 51. Here, we are looking at last year. Due to the COVID-19,
there are -- were a series of challenges. And here on this page, as you know, last fiscal
year, there was a COVID-19 impact and underwriting and investment lower than our
budget forecast. But as you can see on the left-hand side in the graph, despite this -- the
headwind, we saw the -- many new written premiums, which also the rate increase was
higher than the market, and we achieved 50% growth, as you can see here. As you see
on the right-hand side, the COVID-19 and capital risk, we had a very disciplined and good
underwriting. The risk management and risk control was done very well. So a strong final
foundation. So the impact on the shareholders' equity was relatively small. And until now,
we have been continuously worked on the management and clear wording and changing
of the portfolio. Those were reflected on those numerical numbers. But if you look at on
the left-hand side, in fiscal 2017, starting with the second half, the rate increase or pricing
increase cycle started. This cycle we took advantage of it. And after fiscal '17, every year,
we realize the price increases. From '17 to 2020, cumulatively, 57% of price increase was
realized. The bottom right shows the strategic achievements. First fiscal year, despite the
COVID-19, the flow of the people was controlled, but still, we realized the acquisition
diversified and the strategic area, that is a crop insurance area, we have grown to the
leading scale in the industry.

Page 12 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Now let's move on to the 52. Here, we are looking at the story of the operating income
expansion during this medium-term management plan in the waterfall chart. As you can
see from fiscal '20 to '23, mainly the underwriting income will increase so that overseas
insurance business will grow. As for the investments, due to the expected inflation, there
are some changes of the interest rate, but lower interest rate is likely to continue. So we
have a conservative (inaudible), as you can see. Now expanding the margin is to achieve
our plan and to lower loss ratio and acquisition costs and others. Let's look at the graph
on the left-hand side, the bottom, we're showing the pricing improvements driving margin
expansion is the overall overseas insurance business. Now as for the key operating
income assumptions, please look at the bottom right.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as assumptions, the price increase is about 11%. But in Q1, the price increase as a -- the
market as a whole, the growth has slowed down, but our recent number is actually much
higher than 11%, at least more than the increase of the local cost, we can realize the
higher pricing. So combined ratio as a result in fiscal '23, it'll be than 90%. That is our
expectation.
So here, I'd like to talk about expected cat, if I may. Underwriting and the improving
profitability and portfolio management and controlling the limit, we will be controlling the
capital risk. In 2021 and onwards, our expectation is the natural disasters and catastrophes
will stay at a high level. That is our assumption. The cat load or losses are estimated
based on that. 2021 compared to the year before, about JPY 20 billion plus cat load is
added. So we have a conservative plan. And also the direct insurance, we have a
diversification in terms of the region and the property risk diversification. So brokers and
distributor channels will be diversified, and we would diversify regionally. So we will be
expanding those regions, and that's what we have been trying to do. In the reinsurance,
we use a model for each line or business, and we conduct the pricing based on that. In
the claims and the reserves, we will work together so that we can increase the touch point
or look at the aggregate limit or lower that aggregate limit.
So to realize a certain level of top line and to replace the portfolio. And as a result, global
cat underwriting portfolio or the percentage will coming -- will be coming much lower. Also
thus, to work with Sompo Holdings and at the (inaudible) level and the group level and the
monthly and the quarterly, we are monitoring (inaudible). And based on that, underwriting,
policy and the holding policy and assume -- assumption policy, all of them will be reflected
so that we can manage the limit well. So all of those efforts will be considered as a
monitoring factor and so that we can stabilize our income. So we like to enhance
profitability through underwriting and also manage cat risk appropriately so that we can
stabilize our profitability.
Please turn to Page 53. Here on this slide, we talk about our growth prospects for the
commercial P&C business. On the left-hand side graph, we show the expectations for
gross written premium. We expect that both gross premiums and net premiums are
expected to go up by JPY 300 billion. Before, we were expecting 23% growth. But this
time around, we are expecting the growth rates to be close to 10%. But in this forecast,
inorganic growth is not included. Therefore, to a certain degree, I would say that the
nature of this expectation is conservative. Active risk-taking and capital allocation was

Page 13 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

referred to by our CEO earlier. We would like to ensure that we don't miss any more M&A
opportunities.

FINAL

On the right-hand side chart on Page 53, by taking advantage of the rate cycle, this talks
about higher retention. We have been increasing prices that exceed loss cost, and
underwriting profitability has been enhancing as a result. By having a disciplined capital
policy, we have -- we will proactively increase group retention.
For the bottom part of this slide talks about strategic priorities that support our overseas
business strategy. Last year, we acquired a diversified, and we will promote integration
with it, and we will also focus on process automation to enhance customer service and
also use data and technology to enhance risk management and investing to our
employees. That is our largest asset as well as places for them to develop.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn Page 54. On this slide, by reinforcing underwriting, the improvement on loss
ratio as well as scale expansion and better expense ratios by managing costs is shown
here. On the left-hand side graph, we talk about pricing and portfolio replacement.
Excluding cat and COVID impact, the normal loss ratio currently is around 50% plus. And
from fiscal '21 onwards, we are expecting even more improvement in the loss ratio.
Then looking at the right-hand side of the expense ratio, acquisition cost as well as G&A
cost is included as items. The 2020 level was around 26%. Due to COVID-19, there was
one-off cost reduction items. However from fiscal '21 onwards as well, retention is going
to steadily increase, and we will go through steady growth, but we will also manage costs
appropriately so that we could have industry leading expense ratios, which will be the
source of our advantage. So this is the last page of the overseas division.
On Page 55, I would like to explain about the overseas retail businesses. Currently,
overseas growth is driven by developed markets, commercial P&C business. However
over the medium to long term, we would like to capture growth opportunities in emerging
markets and diversify risk as well as profits. For last fiscal year, we were impacted by
COVID-19. And looking at relatively large markets, Turkey and Brazil, currencies largely
depreciated.
As for Brazil, we saw a onetime deterioration in profitability. However even under COVID19, during fiscal 2020, we continue to implement initiatives to make improvements and
engage in reform. For Brazil, (inaudible), the retail CEO, went to Brazil to ask the CEO and
CFO of Brazil to step down, and a corporate executive from SIH has become a Board
member of Brazil. And as we speak from the U.S., the person is participating in a
management meeting that is taking place in Brazil. Going forward, the corporate
members of SIH will ensure that we commit to emerging markets to support our retail
companies. We will have and strive to have consistent governance and leadership in place.
In the retail platform, from a performance and quality perspective, Turkey is the leader. Its
underwriting methods as well as its innovative initiatives is something we would like to roll
out.

Page 14 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

We have been able to realize skill transfers. In fact, from Turkey to Brazil, there has been a
person that was -- that is now stationed in Brazil to transfer the expertise around auto
pricing from Turkey. Furthermore, work style reform under COVID-19 is something that
Turkey has been working on. Specifically, under the remote working environment, they
were striving to improve productivity per capita by utilizing data. This kind of initiative is
something we would like to share between the retail companies so that we can realize a
new work style. So for the overseas business, whether it be commercial or retail, we
would like to pursue organic as well as inorganic growth opportunities so that we could be
a core part of the company's growth strategy, which is strengthening resilience. That
concludes my remarks. Thank you very much.

Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Mr. Okumura. Last but not least, we have the presentation on digital and RDP.
We will be speaking a few pages. Please turn to Page 69. Mr. Narasaki, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Koichi Narasaki

{BIO 20083913 <GO>}

I'm the CEO of the digital business and also group CTO. I will be using the next few
minutes to do my presentation on RDP and digital strategy. Please turn to Page 69. Group
CEO, Mr. Sakurada, mentioned this slide as well. So we are presenting this again. The key
point of this slide is that we are going to create new value. So how are we going to create
new value for the customers? Looking at the left-hand side, you will see some post trend.
With the insurance business and the nursing care business, we are the leading player in
the market. We have customers' data, the business process. We are operating this on a
daily basis. So we have a data from those operations. And every second, we have a huge
amount of data that we can capture, and we will be capitalizing on the Palantir's platform
to do analytics and also integration. That is the form of RDP.
In the center, you will see how we are going to improve the profitability by better
efficiency and we are going to monetize through external sales of this service. On top of
that, we will be using this as a platform to create the ecosystem that can cover the whole
industry. So this is a 3-step process to create a huge and new value to the customers. And
in creating new value for the customers, on top of that, we have social issues that we are
addressing such as new normal and aging population. We would like to solve these issues
by using RDP. We believe that this is going to be a true new value for the customers. And
by doing this, we'd like to generate a revenue of JPY 500 billion over the medium term.
Please turn to Page 70. We are also showing this slide again. This is simply amplified by
RDP. Currently, we have identified five areas of focus. Today I will be presenting mainly
about nursing care RDP and as a disaster prevention mitigation RDP.
Please turn to Page 71. This is how we are creating the software business model. To begin
with, with the insurance business and the nursing care business, we have real data as
leading players in the market. As you can see at the bottom, bottom left, we have these
(inaudible). Using this asset base, we have a vertical and horizontal development. And you
can see the arrows in both directions. On the vertical side, we will be using Palantir and
also other partners within Sompo Group. We will be utilizing their technology and
Page 15 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

expertise. And at the same time, looking at the horizontal axis, we have the Sompo's
power to drive the businesses, the sales and marketing capabilities to our customers.
So this arrow is going to slide up to the upper right-hand side, and this is how to build a
new business model. What we are trying to pursue, we indicate software business model,
but one way to look at our business, is I think the financial institutions is almost like a
software business. In that sense, the insurance business is offering a solution, i.e.
protection. This is like selling the protection through the (inaudible) model. So in essence, I
think we can see that financial services somewhat like a software business. We have been
doing a data shipment business covering the security well-being, and we'd like to build a
new business model leveraging on those factors. So this is strongly affiliated with the
software business. The reason why we can do this at Sompo is because, as I have been
saying, we have the real data -- we own the real data, and we have this proportionate
advantage. And also, as you can see, about the top of this diagram, we have global
partners who are very powerful and capable. So we will be working together with them to
build our strength as a software provider. So this is going to be the horizontal arrow that
we are going to pursue. This will be driven by Sompo driving force, accessibility to the
market, the branding power and also sales and marketing capabilities. So those will be all
compounded to pursue this direction. And also in order to give you an image of our
business opportunity and also how we are going to monetize this, I would like to offer you
more detailed explanation about RDP. Palantir is a platform, which we are using for RDP.
It's called foundry, and this is going to be the foundation of a platform. This is almost like
the pizza base.
On top of the pizza, we will be starting toppings, which will be the existing businesses we
have and also technology of our partners and so our customer base and also expertise
from third parties. So this will be like the sauce or the topping for pizza. And by building
that all together, the ecosystem can get larger. So this is the basic business model for
growth for RDP.
Please turn to Page 72. So on this page, we are talking about the nursing care multiplied
by RDP. Let me briefly explain this. In the industry of the nursing care, as you know, it's a
very labor-intensive and it's paper-based. The care managers providing cares, we are
very much dependent on their instinct and experiences. So we are the leading number of
the facilities, and also custom-made care is realized, and we are using the latest
technologies, and we have been challenging all of those. So kind of an analog approach
will be shifted to the digital. So the data asset that we can accumulate from this nursing
care business is very powerful, and we fully recognize that. So by utilizing such data in the
nursing care business, for example, the accidents, incidents, we can get the signs of it, we
can improve the productivity and improve the QOL [ph] of the residents. So kind of
solution models that we have been generating. Those solution models can contribute to
the improved productivity for us, which we are already doing. But for the other peers, we
can provide this as a subscription. We can external -- we can monetize through the
external sales.
In addition to the nursing care, we can also collaborate with medical sector. So by realizing
this overall ecosystem, the scale of it can be expanded. So this is a kind of a scheme that
we like to realize. With this, as you can see here, the potential market size is about 100
Page 16 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

billion, as you see on the bottom of this page. The aging society and the gap between
the supply and demand of the nursing care is a social issue. So we can also contribute to
the resolution of those social issues. And eventually, in the long run, we can apply this
globally, that is to export this. That is also something that we can expect. So it has a very
high potential, and we are currently working on this.
Now turning to Page 73. This is the second page of the nursing care multiplied RDP. So
more specifically, what are we creating is shown here. Since last year, within our
institutions, we are having the pilot or demonstration. Then by utilizing the data, we are
improving the operation, and we can optimize the operation, and we have already proven
that. You see the result one and two here. Demonstration result one is improvement of
decision accuracy through data integration. What this means is that the voice of the field
or front-line [ph] can be collected. So there are a lot of schedules, for example, care
schedule. So as the residents and patients become higher in terms of the level of the
care. And also, the care plan and the actual are quite different. So the level of the need of
the nursing care probably needs to be changed, and it needs to be applied. So this is truly
the data-driven nursing care and the improvement of the nursing capital. So this is
something that we have already realized. And now this is possible with the foundry of the
Palantir and the implementation of the RDP for the data are integrated. The residents and
the next action can be seen at one glance.
So for example, the weight loss can be detected. And for example, last week, this patient
had one of the teeth removed. And because of that, the -- she or he is eating less. So we
can get those two data, and AI would detect it, and they can change the food to
something softer from the solid. So the -- we can improve the actual care. This is
something that happens on a daily basis. So a very quick and appropriate action can be
made possible with nursing care multiplied by RDP. And also the prototype is being
completed so that we can provide these to external parties -- to the external players of
this industry. So we can create the peers and finding the early adopters who are
interested in introducing this, and we have already approached those early adopters.
Page 74. Here, we talk about the disaster prevention and mediation and RDP. As you can
see, the strength of Sompo, as I said, is 20 million client data from the domestic P&C. We
also have the company's know-how and underwriting and also the accident data. We have
decades of data. So this is -- the domestic P&C is the biggest business, and we have a
huge asset. And also in terms of the natural disaster, we have a lot of data. So by utilizing
this, we can provide, for example, predictive nursing care, and we can also predict the
damages from the disasters. Other insurance companies are looking at after the
disasters. But in our case, we can take preemptive measures by predicting the damages
from the disasters. For example, in the case of earthquakes, since -- within 30 minutes,
we can point out the damage of the different areas and how much support that they
need.
So AI can calculate that. And as for the flooding, before 72 hours, before the flood occurs,
we can predict it so that we can evacuate people and take measures preventively. So this
has become possible. So as I mentioned, this is prevention and mitigation. One concern
that is a Silicon Valley company is now our partner, and this makes it possible. And by using
their technology, we can quickly evacuate people and also support those people who
Page 17 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

have difficulty evacuating. Right now, with the one concern through the partnership, the
prediction model of the flood is being developed. So within three years, we will be able to
provide the subscription-based services for the local governments.
Please turn to Page 75. This is my final page. Now to create the new customer value, the
software business model is something that I have already explained. In order do this,
those are the important factors. Sorry that this slide is very busy. Now the traditional
insurance business in Japan is the origin of our company, but we are incorporating digital
technologies and working with the partners through RDP, and we have built those
experiences. So in order to generate the software business model, we are now seeing
the necessary factors. Unfortunately, as you see on this slide, it's not all the factors that
we have right now. But through the M&A, we can internalize some of the functions. And
also, we can build a close partnership with other companies. Through those, we would like
to accelerate and complement some of those factors that we don't have right now. So
new model and a new social value and new customer value creation is something that we
would like to realize. And with that, I'd like to end my part of the presentation. Thank you
for your attention.

Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Mr. Narasaki. This concludes the presentations from our side.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next, we would like to move on to Q&A. Here's the first question. It's Mr. Muraki [ph] from
SMBC Nikko Securities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

This is Muraki from SMBC Nikko. I have two questions. My first question is in the new
midterm plan, rather than shareholder return, it seems that you're looking for and
pursuing midterm growth. So from that point of view, my question is on Page 25, which
talks about capital management. This time around, the target range for ESR was
increased. You were saying because you would like to make growth investments and you
would like to maintain your ratings, growth investments, if you were to make JPY 600
billion worth, generally speaking, valuation-wise, how much would ESR go down? What is
your assumption? And for -- as a way of funding, for hybrid bonds, how many points would
that be equivalent to? And if you were to sell Palantir, how much would that boost up ESR?
That is my first question. Second question is, because we have with us Mr. Okumura from
overseas, I have a question about the overseas business.
On Page 50, post-acquisition, you were able to grow gross written premiums by double.
However for bottom line, the contribution of JPY 40 billion is not happening in a steady
manner, unfortunately. In the next midterm plan, including cat, stabilizing bottom line, I
believe, is one of the challenges you would like to achieve. You talked cat load as well as
the number of spaces you have. When it comes to diversification as well as managing
exposure for cat risk, how much progress are you making? And how much progress is
Page 18 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

going to be made going forward? And for the new owner, (inaudible) -- under the
leadership of (inaudible), which regions and areas and functional reinforcements are you
going to use the JPY 600 billion for? That's my question.

FINAL

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

This is the group's CFO, Hamada speaking. Thank you very much for your question. So let
me take your first question. For the details of ESR, today I would like to refrain from
speaking about the details. But for the investment amount of JPY 600 billion that we set
forth this time around, with regards to the scale of investments compared to before, has
this increased? When I have the opportunity before to speak, I had always said that we
are thinking about acquisitions, if any, which is equivalent to the size of Endurance. We
have been able to specify that this time around in the new midterm plan. So the
breakdown of the JPY 600 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

As in your second question, it might be acquisitions of insurance companies overseas
where it might be investment into the digital domain. If it's an insurance company, after
goodwill, risk will increase in amount. And hypothetically, like Palantir, if it's a non-insurance
company, and if it's an investment into technology, the majority of the acquisition value is
typically goodwill. So JPY 600 billion is the budget. But basically, our thinking is that the
JPY 600 billion will have an impact on both capital as well as risk. And for hybrid bonds, in
order to fund the JPY 600 billion, is that our assumption? Yes, it is one of the assumptions
we have in place in order to fund the JPY 600 billion. We were having discussions in
February and March. However looking at the share price, the assumptions have somewhat
changed, and I can't say how much. But for soft capital, which fluctuates, we don't want to
depend on that. Rather, we would like to have surplus capital that we can depend on.
Finally, for Palantir and its impact on ESR from a point basis, I would like to refrain from
giving you the details. However as you know, currently, the unrealized gain is about JPY
200 billion at this moment in time. However on the other hand, share prices going up,
meaning that risk will also go up as well. But the impact on ESR is not that substantial is the
way we view it. For the shares regarding Palantir, in order to collaborate with Palantir going
forward as well, we own their shares, and there may be a case where we continue to own
their shares. But rather than owning the shares perpetually, leveraging on the unrealized
gain will allow us to invest into other fields of digital and RDP, and we believe that is one
good option as well. So we are looking into possibilities. So I apologize I haven't given out
the details for ESR, but that ends my answer.

A - Unidentified Speaker
So may we go on and answering your question about the overseas business? Yes. Mr.
Okumura, please, over to you.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Thank you for your question, Mr. Muraki. For the overseas business, you asked two
questions. One is about how are we going to control earnings volatility and contribute, in
turn, to group profitability. The other is under Jim, how is JPY 600 billion going to be
allocated to our businesses? So those are the two questions. So for the first part of your

Page 19 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

question, in the underwriting as well as reinsurance side, we have been promoting and
accelerating efforts. The agriculture business and for global cat are areas where cat has a
big impact.
So in these areas, completely removing volatility is hard to do. When a large cat occurs, it
depends on the industry as well as the state and region. We are constantly hit with a loss
of 1.1% to 1.2%. So because we're going to expand in scale, volatility cannot be inverted
completely. However from a global cat perspective, in our overall portfolio, we used to be
about 14% to 15%, but it went down to 8% in fiscal '20. And by fiscal '23, we would like to
reduce that by several points. When we do the reinsurance, we will control it, but we will
also reduce volatility in the feeding [ph] side as well. It's all about model calculation. But
for profit stability, we would like to reduce the volatility of our profits year after year.
So attritional loss ratios probably can be controlled through pricing. And for cat, like I
mentioned earlier, scale expansion and portfolio replacement, by controlling the lines of
business, we would like to make our profit base even more steadier. I was fully engaged
in the formulation of the business process and reinforcing cat load, and I was looking at
the replacement process of the portfolio. I think our current business plan is quite
reasonable. So with it, we would like to contribute to the group profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

For M&As, on the other hand, we are working together with Nigel's team. Like when we
acquired diversified, despite COVID-19, SI's management team were able to partner with
Nigel's M&A team. So doing that disciplined M&A is important. But not only that, the postmerger integration process is important as well. So bolt-on M&As are a good part of our
strategy when we need to diversify.
So in terms of buying time, we believe that bolt-on M&As are good. However if we are
talking about a transformational deal, Nigel and his team are scrutinizing opportunities
globally. Whatever the case may be, we are looking at both scale as well as profitability
and post-merger integration, PMI. If we are able to confirm that can happen, we would like
to give out the green light. If we use the entire JPY 600 billion worth of investments, the
other businesses will be angry at us, but we would like to ensure that we continue to be
drivers of profit and grow in the future. We are very hungry. So even after Jim joins us, I
would like to partner well with him in order to identify new opportunities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

For overseas, I have a follow-up question. Up until now, (inaudible) was very aggressive in
his personality. But for the new business owner and his character, we are not familiar with
him yet. So what kind of person is see? And what kind of expectations did you have when
you hire him?

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Well John created a culture that's not only aggressive, but he put a lot of importance on
underwriting. So commercial P&C, I personally felt that our underwriting process is
extremely important. So what he created is not just scale and numbers, but I think he
created a good team who's committed to results. We talked about new work styles and

Page 20 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

being mission-driven and results-oriented. Centered around John and his management
team, people now uphold that spirit. He was saying that we should constantly work as his
team as we transform to the next phase. With Jim, he will be joining from September
onwards. So I would like to ensure we have close communication. But as far as I know, he
is a good listener as a manager is what I've been hearing. I'm sure that people who lead
have different styles. But I'm sure that he will respect our existing management team, but
we'll also apply his wealth of experience that he gained internationally in various regions
so that he could drive simple international to the next stage. Thank you very much.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding Jim, I have met him several times. And despite COVID-19, we were able to
have meals between the phases of the declarations. One year ago, I heard that there was
a good person as a candidate. And before we nominated him to the Nomination
Committee, I met him in person. I think his personality is somewhat different from John.
Whether he is aggressive or not, superficially, when you look at them at a glance, I would
say John is clearly more aggressive. However for this gentleman as well, he was originally
a banker. Then after, he went to AIG. And during that period of time, he was also living in
Tokyo for a while, and he was overseeing Asia retail. Then after, he oversaw the global
business and specialty insurance in the commercial field at Zurich.
So the reason why he wanted to join Sompo was we -- because we have a global
platform and are poised to roll out the insurance business on top of this one single
platform, and he has never heard about any other company doing that. He was saying
personally what he has gained as experienced in the past is something he would like to
apply by joining us. So from aggressiveness or ambition point of view, maybe he looks
more gentle, but I'm sure that what's inside him is ambitious.
Once I met him, the reason why I wanted to recommend him to the Nomination
Committee was, of course he has the basic skills, but he is a person who has experience
in retail. Secondly, the number of countries he has actually lived in is very high. So he is
very cultured and diversified and cultured. And he listens very well. He listens first. And
until the other day he was leading the commercial business of Zurich. So when you want
to manage a large organization, it seems that he puts priority on listening first. So I am
sure that he will be able to grow what John has done even more. The members of the
Nomination Committee, I think shared the same view. So I look forward to working with
him. Thank you very much.
Next from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, Ms. Tsujino, please.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

I have two questions. My first question is regarding Sompo International. For fiscal '21, the
projection is already shared, and we can have visibility for fiscal '21. But beyond that, you
have to have a profit growth of JPY 20 billion every year overseas to achieve your target,
and I think that driving force is going to be Sompo International. And looking at your slides,
the net earned premium assumption. So from -- after fiscal '21, you have to have a growth
of 27%. So I guess increasing the premium or the rate hike alone will be difficult to achieve
this. So are you going to acquire any customers and expand your product line? How much
Page 21 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

progress are you making on that front? And can we uphold their expectation for those
opportunities? Can you give some specific examples? And I understand that it's a
favorable environment for increasing the rate. But when companies try to increase the
rate too quickly, then that could lead to a deterioration in the loss later. So can you give
some additional comments on that concern?
My next question is on Page 26 regarding additional returns. To conduct additional returns,
you mentioned that there will be four cases. The first one is when the ESR level exceeds
the upper target range on a consistent basis, you will consider additional returns. If that is
the case, is it right to assume that for the time being, we should not expect additional
returns because that's what it seems to say on the slide. You also have other three points,
but I guess the biggest constraint may be the first point.
Also looking at the first point and the other three points, I can explain the relationship of
these factors. And also on a related note, you have the investment budget for JPY 600
billion. I think you say this is the investment capacity. And in the current midterm
management plan, you are not assuming this investment for achieving our target. But in
order to acquire new technology or IT capability, I think you will be looking for
opportunities. If that is the case, I guess you will not be exceeding the upper target range
of 270% in ESR on a consistent basis. I understand that you are committed to base return,
but can you explain how much expectation we can afford for your additional returns? Also
regarding overseas, Please, Mr. Okumura, can you answer that question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Mr. Dino for your question. Leading up to fiscal '23. I think I was asking
about the story for growth. As we said, the rate hike for '21 will be 11%. At this point, it's
outperforming that outlook. And for fiscal '22 and fiscal '23, the rate hike will moderate.
However having said that, the rate hike is above the loss amount. I believe that we
continue to improve the loss ratio gradually. The numbers with the waterfall chart, I think
it's Page 52, a JPY 49.1 billion of improvement. As it's the third bar from the right. And loss
ratio improvement, it's going to give us JPY 26 billion, this is both commercial and retail.
And also by improving the expense ratio, that will be JPY 11 billion. With revenue growth, it
will be a little over JPY 10 billion. Together, the improvement is going to be JPY 49 billion.
And regarding the different lines of business and products, now we are going to control
the exposure to global cat.
But on the direct underwriting, the underwriters are being increased for the strategic lines
of business. GRS, we did not have this five years ago, but it's growing and we have the
property and casualty business here. For property, as I said earlier, we have a cat risk. Also
we will have further diversification in terms of geographical coverage. And for U.S.
insurance, we have been increasing the number of underwriters for the casualty lines of
the business. So we will be increasing the underwriters for the casualty. With that, we are
going to increase the gross written premium. This is one major initiative to change the
structure of our portfolio. And also, you mentioned that rate hike alone cannot explain this
growth, but we are seeing improvement on the underwriting side, so we are augmenting
our retention. And leading up to fiscal '23, we will be increasing the retention by three
percentage points. And based on that, we are calculating our ESR and capital efficiency.
We will be increasing the retention by a few percentage points so that we can achieve
Page 22 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

growth and profit, and we have been able to manage the cost. We have the industryleading expense ratio. And by doing that, in fiscal '23, we would like to achieve a profit of
a little over JPY 100 billion.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for that answer. I think you have 63% as retention. On the graph, it's 65%. So I
thought that was going to be the increase in the retention, but are you expecting a further
increase? And on Page 57, I think you have all the global business, not just SI and the
expense and the loss improvement. Looking at the further improvement apart from SIH
from fiscal '22 and beyond, would you be able to expect more contribution coming from
other markets other than SIH?

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

There are some marginal errors in the graph, but I think we can go up to 70% to a little
less than 70%. The main driver for growth will be the SI commercial business and
reinsurance. But on the retail side, we are building the platform, and we are making good
progress. There is the currency issue, but leading into fiscal '23, we will be able to
improve the loss ratio and expense ratio will also be improved. So that would have the
impact of three digits.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

And on your second question about the shareholder return, I will be taking that question.
This is Hamada. So going back to Mr. Muraki's question, he mentioned that our focus is on
the medium to longer-term growth rather than immediate shareholder return. But I would
like to say that, that is actually not our intention. Obviously we have appetite for
investment. We have set forth an actual number as budget. But we're not intending to use
that all up. We want to make sure that there is discipline in our investment strategy. It may
look like we are becoming less generous for shareholder return because previously we
were saying that the shareholder return is going to range between 50% to 100%. But this
time, we're staying over 50%, so that may have given you some negative implications. But
let me explain. So we changed the shareholder return policy versus the previous MTMP on
two points. One is that we have shifted our focus more on dividend. Looking at the profit
growth to date and also future profit growth, we believe we were behind the curve in
terms of dividend hike.
So we decided to focus more on dividend payment. And also the total range of 50% to
100% was to why does the range, as some investors pointed out that this is difficult to
understand, so we just rephrase that, meaning that we have the base return which
previously have been communicated as at least 50%. This is now rewarded as base
return. Then previously we said up to 100%. This is now rephrased as additional base. So
to answer your question, Mr. Jin, to do additional return, there are four requirements, and
these are all separate and standalone. The first point is not a minimum threshold. Also
regarding this additional return, we will be looking at the M&D market each year and also
the hybrid funding environment and also financial markets.

Page 23 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

So we will be looking at different factors every year to if we should do additional return.
Also it's not as if it's going to happen in just special years. The additional returns could
happen every year. So basically, our policy remains unchanged from the previous one. And
regarding the JPY 600 billion, so we are not thinking of retaining that for the next three
years as solid figure. We will be looking at the market environment and opportunity. It's
not as if we will have a big opportunity to use this in a lump sum, but we'll be monitoring
the market closely at the respective time.

Q - Unidentified Participant
So I guess if there is a big nat cat like in fiscal '19, you may do additional return so that the
total payout will not be reduced significantly. Is that an appropriate understanding?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Of course we cannot commit to that. But regarding dividend, the dividend will be hiked in
commensurate with the profit growth. And also regarding the return policy, we will make
efforts so that the payout will not decrease.

Operator
Next is from Daiwa Securities. Mr. Watanabe, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Yes. This is Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. I have two questions. First is on Page 26, the
shareholder return. The bottom left, the total return because of the lower profit
temporarily and the maintaining. So does this mean that you made a commitment to this?
On the right-hand side, the speed of increase of the dividend, it's by JPY 40, and that is
the plan for this fiscal year. So JPY 40 will be the unit that you're increasing the dividend
by.
On Page 53, overseas business, the retention percentage, 26% in fiscal '20 and 67% in FY
'23. So 67% and then is there a room for further increase? And during the medium-term
management plan, the cumulative pricing increasing. So what would be the price increase,
the cumulative number during the medium-term management plan?

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. First of all, Mr. Hamada will answer to your first question. Well until now, in
fiscal '18 and '19, natural catastrophe pushed down the profit. In terms of the return, we try
to maintain the previous year's level. That direction has not changed. So of course as for
the temporary changes, of course based on the assumption that the overall capital is not
damaged. There are several factors, but it doesn't mean that we are committing to it, but
we have a very strong intent on keeping this direction.
The JPY 40 dividend increase, when we decided upon this, we are again shifting toward
more dividend increase and also the JPY 200 billion to JPY 300 billion, we want to
increase the profit level 1.5x in three years. We want to base our dividend increase based

Page 24 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

on that. So we have conducted the simulation to come up with this JPY 40 dividend
increase. So as for the future dividend increase, of course we cannot make a commitment
today. But it is possible. So because of that, we decided to pay JPY 40 per share higher
dividend this year. So I think there was a question about overseas business. So Okumurasan, please answer that question.

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Mr. Watanabe. I think you had two points about the -- in our business plan,
what is the perspective of the price improvements? And is it possible to make higher
retention. As for the rate improvement in fiscal '21, as an average based on the internal
calculation, about 11%. Then after that, gradually, it will go down to the single digit. That is
an assumption. And based on that, our business plan is formulated. And during three
years, we believe that the rate would go up, but it will go down to the single digit.
Concerning the rate, as you know, there are various natural catastrophes which could
happen and the market will change based on that and it is a very dynamic market.

Bloomberg Transcript

So looking at the situation of the market, we would like to maximize the rate
improvements. And as for the retention strategy, the agribusiness, for example, included
67% is the current level. And under profit rate increase and the portfolio replacement, we
would like to look at the profitability to decide upon the retention. At the same time, the
ESR and the capital and the reinsurance market, we will look at all of those factors. Of
course there are assumptions, but we would like to be changed the increase, the
reinsurance or retention flexibly. So the profitability and the capital and the market, we
look at all of those factors. So based on the numbers that I mentioned, there could be
some fluctuations or changes. Mr. Watanabe, does that answer your question? Okay.

Operator
Okay. Next, we would like to move on to Mr. Otsuka from JPMorgan Securities.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

This is Otsuka from JPMorgan. I just have one question. On Page 14, at the bottom of
Page 14, you talked about creating new customer values. In the area of RDP, the real data
platform, you're talking about external sales and commercializing. There's some details
on RDP on Page 20, so just wanted to confirm about this business. For the middle
diagram, you're saying to two businesses or more, when it talks -- when you talk about
external sales. So progress-wise, would you like to move on to the stage two that you
show here, which means subscription solutions will start gradually, and you will be able to
externally collaborate in 2023, is that what you are aiming to realize by 2023? I just
wanted to have a better image of this.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I, Narasaki, will take your question then. Regarding the assumption and your thoughts, yes,
you've rightly said, for the two businesses, we are talking about two businesses where
the RDP business model is going to be established in. So in three years' time, what we
envision is subscription-based business model that we would like to externally sell outside
of the group where we can create value, and we want this to be monetized. So we want
Page 25 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

to realize this in two businesses or more. Of course for specific KPIs and metrics, in the
next three years, it may accelerate. However for today we just explained our thoughts at
the high level.

FINAL

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

And so additionally, for the size of the business you're anticipating, which is JPY 500
billion or more, is that when you realize the ecosystem creation fees? And this may be a
qualitative question. But with respect to the pace of development, Mr. Sakurada or Mr.
Narasaki, how do you view the progress you're making so far?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well in short, when you look at the way the digital business was up until now, it may grow
exponentially or else we'll need to switch over to different ways of growth. I think we may
be able to reach JPY 500 billion in no time. If we don't, we should do something else. So
the base way of thinking is we need to think about what's the strength of our digital
business at Sompo. One is for the real businesses, I -- you may not have been able to
hear me because I was wearing a mask. Apologies. But there are two things. So we have a
core business, a real business. We have people out in the field. So for our solutions, it's
not just conceptual. We are able to feel and understand whether it works in the field, so
it's kind of like a test field, where we can try out the solutions we come up with.
Secondly, as I've said before, it's not virtual data, we're talking about real data. So as long
as we are able to cleanse personal data and be compliant to restrictions, we will be able
to come up with various types of ideas, I'm sure. So for the digital business, I don't want
to preach to the choir, Otsuka-san, but there are many people thinking about a digital
business in the world. Some people may feel why is Sompo successful on this front so far.
But we have been having a lot of discussions for this past year, and we think it's because,
number one, we have a field, so we know the relationship between operations and data.
Secondly, there is no fake data. We know who the owners are. We know where the data is
coming from. So it's quality data that we're dealing with. So when you integrate the two
together, the solutions will become very specific, whether it be health, security, well-being
related data, it's not only that, it's about community data. When you want the local
governments to make more money, for example, people are talking about smart city. But I
think in Japan, they should include nursing care and health aspects so that they could
create smart villages. There's about 2,000 around the world -- in Japan, villages in Japan.
If we are able to apply this concept, we could see exponential growth. So the source may
be taxes where it might be national government funds. But By leveraging our strengths,
we would like to identify good partners so that we can become operators of the RDP
platform, which I think is going to be key to the monetization of RDP. That's all for myself.

Operator
We are past our given time, but because there are some people who are raising their
hands, we would like to continue on. Next is from Mr. Sato of Mizuho Securities.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

Page 26 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Hello. My name is Sato. I also have one question regarding RDP. The other question about
profit growth in the domestic P&C business that I'd like to confirm. So for RDP, I'm a boring
person, so all I want, I want to know about profit contribution. Can you give me an image?
Over the course of the medium-term plan by engaging in data, I don't think you have
specified how much profit contribution you're anticipating. But when you look at each of
the businesses, you are revealing high loss policies. Solution provision and nursing care
may be an opportunity that RDP addresses as well. So during the course of the midterm
plan, how much of impact are you expecting at the bottom line from RDP, if you have any
quantitative targets? In conjunction with that, you're saying that medium to long term, you
would like to strive to reach JPY 500 billion in top line that you have indicated. But what is
the base of your profit target, assuming that you're able to reach JPY 500 billion in top
line? So that is all for my first question.
My second question is, it goes into a little bit detail, but Page 38 of the presentation, I
think talks about the domestic business and profit growth -- the profit growth breakdown.
So various initiatives is something we will look at progress wise. But when it comes to the
improvement of loss ratio and automotive insurance, it says JPY 17 billion improvement.
Of course it's a line of business where advisory rates are applied. So structurally speaking,
it is quite neutral. So what is the backdrop to including this forecast this time around? And
how much is the probability of achieving this?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
For the first question, actually, at the Board meeting, we are still having active discussion. I
have to take off my mask again excuse me. I don't want to reveal what kind of active
discussion we're having, but the reason why we're having active discussion, generally
speaking, is for the software or solution business or the platformer business is one that
enjoys high profitability. It's typically double digit, and it's not about in the teens, it's in 20something percent or in some cases, maybe Nagasaki-san, the CDO, knows this better,
but there are some cases where you can generate profitability of 30% or more. So that is
a fact. And if you multiply that by sales, if sales is JPY 100 billion, it means that you could
get JPY 20 billion in profits.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

So what is the ratio for each business?

A - Unidentified Speaker
We are not sure at this moment. We have to try it out first. So as we have active
discussion, when you look at market penetration, visualization of nursing care and
prediction of nursing care, we believe there's about JPY 100 billion of opportunities and
half of that will be JPY 50 billion, for example. If you apply the margins to that, that is how
you could drive the profits. So you could do that on your own. Because if I specify what
kind of calculations we're running, it will turn out to be a commitment, and we don't want
to do that at this moment. Same thing for disaster prevention. There may be JPY 100
billion opportunity, and the solution may generate margins of a certain amount. But one
thing I would like to say is there are opportunities worth JPY 500 billion in top line. And for
profitability, looking at our past digital and solutions business, you're able to estimate how

Page 27 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

much we're doing. So what we're trying to do going forward, we have one or two
prototypes that are already available.
So if you look at how much profitability they are respectively generating, you'll start to get
a feel of how much profit contribution is going to come into place, and it should be early.
Maybe the first phase will materialize during the course of this fiscal year. So please look
forward to it, and we would like to do a good job. So that was a very sharp question. But
at the Board, we're still in the middle of discussions. So unfortunately, I would like to
refrain for making comments today. Mr. Narasaki, do you have anything to add?
No. I don't.

Bloomberg Transcript

So for domestic P&C, I will respond to your question. For less accidents leading to better
profitability in the automotive line of business, it is an advisory rate line of business. If the
loss -- there are cases where the loss ratio deteriorates as well as improve. The revision in
advisory rates happen after that phase, so there is a time lag. So that's the premise that
we're working on. And where we are right now is the repair cost, unit cost has been due
to advanced safety components mechanisms. The repair costs have been increasing by
3%. But due to the penetration of ASV at the same time, the loss ratio accident ratio has
been less than before. When you count for COVID, the future forecast will change. So
when you exclude the COVID impact, for example, in our case, compared to fiscal '20,
we're expecting minus 3.5% in fiscal '21 and minus 4% by fiscal '23. That is our assumption.
And rates will start to decline in a time lag. However estimate-wise, we are expecting an
improvement in profits by this amount that we specify on this slide.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

For RDP, you are already engaging in initiatives. But in the group, as you work on efficiency
measures, do you have any numbers that you are accounting for? And how much
efficiency gains that you are anticipating? If you don't, you don't have to share it with us.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Are you talking about domestic P&C or overall?

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

I'm talking about overall with Palantir and data analysis technology by leveraging it, are you
-- do you have any quantitative numbers that you are aiming for?

A - Unidentified Speaker
In short, there are no numbers that we can share today. Reason being, as Mr. Sakurada
said earlier, it's basically what he said. But for this business model, we are having
discussions around the business model still. So I think the volatility of it is still high. And as
Mr. Nishizawa mentioned earlier, on Page 43, in the presentation deck, as you've pointed
out earlier, the benefits of RDP is that before we sell it externally, we are able to generate
impact internally. So benefit wise, we are able to field the benefits in our existing
businesses from a profit point of view. And also because it's so good, we would like to
Page 28 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

offer it through a subscription model by externally selling it. So for internal profits, each of
the business owners have a good image of the bottom line and are looking at realistic
numbers with the application of RD. But the impact of RDP or the impact from the
platform is something we cannot specify and share with you. But for the subscription
model, because of the reasons I mentioned earlier, as we are still in discussion, I would
like to refrain from going into detail today. So that's where we are.

Operator
Next, from Citigroup, Mr. Niwa.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

I have two questions. One is on digital. And also, how you see the market over the
medium term? This is something that you discussed with Mr. Sato, but regarding the
profitability, you mentioned the number 30%. Generally speaking, In the software market,
I think you continue a margin of 30%. But in SaaS business, it's about 70%. So my
understanding is that rather than platform, this is like a software development. And are
you going to have a difficulty in securing engineers going forward in that sense? So my
first question is to confirm on that point. And my second question is some holdings
fundamental power that you view Mr. Sakurada and the dislocation in the market. I believe
for the profit and ROE, you have achieved the previous MTMP. And also, you are
envisioning achieving the theme park for security, health and wellbeing. But in the last five
years, your share price was moving very flattish. So first, how do you view the gap? And
the reason for this gap? And in your new MTMP, if you achieve the target, I think they're
setting the cost of capital at 7%. Your ROE is going to be 10% of the cost of capital. So
your price to book should be well above 1x. Is that the goal that you're aiming for? Or is
that the medium- to long-term direction that you're trying to pursue when trying focus on
the short-term stock price?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So I will answer your first question. This is Narasaki speaking. Based on my personal
experience, software companies and SaaS companies, I have managed both types of
companies. And like you said, the margin is 30% and 70%, respectively, as the industry
average. So which type are we going to pursue? We are going to create a platform and
also provide solution, so it's going to be closer to the SaaS model. But at this point, if we
say that we are looking at 70% profitability, that may not be an appropriate comment. We
are using the real data with the SaaS-type business model on a subscription base. I don't
think there are any company that is doing this, so this will be the first of its kind in the
world. So we cannot just apply the profitability of the existing SaaS service providers. So as
Mr. Sakurada mentioned earlier, we're looking at which should be closer to the margin
generated by software companies. So we are seeing the most of discussion on this point.
But at this point, I think that is a more appropriate level for us to share with the market.
Mr. Niwa, thank you very much for raising that important question. With the external board
members, we have been discussing on that point. In one word, Sompo's potential and the
value and also the market value, in between the two, there is a big dislocation. We have
been discussing that point on a number of times. And at the Global Executive Committee,

Page 29 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

that is one of the major centers that we are addressing. There are different discussions
taking place, but probably our view is that when we say our potential at this point, we
have a strong cash flow and profit coming from the insurance business. So people would
ask what is your view on your domestic P&C business? And also around the overseas
vehicles, what is EBITDA growth rate of the overseas business? What is going to be the
strategy? How are you going to grow with M&A? What have by capital? So I think these
discussions are important because they're going to be the baseload of our business. But
if we just continue that path, as the global insurance companies and also as the Japanese
of financial institutions are challenged with the PBR issue, we will not be able to achieve
over 1x in price their book.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the challenge in the issue is that are we going to use that baseload engine from the
insurance business to aim for further growth. That story is not communicated. It's easy to
say but difficult to act. Our core competence is the insurance business. So we cannot
deviate from that by a great degree. We cannot create rocket or we cannot create a
better pharmacy cost, so we have to be in the ancillary area, which is why we're discussing
about the theme park for security, health and well-being. Also we want to leverage on a
real business. And by using digital and software, we want to provide solutions. And by
doing so, we want to enhance our profit. That is going to be the path that we should
focus on. Then the challenges, the time line is the issue because this is somewhat amid to
long-term issue. Because in the future, these challenges can definitely generate growth
and profit. But in the next year or two, the contribution may be very marginal. But are we
dismissing that business because over the short term, the profit contribution is going to
be marginal. That is not the case.
The green story and SDG story that has been the topic in the global market and also
investing into those areas is something that we have to pay attention to. The word you're
talking about great rates and pursuing a new way of capitalism. New way of capitalism, I
think is going to mean a new way of looking at the corporate value. So it's not about the
profit generation over the next one or two years. That has been the traditional textbook
for finance. But I think going forward, the value is going to be what kind of social value are
you going to create? How are you going to deliver that? I think those are going to be
topics that we have to think together with the investors. And as business operators, we
have to present our value proposition and the customers will have to consider themselves
how much they're going to pay for that value. And I think for the next few years, we are
both going to be tested. Traditionally, things may have been too costly and the cost
benefit may not have justified the opportunity, but there is a new -- like social contribution.
One typical example is a product or service that can address the global warming issue. So
it may be very pricey, but customers are choosing that option. So I think that challenge is
something that we can address with RDP. So in sum, yes, you're right, but we are going to
leverage on the insurance business and also leverage on our nursing care business to
offer solutions to social issues. So we're going to continue to offer those solutions. I
believe by doing so, there's going to be success cases, which will be appreciated by the
customers. So we want the market to be patient and give us some more time because
these businesses cannot be quantified in slide number in your spreadsheet for the
business model. Sorry for the lengthy answer, but I had to explain in full because this was
a very important question.

Page 30 of 32



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Operator
From Jefferies Securities, we have Mr. Ban.

FINAL

Q - Hideyasu Ban

{BIO 15250840 <GO>}

Sorry, we're past the given time, but just one question, if I may. This medium-term
management plan, I'd like to ask once again the rationale behind it? As for the domestic
P&C, in three years, a 92% combined ratio or lower. In the past, other companies had
94%, 95% cycle average, and we saw the convergence. But in the coming three years,
you said 92%, that is your target. So surrounding you, how would the business
environment change? So we have not seen the other companies. So for example, 94%,
95%. If -- based on that, you are the only one who is targeting 92%. In the waterfall chart. I
think that, for example, by focusing on the lower load, you need to differentiate
yourselves. So based on that, the assumptions of the environment, the combined ratio,
do you assume that the combined ratio will be coming down? And also overseas or in
comparison to the domestic P&C, overseas business is dynamic, as it was mentioned, nat
cat -- with the nat cat softening and hardening cycle could change. So in coming three
years, the target that you are showing, upside and downside, you are looking at the
middle of it. Is that the target? Or is it upper side or a favorable or peak level? It's a kind
of main question, but domestic P&C performance, in three years, you want to coincide
with the peak and you want to achieve the JPY 300 billion. And as for the sustainability
there could be some questions emerging. So I'd like to have your thoughts or additional
comment on how you set those targets?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Well I think the questions in your question. Now about the combined ratio, 91.7%, I'd like to
explain that. Of course other companies trying to reduce the business expenses and loss
ratio. I'm sure that they will be making a lot different efforts. But as a basis, the loss ratio is
pushed up due to the fire insurance, which is not yet sufficient. Premium is not sufficient.
So in the coming years, this percentage will go up and the price would be increased. So
the loss ratio of the buyer insurance will be stabilized with that. So in fiscal '24, we believe
that would happen, the stabilization. So as a basis, I think that companies in this industry
will have a similar situation, a downward trend. So in our case, we are trying to improve
our profitability and earnings, the underwriting. We would like to work on this reform even
sometimes we have to ignore the top line. So the distributors, 41,000, we reduced it
down to 27,000, that is not easy to do in other companies. I'm sure it's quite difficult. So
we have completed and we have achieved those, and we have that results. And also we
are targeting the 91.7%. So of course that other companies are going to make efforts, but
we think that we are positioned favorable compared to the other companies. Okumurasan, could you comment from the overseas business perspective?

A - Mikio Okumura

{BIO 15901852 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. In formulating the business plan, yes, it is slightly conservative, that is my
recognition. As you pointed out, in the case of outside of Japan, market average and the
peer average doesn't work very well depending on the portfolio and the region and the
reinsurance strategy. We compare among the peers, but they are so different from each
other. So comparable the core loss ratio, for example, the rate up or distribution, we can
Page 31 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

see that relatively clearly. So as I mentioned, The rate increase and accident year loss
ratio, if you look at those, I think we see the clear improvements and rate improvement is
actually happening higher than the loss ratio. So in comparison to the peer companies,
through management efforts, we can change, for example, the business expense ratio.
Of course there are different backgrounds. But I think our business expense ratio is quite
competitive, and we will further make improvements by controlling expenses and to
secure the optimum underwriters, which would lead to the lower business cost. The
biggest opportunity is the cat and distribution and conservative cap load will be expected.
And as a result of the business plan that we have is quite possible or very -- is something
that we can rationally explain.

A - Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. Hamada speaking. Just one word, if I may. On Page 13, the JPY 300
billion number is shown. And at the very bottom, it's very small explanation there. This JPY
300 billion, and of course in the three years, in the future, the business environment, the
biggest factor, which could change this is a cat, as Okumura-san said. It is conservatively
assumed and we are taking measures, but still, it could happen. For example, something
that happened only in one time several decades could happen two years in a row. So it is
conservative. But the Japan and overseas, we have the cat number, but it is possible that
we have something unexpected. Once every three years how much a big impact do we
see will be about JPY 30 billion level. So in the medium-term management plan
simulation, this is basically organic base and this JPY 30 billion to fill this gap. We would
like to work on the M&As so that we can achieve the higher achievement. So part of the
JPY 600 billion will be allocated for that purpose.

Operator
Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Ban. We have passed the allocated time. But with
that, we'd like to end today's meeting. If you have any additional questions, please send it
to the IR team. We did not have a presentation about the domestic life insurance in the
nursing care. We plan to have small meetings for different topics. So thank you very much
for joining us today. Thank you very much indeed.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

