Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

Q1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jim Williamson, EVP & Group COO
John Doucette , EVP, President & CEO of the Reinsurance Division
Jon Levenson, IR
Juan Andrade , President, CEO & Director
Mark Kociancic, EVP & Group CFO
Michael Karmilowicz , EVP and President & CEO of the Insurance Division

Other Participants
Brian Meredith, Analyst
Elyse Greenspan, Analyst
Josh Shanker, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst
Mike Phillips , Analyst
Phil Stefano, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Yaron Kinar, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Everest Re Group Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) I
would now like to turn the call over to John Levenson, Head of Investor Relations. Thank
you. Please go ahead.

Jon Levenson

{BIO 18636999 <GO>}

Good morning. Welcome to the Everest Re Group Limited 2021 First Quarter earnings
conference call. The Everest executives leading today's call are Juan Andrade, President
and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Kociancic, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer. We are also joined by other members of the Everest management team.
Before we begin, I will preface the comments on today's call by noting that Everest SEC
filings include extensive disclosures with respect to forward-looking statements.
Management comments regarding estimates, projections and similar are subject to the
risks, uncertainties and assumptions as noted in these filings. Management may also refer
to certain non-GAAP financial measures. These items are reconciled in our earnings
release and financial supplement. With that, I turn the call over to Juan Andrade.

Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining the call. Everest is off to
a strong start in 2021 with robust growth, strong overall profitability, continued
improvement in attritional underwriting margins and excellent investment performance.
We achieved these results despite the meaningful impact to the industry of the U.S. winter
storms in the First Quarter.
Our thoughts are with those affected by these storms as well as the Australian floods,
and I am very proud of the work our claims team is doing on the ground to help people
restore their lives.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our First Quarter results demonstrate the earnings power of Everest and our success in
implementing our strategy to build a broadly diversified company with a relentless focus
on operational performance and disciplined underwriting. We are bullish about 2021. We
will continue to profitably grow the insurance segment, while continuing to grow and
strengthen our position as a leading global P&C reinsurer. Our diversified reinsurance and
insurance franchises, financial strength, deep distribution relationships and leading
customer solutions enable us to thrive in today's market.
I will now discuss our group reinsurance and insurance First Quarter 2021 results. Starting
with the group results, we grew gross written premiums by 14% and net written premiums
by 16%, with robust growth across both segments. Our growth stems from: one, a
combination of new business opportunities; two, improved terms and conditions; three,
increased rate levels; four, expanded shares on attractive renewals; and five, high overall
renewal retention.
The as-reported combined ratio was 98.1%, including the previously announced U.S. winter
storms and the Australian flooding catastrophe losses. We generated $45 million in
underwriting profit compared to $29 million in the First Quarter last year. While the
pandemic is not over, and as we have done in prior quarters, we completed a rigorous
analysis of our COVID exposure in the First Quarter, resulting in no change to our COVID
loss provision. Our COVID loss provision remains at $511 million, of which approximately
80% is IBNR.
The attritional combined ratio was 87.3%, a 2.5 point improvement over the First Quarter
of 2020, with both segments continuing to show significant year-over-year improvement
in loss and expense ratios. We continue to diligently manage our portfolios to improve
returns with a broad array of underwriting actions. This includes managing attachment
points and limits, improving on terms and conditions and targeting nonrenewals of
business, which does not meet our hurdle rates as well as many other actions.
Underwriting profitability remains at the core of everything we do.
Net investment income was excellent at $260 million compared to $148 million in the prior
year First Quarter. These strong operating results led to a net income for the quarter of
$342 million resulting in an annualized return on equity of 15%.

Page 2 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

For our Reinsurance division, the First Quarter continued our strong growth with gross
written premiums up 16%. We were pleased with our successful execution of our January 1
renewal plan. The targeted and disciplined growth was driven by higher rate, increased
shares on profitable deals along with new opportunities in property, casualty, specialty
lines and facultative business.
The attritional combined ratio was 85.5% for the quarter, a 2.3 point improvement yearover-year. This came from improvement in both the loss and expense ratio. We saw
better economics in most treaties and classes of business around the world. We were
disciplined and reduced shares or non-renewed underperforming treaties for those
where we did not get our target rate, terms, conditions, writings or exclusions. We also
deployed additional capacity into lines with more attractive risk-adjusted returns. This
dynamic capital allocation resulted in an improved attritional combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, we continue to write a stronger, more diversified and more profitable book. With
regard to the April 1 renewals, we achieved 10% to 15% rate increases on Japanese wind
treaties and 5% rate increases in earthquake treaties. Rates in other geographies
continued to rise in both property and casualty lines. John Doucette is available to provide
additional details during the Q&A.
Our insurance division continued its solid execution in the market, resulting in strong
attritional underwriting performance and premium growth. Gross written premium grew
10%. If we exclude workers' compensation, where we see less attractive pricing, gross
written premium grew 20%. This growth is driven by disciplined cycle management, new
business opportunities, ongoing strong rate increases in our target classes of business
and high retention rates on existing business.
We are also seeing a slow but steady improvement in overall economic activity. The
growth was well diversified in our target classes, where market conditions are prime for
profitable growth, including specialty casualty, professional liability and property short tail.
We are happy with this diversification as it is a core tenet of our strategy.
Everest insurance delivered an improved attritional combined ratio of 92.2% for the First
Quarter, a 2.7 point improvement over Q1 2020. These results continue to be driven by
proactive underwriting actions and a continued focus on expense management. These
actions are resulting in the continued expansion of our insurance margins.
The attritional loss ratio of 64.3% improved 1.4 points year-over-year, and the total
expense ratio improved 1.3 points year-over-year. Renewal rate increases continued to
exceed our expectations for loss trend, up 16% in the quarter excluding workers'
compensation, and up 10% including workers' compensation. The increased rate we
achieved and the expected increase in margin is a function of market conditions and
disciplined proactive underwriting actions across our businesses.
After years of soft pricing and rising loss costs, pricing adjustments remain necessary. We
expect this favorable pricing to continue throughout 2021. Consistent with prior quarters,
rate increases were led by excess casualty up 33%, D&O up 24%, property up 13% and
Page 3 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

commercial auto up 13%. We are also seeing widespread rate increases in other lines of
business.
We are managing the insurance business to build a diversified portfolio, steering our mix
to our product lines with better rate adequacy and higher long-term margins. We also
continue to manage average limits deployed to control volatility. We are happy with the
progress we have made, and we expect that this strategic direction should possibly
impact our results going forward.
Conversely, we have been thoughtfully managing workers' compensation through the
cycle. This portfolio now represents 14% of our First Quarter premiums, down from 21% a
year ago. We have pared back our writings in the monoline guaranteed cost base and
shifted our portfolio to more loss sensitive loss ratable business. Workers' compensation
is an area of expertise at Everest, and we are monitoring market conditions closely for
potential opportunities. But these efforts illustrate the disciplined cycle management we
have implemented in the company.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lastly, our strong position in both the E&S and retail channels continue to give us access to
a wide set of opportunities. Mike Karmilowicz is available to provide additional details
during the Q&A.
Everest had a strong start to 2021, with robust growth, strong overall profitability,
continued improvement in attritional underwriting margins and excellent investment
performance. We have vibrant and well-diversified reinsurance and insurance businesses
with experienced leadership and underwriting teams providing industry-leading solutions
to customers. We have sustained momentum. This company has excellent financial
strength, top talent and a prudent capital management philosophy.
We are focused on sustained profitable growth, a more diversified, targeted and
deliberate mix of business and superior risk-adjusted returns. We believe that the
relentless and disciplined execution of our strategies will result in maximizing shareholder
returns. I am confident in Everest's future and in our ability to deliver on our commitments
to customers and shareholders. Now let me turn the call over to Mark Kociancic for
additional details on the financials. Mark?

Mark Kociancic

{BIO 17852409 <GO>}

Thank you, Juan. Good morning, everyone. Everest had very attractive results for the First
Quarter of 2021, with strong overall profitability, continued improving underlying margins,
robust growth and an excellent investment result. I'll touch on these points over the next
few minutes.
For the First Quarter of 2021, Everest reported net income of $342 million, resulting in an
annualized return on equity of 15%. We also reported operating income of $260 million for
Q1 and operating earnings per share of $6.49. Starting with underwriting income, Everest
had positive contributions from both reinsurance and insurance with $45.2 million of

Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

underwriting income. This reflects the improved underlying attritional loss and expense
ratios, offset by the impact of catastrophe losses.
The catastrophe losses of $260 million are pretax and net of reinsurance and
reinstatement premiums, with $213 million in the reinsurance segment and $47 million in
the insurance segment. The vast majority of $250 million is coming from the U.S. winter
storms with the balance from the floods in New South Wales, Australia. Also worth noting
is that we have not added to our COVID-19 loss provision, which remains at $511 million,
with approximately 80% of our pandemic loss estimate remaining as IBNR.
First quarter results continue to reflect the impact of our underwriting and portfolio
management initiatives. Our underlying attritional loss and combined ratios are strong and
continue to improve. Excluding the catastrophe losses, reinstatement premiums, prior
year development and COVID-19 pandemic impact, the attritional loss ratio was 60.7% in
Q1 compared to 61.4% in the First Quarter of 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

The attritional combined ratio was 87.3% for the First Quarter of 2021 compared to 89.8%
for the First Quarter last year, representing a 2.5percentage point improvement. For
insurance, the attritional loss ratio improved from 65.7% in the First Quarter of 2020 to
64.3% this quarter. The attritional combined ratio for insurance improved to 92.2%
compared to 94.9% in the First Quarter of 2020. Our U.S. insurance business, which
makes up the majority of our overall insurance business continues to run very well with an
attritional combined ratio in the high 80s.
For reinsurance, the First Quarter 2021 attritional loss ratio was 59.5%, down from 59.8% a
year ago. The attritional combined ratio on the same basis was 85.5%, down from 87.8%.
The group commission ratio of 20.5% for the First Quarter of 2021 was down 150 basis
points from 22% reported last year in Q1, largely due to changes in the composition of our
business mix plus higher commissions received in the insurance segment.
The group expense ratio remains low at 5.9% for the First Quarter of 2021 versus 6.3% a
year ago. The expense ratio continues to benefit from our continued focus on expense
management plus economies of scale as our premium base continues to grow.
First quarter investment income had an excellent result of $260 million as compared to
$148 million for the First Quarter 2020. Alternative investments recorded a quarterly
record $120 million of income in the First Quarter, largely due to increases in the net asset
values from our portfolio of diversified private equity investments, reflecting the strong
economy and financial markets. As a reminder, we report our limited partnership income 1
quarter in arrears.
Invested assets grew approximately 2% to $25.9 billion during the quarter, up from $25.5
billion at year-end 2020. Approximately 80% of our invested assets are comprised of a
well diversified, high-credit quality bond portfolio with a duration of 3.5 years. The
remaining investments are allocated to equities and other invested assets, which include
private equity investments, cash and short-term investments.

Page 5 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

Our effective tax rate on operating income for the First Quarter of 2021 was 7.9% and
8.4% on net income. This was favorable versus our planned effective tax rate of
approximately 12%, largely due to the geographic distribution of the catastrophe losses
occurring within the United States.
For the First Quarter of 2021, Everest generated strong operating cash flows of $904
million compared to $506 million for the First Quarter of 2020, reflecting the strength of
our premium growth year-over-year. Our balance sheet remains strong with the capital
structure that allows for the efficient deployment of capital, and ample capacity to
execute on market opportunities.
Shareholders' equity was $9.7 billion at the end of the First Quarter and broadly flat versus
the $9.7 billion at year-end 2020. Our debt leverage ratio stands at 16.5%, and book value
per share stood at $241.57 at quarter end. I close in noting that Everest repurchased
approximately $24 million of common shares during the First Quarter. With that, I'll now
turn it back to Jon.

Jon Levenson

{BIO 18636999 <GO>}

Thanks, Mark. Operator, we are now ready to open the line for questions. We do ask that
you please limit your questions to 2 or 1 question plus 1 follow-up, and then rejoin the
queue if you have any remaining questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question here comes from the line of Elyse Greenspan
from Wells Fargo.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

My first question, if we went back to last year, you guys within your insurance book were
getting 24% of price that was excluding comp, 12% with workers' comp. If we were to
assume a 5% loss trend, that would have resulted in around 4 points of accident year
underlying loss ratio improvement this quarter. When we look at the insurance book and
back out COVID, you produced just under 1.5 points. So is a good rule of thumb that you
would get less than half of the improvement fall to the bottom line and the other half you
would use to build some reserve conservatism?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Elyse, and this is Juan. I think there's a couple of things to keep in mind.
Number one is, we had strong results across the board. As I said in my prepared remarks,
it's a 2.5 point improvement in the combined ratio year-over-year. When you look
specifically at the insurance division, that's a 2.7% improvement that you're seeing there
as well that frankly is led by the loss ratio with a 1.4% improvement in the attritional loss
ratio.
Page 6 of 17



FINAL

Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

Now the mechanics of that improvement, I think it's along the lines of what we've
discussed in prior quarters. So certainly, we are seeing very good rate. We saw, as I
mentioned, 16% rate increases in the insurance book. In the First Quarter, and that
continues to do quite well. As Mark reported, put it in perspective, that 16% is 2x the rate
that we achieved in all of 2019. So rate is part of that. But the bigger part of all of this is
really the myriad of actions that we're taking on the underwriting side, as I mentioned
previously to continue to position our book of business, both on the insurance side and
the reinsurance side to have sustained profitability over the long term.
And it's important to keep in mind one thing, right? We're deliberately shifting to
portfolios towards segments that have better overall economics in addition to all the
underwriting actions that we're taking and that I've mentioned in the past and in my script
to continue to improve sustained profitability.
Now when it comes to loss picks, I think it's also important to keep in mind that we
continue to hold the line on loss picks. We have clear indications that underlying
profitability is continuing to improve. Some of that you saw in this quarter's results, and
some of that will need to be proven over time as the accident years continue to mature.
So I think that's probably the best guidance that I can give you on that. With that, let me
ask also one of my colleagues, Jim Williamson, to jump into this question as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jim Williamson

{BIO 19072526 <GO>}

Elyse, the only thing I would add, and I think it's important both in insurance and
reinsurance, and I suspect it's on the minds of everyone on the call today is just this
question of the loss trend, and we talk about rate achievement exceeding the loss trend.
But we've also talked over the last few years about the fact that the trend line has been
accelerating in terms of whether it's social inflation, inflation in building costs in terms of
repair after natural disasters and things of that nature.
And so that does 2 things. One, it will certainly consume a little bit more of the rate
increases, and we want to be prudent about that. That's, I would say a smaller effect. The
larger effect, though, is the degree that, that places uncertainty around what the ultimate
trend line will turn out to be, which is why we're going to take a very conservative position
around making sure that we've proven out our trend selections over time, which would
ultimately allow us to be looking on these accident years more favorably, but it's going to
take time for that to fully mature.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

That's helpful. Then my second question on the other part of your margin is on the
expense ratio. If I'm looking at your consolidated expense ratio was around 26.4%, I think
in the quarter. So in line with the levels that you guys saw in the second half of last year,
but well below where you were pre-COVID, I'm just trying to get a sense of what kind of -obviously there is the commission and brokerage ratio and also the other underwriting
expenses, but just trying to get a sense of where the expense ratio should level out once
we're kind of through with COVID? And what's kind of a run rate level there?

Page 7 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Sure thing, Elyse. I think it's important, I think as you were describing just now to
decompose the parts of the expense ratio, I think if we look at the operating expense
ratio, that 5.9%, I think that 5.9%, 6%, et cetera, it's going to be pretty consistent for us.
One of the things that you know about Everest, in our company, is our disciplined expense
management. Whether it's COVID or no COVID, the reality is we're pretty focused on
being efficient. So I would expect that the operating expense ratio would be relatively
consistent with those numbers that you have been seeing.
The commission ratio is going to fluctuate based on the type of business that we're
writing in any given quarter, right? And so for instance, if you're writing on the primary
insurance business lines that are growing faster, but you're getting better cedes because
of our reinsurance structure, that obviously will have an impact. On the reinsurance side,
obviously the business mix that we write at the 1/1 renewals will also have an impact on
that. But let me ask Mark Kociancic to weigh in on that as well.

A - Mark Kociancic

{BIO 17852409 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I would echo that, Elyse. I think that expense run rate is going to be hovering around
that 6 points. You might see some quarterly volatility. But in general, that's roughly the
area I would expect it to go. There could be a weighting differential depending on the
growth rate of insurance, which comes with a higher general expense operating rate
versus the reinsurance division. Then the other piece that I would just highlight is we are
having fairly strong net earned premium growth as we develop both franchises even
more. So these are things we're all keeping an eye on. So I wouldn't get caught up in
quarterly volatility, but that run rate of 6% is a pretty good bogey.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Stefano from Deutsche Bank.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

We've been spending a lot of time with the First Quarter earnings calls talking about the
concept of rate adequacy. I was hoping you could give us your thoughts on just the
proportion of business that feels rate adequate or the extent to which we're reaching
rate adequacy and pricing momentum may start to decelerate. Of course the offset to
that could be exposure growth as the global economy starts to recover in the back half of
the year. Overall, what this could mean for potential top line growth. I mean it's more of
an insurance question than reinsurance question, but appreciate whatever color you have.

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Great, Phil. Let me start with the top line growth question, and then we'll come back to
the margin expansion point that we've had. As I mentioned in my commentary in the
script, one of the things that we're starting to see is a slow and steady return of exposure
growth starting to get near pre-pandemic levels. I think that's something that -- as well as
the economic recovery is consistent you're going to continue to see probably for the back
half of the year. So I think that obviously bodes well for the insurance industry as we have
Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

features of an economy and as there's more to insure, there's more opportunity for
growth. So I think again the back half of the year, if exposure growth continues, you're
going to see improvement in that.
With regard to rate adequacy, et cetera, we have been seeing rate exceeding our
expectations for loss cost trend now for a number of quarters. Obviously it's going to vary
by line of business. But you are starting to see where the majority of your lines of business
are rate adequate at this point in time. Now that being said, it's important to also keep in
mind that starting, particularly for some of the longer tail lines such as general liability
excess and maybe some of the D&O lines, where they may be needed more rate as an
industry over time, and we're starting to catch up, and we're starting to get there.
Now what you see in our numbers, frankly, is that we have that steady improvement of
underlying profitability continuing to improve. As I just mentioned to Elyse a few minutes
ago, we are holding the line on our loss picks. We expect that over time we will be
bringing that to the bottom line. But all of that bodes very well for expected margin
growth over time. But let me also ask Jim Williamson to weigh in on this question.

A - Jim Williamson

{BIO 19072526 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, Phil, the only thing I would add, I think Juan covered it really well, is just the idea that
when you -- we're very disciplined underwriters. So when you see us moving our top line
the way that we have in the last several quarters, I think that's a very clear indication to
you that we feel great about the trades we're making, both in insurance and reinsurance. I
mean we would not be putting up that type of growth if we didn't feel very good about
adequacy levels. That's probably the best indication that we can give you.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

Okay. No. I appreciate that. So my follow-up is going to be dialing in on the workers' comp
line. So we've now got 4 consecutive quarters of material declines. How should we think
about the impact of remixing the book of business versus exposure versus price? And
what has caused this line to come down? And how should we think about this line
particularly as we move forward? Is it economically sensitive? Or is price just not have it at
a rate adequate point where you feel comfortable turning the valve on and growing that
business?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes. Great. Thanks, Phil. Let me start, and then I'll ask Mike Karmilowicz it to jump in on this
call. Look, the first thing I would say is we like workers' compensation, and we're experts
at it, at Everest. But we're also disciplined underwriters. And as I said in my prepared
remarks, we see better pricing opportunities in other lines of business right now, property,
D&O, specialty casualty, those kinds of things.
As I also mentioned, we're still writing comp. We're just changing the type of comp that
we're writing going forward. Where we see less attractive pricing right now, it's in the
monoline workers' compensation space. So as a result of that, we have really shifted
more towards loss ratable, loss sensitive business at that point. But as I also mentioned in
Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

my remarks, we are very much looking for the opportunities as the economy begins to
heal, and as things begin to improve, we will see an improvement in exposures also in the
workers' compensation line for us.
And when we see the opportunity and the pricing improving, firms improving exposures
beginning to grow, you will see us start to deploy more capital into workers'
compensation as well. But look, this is how we're managing this company proactively,
presumptively to focus on lines with better rate adequacy, with better opportunities for
growth and with better margin. But again we like comp. We're just taking a pause on it
right now from the perspective of monoline until we see conditions begin to improve. But
with that, let me ask Mike Karm to jump in.

A - Michael Karmilowicz

{BIO 6534478 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. Thanks for the question. Yes. I think -- only to follow-up, I think that was well said is
we've been obviously managing overall exposure down as exposure growth has also
shrunk as well. But the reality is we are starting to see that bottom out. To the point that
was made by Juan is we start to see that opportunity particularly pick up. I think we'll seize
that opportunity. We've been basically focusing the composition of the portfolio, really
around low and moderate type hazard risk. So we feel very good about where we are. We
are starting to see signs, particularly outside of California, where rate is starting to go up
and nudge up, and then in California, we are seeing it starting to bottom out. But we're
optimistic that, that towards the end of the year should start to change in California. And
as that opportunity presents itself, you'll see us certainly continue to gain some market
share.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Phillips from Morgan Stanley.

Q - Mike Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Kind of a follow-up to an earlier question, I think one of the first questions on insurance
margins. I just kind of want to get a little more clarity on it. Juan, you mentioned the yearover-year improvement in the attritional loss ratio, the 64.3%. You talked about how the
loss trends are making things a little more cautious on your part. I guess is that it? Is that
why for the first time and over a year, we saw an increase in the loss pick from -sequentially from the prior quarter? It's been coming down every quarter over quarter
over quarter, and this quarter, it went up, from 4Q. Is that simply it because of your
concerns on loss trends? Or is there anything else going on that would make your
increases from 4Q?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Mike. Thanks for the question. I would start with saying, look, the appropriate
comparison is more of the year-over-year comparison than the sequential comparison,
and that's going to be driven more by mix of business than anything else. So I think that's
an important point. The second point that I would make is, look, we feel pretty good
about the business that we're writing today about the rate adequacy on that business and
about the margin that we're building.
Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

FINAL

My comments about holding the line on loss picks are really pretty straightforward. It's the
fact, and I've been pretty consistent in this messaging over the last number of quarters, in
this business, you've got to wait for things to season out over time. So in the meantime,
it's not just about rate. It's about all those actions that we're taking on the underwriting
side, portfolio management, limit management, attachment points, et cetera, to continue
to improve the profitability and the quality of your book, and that is what you're seeing.
Those are the numbers that are being reflected not only in this quarter but in the last
several quarters as well. So going forward, we do believe we're building expected margin
in those lines. And as we start getting more certainty on the fact that rate has indeed
exceeded our trend expectations, that margin will start coming through the bottom line
basically.

Q - Mike Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay. Switching gears then to capital, I guess. As last quarter, you hadn't deployed $1
billion of debt. You mentioned here today that you've put some new deployment -- new
capital into reinsurance. Well I might have missed if you said anything on -- in insurance.
But can you just tell us where you are with that $1 billion that you did back in October? And
where that stands today? And how you see that kind of being deployed this year, maybe
more in growth or coming back a bit to anything else that you might do with that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Kociancic

{BIO 17852409 <GO>}

Yes. Mike, it's Mark speaking. So first of all, the -- we still have ample room to deploy the
capital. It's not fully deployed, but there's no constraints in terms of our growth
expectations this year, our ambitions on both the underwriting side and on the investment
side. So I'd say we're just looking for the best opportunities in the execution of our plan,
and capital is not a constraint either in the execution of the business or on the capital
management side in terms of buybacks or dividends.

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes. Mike. What I would build on Mark's answer is, remember what we said back in
October when we did the debt raise. It was purely opportunistic, right? We have plenty of
capital to be able to deploy. So as Mark said, and I will affirm that we're seeing great
opportunities in this market. You're seeing the continued momentum on the top line in
both reinsurance and insurance. We feel pretty good about the capital backing all of that.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Goldman Sachs.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

My first question, I hope that you'll be willing or able to answer it, I'm going to give it a
shot. I'm looking at the slowdown in rate improvement, 500 basis points quarter-overquarter in insurance. I'm looking kind of across some of your competitors, it sounds like
there's a pretty wide range there of the rate of slowdown. I'm just trying to understand
what would drive one company's slowdown to be greater than another? Is it business
Page 11 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

mix? Are you accounting for rate in a different way? Any help that you can offer in looking
at those -- at this wide variance of trends would be helpful.

FINAL

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes, Yaron, I'm happy to give you a perspective, and then I'll invite Jim Williamson to jump
in as well. Look, starting with Everest, and as I mentioned to Elyse earlier in the call, the
16% is very good. It continued significant momentum on the rate side of things. Business
mix certainly will influence that. The type of business that you write in a particular quarter.
For instance, in this case, if it's more heavily weighted towards a property, a short line
type exposure, that carries a certain rate, that's certainly going to impact the mix.
Now if I elevate the answer to your question and basically then talk more about the
industry and look across companies, I think again business mix plays a part of that. I think
execution plays a part of that, right? I think one of the most important things about our
primary insurance business, and I talk about it often, I'm very proud of them, is how well
they execute in the market.
So I would say business mix is part of that. Execution is part of that. Portfolio management
and how you look at risk is certainly part of that. And ultimately, risk selection, which is a
component of that, I think those are all the things that essentially go into play. But look,
speaking from our perspective at Everest, we expect continued momentum and strong
renewal rate growth throughout 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jim Williamson

{BIO 19072526 <GO>}

Yes. Not a lot to add, Yaron, other than to say when you start looking across companies,
just to give you a sense of how we think about it within our own portfolio, I mean obviously
we're well aware of the top line number for our insurance division, for example. But we
really do look at it a much more granular level because of all the reasons that Juan cited.
And at the end of the day we've got underwriters. They have -- they're approaching the
market in a very disciplined fashion. But they're selecting 1 deal at a time. They're focused
on making sure they underwrite the deal appropriately, that they attach the right terms
and conditions to drive a total margin outcome. So it's really only at that level that the
numbers are truly meaningful. So I'd just be careful about reading too much into the fact
that there's variation across firms.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Yes, that's fair. I appreciate the thoughts there. Then if I -- for my second question, if I
could shift to the reinsurance segment. Helpful color around April renewals. Just curious as
we're starting to look at 6/1 renewals and the turmoil in Florida, how do you see the
potential for growth there? I mean we're hearing that there is a lot of need for rate, on
the one hand much more involved in citizens and cap bonds on the other hand. So what
opportunity exists there as far as you can tell today?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

No, that's great. I'll invite John Doucette to jump into this question, please.

FINAL

A - John Doucette

{BIO 7178336 <GO>}

Yaron, thank you for the call. So we're -- as you said, we had a good April 1 renewals.
We're looking at not only June 1, but July 1, where we kind of finish out the treaty year. So
our expectation is we'll be deploying about the same amount of capacity. We will be
focused on pushing rates, terms, conditions because there are a lot of moving parts,
social inflation, the climate change, the assignment of benefits issue. So our view is our
book will probably be similar to last year, and we'll look to improve the economics.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from BofA.

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll stick with reinsurance. So the -- and then sort of a question we've been getting at,
the loss ratio underlying didn't improve all that much year-over-year. But of course the
expense ratio did. I look at the business mix, a lot of non-catastrophe XOL business
written. I think there's a lot of business mix. Of course on reinsurance, there's very
different -- acquisition costs, different types of businesses. Can you talk a little bit,
educate us, on cat versus non-cat, property versus casualty, on how the acquisition costs
differ between XOL and pro rata, that kind of explains what's going on, I guess in the
combined ratio, which improved very well during the quarter?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Josh. I'll ask John Doucette to please answer this.

A - John Doucette

{BIO 7178336 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks for the question, Josh. So yes, you're right. It is a business mix issue, a
combination of -- and we do have different commissions and expenses, whether it's an
excess of loss or pro rata, but it's more nuanced than that. It really -- there are deals that
have very low commission structures, certain lines of business that the commissions -even though they're on a pro rata basis, the commissions, given it's a function of the loss
ratio is a lot is a lot lower and closer to an excess of loss business. So it really has to do
with the mix. It also has to do with -- we did see some improvement in ceding
commissions on proportional deals, particularly on the property side, where we need it -where the ceding commission is a function is effectively rate change. So some of the
proportional deals that needed some improved economics from a reinsurance point of
view, we did see some downward pressure on the ceding commissions that then flowed
into the numbers you're seeing today.

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

So if I want to extrapolate the First Quarter results into the full year, you write the most
amount of premium in reinsurance in the First Quarter. Are the changes we're seeing

Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

year-over-year in the First Quarter indicative of how the loss ratio and expense ratio might
play out as we move across 2021?

A - John Doucette

{BIO 7178336 <GO>}

FINAL

So I think the best estimate of where the loss and expense ratio would be this quarter.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields from KBW.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

I know you touched on this. But when I look at the non-acquisition expenses in reinsurance,
so we saw a pretty big jump on a year-over-year basis. I was wondering, is that tied to mix
also or are there other factors driving that?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Meyer, just to make sure I understand your question correctly, when you're looking at the
non-acquisition expenses, are you focused on the 2.9%?

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. The ratio was flat, but the dollars were up a lot.

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes. So I think there's a couple of things at play here. Number one, I think as Mark
mentioned, we certainly are seeing a benefit from our premium growth coming through
as a result of the business that we have been writing and frankly, the success that we had
last year in growing the franchise. If you recall, we grew that franchise by about 15%. So
you are seeing the benefit of that coming through.
Specifically to the dollars being up in the quarter on the reinsurance segment, I think a lot
of that is, frankly, noise. As Mark said earlier, there's always going to be a bit of volatility in
the expense ratio from quarter-to-quarter. So I wouldn't read too much into that. But as
both Mark and I said earlier, when you think about the operating expense ratio trajectory,
that 2.9%, 3% is probably a good number for reinsurance. Mark, I don't know if you'd like
to add anything?

A - Mark Kociancic

{BIO 17852409 <GO>}

Yes. I'll just build off that a little bit because I think Juan captured it. I think for this quarter,
you're seeing a slight elevation just in terms of the volatility. I know there was very strong
earned premium growth in reinsurance. So perhaps it could have been less than the 2.9%.
But there's often fundamental in there, you'll still see us -- we should be coming in less
than 3% for the year.

Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. That's very helpful. Then a big picture question. I can't remotely disagree with the
rationality of rate increases slowing down as more business achieves adequacy. But the
history of this industry is that, that second derivative continues and eventually becomes
disruptive. This is not an Everest question, but as a reinsurer, you talk to a lot of
companies and Everest has been focused on relationships. Is there any reason to be
more optimistic about the post hard market phase of the cycle whenever that emerges?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Yes, that's a great question. I think you're getting into psychology now, Meyer, not
insurance and reinsurance economics. But look, I think from my perspective, there's a
number of things that might be slightly different, right? If you look at the underlying
conditions that drove the need for rate, right, so a number of years of soft pricing,
inadequate pricing, inadequate rates, et cetera, that finally began to turn, as you had the
impact of the catastrophes in '17, '18, '19, as you had the impact of social inflation coming
through. Now, you have the impact of the COVID pandemic and the correlated impact on
both the asset and the liability sides of the business. So all of these things are at play
right?

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think what you have found is that people have achieved some level of discipline.
You're hearing it from us certainly, you have certainly heard it from our peers, particularly
on the reinsurance side, that they've all approached the 1/1 renewals with a level of
discipline, frankly, from some of our competitors that may be we haven't seen that level
of discipline in the past. So I'm an optimist, and I think that some of that will continue as
we go forward.
There's also been capital that's coming in into the market and to the industry. But that
capital has only been impacting on the margins and nibbling on the edges. It has not been
a significant amount of capital. So look, I think you still have some of the underlying factors
that drove the need for rate. Rates aren't getting more adequate, as I mentioned earlier.
But again there's still environmental issues that we all need to keep an eye on, particularly
the more disciplined companies like Everest I think will be very focused on that going
forward.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith from UBS.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

I guess first question, I'm just curious, in the insurance segment, the acquisition expense
ratio, you talked about better kind of ceding commissions benefiting the acquisition
expense ratio. Is that kind of a function of kind of changes in your reinsurance kind of
buying philosophy? And should we continue to see that lower kind of acquisition cost ratio
going forward?

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}
Page 15 of 17



FINAL

Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

Yes. So let me start, and then I'll ask Mike Karmilowicz to jump in. I think a big driver of
that, Brian, was really the business that we wrote in the quarter. And how that business
then fits into the reinsurance structure that we have in place. So I think that's part of that. I
think the other part of that is that our reinsurers for the primary business are seeing and
have seen the quality of the portfolio and the quality of the book that we have put
together. So because of that, we are able to get slightly higher cede commissions on that
business. But let me turn it over to Mike, and he can add some additional color and
context.

A - Michael Karmilowicz

{BIO 6534478 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks, Brian. Yes, so I think definitely business mix, to Juan's point, is certainly a
factor in that. As you saw, like excess cash in some areas, we've had significant growth,
that -- we're getting a little bit of the benefit of that. Also, there's a little bit of us shifting
to some of the more open market from programs. That growth in that business mix, again
will play into that. Then finally, what I'd say to you, you'd probably see us, as we continue
to gain scale, be less dependent. We tend to be very conservative in basically buying
reinsurance. So I think you'll see that net to gross number change as well as we continue
to kind of evolve. But in general, I think that -- the business mix is mainly the much driver
for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great. The second question I have, I know it's really early in the process here. But I just
wanted to ask a quick question about taxes here and the discussion about corporate
income tax rates going up, and particularly the GILTI tax. Does the GILTI tax have a big
effect for you guys? And how should we kind of think about that in the event that we do
get some big changes in the GILTI tax?

A - Mark Kociancic

{BIO 17852409 <GO>}

It's premature to see how that's going to play out for us. Right now, I don't think it's -what we see on the table from the administration or at least public dialogue is not good
for the -- in general, but I don't think we'll have a material impact on us in terms of the way
we're organized. So I would expect it to be marginal if something like that is implemented
in the fall.

Operator
I'm not showing any further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to
management for closing comments.

A - Juan Andrade

{BIO 16371272 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. Everest is well positioned for this market and for the opportunities we
see in an improving economy. Despite the material social and economic impact of the
COVID pandemic, we continue to grow unimpeded, recruiting top talent and delivering
value to our stakeholders. We have leading financial strength, a preferred market
presence and a diversified global platform. We are nimble. We have deep distribution
relationships, great people and a great culture.
Page 16 of 17



Company N ame: Everest Re Group L td
Company Ticker: RE US Equity
Date: 2021-04-29

I am very excited by the opportunity ahead of us. I believe we are well positioned to excel.
Thank you for your time with us this quarter and for your continued support of the
company. We'll talk to you after the Second Quarter. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may
now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 17 of 17

