Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Y 2021 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Giulio Terzariol, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, Controlling, Risk and
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Lauren Day, Head of Group Communications and Reputation
Oliver Bate, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Alexander Huebner, Analyst
Ben Dyson, Analyst
Christian Schnell, Analyst
Jean-Philippe Lacour, Analyst
Olaf Storbeck, Analyst
Patricia Kowsmann, Analyst
Samuel Casey, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Good Morning. (Foreign Language) My name is Lauren Day. (Foreign Language) I'm very
pleased that you've taken the time this morning to join us for our Annual Media
Conference. Before we start, I just want to acknowledge quickly that we are going to be
doing this conference exclusively in English. This is based on feedback we received to
become more inclusive of our international media and employee base.
I would like to introduce our Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Oliver Bate; and our Chief Financial
Oﬃcer, Giulio Terzariol, who will guide us through today's results and will be available for
your questions afterwards.
Thank you for being here and we look forward to a great discussion with you. Oliver?

Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

So, mic is on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the results presentation
for 2021. I'll expect it to be a lively debate today, even though we cannot really welcome
you physically in the room yet. I hope that changes, and we can go back to post-Corona
environment of having actual people interaction. What I would like to talk to you about
today is three elements in the CEO assessment and outlook, that is what have we
Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

delivered in 2021, where are we with the transformation of Allianz that is ongoing. I think
it's a theme that will not go away. And I'll talk to you about conﬁdence. Allianz is going
from strength to strength and even when unfortunate things happen, we are able to
balance them quickly and move towards the future, and that's what we're going to talk
about.
Let me quickly review the highlights of last year. In an environment that was still massively
inﬂuenced by the Corona pandemic and that has really impacted people's lives and
livelihoods and economic activity, Allianz has done a really great job in its operations. We
have been growing our revenues by 6% to EUR149 billion. We've increased our operating
proﬁt by 25% to EUR13.4 billion. We've -- raising our dividend per share by 13%, at least
that's the proposal to the AGM supported by our Supervisory Board and we have a very
strong solvency ratio of 209% despite the impact of the charge we've taken against the
Structured Alpha proceedings that I'm going to talk about in a second.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our net income is slightly down, despite the massive provisions that we've taken and our
return on equity stood at 10.6%, also despite the charge before that it would have been
almost close to 15% and because we are so strong in terms of capital generation power in
terms of resilience, we can do another share buyback already in the ﬁrst quarter and we
are trying to do and decided to do EUR1 billion and more is to come when and -- if and
when the time is ready.
Now, more than a short-term picture in terms of importance is the longer-term trajectory.
We've reached almost all of our targets in terms of performance and health of the
Company, and I'd like to reiterate what we've been saying since 2016. It's not just about
the ﬁnancial performance of the companies, ladies and gentlemen, but all what we call
institutional health. Here, we embody that into the Net Promoter Score, that's the
willingness of our customer to recommend our products and services to their friends and
family, and we've reached an all-time high relative to also our target ambition. 84% of our
business is based in life or in P&C insurance are exceeding market average in terms of
customer satisfaction.
So next stop is actually true loyalty leadership. We have almost 60% of our businesses that
are loyalty leaders in their respective markets and that's what we're going to target for all
our business going forward. The other element as important is the motivation of our
workforce. We have highly loyal and highly productive colleagues and particularly in the
corona pandemic, we've seen the commitment of our people to the Company. We've
worked intensively to support them in many, many, many ways and that is evidenced in
the very strong feedback they received. So, what we call the IMIX, that's the leadership
index in Allianz, we've improved that by 7 points and are signiﬁcantly above that quite
aspirational targets that we had set for 2021 and that again, despite Corona.
So both performance and health are very good, but again, there is an issue that we had to
take care of and we have been trying to address that as quickly as possible. So our ROE at
10.6% reﬂects the charge of EUR2.8 billion that we've taken for the fourth quarter in order
to address the settlement with important investor groups in the United States around the
Structured Alpha elements, which I'm going to address again later.

Page 2 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Now the evidence across performance for stakeholders has been plenty fold. Loyalty
leadership, I have addressed, employees have addressed. So I'd like to spend a few
moments on other ESG topics, in particular, the fact that we have worked a lot to drive
climate change-related issues, in particular, on the asset side. Our friend and colleague
Gunther Thallinger is the Chair of the UN-convened Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, by far
the largest in terms of true commitments of asset owners to change towards a Net-Zero
environment and I applaud the initiative, not because we are chairing it, but because it's
not just banking on 2015 being net-zero, but we have very concrete targets for the next
few years starting with 2025 and we're spending a lot of energy and team commitment
on that. So thanks to the colleagues. But we've also done very operational things,
vaccinating more than 25,000 employees and their families against COVID-19 and we've
really, really taken ESG to the heart. We have a dedicated department at the Group center
now and a Supervisory Board committee that deals with ESG issues, not as a nice to have,
but bringing it into the core of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

By the way, beyond that, we are working on a lot of other elements of social support,
particularly on diversity. Now 30% of all operating proﬁt of Allianz comes from companies
that are led by women and that is very important to us. We don't want just representation
and quotas, we want leadership. And again, if you think about the last year, we've
appointed a female CEO for Asia for Allianz Life of America for Allianz
Lebensversicherungs Germany, something that would have been unthinkable just a few
years ago. So we are trying to make progress as much as we can, as fast as we can.
Now talking about progress, let's spend some time on the transformation that is ongoing.
It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, to think about it very strategically. The purpose
of Allianz that we've worked on with many thousand employees, so it's not an invention of
the Board of Management is being carried by our people is what we call we secure your
future. In a world that is getting ever more fragile, ever more dangerous, Allianz is here to
help people to fulﬁll their purpose and giving them security.
In order to achieve that, we have to be the trusted partners for protecting and growing
our clients and people's most valuable assets. And by the way, that is not just houses and
cars, it is also increasingly the health and the psychological well being. In order to achieve
that trust, we are focusing on three things. The ﬁrst thing is a very careful balance across
stakeholders. We cannot create shareholder value without having highly satisﬁed clients
and a highly motivated workforce in paying our dues, not just in terms of taxes to help
society move forward. We've all seen in the Corona pandemic leaving it to politics alone
is not good enough.
Second, we have to deliver benchmark results and we have to do that globally at scale.
It's not good enough that some of our businesses are world-class, we have to play in
businesses where we are the natural owner and are true leaders, otherwise, we have to
get out. Why is that? Because only leaders do achieve the returns that are required to
actually invest into the future, and that is not just technology, it's our people and it's
society.
And last but certainly not least and so we see that now, there are always storms, ﬂoods
and events that can be critical. There is no way that you can manage a company when
Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

nothing ever happens. So our resilience, our strength has to be so strong that people
never doubt that we can live up to our promises. So, these things are the ones that we are
working upon.
Now, how do we do that practically? If we think about value creation, simplistically said,
there are three sources. It is growing the company, it's client base, it's revenues. It is
expanding our margins where they are not yet best-in-class, and very important for a
ﬁnancial institution to manage our capital eﬃciently. For many, many decades, our
industry was so proﬁtable that we didn't have to worry about capital eﬃciency, we could
only focus on growth and on margins. Actually, margins often came with it. Today, that's
no more the case. We have to work on all three levers simultaneously and we have, as
announced on the Capital Markets Day on December 3, 2021, reﬁned our strategy to
focus on getting the best out of Allianz scale.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are working and have been working on simplifying the Company, our products and
service, particularly for our clients, but also on our structure. We now need to make sure
that we do it globally and consistently. The ﬁve levers that are most important in our
strategy for the next few years as follows: ﬁrst, we have been and are still working on
transforming our Life and Asset Management business. If you look at them together, we
are probably already one of the leading wealth managers in the world and nobody ever
has recognized that. While we were founded in 1819 as a transport and P&C insurance
company, by now, these segments are far larger in terms of proﬁt and growth than the
P&C business has been. So it's very important for us to now transform the business into
something that's highly capital eﬃcient and has less volatility in terms of its capital
consumption.
Second, at the core, we are the leading P&C insurer of the world and we have to expand
our leadership. As you've just seen with the acquisition that we are trying to implement in
Greece, we have a string of pearls strategy. We refrain from large and very dangerous
acquisitions but have been very successful the last few years to strengthen our market
positions by targeted acquisitions in the markets that we operate. Think about the United
Kingdom, we are now a market leader in many ways, particularly in customer satisfaction.
The third lever is boosting our growth. Around the world, driven by digital transformation,
so-called platform businesses are being created and they oﬀer a lot of growth
opportunities for us. So we have been investing, particularly around claims, around health
services, around travel in order to capture the growth of these platforms and we need to
boost it even further and take advantage of our scale.
Talking about advantage of our scale, we need to really make our global strength
something that you can see in the numbers. So for example, through the Allianz Customer
Model, we've been working to create products that we can scale globally. We need to
move beyond that now, it's not just about IT and infrastructure. In IT project, it is about
unique and consistent client experiences wherever you are in touch with Allianz and
whatever Allianz business you're working with. The results of these eﬀorts, by the way, can
already be seen in the strength of our brand. We have been named the number one
brand by Interbrand again and again now and also now on Brand Finance, we've been
named the strongest brand in our industry, and we've jumped afar. But that's just a
Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

symptom and indicator, we need to have our clients experience seamless services
globally and we have still quite some way to go.
Last but not least, we need to reinforce capital productivity and resilience. A key element
of that is to reduce the volatility exposure that we have, particularly on the capital side, but
also make sure that for every [ph] risk we take, particularly tail-risks, we are properly
compensated. So whether that is windstorms or ﬂoods or others, this is what we're here
for, but we need to make sure that these risks are being taken in a calculated way and
we're getting properly compensated for it.

Bloomberg Transcript

So these are the ﬁve levers that we're pulling over the next three years in order to go to
further strength and really take advantage of our global leadership positions. There are
many levers for value creation that are standing behind that, I will not take the time away
from discussion today to go through every little detail. This is fully consistent with what we
have presented at the Capital Markets Day. So I don't want to repeat that. This is just a
reminder of the initiatives that we are taking along the ﬁve levers.
Now, one of the things that are most important to recognize that does not catch the eye of
a lot of people in the public is how we have been transforming our asset management
and our life businesses. We have one of the world-leading franchises there now with more
than EUR670 billion in reserves, EUR2.6 trillion in assets under management, and more
than EUR800 million of proprietary assets that we managing on behalf of our
policyholders. And what we're seeing is if you look into modern [ph] life insurance
products, they look more and more like sophisticated asset management products. So
Allianz is probably the only remaining insurer in the world that has been able to build a
world-class asset management franchise, has the advantage for our customers to create
integrated products to give them the best of both worlds. Higher returns but the proper
protection that's attached with it, and we can absorb all of the threats that you saw,
particularly from ultra-low rates because we have unique assets to so-called alternative
assets that stabilize returns for our policyholders and give the beneﬁts also to
shareholders. Why? Because we can capture margin, both in the life business and the
asset management business at the same time, because we are delivering superior value
to our clients in the ﬁrst place that, then we can share in for our shareholders.
To give you a practical example, our risk-adjusted returns that we achieve on the
investment side for EUR800 billion insurance reserves, about 40 to 50 basis points higher
every year than our competitors can do it, and that is because we have with PIMCO and
AGI, some of the best asset management talent in the world in-house. And that over time
is leading to higher net inﬂows, stable assets and much better risk-adjusted returns as we
are growing out of old guaranteed life insurance reserves very quickly, as we explained at
the Capital Markets Day.
By the way, this year, ladies and gentlemen, is the year where our new business in life will
not absorb any more net capital, by and large, the new business that we are generating is
self-ﬁnancing. So we are going to set capital free over time because of the very strong
new business value that we are generating. We had a very important transaction at the
end of last year and we closed at December 30, and thank you to all of my colleagues that
have worked around the clock to make that happen in order to transform a highly capital
Page 5 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

intensive business, Allianz Life of America was in fact the business in Allianz that in terms
of absolute terms of money had the highest invested capital and release EUR3.6 billion in
capital with this one transaction, improve the ROE depending on how you run the
numbers, 5 to 6 percentage points at least to 18%, that is what top asset managers are
able to achieve. And despite a small reduction in income at EasyLife [ph], we can balance
that with additional incomes we are going to generate at PIMCO. And the solvency ratio
of the Group improved by 9% and that's by the way, evidenced in the results that we saw.
We've been working on it for a long, long time. So we are very proud of the partnership
that we were able to create with Sixth Street and Talcott Resolution in order to make this
thing happen.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now going forward, we intend to use capital as intelligently as we've been demonstrating
with this another transaction as you may remember, we also last year did the ﬁrst-ever
reinsurance transaction out of Switzerland into Bermuda highly successful and underway
for quite a number of years. And again, it shows that we are continuously working to make
this business more capital eﬃcient and less volatile. By the way, tail-risk management
remains at the top of the agenda.
Mr. Tahlep [ph] says they are a very famous game [ph] with a Black Swan says
diversiﬁcation is the thing that never shows up when you really need it, and it's there
some truth to it. So we have to really think not just about better modeling of risks in our
risk model system, but make the front line every day aware that we are exposing our
policyholders and our shareholders' money, and we need to really think it through across
the entire value chain. As we've learned with COVID, it's very important to be very clear
with society and customers, what exactly are we covering for is not good if you need a
PhD in Law to explain our policy wording. We have been able to carefully think about our
cyber exposure and we need to manage that further, we have been massively improving
our commercial lines performance and risk appetite and AGC&S is back on track.
We have to work on the in-force as we've just discussed, particularly on the life side but
also on NatCat accumulation, we have again two storms coming, it's something that we
need to continuously monitor and prove. In 2021, we were able to prove that despite very
heavy NatCat losses on the gross side, the net losses were something that was very much
in line with our risk appetite, and we need to continue to do so and again probably also
charge for the risk that we are taking. Taking NatCat, ﬂood risk is all okay as long as the
returns are proper.
And on operations and IT, there is lots of things that we need to manage, particularly
cyber exposure, but there are many other events beyond the pandemic to take care of, in
particular, human behavior is something that we really need to look at, and the lesson
learned here is we need to be only in businesses that we really fully understand and that
we can really control. Everything else, we should stop doing.
Now, let's talk about the outlook, and I say it with full conﬁdence and I'm very proud of
the work that our 150,000 colleagues -- about 150,000 colleagues last year have
delivered. Record operating earnings, record topline, strong growth in an environment
that's not really growing very much, and a lot of progress on transformation, and that's
something to be very proud about. Therefore, we have decided to also give a conﬁdent
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

outlook, that is above what people were normally expecting. This page gives you a little
bit of a 10-year look and you see the strong improvement in operating proﬁtability that
we've been able to achieve in 2021.
And based on that, our outlook is EUR13.4 billion as the mid-point, plus and minus EUR1
billion, again the environment is quite, quite fragile and by 2024, we want to be north of
EUR14.5 billion in terms of operating proﬁt and grow EPS between 5% and 7%, and we
have all the levers in-house to deliver on this outcome but obviously, lots of very risky
events on the outside. We've also changed, therefore, our dividend policy to make sure
that we not just to have a 50% payout minimum, the wretched we had before, but we
want to grow our dividend 5% from year-to-year. That is a very strong commitment that
people need to really understand what it means for them because it gives them security,
not just on the base, but also on the growth of the base. And beyond that, I repeat the
commitment that we made in 2016, if we have excess capital that we not invest proﬁtably
into the business, either into organic or inorganic growth, we will not let it sit idle. We will
also transfer it back to our shareholders because it's their money, not ours that we are
investing.
With that, I'd like to thank you very much for listening and looking forward to your
questions for today and I hand over to Giulio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you, Oliver, and good morning to everybody. And as Oliver said before, the
underlying performance of Allianz Group in 2021 was very strong. When we look at our
numbers for the 12 months, we see a very nice growth rate of 6% and this is driven by all
segments, not only by Life/Health and Asset Management but also by the PropertyCasualty segment. If you remember the ﬁrst quarter, the growth rate was negative, and
now you can see that we picked up a lot of momentum and we have a growth phase for
the 12 months of 4%.
The operating proﬁt is 25% higher compared to the level of 2020. Clearly, in 2020, we
had also the impact from COVID, but even if we adjust the numbers for the COVID
impact, we have a double-digit growth in operating proﬁt and all segments have
contributed to this performance. In Property-Casualty, we achieved an operating proﬁt of
EUR5.7 billion, which is higher than the outlook of EUR5.6 billion. Here, you can see that
the combined ratio was higher than our 93% target, but we need to recognize that the
NatCat load was deﬁnitely higher than the normal expectation.
On the other side, the results out of the investment was more positive compared to our
plan and this explains why despite a higher combined ratio because of the NatCat we
were able to outperform our outlook. In the Life/Health side, we have a very strong
operating proﬁt and also a very good evolution of the new business margin -- business
value. So very good results on the Life side.
And in Asset Management, we achieved EUR3.5 billion of operating proﬁt, so a record
level of operating proﬁt for our asset management operation and as you see also the

Page 7 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

ﬂows have been very positive and also we were able to reduce substantially the costincome ratio. When we look at the net income, you can see here clearly the impact of
EUR2.8 billion coming from the provision for the Structured Alpha matter, this [ph] said,
even with these impacts, we have been able to achieve an ROE, which is in double-digits
level. So this is a sign of distress [ph] clearly of our overall franchise. So overall, very
strong underlying performance in 2021 and when we take a look at the numbers for the
fourth quarter, you can see that the operating performance in Q4 was very strong with
EUR3.5 billion of operating proﬁt, again, all segments have contributed to these very
good numbers and then clearly, the shareholder net income has been impacted by the
provision for Structured Alpha, but again, when you look at the underlying performance,
extremely strong in the fourth quarter and then we ﬁnished the fourth quarter with the
highest quarterly operating proﬁt compared to what we had in the course of 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the solvency ratio, overall, 209% of solvency ratio, this is after taking into account
for a 9 percentage point charge due to Structured Alpha. So you can see a very strong
evolution of our solvency ratio, which is stronger compared to what we had at the
beginning of the year when we then adjust for pro forma for the buyback that we
announced today of EUR1 billion, then we get to a solvency ratio of 206%, which is clearly
a very strong solvency ratio. And here, I can also talk about what has driven this good
performance from a capital point of view.
First of all, as you see, the capital generation has been positive, plus 29 percentage point.
This number is before dividend and before taxes, while you adjust for dividend and tax is
still a very strong capital generation of about 11 percentage point. And that's very
important because clearly, there is the capital generation that we are going to carry us in
the future and as Oliver was saying before, we are in a situation where basically the
(inaudible) business of -- in our operation is self-funded, so that's -- it's the main positive
situation as we look forward. The capital markets have been benign, so overall, there was
a positive impact coming from the capital market developments, and then when we look
at the capital management and management action, here, we see a minus 14 percentage
point impact. This is basically the dividends that we are going to pay to our shareholder
and also the buyback that we did in August, and the period after August is explained
speciﬁcally [ph] the minus 14 percentage point, otherwise, there are other elements which
are kind of relevant in this number, which oﬀset each other.
One is we got about 11 percentage point of improvement coming from our back-book
transactions. So you can see there was active capital management and especially the
transition in the USA has contributed positively to this number, but we had also other
transition in Europe and then we have been capable to recycle if you want, this 11
percentage point improvement, or the solvency ratio into acquisition. Overall, we did
acquisition in Poland, Italy and also in Australia. This had an impact of 9 percentage points
on our solvency ratio, but you can see how we are moving the portfolio, and we are
capable to fund those acquisitions through rebalancing.
And then on the position of tax and [ph] other, ﬁrst, you have the impact of taxes on the
one side, and then there we had a 9 percentage point of impact due to the Structured
Alpha situation. But overall, with 209% or 206% adjusted for the pro forma for the

Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

buyback, very good level of solvency ratio, and also a lot of activity, both in terms of
capital eﬃciency and in terms of capital redeployment.
This is a new slide that I really like to show you because as Oliver said before, we are very
committed to the ESG topics. These are the 3 KPIs for the issues that -- or topics that we
gave ourself as main targets. Overall, you can see there is a good reduction of the carbon
footprint of proprietary investments and also for the carbon footprint of operation for the - per employee. Clearly, these numbers are also beneﬁting from the COVID situation. So
from that point of view, clearly, there was strong progress, but clearly, we need to adjust
for that. But you can deﬁnitely see that we are well on track to achieve our targets.
And then on the renewable electricity, you can see that we are at a level of 77%. Our
target is to go from above 50% to 100% by 2023. So you can see that we are halfway on
achieving our target for 2023. So overall strong performance also on the ESG topic, so we
try really to combine basically all the stakeholders from the operating proﬁt being very
strong to the solvency ratio being also very strong and also delivering on our ESG
commitments.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now as always, we go into the numbers by segment, and we start with the growth
rates in our P&C operations. And as you see, we had a good growth rate of 4%. As I was
saying before, we've started the year with a negative growth rate. So you can see there
was a strong recovery. And if you look at the number for Q4, we had a growth rate of
double digits. So, deﬁnitely a good level of momentum.
When we look at the development by entities, you can see that the majority of the entities
have been in a growth mode. We have a few exceptions. Usually, like in the United
Kingdom or France or Spain, usually, this is due to a very competitive environment in
motor and/or also through pruning that we are doing, especially in the commercial
business.
I think what is very positive then is the development in Allianz Partners. This gives you an
idea about how somehow the situation is progressively stabilizing, last year was very -2020 was very tough for the travel business. But as you see, now the situation is now back
to normal. But in 2021, there was deﬁnitely a normalization. So overall, a good growth rate
for the segment of 4%. And then when we look forward, the price momentum I will say
that across the portfolio is stable. So which means that, at the moment, we see rate
increases, which are keeping pace with the inﬂation. So that's also important. We cannot
predict what inﬂation is going to do down the road, but for the time being, we see that
we're getting the rate increases that we think are needed to match the current level of
inﬂation that we are seeing.
Now, start -- going to the operating proﬁt. Overall, EUR1.4 billion of improvement in
operating proﬁt in 2021 versus 2020. Of this EUR1.4 billion of improvement, EUR1.1 billion
is due to the fact that we didn't have the repeat of the COVID impact of 2020. But still,
even adjusting for that, we have an increase in operating proﬁt of EUR300 million, which
is about a 5% increase compared to the adjusted level.

Page 9 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

And when you look at the combined ratio, you can see an improvement of 2.5 percentage
points, part of the improvement is due to this COVID not repeating in 2021 compared to
what happened in 2020. On the other side, we see that the amount of natural catastrophe
was signiﬁcantly higher compared to the level that we had in 2020. And then you can see
also there is a normalization of the run-oﬀ [ph] to the level that we would broadly expect.
And then there is also an underlying improvement of about 30 basis points. And of this
30 basis points, a third is coming from the improvement in the expense ratio. So overall, I
will say solid performance on the technical results and another, even if small, but another
improvement in the expense ratio.
And when you look at the 93.8%, you just need to adjust the 3.1 percentage point of
NatCat loss to what the normal level will be, which is more around 2%. And there, you can
see that our combined ratio was deﬁnitely adjusted for that in line with the 93% target that
we have been giving ourselves.

Bloomberg Transcript

When we look then at the performance by entities overall, I will say that you can see really
a good performance, for example, in Germany, a combined ratio of 93.5%, despite the
amount of NatCats that we had during the year is a very good performance. Also in the
United Kingdom, France, Italy, we are seeing very good numbers. The development in
Eastern Europe is always very, very strong. We have some work to do in Latin America, but
that's clearly an opportunity also for the future.
And then I'd like to spend a few words on AGC&S because there's been clearly a cause of
concern in the past. As you see, we have achieved a 97.5% of combined ratio. The target
for 2021 was a combined ratio 98%. So I will say we have been there even slightly
overachieving that. And I can also tell you that the underlying performance of AGCS is
even stronger than the 97.5% that we are showing here. So we are very pleased with the
progress of AGC&S, and we are looking with conﬁdence on the delivery of AGCS in the
next -- this year and the next years.
And then Allianz Partners has also amazing performance considering the environment. So
I was talking yesterday to Oliver saying I couldn't believe that Allianz Partners could
achieve that level of proﬁt, and they've been able to achieve that level of proﬁt also with a
lot of quality. So kudos also to our colleagues in Allianz Partners and also clearly, very
strong performance of Euler Hermes, the economy has been very stable as you see. And
from that point of view, we had also very strong results in Euler Hermes. So overall, a
strong set of results, and I think this is also clearly a good starting point for the
conversation that we're going to have in the course of 2022.
Now on the investment results, as you see, which might be a little bit surprising, the
investment result is not down. This time, it's up. And the point here is that, yes, there is still
pressure on the investment results coming from the ﬁxed income side, although this
pressure is slowly [ph] becoming less. But on the other side, the performance of our
equity portfolio has been very, very strong, speaking here about dividend, that we get out
of our public and private equity, so that performance has been stronger compared to
what we saw in 2020, and this explains why the investment results is up.

Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So when you put all together, the underlying performance on the property -- on the
technical side, then some clearly higher NatCat, but on the other side, better than
expected investment results, we have been able to achieve EUR5.7 billion of operating
proﬁt in our Property-Casualty segment, and that's ahead of the outlook that we set for
the year 2021 of EUR5.6 billion. So that's good news overall.
Now we turn to something that makes me particularly pleased with this -- the
development in the Life business. As you know, we had to do a lot of product changes.
And one of the questions we were getting is, are you capable to do all these product
changes and still keep production going? Now when you see at the growth of our
production, you can see a number which is close to 30%. Clearly, here, we had also a few
one-oﬀs. But even if you adjust for the one-oﬀs, you're going -- we will see the doubledigit growth in production. So that's a very important element because we changed the
product, but there is a strong demand for our products. And when you look at the new
business, margin has improved compared to the already good level that we had in 2020.
So good story on the margin on moving the mix in the right direction and also on the
level of production that we have been able to achieve. And also, what is good all our
subsidiaries have embraced in this journey of a product transformation. So there is no
misunderstanding of what the direction is across all our entities.
And now coming to the operating proﬁt, that has been particularly strong in 2021. You can
see an improvement of EUR650 million, and this is driven basically by all key drivers, like
loading and fees, investment margin and also the technical margin. On the expenses, you
see a negative amount, but you need technically always to oﬀset the expenses with the
impact of change in tax. So that position is basically pretty much stable. So bottom line is
strong improvement, the operating proﬁt, and this improvement has been driven by all
key drivers. And when you look at the operating proﬁt by line, you can see that all lines
have contributed positively to the development of the operating proﬁt. I have also to say
that here, we beneﬁted out of the low volatility in 2021. So from that point of view, the
EUR5 billion is not necessarily the starting point of how we think about a normalized level
of performance in the Life side. But we have also deﬁnitely an expectation that we are
performing at a better level compared to the EUR4.4 billion that we had as an outlook for
the Life's aim [ph] for 2020 (inaudible) strong numbers in total.
And here, as always, we show the picture by entities. And on the new business margin,
you see a lot of stability. On the operating proﬁt, you can see that the German Life
company is contributing a very stable and solid EUR1.2 billion of operating proﬁt. Here,
you see also the signiﬁcant contribution coming from the United States less [ph] in 2020,
the numbers of Allianz Life were a little bit softer because of the high volatility in the ﬁrst
quarter 2020, and this year, I will say the numbers of Allianz Life have been exceptionally
strong because the volatility has been really low. So this explains the deep swing in
proﬁtability of Allianz Life.
Then another company I'd like to highlight is my home country, EUR450 million operating
proﬁt with a growth of 30%. This is really a very nice development that we had in Italy over
the last three [ph] years. Italy has been also one of the ﬁrst countries to embrace this
transformation to capital-light products and unit-linked products. And you can see that

Page 11 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

this journey that the company started a few years ago is now paying oﬀ. So good results
in general and also a few OEs really outperforming, they are planning the expectation.
And now if we go to the investment margin, here, there is a very important message. First
of all, you see that the current yield has gone up by about 10 basis points. And that's
because, in 2020, clearly, there were some lower results due to lower dividend on our
equity portfolio, you see this year, there is a normalization of it. But the most important
point, as you see, the guarantees are going down by 10 basis points. And we expect
clearly this trend to continue as we are making -- we'll be making changes and lower the
guarantee even further in the course of 2021. So that's a very good development as we
see that the drop in the minimum guarantee might, especially if rates are going -- interest
rates are going up, might exceed what we might see as a pressure on the current year. So
overall, very, very strong delivery on this KPI and also this is positioning us well for the
future.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now coming to Asset Management. As Oliver said before, we are one of the largest
asset managers in the world with EUR2.6 trillion of assets under management, and that's
also not to be forgotten. We have about EUR600 billion of proprietary assets that our
asset managers are managing for us. And clearly, that's a strong opportunity where we
can create also good synergies with our asset managers.
And then on the third-party assets under management, you can see number 2, about
EUR2 trillion with a growth rate of 15%. And when you see all asset classes and regions
have contributed to this development, so that's (inaudible) nice when you see that not just
strategy or a region is moving in the right direction, but when you see this across diﬀerent
regions and diﬀerent asset classes, that's a very strong sign of the quality of the overall
franchise.
And we see a similar picture when we look at the third-party inﬂows. Overall, we had
EUR110 billion of inﬂows in 2021. And we are kind of used to see EUR55 billion, EUR60
billion-plus of inﬂows from PIMCO. We are now being used to see EUR40 billion plus
inﬂows from AGI. So that's a really great performance from AGI. I think it is a record level
of inﬂows. And we need to consider that AGI has been capable to deliver this kind of
performance despite having done a restructuring in 2020. So every time you do a
restructuring, there is anxiety about what could be the implication of the franchise, and
these numbers are pretty clear that the franchise with AGI has been very strong.
And when you look at the composition of the third-party net ﬂows by asset classes and
regions, you can see also here a very good spread across the diﬀerent dimensions. So
very good picture with a good level of diversiﬁcation. And clearly, when the assets under
management are going up, revenue also going up. You can see a double-digit growth in
20% growth -- double-digit growth in revenue overall. You see 20% of internal growth at
AGI and 14% at PIMCO. What we also see here, the fee margin is stable. That's also an
important indicator. And then also in PIMCO, we had a good level of performance fees in
-- especially in the fourth quarter. So deﬁnitely, that's been an additional positive to our
operating proﬁt for 2021.

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

And since we are speaking about operating proﬁt, you can see a growth of 20 -- over 20%
on operating proﬁt. Also when we adjust for the so-called volatile items, which is like the
performance fees, which might come to a higher or lower level, we still see about 20%
growth. So very strong performance of our asset managers.
And also, I think what is really noteworthy is the development of the cost to income ratio
of AGI because we had a very strong improvement. We are clearly aware that, in general,
the asset management industry had a good year in 2021, but we have a strong reason to
believe that especially AGI has outperformed also the industry. So very, very strong
underlying development at PIMCO and this year, particularly at AGI.

Bloomberg Transcript

Corporate is more or less in line with our expectations. So we now spend additional time
on this line of business and now we come to the net income. Here, I would say there are
two elements for consideration. One is, as you see, the realized gains and losses are
higher than what we normally expect. Here, we have also the impact of the transaction
that we did in the United States that has contributed on that line item about EUR600
million of income, then there were clearly some oﬀsetting items below. But just to explain
that item, one-third of the EUR1.8 billion is explained by the transaction in the United
States. And then as you see, we have the position order [ph], that's where we have also
the pretax charge of our litigation in the US. And as we said before, the net income
impact coming out of our matter in the US is EUR2.8 billion. And again, I want to reiterate,
clearly, we are not pleased with that. But still, we're capable to do about 11% ROE. And
this is a sign of the strength of our underlying performance.
And with that, I'd like to come maybe to what is the most interesting session for you guys,
which is the outlook for 2022. And as Oliver has already said, we have an outlook of
EUR13.4 billion for this year. As you know, you might have understood so far, we have a
little bit of a tradition also to set the outlook at the level of the preceding period. So we
keep with this tradition, which is usually also has been so far also very good for us. And
when we look at the assumption is for P&C, EUR6 billion operating proﬁt. Here, we expect
basically to go to a combined ratio of 93%. That's where we think the underlying
combined ratio is. So this explains basically the increase compared to the level that we
have in 2021.
We are still kind of conservative on the assumption for investment income because we
want to see how the situation evolves. But fundamentally, the main KPI behind the EUR6
billion is a 93% combined ratio. For the Life business, we have EUR4.8 billion of operating
proﬁt. As I was saying before, the performance in 2021 has been a little bit elevated
because of the low volatility in the United States. So we are kind of adjusting for that. So
we are starting with a EUR4.8 billion as working assumption.
And then in asset management, also, we do some normalization for the performance fees
and then we will see how the environment is going to develop in the course of 2022. So
overall, EUR13.4 billion of operating proﬁt, and we have a healthy degree of conﬁdence
that we will achieve this target. That's a good starting point for the conversation that we
are going to have in the course of 2022.

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

So to summarize, strong underlying performance. That's very important because that's the
foundation of all the things we do. The capitalization is very strong. That's also important.
We are in a position of strength from a capital point of view. Oliver was talking before
about the health indicators. They are also very strong. And as we speak about health
indicator, which is a lot to do also with our people, I clearly want to thank again our
employees for their great performance in 2021.
And with that, I will be done with my presentation.

Questions And Answers
A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thank you, Giulio. Thank you very much. So moving now to the Q&A session. (Operator
Instructions) Now, because we know you will have questions about our provision and the
Structured Alpha situation, we want to address this in our Q&A at the outset and upfront.
Oliver will read some remarks that we have prepared for you, which we hope will be clear
and helpful. But after that, we will not take further questions on the topics for reasons I'm
sure you understand and will respect. However, there is a lot going on in the world and in
our business. So we will certainly still have a lot to talk about. So with that, Oliver?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Lauren. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards to Structured Alpha and the
Structured Alpha funds at AGI, I'd like to inform you that the ongoing governmental and
litigation measures remain at a sensitive stage. So as a result, beyond my remarks here, I
will not and unfortunately, Allianz Group, in general, cannot comment further on
Structured Alpha, neither during today's presentation or in response from questions that
you may have either today or over the subsequent days or months. And I -- thank you for
your understanding because we are under very strict rules in the United States.
Now as you know, Allianz SE has announced that it has taken a substantial provision in
anticipation of settlements with investors in the Structured Alpha funds and in light of the
discussions with US authorities. We closed these funds, as you know, following losses
suﬀered in the wake of market disruption in March of 2020 and at the start of the Corona
pandemic.
Now we announced this provision last evening in anticipation of settlements with major
investors in the Structured Alpha funds, which we actually ﬁnalized this morning, really
ﬁnalized. And because our negotiations with the US governmental authorities are also
proceeding, we have determined that certain costs related to Structured Alpha now are
calculable and, therefore, provision is appropriate. We believe that these settlements with
investors represent a substantial majority of our Structured Alpha litigation exposure,
that's very important, and will provide a fair compensation to those investors for their
losses, which we do regret. The estimated net impact of the provision we have taken will
reduce the Group's 2021 net income, as you have seen, by EUR2.8 billion. This morning,
there were some confusion around numbers. The EUR3.7 billion is the gross number, the
net income eﬀect is actually EUR2.8 billion.

Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

This provision and the settlements this morning in the US are an important step towards
resolution. But it is important to note that we remain in discussion with both the DOJ and
the SEC and some remaining investors. Accordingly, we expect that Allianz Group include
some additional expenses before these matters are ﬁnally resolved, and we hope to
resolve them as quickly as possible.
By the way, it's just been eight months since the DOJ started its investigation in May last
year and until now. So people ask sort of, is this fast? From what we know, it's one of the
fastest movements and that we are really interested to settle things quickly. However, the
US government decides when and how these things are being settled, and we're working
with them very intensively. So at this time, we cannot quantify the total impact of the
ongoing DOJ and SEC investigations or some of the remaining litigation. But as soon as
the proceedings progress further and a ﬁnancial impact can be determined, as said, for
this one, we will assess the need for a further provision. We hope those investigations and
remaining litigation will be resolved in a timely manner. But again, at this point now, we
cannot predict a settlement date or its precise terms.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to emphasize again, as all along, we have been cooperating fully with the DOJ and
the SEC investigations from the very beginning, including providing substantial factual
information to the DOJ and SEC about the results of our own forensic reviews and other
reviews of the Structured Alpha matter. As part of the conclusion of those investigations,
for those that are not familiar with the US speciﬁcs, we expect that the DOJ and the SEC
will make their ﬁndings public. On our side, we cannot disclose any ﬁndings or lessons
learned from our own reviews until the investigations of the government authorities are
concluded on their side.
I want to be clear that we are continuing to evaluate thoroughly the Structured Alpha
matter in both detail and in its context, and we are determined, as always, to learn from
this matter and we'll continue to strengthen our culture as our local and global processes
to prevent this event from happening ever again, I hope.
I want to also address the impact of this matter on senior management because there has
been questions around that. Since at the end of the day, it's also our institutional
responsibility, not just at AGI US. As we've always said previously, management
remuneration is -- at Allianz is deliberately designed to align the interest of management
and our shareholders. As a result, any loss experienced to our shareholders as this one
are felt directly in the compensation of Board members and as are [ph] gains if we create
them in terms of positive eﬀects.
I can assure you in advance that despite the record of operational performance of the
Company, which was stunning actually in 2021, management will carry our fair share of the
burden and there will be a signiﬁcant impact on our compensation for each and every
Board member, by the way, as a result of the provision and its impact on net income. Our
annual report that exempliﬁes that will be published on March 4.
With these actions, we want to demonstrate we are taking this matter extremely seriously
and we regret really the losses, particularly to suﬀered by Structured Alpha investors. One

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

of the strongest aspects of Allianz's culture that I [ph] experienced now over a long period
of time that we are able to learn from these events. So we are going to make sure and
take every opportunity that we learn from this institution to become smarter, we become
stronger and we become a better company as a result.

FINAL

So thank you for listening, and that's all I and we can say about Structured Alpha today.
And with that, I hand back to Lauren.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Oliver. Our ﬁrst question on the telephone is Stefen Karl from
Bloomberg. Hi, Stefan. We see your avatar. Can't hear you. Okay. Next question will be
Olaf Storbeck from the Financial Times.

Q - Olaf Storbeck
Hi. Can you hear me?

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

We can hear you. Hi, Olaf.

Q - Olaf Storbeck

Bloomberg Transcript

Fantastic. Hi. Yeah. Thanks for taking my questions. I'm afraid I do have a couple of
questions on the Structured Alpha, but this relates to the impact on Allianz's result of the
provision. So I hope you will be able to explain that.
As Oliver already mentioned, this discrepancy between the EUR3.7 billion provision and
the EUR2.8 billion impact on net proﬁt. Could you just explain the gap? Is this just the tax
shield? I mean, it looks like it. But on the other hand, I think the tax impact is -- the implied
tax rate on the provision would be 24%, while I think on the overall Group level, it's 25%.
So why is that gap?
And my second question would be, when do you expect the cash outﬂow to happen?
And how will you fund it? Because, I mean, EUR3.7 billion, plus the EUR1 billion of share
buyback, it's a relatively signiﬁcant outﬂow. And if this kind of happens quickly, will you
have -- will your net debt increase? Or how will you deal with that? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I can pick up this question. So on the tax rate, yes, that's the only diﬀerence between the
EUR3.7 billion and the EUR2.8 billion. And the tax rate is 24%. You need to apply the tax
rate, which is relevant for the legislation where the settlement is taking place. So that's
basically the reason why it's 24%. It is now the 25% that you see for the Group.
Otherwise, your other question was about when the cash outﬂow is going to be. A portion
of it is going to be relatively soon. And from a liquidity point of view, I always say that we
have ample liquidity in Allianz Group. So from that point of view, that's not a concern.
Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Q - Olaf Storbeck
Okay.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

FINAL

Respected [ph], Yeah, that's very clear. I mean ample is a conservative way to put it. All
right.

Q - Olaf Storbeck
Could you also maybe -- if I may, can you give us some idea of how much your bonuses
will be cut?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

No, we can't. But it's -- you will ﬁnd out on March 4.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thanks, Olaf. Next question is Tom Sims from Reuters. Please go ahead, Tom.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Tom, you're on mute, somehow.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Tom, if you want, just text me that question, and we'll read it aloud for you because you
were waiting in the queue. Next question is from Alexander Huebner from Reuters.

Q - Alexander Huebner

{BIO 15063318 <GO>}

Hi, can you hear me now?

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Very well.

Q - Alexander Huebner

{BIO 15063318 <GO>}

Hello. Can you hear me?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Very well.

Q - Alexander Huebner

{BIO 15063318 <GO>}
Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

Okay. Thank you. I've got two questions. The ﬁrst one is we have read that you are
planning some changes at Euler Hermes, renaming the business and change its strategy a
bit. Can you elaborate a bit on that, please?
And the second question is on your strategic proposal that Life and Asset Management
will grow together in the future. How far can this go? Will we in, let's say, a couple of years
see one large combined life and asset management part of Allianz? Or yeah, that's, in
fact, the question.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Let me address the question. Let me start with the second one, you asked about
where is this going? Actually, we look at it from the customer side, Alex, that is
increasingly the oﬀers are integrating.
So regardless, how we really are organized internally, most of the projects are converging.
You already see that, in corporate, that [ph] often driven by regulation, not really by the
product features and the risk return proﬁles because, in some countries, pensions are
favorite tax-wise, in others, it is CTAs. This is also going into the retail markets. And what
we're doing, we are designing the products in an integrated way to oﬀer the best of both
worlds and bring them in. By the way, also health insurance increasingly plays a role as
people have found out through Corona, that is really important to think about that. So
whether that leads to organizational changes is a second matter, what we are driving is
really to try to create more value because we can optimize both the life insurance product
design and the asset management supply that is unique to Allianz, particularly in a world
where access to private markets, not public market is making all the diﬀerence in terms of
returns for our policyholders and for our asset management clients. This is where the
convergence actually is most important.
But it's very important to recognize when people look at the proﬁt pools to really think
about them together because what we are actually oﬀering is two types of products to
clients, but we are basically creating returns for them in both sides as customers, but also
for our shareholders, we are proﬁting twice from having the assets of our clients in-house.
Now on Euler, we will announce that in due time. Yes, there are changes coming. I don't
want to talk about this at this point in time, we'll do it in due course through Euler. What
we're trying to do is make sure that the world understands Euler Hermes is a core part of
what we do in Allianz, particularly for SME clients. And we -- it's a business we're
extremely proud of. We are growing it very strongly, and there is lots of opportunities
globally for this business to do -- go from strength to strength. It's a bit more volatile than
other businesses. We need to manage the risk very carefully, but it's a fantastic business.

Q - Alexander Huebner

{BIO 15063318 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Our next question is from Jean-Philippe Lacour from AFP.
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Q - Jean-Philippe Lacour
Yes. (Foreign Language) Good morning. Can you hear me? I hear myself an echo.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

FINAL

We hear you.

Q - Jean-Philippe Lacour
Yes. But I hear an echo when I -- okay. Can you still hear me? Okay. NatCat ﬁrst. So there
were some disasters in Europe, including the ﬂoods in Germany, which were really
expensive for the sector. But what was impacting the United States? Last year, there were
many storms, which were very expensive as well for the sector. However, apart the legal
storm, which has not ﬁnished hurting you in the US, I don't see any USA lane in your P&C
tables. So please enlighten me on this topic.
Second question on COVID. Prior year, you had a EUR1.3 billion charge on COVID on the
Group level. Can you maybe give a ﬁgure what was for 2021, which should have fallen
sharply as we know, and maybe a forecast for 2022 quantitatively -- qualitatively? Sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally, China, which we haven't heard a word (inaudible) come out on China and
Allianz had become I mean here in [ph] Olympic games key sponsor for these games.
And those in China are now ending. And (Technical Diﬃculty) commitment that has been
strong from several stakeholders treated (inaudible) that you are supporting dictatorship,
so to say.
And my question is, have you signiﬁcantly reduced your sponsorship budget for the
games as it was alleged before the games? And what -- on a larger base, what do you say
beyond that about your ambitions in China? So on this last question, maybe thank you for
a lively answer rather than ready state -- ready-made statements. Okay. That was it.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Thank you, Jean-Philippe and (Foreign Language). It is very interesting questions. I would
like to hit the question and starting right on the Olympic movements, and then Giulio will
take -- address the issues on NatCat.
It's very important to clarify a few things. So, for example, we do not sponsor Olympic
games in China, okay? That may come as a surprise. We do sponsor the athletes that are
participating in the Olympic games. It's a totally diﬀerent thing.
So let me repeat. We are not sponsoring any city unless we have that speciﬁcally. For
example, in Italy, we're going to do that for the games coming up. But we did not sponsor
a speciﬁc sort of host. What we are supporting is thousands of Olympic sportsmen and
women that are preparing for four years to the most important sports competition in the
world. And that's something we are very proud of. And we've been supporting the
Olympic movement even as an unoﬃcial sponsor for a long time.

Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

By the way, starting with the Paralympic, something that's very dear to my personal heart
because that's something where handicapped people, people with disability are really
trying to show their best every world. And I think that's been confused, particularly in the
core of Europe. So we have not spent any money to or given any money to the Chinese
government for holding the games, and that's very important.
And that's -- as -- whether they are in Beijing or whether they're in Madrid or in London or
Paris in the future and so on, wherever they are housed [ph], and I think that's important.
And we keep on supporting the Olympic movements because we believe it's one of the
few things that unites the world regardless of what's going on wherever.
Now the question will be, do we not take notice of criticism that other people have of
countries and governments. And of course, we do, and we are in dialogue also with local
governments on this, but we don't do it publicly. We are not elected oﬃcials that have to
represent the people, and we have an opinion, and we give that feedback very clearly,
but we do it privately. And I think that's the best way for us to do it in a proper way.
And in terms of China, we have many, many ideas on how to grow in China. Our business
there today is not very big, but we've created a lot of requirements to help them. For
example, China is trying to set up a proper pension and private healthcare system, which
will be very important to support the 1.4 billion people as the society is aging very fast,
and we have lots of experience with operating in mature society. So we're trying to bring
the best of our knowledge to help the society there, and I think that's also okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now with that, I hand over to Giulio.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

So if I understand your question, your question was what is the impact of the winter storm
in the US in our NatCat. So overall, our NatCat load was EUR1.8 billion, and 10% of it is
coming from the winter storm in Texas. So about EUR180 million was the impact in our
numbers because of the winter storm. And of those EUR180 million, half of it is recognized
in AGC&S and half of it is ﬂowing through our Allianz Insurance. So that's on the topic.
Then you asked for the impact of COVID in 2021. I would tell you the impact of COVID in
2021 was not really signiﬁcant, and that's the reason why we are not speaking about that.
Yes, frequency in motor was still lower. But on the other side, severity tends to be a little
bit higher, and we have also been kind of prudent on how we look at the development of
inﬂation going into 2022. So when I put all these together, I can tell you that there was not
a meaningful impact coming from the COVID positive or negative in 2021. If I can tell you,
rather positive, but small, deﬁnitely not a negative hit in 2021 because of COVID.
As far as 2022 goes, we expect the COVID situation basically to be neutral. At this point in
time, I would say that most things have been -- have gone through the system [ph]. There
is still some uncertainty in some location about what might happen on the claims side, but
I can tell you that we have a substantial amount of webinar [ph]. So from that point of
view, even the uncertainty that we see, we think we are reserved for it. And also, we see a
tendency for the time being that we saw also in Germany, there was a core assessment,
Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

which went in our direction, this might change, but I would say we are well positioned
with our reserving.

Q - Jean-Philippe Lacour

FINAL

Thanks.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thanks. Thanks, Jean-Philippe. Our next question is from Sam Casey from Insurance
Insider.

Q - Samuel Casey

{BIO 21472150 <GO>}

Hello. Can you hear me?

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Yes, we can.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Samuel Casey

{BIO 21472150 <GO>}

You posted really strong turnarounds in the AGCS unit past year. Now the P&C sector
commercially has attracted a huge amount of new capital and the hard market conditions
are transitioning. How are you going to maintain those proﬁts going forward and also try
to grow them?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Yeah. Very good question. We've really learned a lot around that. And it's not just AGC&S,
that's the whole commercial segment that in the industry-wide before the hard -- rate
hardening has suﬀered.
You see, I don't agree with the statement that we are going into a soft market yet because
of strong NatCat prices, property prices still increasing, cyber rates have to go up. So
there's a lot of momentum still on pricing and on growth, and people are recognizing that
they need more risk management than ever. So it's up to us to really capture the growth in
a proﬁtable way.
What will be required in Allianz is really strong discipline. And what is very important is
not that we just increase proﬁtability substantially, the true sort of attritional loss ratio in
AGC&S is actually much better than it looks already, but we've massively reduced the
potential volatility because we have been containing risk, reducing line sizes per
exposure, introducing much more stringent reinsurance regimes. So the volatility of this
business is going to be much lower than it has been in the past. And we need to remain
very disciplined. We are not writing this business for topline. We're writing this business
Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

for bottom line. It's something very hard to introduce into the DNA, particularly at Allianz
because we are very growth-oriented. But the team around Jo Muller [ph] and ClaireMarie and everybody there has been very, very clear that we need to really contain that.
In order to maintain proﬁtability, even if rates go down, we need to make sure that
eﬃciency, productivity improves. They have already done a great job in driving the
expense ratio down. But there's more to be done. And last but not least, we need to think
about how do we deploy capital. That's very important. The old model in our industry is to
underwrite risk and warehouse it and then hope for the diversiﬁcation, as I said earlier, it's
very important to recognize that private markets often oﬀer capital at better rates, risk
reduction returns than ours. So we shouldn't think about ourselves as warehouses of risk.
But we are structuring risk, we are underwriting risk and then we need to ﬁnd the capital
sources that oﬀer the best risk-adjusted returns, and they may be outside of our own
balance sheet.
So that's the way we are going to pursue going forward. Thank you for your question.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Frida Leclere [ph] from Suddeutsche. Hi. We can
hear you?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello. Can you hear me?

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

We can hear you.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Hello. I have another question on AGCS. You seem to be quite happy with the results. Is
the future of AGCS now secure? Because last year, it doesn't sound like this. It sounds like
there may be some changes if they don't perform quite well.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

I don't know what's secure is in the world that is as fragile as ours, but the team has done
an amazing job and everybody, as we said, is part of the Group because we try our best
and deliver the outcomes. So I think some of these comments were overrated a little bit.
We have changed really the whole team at AGC&S, put our best people there and
whenever we do that, you see the results, so we are very pleased with the results and we
expect continued delivery in '22 and '23 and beyond and we are very conﬁdent that that
is going to happen.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Excellent. So...

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Okay. Thank you.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

FINAL

We have about a quarter of an hour left. Our next question is Patricia Kowsmann from The
Wall Street Journal.

Q - Patricia Kowsmann
Hi. Good morning. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to ask this. But I need to -- it'd be good to
have a clariﬁcation on something. You said that you booked EUR3.7 billion in anticipation
for the settlement with major investors. Then this morning, you said you actually ﬁnalized
the settlement with these major investors, if I got it correctly. So basically, you settled with
major investors for EUR3.7 billion. Is that right? And then are you going to put anything
out on that, like which investors you settled with and how many? And can we know how
many? Thank you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, we cannot answer the last question. So the
number again is EUR2.8 billion net, not EUR3.7 billion, that's the gross number. And
indeed, we did settle with a signiﬁcant number of investors. But again, as we are not
completely done yet, we cannot tell you with whom, unfortunately. But very pleased with
the progress, and this is the vast majority of investors.

Q - Patricia Kowsmann
So you settled -- so, wait, the...

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

May I add something? So the EUR2.8 billion after-tax or EUR3.7 billion before tax is not
just the payments for the settlement with a major investor. There are other components
included there, but we cannot be more speciﬁc.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Is that helpful, Patricia?

Q - Patricia Kowsmann
Yeah. That's helpful. So it's not -- it's basically not all just paying investors a settlement?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Correct. Not just paying those investor where we achieved an agreement, yes.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Exactly. It's more than that, and we are trying to go as far as we can at this point.
Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Q - Patricia Kowsmann
Thank you.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Next question from Christian Schnell of Handelsblatt.

Q - Christian Schnell

{BIO 18820024 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning everybody. I have two other questions. First is Allianz Direct. You
started two years ago, now you changed the management. What do you expect in the
future from Allianz Direct? And the other question is a bit worldwide topic now, inﬂation.
What do you think? What's the inﬂuence of inﬂation now for Allianz for asset
management? What is the change of policy from (inaudible)? Is it (inaudible) we expect
this year? What do you think what's coming on for Allianz?

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thank you and good morning, Christian, for the very good question. So Allianz
Direct, nothing has changed. There's been a record time live in four markets. We just
need to consolidate. Everybody that knows insurance knows that in an environment where
there are no cars being sold and prices go down, the direct market doesn't grow. So the
direct market only grows if prices go up signiﬁcantly, that's typically a step change where
growth in the direct channel happens.
So what we're seeing is totally normal, particularly in light of the cleanups we had to do,
especially here in Germany. And we are using Allianz Direct, as you know, as the
laboratory to test new technologies, new customer journeys and new products. We have
after motor gone live with home products, we're going to go live with travel. So the
strategy doesn't change. And we're trying to create, over time, a do it yourself, as you say,
lowest cost base insurance as an internal benchmark on innovation, speed and
productivity. That's the -- that has been the idea and is the idea. That will be cyclical, as we
say, because of COVID. Again, there have been no new cars and no switches to direct, but
that is not changing. So we'll keep on doing it.
The changes, by the way, happened because the founder wanted to do be a founder, so
to speak, Bart Schlatmann and wants to remain a founder and now we're institutionalizing
the business with somebody that really knows how to do that, has enormous expertise
and is helping to institutionalize now after the founding phase. That's a totally normal
process that we are trying to institutionalize this business now.
Now on the outlook. It's a very important question. And as you know, we have been very
clear that we have believed that, particularly in Europe, interest rate policy and QE have
been by far wrong because it was trying to drive certain eﬀects that never materialized,
higher investments than others. So now it's really high time that we increase interest rates.
We have minus 5% to 6% interest rates in Germany now, which is basically robbery of
private people's money and the forecast from the Central Bank were all wrong, right? So
last year, I said there is no inﬂation, then the inﬂation would be very short, and then there

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

was work [ph] now. People have come to recognize that it's there. And the good news is
there is still time. So interest rates have to move up.
Now it's totally clear. It has to be done very carefully, particularly if like in the US, you've
been late in addressing the interest rate cycle, the side eﬀects that once you start to
tighten can be very signiﬁcant, yeah. You can actually have negative eﬀects on
investments. You can have very negative eﬀects on spread widening that are unintended.
So the balance in terms of how you do that between quantitative easing measures and
interest rate policy is something very diﬃcult to navigate, particularly once you've moved
yourself into a corner like the ECB has done. We all need them to be successful. So we're
keeping our ﬁngers pressed that ﬁnally, logic is settling in and not just ﬁscal policy
domination in order to keep public households in some countries protected.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other thing it will mean is that we need to really carefully look at public spending. We
have really increased debt in order to support the economy during COVID even in
Germany, and we cannot keep on printing money. We know that, for sure, because of our
history in Germany, but other governments have also to recognize that handing out
money for free forever is not the recipe. And last not but not least, we need to do
something for our people. In Germany, with now private households spend 40% more
than in our neighboring country, France. And I think our people are getting increasingly
upset. They're asking for higher wages. But that's not the answer because that will drive
inﬂation further. We need to reduce taxes, particularly on energy consumption, where it's
going the wrong way. So we need to support the green transition, but it cannot be done
totally at the expense of the private households. That's not right in my opinion. That's
nothing to do with the so-called just transition. And we've made a lot of proposals and it's
time for some action now.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Does that answer your question, Christian?

Q - Christian Schnell

{BIO 18820024 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thank you. We have two more questions in the queue for the remainder of the hour. The
next is Herbert Fromme from Suddeutsche Zeitung. Okay. The connection is closed. Our
last question is from Ben Dyson from S&P Global Intelligence.

Q - Ben Dyson

{BIO 20376903 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Can you hear me okay?

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

We can hear you and see you.

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Q - Ben Dyson

{BIO 20376903 <GO>}

Okay. Great stuﬀ. And yes, so really, I wanted to ask about Life back-books. Okay. Great
stuﬀ. Sorry, I'm getting a bit of a strange feedback. So that's why I'm...

FINAL

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Sorry about this. We'll follow up on the technology. Power through your question, we can
hear you just ﬁne, and then mute and we'll answer for everyone.

Q - Ben Dyson

{BIO 20376903 <GO>}

Okay. Yes. So really just a question about Life back-books. I mean you transacted EUR38
billion in 2021. Just wanted to ask what that looks like going forward, what you might
expect to do in 2022 and future years and how much there is left to do there really?
And then just really on the non-life side, I think you mentioned that the usual expectation
for natural catastrophes is 2 points on the combined ratio. I was wondering if you're going
to have to revise that given there seems to be an increasing level of natural catastrophes,
particularly from secondary barrels. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

So I can take these questions. Maybe starting from the second one. I'll just tell you, in a
few years ago, when we were looking at the load for NatCat and weather-related,
internally, we always put the two things together. Our load was about 3 percentage
points. And now already one or two years ago, we moved to about 3.2%. And now I can
tell you the way we are thinking about the NatCat load, including weather-related is more
3.5%. So we moved basically within three years from 3% load to 3.5% load.
And again, this includes NatCat and weather-related, and now we're going to see how the
situation develops in 2022 and whether this is enough or we might to say, okay, we need
to go higher. Just to give you an idea, in absolute order [ph] amount, that's about EUR2
billion. So basically for NatCats and weather-related events, we have a budget of EUR2
billion. What is also important, as you think about the exposure, we have an aggregate
that is coming into place, I would say, EUR1. 2 billion. But when you run the math, there
will be, I would say, EUR1.6 billion, plus you need to add the weather-related. So there is a
point where when we hit the EUR2.5 billion of NatCat plus weather-related, at that point in
time, the aggregate will come into place.
So that's basically the story. We brought the number up from 3% to 3.5%, and then I will
say we have an aggregate that is going to start protecting us once we get a deviation,
which is going to be in excess of 100 basis points, I would say. So that's on NatCat.
On the back-books, I would tell you, it's hard to put a number in the sense of what we're
going to do in 2022 versus 2021. And as you saw, we've been working on back-books for
a few years. And sometimes, you see there is less activity, and then you see a spike in
things that we can bring to conclusion. So all what I can tell you is that we are
continuously looking at back-books. So that's what we do basically across all our entities.
Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

FINAL

And also I want also to add that we're not just doing back-books in the sense of
transacting with reinsurance transaction or with portfolio transfer. We are also working
really on improving the back-book. That's what we are doing in Italy, where we had
renegotiation of the contracts, also in France, we are moving the portfolio from capitalintensive products to capital lighter products, I'm talking of the in-force portfolio. So there
are a lot of tools that we are using on top of just doing the kind of reinsurance transaction
portfolio transfer.

Q - Ben Dyson

{BIO 20376903 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Thank you, Ben. The questions are answered?

Q - Ben Dyson

{BIO 20376903 <GO>}

Yes. (inaudible) Thank you.

A - Oliver Bate

{BIO 19184930 <GO>}

Very good. I think we have some time because some people had a problem coming in
Lauren. You [ph] are okay. So, we have tried to get some of the people that couldn't dial
in online because we have all the time for your questions today.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lauren Day

{BIO 15181011 <GO>}

Yes. Herbert Fromme, if you're on the line, please go ahead.
This is what I recommend. I'm very sorry about the technology for some of you that if
you're experiencing some diﬃculty. Also, I think having to hear my own voice echo is
probably my worst nightmare.
But what I would ask is we will be here. We can close the conference, and we will be here
and you can call Holger or myself, we'll be together, and we'll try to answer your
questions individually. We are here for your questions. We have the time, and I also would
really love your feedback on the format of the conference, especially on the technology
platform since I know it's diﬃcult for many of you. We want this to be the type of
conference where you really get the information that you need, that it's clear, and of
course, the user experience should be best-in-class. So we'll keep getting better at that.
Thank you so much for your time, your interest in Allianz, interest in the work that we do,
and I wish you a great day. Thanks for following up. Bye-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
Page 27 of 28



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2022-02-18

Page 28 of 28

