S1 2011 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Antoine Lissowski, Finance
Corporate Participant
Gilles Benoist, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Analyst
Michael Huttner
Ralph Hebgen

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Gilles Benoist

{BIO 1824462 <GO>}

Well, good afternoon to everybody. Do you hear me? Okay. So, let's go for this presentation of our
First Half Results. For us just when beginning looking at the environment of CNP, it's clear that not a
very pleasant environment because we at the same times we had to face a weak economy growth
in France and most of that a decrease in the life insurance market. And of that our sovereign debt
crises, the very new of course you can't find in Solvency II regulation.
Well, what is interesting is that as you've seen looking at the results and even with a decreasing
global revenue, results of CNP are in fact stable. Behind that stability there is in fact a progression
because more than a €100 million have been put in provisions. And second aspect the present
view on what the ratios be treated, the debt creek has been absorbed rather easily by CNP by a
movement of the parity order surplus reserve by the combination of supplementary provision of
little more than 100. And of course any variant of €353 million due to the method, the 21% method
used in France by . So, I think till that of course those of you who knows well the business model of
CNP and gets that for getting this type of results means that of course the global assets of CNP
are going up and that's true. But also that international activities are bringing more profitability and
that the mixed products has improved as in a parallel way compared to the margins.
So, let's just have a glance on some of our markets. And after that of course Antoine will comment
on the detailed results. Now, for global markets two were declining. The most impractical decline is
in Italy more than 25% but in France for the first time in a Rome history been more than six months
customs decline of the premiums in life insurance of course still is a next premium collect. But a
decline, of course the main reasons are identical in the two European countries, partly identical,
first is the reason are competition between banking products and life insurance products and to be
a strong need of liquidity. The European banks prompted to the base of three liquidity ratios. But
of course there are other reasons for the decline that are of course the global economic
environment. And of course in France, the number of weeks or quite months of hesitation of the
French government on the tax regime of life insurance. And so we see modest customers putting
their money in the liquid Livret, tax exempted Livret as far as they have not saturated the limit of
this product.
And only medium and high network customers remain in life insurance for this period. On the
contrary looking at the two other regions of market going up, it's of course clearly the case in
Brazil. And it's not a something brand new. It's a constant and wonderful increase, of double-digit
increase. What is interesting is the fact that despite the environment, Spanish market is going up
and in fact we are going up in this market with a very efficient partner. The next slide is just a way



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

to remind that behind it sometimes there is some volatility of the business in some years. It's a
global long-term trend of increase of revenues that is of course as far as CNP and its story it's
clear that you have this data some in mind. As you can see there we try to summarize what I just
mentioned of the reasons of the decline of progression of life insurance. If we stay for one or two
minutes in France and looking by type of product and by partner.
As you can see the decline of our two main networks as far as savings products are concerned is
on the first half apparently different, let's say apparently because there is a base effect in the
comparison between first half 2010 and first half 2011. Right now the performances of the Banque
Postale last year was impressive. Well it's clear that at the end of the previous half year the two
networks are at the same level of revenue. But behind that you must check in account the fact that
under two networks one needs liquidity as explained the evolution because they as many banks in
France and even in Italy they have launched banking saving products to grab their liquidity and they
have of course accepted without any discussions the new inflows of Livret. Don't forget that our
two main networks were historically the two main distributors of Livret in France. It is clear that the
Banque Postale doesn't need liquidity and explains that the resistance was better on the first half.
But looking at and trying to get what could happen up to the end of 2011, we think that the base
effect we have disappeared at the end of this year and the two network could be at performances
quite similar. Looking at the group insurance partner it's the global stability and except or financial
institution meaning debt repayment cover or private insurance, because in that field despite the
disappearance of one of our partners Cofidis was a both by the activity is still going up. Looking
now to outside France. You can see clearly on the graphic that there is only one as far as revenues
are concerned bad news, it's clearly Italy. The problems of organization in the network of UniCredit
in Italy by the merger of all the old banks and the operations of collecting liquidity by UniCredit has
made a sharp decrease of premiums in the first half while twice decrease of the Italian market.
Of course, this situation couldn't last and after a strong discussions with UniCredit, they have
accepted to adopt in the end of June in the Board of UniCredit Vita, a new business plan for three
and half years coming back to better figures in revenues and savings. To be honest, it's clear to
say and it's visible in other slide that as far as risk products are concerned, they are good, they
explains the increase of the margins and in the same stages in Italy. Of course, all the other
activities as you can see were going up. And of course that's important to understand the good
resistance of those global results of CNP Group. Just one circled focus on the two main
subsidiaries. As you can see well, cash have the gross is always bringing good news and in every
time of activities through different progressions. And on the contrary, UniCredit Vita has suffered
from sharp decrease but I hope it's now past story.
So, let's go now to Antonie, who will give you many details on the results and I just give you after
that some views on the future.

Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Alright. Hello, everybody Antoine speaking. Well we'll go through the figures you have in front of
you on slide 11, the main figures. Group, the level of revenues and new money are on the left chart.
The technical reserves are also up, that's by 5.6% up to 290 billion. The attributable profit is stable
at 543 million, slightly the same as last year. And the MCEV is up €21.1 per share at the end of June,
which is highest level of history of CNP. We'll come back with different figures and elements. The
next section is about the revenues. We've already mentioned we are at about 15.3 billion at the
group level. This decrease is due to the decline in savings revenue in Europe only, but there is
nevertheless a continued growth in personal risk and credit insurance revenues in all our areas of
business. Outside of France, please note that there is still very strong growth at Caixa Seguros and
an exceptional level of growth at Barclays Vida in Southern Europe which is started but starting very
well.



FINAL

Average technical reserve are up 6.2%. We will comeback to this in a second. But I just want to
point to draw your attention to the fact that we are still in a case where there is a positive net new
money at the level of the group as well as in France things where there is no reduction of revenues
in France of net revenue very secure, net positive revenue is in France as in the other countries. On
Page 13, you have the revenue by segment and by origin. We see there very well but there is a
large stability of term creditor insurance at €1.5 billion. But since that the loss of some customers
was completely offset by over development. On personal risk as well, there is a great stability of
the business which is up to 3.6% and this growth is attributable essentially to foreign activities. In
fact in France there was a little decrease. The pension business is up dramatically by 33% which is
due to two elements, substraction of the in fact by our Irish subsidiary and also growth, significant
growth of our Brazilian activities. And the last being the savings business which is down €3 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

The 3 billion being divided between France, less 2 billion and international less 1 billion which is to
be understood in the context of European turmoil on interest rates and sovereign debts which add
its consequences in the or life insurance by our customers. On page 14, you have the level of
technical reserves of the company 289.9 billion plus 5.5% at the Group level, which is spread
between 26 billion at international and 263 in France. It is clear that our international business
model is quite different from the French one. French one results in a very low margins in large
amounts, where the international raise consideration of risk business which is we with new balance
sheets, low balance sheets but highest margins and margins resulting in accruals and in the risk
policy.
The technical reserves by segment of what is the same structure as last year with 85% at a Group
level on savings, 12% on pension business and the rest risk, representing the risks. Now on the next
section, we come to the profitability with net interest revenue of the company, which is at margin
before expenses up 9.7% or €1.5 billion, which was led by the saving business and international
operations. Please note that the revenues for own funds portfolios are also up 18%, which reflects
better return from dividends and money market rates. The EBIT is up 11.7% that reflects a very
good cost initiative which we will see in second. And the net profit is stable, provisions which I will
explain in a second. When you see on page 16, the break down of these revenues, you see that
the net interest revenue at 1.2 billion is at 7.4%. We will explain in a minutes how it is represented by
the different sectors, segments of the activity. The revenue from the own firms are up 18%. It is
attributable to France first where we got better return on our fixed income portfolio which is
growing.
And also a better return on dividend on equities not withstanding the fact that we reduced slightly
the exposure of the own fund to equity portfolio. But the rate of dividend rate is higher this year.
Then the net interest revenue is up by 9.7%, administrative expenses being under control at plus
5.2%. It results in an EBIT which is at €1.96 billion up 12% roughly. Below that we have financial terms
which are up yet to replace progressively subordinated debt which was issued more than 10 years
ago by a fresh subordinate which cost is of course higher. But income tax expenses are of course
higher because of the EBIT being higher but it is normal. And the minority interests which
represents the interests of our minor shareholders in foreign countries are up 29%. It is of course
due the success of the Brazilian business and also of Italian and even Spanish business which starts
to be accretive. The recurring profit before capital gains being at €552 million up by 5.6% which is
incidentally the same growth of, the same rate of growth as the average reserves of the company.
Below that you have net gains on equities and property and fair value adjustments which are at the
lower level, lower than the last year. And fair value adjustments to trading securities are conversely
slightly higher levels than last year, but nevertheless it is not very material in the global
management of this profit account. And the net profit is at 543, because we decided to pass the
specific provision on the balance sheet in order to complete the policyholders' surplus reserve. In
fact there are two lines, this one and another which is in the net interest revenue under which we
have decided to improve the protection of our balance sheet and to add provisions to the existing
policyholders' surplus, policy surplus reserve. We're coming back to that now on page 17. You see
that this reserve sounds like €2.7 billion which represents 1.1% of our technical reserves where last
year it was at the end of 2010 at 2.9 billion.



FINAL

But please remember that investments we decided to provision more than €500 million plus tax
through this policyholders' surplus reserve in order to increase the protection of the balance sheet
against the low in prices. It was a good felling because as you can see on the right of the slide we
have to use this policyholders' surplus reserve to enter the Greek government bonds we have on
the balance sheet. We will come to that in a minute, because cost of the impairment being of €353
million at the end of June. On page 18, we have the structure of net insurance revenue for the
period. You see that the recurring business himself is down by 7% whereas the growth coming
from business that conversely it is offset by a decline in risk business, I will come to that in a
second. The international business is up by 28% and this rise is attributable to the change of quality
mix, project mix of all our subsidiaries and branches abroad and of course the increased level of
technical reserves at the in former slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

And own fund portfolios also have posted an improvement. I already mentioned improvements in
France. There was also a contribution from Brazilian own fund portfolios. You know that the interest
rates in Brazil stay up to 12% and add the balance sheet of the subsidiary and its own funds are
growing, it is of course an opportunity to improve this pair of contributions. On page 19, we have
the recurring net interest of revenue by segment in France. The savings business brings 5.5%
revenues more than last year as a same which can seem due to the fact but nevertheless the
revenues are lower. But as you remember of the driver into net interest is the increase of technical
reserves by 5.5% and this move is completely reflecting the growth of these technical reserves.
The pension business is up by €30 million, which represents an improvement in mortality
assumptions in accounts of a company. And the risk business is down by €100 million. It's notes and
explanation.
We have had an increase of and different risks even last year in 2010 and we have had to account
it also as well in the first half of 2011. We are working for the figures representing the pressure
business meaning the figures representing the whole 2010 business which I am not still not
available. Total it is a Group business where the different insurer represented by intermediary
which takes some time to make its own account and reporting. Thus we will start to report the
informations regarding 2010, only at the second half of the year. Nevertheless we always start to
renegotiate the conditions of really different and trend. And we have already obtained an increase
of some verifications or notifications of the way we pay . That means that these figure or this
tendency should be reversed if not in the second half of 2011 but certainly in 2012. This situation is
clearly not sustainable, it is natural but the process of renegotiating with the partners and
correcting the claims policy is under control and we are confident that this tendency will be
reversed next year.
On page 20, you have recurring net insurance revenue by subsidiary. Out of the €529 million
growth by the subsidiaries which are not so far below but French contribution which is out of that
you have of course a huge contribution almost €400 million by the Brazilian subsidiary which the
revenue on all of our business lines. But it's also interesting to see that business, our Italian
subsidiary as first half of year contribution doubled, almost doubled compared to last year. It
reflects the better management of this model and price effect in savings. But we have also include
the results of CNP Barclays Vida and marginally of over subsidiaries. Administrative expenses of
the Group are described in page 21. In France the level of expenses is exactly at the same as last
year at €1 million and it will be the same, the case for the whole 2011 year. We have decided and
we will maintain the level of expenses in France exactly at the same level of last year.
It is I will say absolutely normal and natural in area where we note a reduction of new revenues by
customers to make, to tighten our costs. It's of course quite different in international operations
where the growth of 23 million is mainly due to the Brazilian business which has increased level of
business, which has increased taxes and you have also foreign exchange level which accounts for
it. Note that in Italy where we had posted poor results during last year we have put in order to
enforce plan to reduce administrative expenses and this plan is successful. The expenses are
down 15% now a days. On page 22, we have write-down of the EBIT by segment and by the
geographical region. About savings we have already explained regions, we have an EBIT which is
up by 28%. It represents a €400 million out of 1.1 billion. The pension business is also up, I already



FINAL

mentioned, the improvement in France and the new development in Brazil and other contract in
Ireland, which means probably brings some revenues.
The decline in risk business is only attributable to activity in France, which we have already
commented. And I've also already explained to group of the own fund contribution. Other writes
you see breakdown between France and international role and the constant and consumed
tendency of international operation which represent almost a half of our EBIT in the . We will
perhaps reach the half in one or two year, but it is already very significant increase. You will see
also in another slide relative to new business creation. On page 23, we have the ratio of EBIT on
technical reserves. It is of coursing improving our savings business where the ratio is traditionally
relatively low which is improved in pension business, very strongly improved. And it is decreased
but for reasons which seems not sustainable and which we changed the next year on the risk
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

On page 24, we have the ratio of an EBIT to solvency capital requirements that reflects the same
illusions as already commented and also the allocation of our solvency capital to the different
business line. The current situation confirms the fact that the risk business remains of highest
importance to the ratios of our company and that the savings business is at relatively low level but
nevertheless improving in spite of the crisis. Now, we come to the value creation. This section is
related to value creation of the company as a MCEV. The MECV is up by nearly 8% to €21.1 per
share, even increase is the value of in-force as well as in net asset value of the portfolio. There is
also a sharp rise in ratio of new business value we'll develop this point and results in consolidated
ROE at 11%. The level of page 26, the level of embedded value at €12.5 million it's at its best since
we calculate this concept. The last peak was in 2007, before the crises has its effect on our
portfolios and activities.
And please note there that we have reconstituted not only the ANAV but also the value of in-force
and the value of in-force is coming from 2.4 billion to 3.5 billion 2008 through 2011 this figure is
annualized by mitigating the two figures of first half. If you have now look at the new business value
and the new business ratios in a minute you also observe that we have reconstituted our ability to
create new business and what is more interesting is that the level of the new business created by
our international activities is now almost at the same level as the French activities represent 40% to
16% for our French business where the comparable figures in 2007 were something between
around 20% for our international business to 80% at the French level. Clearly for creation of value
now there is in international department nevertheless the business in France is still accreting and
still rolling in its business for two years.
On slide 28, you have the detail of these different elements with very well net asset value, the
value of value of in-force, the revolution of value of in-force, while you note that the value of inforce was improved in France, which is mainly due to the technical element, which is the volatility on
the French equity and the rates, the lower operating rates curve is lower as well as APE is lower,
which for technical reasons expense but induces but the fact about the cost of options is nowhere
and therefore the value of in-force is relative. The MCEV is at 21.1, I already mentioned it and you
see how it is moved from the end of last year. On page 29, you first view on our net new business
value and the new business value APE ratios, which are up in all the areas of our activities. On
average, it is up by two points from 12.3 to 14.3%, moving a period of but we have decided to
focus rather on the margins and on the absolute growth of revenues. And please note that in
France, where a new business margin is up by 1% where it is up by more than four points in
international.
We will now go through the different levels of margins by country. You see on page 30 that in
France the move is due probably to projects and mix improvement and also probably to financial
market elements, it is for equation of volatility, I have already mentioned. But nevertheless, the
improve in project mix is positive in the . In Brazil we have a margin at 30% with a product mix
extending more than the different because of experience and financial markets elements were
negative. Now, page 31 you have, figures for Italy and Spain. In Italy you have an impressive growth
from 10 to 18% which is mainly explainable by the revolution of the project mix. Clearly the business



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

of risk and unit-linked were up in this periods compared to last year, which brings of course much
better margins probably for a new business. In Spain, you see that the growing, but firstly growing
the business of the company is also a business which level much in this most impressive almost
50% of new business margin at both CNP Vida and CNP Barclays Vida which are the two
subsidiaries we are prepare. And it is here also mainly the project mix which in both these
improvement.
On page 32 you have the ROE of the company which stays at the same level as last year, I do not
develop this slide. And the last section for year is risk management of the company where the
solvency capital at 158%. We have an investment policy which remained very prudent and which
was marked by no long-term investments in the infrastructure business in France and in other
countries of Europe. And the exposure to peripheral sovereign bonds on which I will give you some
details. First on page 34, you have the solvency capital requirements and the ratios. You see that
the ratio is at 58%. If you except the unrealized gains stays at 113, which is the same level as six
months ago. It is clear that this ratios are particularly under control by the company. I feel that there
is nothing to add to it, the precaution of solvency is not an issue for any at any angle.
On page 35, we gave you nevertheless the results of the stress test made by the EIOPA
concerned regarding you see there that the coverage ratio of the MCR remains at the level of
300% or slightly below 300%, under the different stress test situations, which we were dictated by
. But not only you can see that the severing shot, which was desired by the AFR has very slight
effect on our MCR coverage ratios. We have added initially, which was not conveyed to the which
was made for our under control which is the evaluation of our SCR solvency ratio in each of these
cases it is the SCR is covered more than 1.45% bur multiple notable in other cases in all the tests.
On page 36, you have of what is our investment strategy which remains correctly are into then
equity and equity funds. But we are making a shift away from equities towards that very which is
low shift is probably not relevant to make a very dramatic shift.
And at a new rate it will never come at levels contemplated but by some of our competitors never
contemplate with 3 or 5% where average will be somewhere runs 8% probably or at least seeing
from today. The bonds represent 85% of our portfolio primarily core sovereigns and the yield of
this portfolio is about 5 to 4.1%. And the property represents 2.3% of the portfolio 5%. The
guidelines I of course first to reduce the equity weighting begins to capture emerging market
growth to the external possible. And to capture assets which are exposed to inflation which is it is
already it's slightly higher the two years of but we consider it as a good momentum to improve our
production against inflation by infrastructure. And for with regards fixed income portfolio we have
of course focused our investments in French and German government bonds and credit
instruments when available and at correct level of risk.
On page 37, you have next track of figures we have given in our complete report which is posted
on the web. It was one of the accident I don't remember which of the . But we have outstanding
figures regarding our sovereign exposure, with gross exposure up, net exposure up at value at the
end of 2010, at the end of 2011. You see the line regarding Greece, one explanation the net but of
course the gross exposure up cost, our original cost was not increased. These around €1.8 billion,
but the fair value which we used now is based on the 21% discount which was decided last week,
which explains why the marked model used at the end of June 2011 is slightly higher, there was a
mark-to-market which was used at the end of 2010, which was representing at €1.2 billion, the
increases only due to the reevaluation of value of the portfolio for accounting reasons, due to the
fact that we use now much modeled base on the assumptions given by the recent agreements
made at and by the IRS proposals to which we will idea.
On page 38, we have some revenues from the methodology and we not come to that specifically
and specific analysis by country. We will enhance regarding our Portuguese exposure, our Irish
exposure you will see that they are relatively short-term. And breakdown of our Greek exposure to
although the time you see that largest part of this exposure is concentrated on areas covered by
the plan exposed last week by European governments. To finish this section, you have some
information first on the fact that we have improved our coverage ratio by issuing subordinated



FINAL

debt. In two tranches in April, which was a compliment to four months issue which was made last
year in September when we kept the market relatively significantly over the last 12 months. I think
that it was a right moment to do it before the crises embraced all the Europe. The investments in
GRT Gaz which is infrastructure, network of gas transportation in Europe was made by the CNP.
We have this stake of 25% in this network in France and in several other countries in Germany, in
and so on. The solvency 2 ratio is still as already indicated more covered SCR measurement at 1.45
times. And the impairment of the Greek exposure is the last figure that already mentioned which is
staying at 353 million which were absorbed by the policyholders' surplus reserve.
Now, I give back the floor to Gilles for conclusion of this presentation.

Gilles Benoist

{BIO 1824462 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just a few words, I'll be brief and the last line because most of them are devoted to subsidiaries.
And if you look at the an even the one that are describing our target in France. You will see that in
each slide there are three or four similar targets. The strongest are very clear, more products with
higher margins, less expenses of the subsidiaries, more synergies between subsidiaries. For
example, between international subsidiaries or between these subsidiaries and . And all that with
of course trying to cope with the evolution of the customers the type of products, that of course
with the higher priority on risk products. So I just give you one two feelings on the market that slide
number 41. If we look at the provisions of the French Federation I'm a little skeptical on the figures
that their model of provision is given to my felling that the French market can be at more than 6%
decrease at the end of the year.
I don't see no serious reasons for the improvement on the second half. And one of the reasons of
this feeling is that the rate given to customers of tax exemption at Livret will come up to 2.25 in
next week. And the global environment is not good. So the customers should be at anxious in the
second half as they are. So I believe more in a stability in the present decrease then only anyway
that move our strategy in France. And the only country where the increase could be better is Brazil.
And I'm also skeptical on the only decline of 5% in Italy estimated by ANIA. Looking at a market that
is still at mid year at 25% decrease. If we look to CNP that environment we estimate the global
group declining revenue between as you can see in slide 42 from 4 to 8%. But of course rise in
December than the first half meaning that in the mixed products in unit-linked and so on our target
is to go on improving margins and technical reserves that makes the results of CNP.
As Antoine has mentioned, I have given very precise indication on the fact that I wanted not to use
the authorization of our Board last year to have an increase by an average 3% of the operating
cost. I want to a pure stability and only excepting increase outside France mainly in Brazil. Don't
forget that Brazilian taxes are really higher, even higher than French taxes that's very punishing but
that's the truth. And of course you can see we are happy to have the same reaction that we had
historically since the IPO, meaning that as soon as we have profit, and excess profit. We beat the
buffers and so the buffers are there when the crises is there, even when this crises as a name as
sovereign debt. So, of course we stressed unit-linked with networks and newly find in all the slides
on the commercial activities, the same times new generation of products and so on and so on. So,
I go quickly on that, of course for example that it is clear that the savings bank in France as of now
estimated that they've being too hard on giving the indications to their commercial force that they
should sell banking products.
So, they have been conscious that on the second half, they have to compensate that and come
back to because they be honest they also need the commissions that goes with the premiums. I
never forget that for ENP distribution costs are variable cost if our network doesn't say, they don't
get commissions. So and even, we trying even in term credits or we try to innovate. And we have
clearly absorbed the reform that the government has imposed on the term credit or insurance
without any damage. So, after that I'm just of course and as we have started to do mainly by
creating and taking the power in the what you call MFPrévoyance we intend to develop with the



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

new tools biometric risk products and even to extend our activity in long-term care. So, I'll just go
rapidly on the different clients, just one remark on Caixa Seguros. We have launched at the
beginning of this week the new Group as insurance with Tempo, it's now Rio. And since now the
beginning of , we have launched our new partnership with Sul-America who will make a higher
developments in automobile insurance and better margins in that field.
With UniCredit we have as I mentioned sooner, we have obtained from UniCredit a clear
engagement in the Board, in the new business plans to come back to better figures in savings
products even if they are very good up selling risk products and as you've seen in the margins. And
of course trying to find the better mix between as far as savings products are concerned between
euro and unit-linked. There is from the recent months the re-emerging part of the experience that
are done in unit-linked but of course in modern unit-linked products not the kind of products we
have a problem with Lehman two years ago. We are very happy of the partnership with Barclays.
Very efficient with a very good mix product and very high margins exactly the kind of margins we
dreamed of when we signed with Barclay. Even in Cyprus things are going good. Don't forget that
Cyprus is living a drama with an incredible explosion of military ammunition sports that was caused,
it represents €2.7 billion compared to a national product of Cyprus was only 17 and so they are
living hard times. But to be clear we were not the insurer neither of the army, neither of the both,
neither of the electricity plant that has being destroyed by this explosion.
And last slide, it's only a way for me because to stress the fact that of course anybody can find a
logic or more or less logic reasons to try to decrease the value as compared to the embedded
value of an insurance company, but I'm still surprised by the level of the difference between our
share price in the market from the recent weeks from lets say 13 to €14 compared to an NPV of
€21, that's the part of the difference I just mentioned to your colleagues in Paris this morning that if
had a fortune that I deserve that will be something like Warren Buffet, I would like to buy CNP
except the fact that it's been privatized. So that I couldn't do that, but good bargain just wait for
the value one day to get the more near from the real value.
That's all, I hope you have well heard all Antoine and I have said so. I think now we will shift to the
questions not yet. So we are at your disposal to answer your questions that could be now up to us.
Thank you for having and being in any case with us for this presentation.

Questions And Answers
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Our first question today comes from Micheal Huttner of JPMorgan. Please
go ahead, sir

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you. Good afternoon. I hope you can hear me. Thanks a lot for this conference call and I
have number of questions. The first one is could you give us again the reason for the decline in
France, the risk margin? And what sort of numbers we should be thinking about the second half,
should it be lower? My guess is if you were take go lower ? And the second is the pension, the
things in longevity. Could you just give us the feel of the assumption again some feel for the
second half ? And the third is I guess upon you noticed the presentation I go that total sold on
behalf of the cash apparent to your clients or their client is total of 2.3 billion. Now I wonder what
the risk is if one day same things would happen or whatever but all have to reimburse the
policyholders which would not make exactly great news. And then the last one, I don't actually
mentioned it, if you have a figure for the net interest for the first half ? Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Last question was was 1.9 in France and 4.7 for the Group. Okay.



Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Corporate Participant
So coming back to risk products, under the control of Antoine. I think that what the impact of this
slight increase in the mainly disability and capacity shouldn't have on the second half different
impact because there is no reason of we have no taken in accounts the impact of the figures
we've just received. And of course some of the measures were increase of tariffs, for example are
already decided. And we are already discussing the way this supplementary cost will be offset by
special legal provisions on this contracts accumulated in the past. But we are, we have already of
the average increase of tariffs between 5 to 6%. And I must remind you that there are in fact two
impacts in this difference of outflows for . First is the beginning of the impact of the decision of the
French government to put the retirement age two years later. Okay. In that case there is a
mechanism of progressive taken in accounts of this cost that we appear in providence contract
from now two or three years. It's only it will be done year-after-year and this will be neutralized, I
mean the global customers will be neutralized completely by the companies. On the second there
is a specific increase in capacity and in validity exactly like we had four or six years ago in our
customers of local authorities. Perhaps you remember the way we brutally modified the conditions
to go back to gains and to margins on that fee some years ago. I mean the problem is not of that
dimension, it's less important. Thus, so there is no reason for to mind on it any approbation on the
second half. But there will be good news on the first half of 2012, because at that time, we will
have taken back the provisions after discussions, increased the tariffs. And so it's exactly the same
scenario that we have managed six years ago. And I'm not anxious at all on the capacity, because
just remember for example that on the specific problem of coverage of as of six years ago the
provision that was used necessary the first time was to my memory €60 million. And the impact
the year after the decision was plus €35 million on the first year of impact. So, it's just a question of
having the time to left the measures, but I don't see any case of any region of our correlation in
the second half of the year.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Corporate Participant
Do I answer...

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

The second question was when the change in mortality functions in the pension segment, we get
the feel for the second half.

A - Corporate Participant
No, these mortality assumptions are adjusted just once a year. But there any over effect on the
second half of the year. It is once for a year at least.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. And the precise very last question from Michael was actually we give a little bit more color on
the unit linked...
Yeah it's clear that -- the program with the Savings Bank on the second half is quite as ambitious on
the first half. And the share of profitability between the customers is very clear now in France. The



authority of the market as issue the regulation.

FINAL

Explaining exactly in which way the customers should be rolled of the risk you get in fact against it's
own bank because it has bonds of its own bank. And now that things have been clarified and we
have no problem with that because we were already very clear upon on this type of unit linked
supports.
And so as there is no specific problem on that type of product which represents a great part of the
unit links made with the Savings Bank, it's clearly now in our premiums. Am I clear on last one?
And Micheal you must know that this policy of issuing unit link to investors -- was not going to -- to
the development of problem life insurance products in the network, it was because they were
needing long-term resources in the bank that we settled this policy. There is one thing on which I
would insist which is that, now I am not contemplating such a restricted regulation as we were
assuming six months ago.
The thing is that they will probably direct more of our customers to traditional insurance policies -in balance sheet of the company and strong unit linked which -- We think and when we discuss with
them, it is confirmed that the policy to have balance sheet producers sold to customers, we
received a little bit compared to the first half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In fact they have discovered it a bit too hard in moving towards banking products and most of that
on a moment where it is discussed and quite designed, that the liquidity ratios of Basel III should
be less severe than the first -- that was disclosed.

Q - Analyst
I understand. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question today comes from Ralph Hebgen of KBW. Please go ahead.

A - Corporate Participant
Hello Ralph, how are you?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Yeah, hi guys. I'm okay, good afternoon. And actually I've got quite a number of questions, but I'm
only going to ask three and then I'll -- there's going to be time for me to get back to you.
And there are a little bit technical, I mean first of all can I talk about the move to mark-to-model on
the Greek ones? Can you just tell us if you had not on that and less the fair value in the
interpretation mark-to-markets? That's obviously the alternative so then moving to mark-to-model,
could you outline what the effect on the P&L solvency to shareholders' funds and the reserves
were?
Then the second question is if you look at net insurance revenue and it is close that there was
1,549, split up in 1,197 from insurance business and 309 from basically revenues and shareholder
funds et cetera. Now that last number 309 may also include reserve movements and here is now
the question, does that number include any strengthening or release from reserves?
And finally number three if you look at slide 37 you say net exposure to sovereign debt overall is
5.9 billion. I take it that after tax and after policyholders' share, would you be able to disclose what
that number is also after minorities? So, those are the three for now.



A - Corporate Participant
Okay. So, I'll try to -- to your three questions Ralph.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. The first was the move to mark-to-market -- the impact of moving to mark-to-model, if we
were mark-to-market as before, there will no impact on the revenues of the competitors on the
total cost because these mark-to-market only impact -- so far okay. Then it will be a slight -- with
improvement of the revenue because it could be considered the mark-to model is based on the
discount of 21%.
The mark-to-market would be probably roughly rather around 45% discounts. As you can consider
that it would move from mark-to-model to mark-to-market which reduced slightly that only 3% of
the difference okay, because this is just a 3% -- of the establishment of these bonds which are
attributable to shareholders' and all is going -- right. But it would be very minor I cannot evaluate it
now by far, but it would be 10 or €30 million not more. So, we like it, right.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question was about -- reduction of provisions which we say is strengthening our
provision. Globally, we have under 16 million provisions after tax in these income statements to the
policy owners of -- before having reduce this policy order reserve by 353 to -- but the normal
move regarding the weak -- to include the policyholders'....
In the one word, we have decided to -- profit at last year in order to increase the -- The third
question was
Is it clear, Ralph? Ralph, do you hear us?
Hello Ralph. You leave?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Hello?

A - Corporate Participant
Ralph, did you hear the...

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Yes, this is clear. Sorry, I'm on the slight delay, which is amusing. So, that level is fine. Thank you very
much indeed.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. It needs to be clear as we know -- each other that the natural results would have been more
than 100 million more. Okay?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Yes, absolutely.

A - Corporate Participant



Means that as we used to do. If you look at our policyholders -- it means quite something that was
near from 2.9 plus more than a 100 less 353 for the Greek problem okay?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, I understand, Makes sense.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. And -- question
The last question was on the sovereign exposure net after policyholders...

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

But there was say, sorry, there was another question on net insurance revenue and the reserve
movement.

A - Corporate Participant
The net interest revenue was after we using provisions of around €50 million of that level -reserve with...

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes to explain Ralph, they are little more than 100, are in two parts, half of this provisions made
deducted from the P&L. Okay, and the other part is deducted below. Okay?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Sorry. I'm confused what were you talking about, are we still talking about -- so I'm on a slight delay
here which is annoying. My second question related to the net insurance revenue and the part of it
which is not derived from insurance business that is 309 million in first half. And part of 309 may
relate to a reserve movement, I was wondering whether there is a reserve strengthening or
reserve release in that number.

A - Corporate Participant
Reserve strengthening, obviously all the surplus reserve overall was strengthened to the tune of
110 to 116, -- exact number at two levels, one level in the basement -- and one half roughly 50, 55
at the upper level in the -- net insurance... so the straight answer to your question is that 309 own
funds contribution includes or incorporates or reflects the fact that asset level of 50, 55 reserve
will strengthen.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

By how much 50 million did you say?

A - Corporate Participant
Yes

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

And that was done in the first quarter or the second quarter?

A - Corporate Participant
Second.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}



It was. Okay, good perfect. Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant

FINAL

Question on exposure after minorities can we get back to you on that?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Yes absolutely.

A - Corporate Participant
Thanks

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question today comes from of -- Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Yes hello, actually most questions are already answered. Just one more actually on the Greek
debt, you said that were down 21% on the all the Greek debt and I assume that implies that you will
let's say volunteer for the good cause but also does it means that you rolled on all -- bonds so
which mature after 2020 and if yes why did you do so? Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Well, in fact we calculate the amount on the bonds maturing until 2020 and the rest of the bonds,
it was a very legal -- around €130 million -- then it's really secondary. Okay

Q - Analyst
Okay. Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Reflecting 1% we have calculated on 90% or 95% of the global demand.

Q - Analyst
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Our next question today comes again from Mr. Michael Savner of JP
Morgan. Please go ahead sir.

Q - Analyst
Hi, thank you very much. I have two questions. One is your own -- I called it trading -- but that's
because I work in the bank I think proprietary account -- how big is it, how much money is it. And
given the very strong return we had in the first half partially due to -- So, we expect how much level
it would be once the dividends are taken out? I am assuming dividends happen only once again.



FINAL

And then the second is a little bit of a philosophical question and the IR team, Chairman and
colleagues -- trying to explain the working, it becomes a bit theoretical but in one of the sets of
presentation you show the growth in the net and I think in your accounts you talk about the net be
roughly 5% of the gross, 2% tax, so 7% would be the pretax relationship.
And just to gain a -- would you feel would one stop during this conversions from gross to net and
say no it's all a 100% or 90% for shareholders'. It's a bit too theoretical but just to get the feel for
how extreme the crisis would have to be to kind of consider that? Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay, Micheal. To your first question roughly what we call -- somewhere around -- around 16, our
new -- as the figures around €15.5 million, right?
Billion.
Billion euros. That is the amount of this portfolios and we do not -- still a split between equities, so
nearly -- revenues coming from the second part of...

Q - Analyst
Okay.

A - Corporate Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

...of the
But we have given in the past an idea of our treasury, it is always at 6 or €7 billion.

Q - Analyst
I understand, that gives me the feel. Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Regarding your second question -- vertical question it is already question -- The question is how -to what extent can we imagine to attribute to -- the losses attain certain expense.
Then we are contemplating the future on the basis business as usual and not of crisis. There is a
systemic risk that means if too many -- go bankrupt in Europe it will of course not be possible to
attribute 90% or roughly 90% of the losses to the insurance.
But so far it comes slowly and we -- the possibility to attribute the remaining revenues, all the
revenues of the insurance the part of the losses, which is attributable to that. Of course there were
too many losses in one moment, it would come over the ability to absorb it by the portfolios -- will
come to the net revenue of a company and at last to the capital of the company. This is a situation
of the systemic crisis on that moment -- at Central Bank pleading for having loans.
Don't forget we had this kind of question this morning in Paris. And that's first as far as the buffers
are concerned does not I mean the PPI is not the only one. The other one the name is called the
unrealized gains. And of course most of these gains belong to also the policyholders and I
remember that at the end of 2010, I said that if you look at the global buffers at that time the
figures were 10 billion unrealized gains plus 2.9 PPI. Now if you look at the same figure it's little
more than 8 billion unrealized gains and 2.7 and something PPI.



FINAL

So, that's the first and to the other reaction is clear that as far as we want to make scenarios there
is a moment where we go through limited crises, where we can face, we can grow because we
have a tradition of always building buffers and reserves. But if we look into systemic then everyone
will be suffering it only would be difference of quality and intensity of suffering.
But for example one can imagine that suddenly Greece is not the only one but there are two,
three, four, five countries in Europe then it's a problem of everybody and the only consolation that
we could have for us -- would be to say that our suffering is little less painful than the other one but
everyone would be in case in purely systemic risks.

Q - Analyst
I understand. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
As there are no further questions in the queue. That will conclude our Q&A session today. And I
would like to turn the call back to Mr. Benoist for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Gilles Benoist

{BIO 1824462 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I just -- that if they are for example -- then new questions exited what they can ask as soon as
Monday. And I will be very pleased to have any other questions and just thank you for having being
with us for the conference.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

