Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Q4 2010 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Moss , CEO
Igal Mayer, Chief Executive, Aviva Europe
Mark Hodges , Chief Executive, Aviva UK
Patrick Regan, CFO
Simon Machell, Chief Executive, Asia Pacific

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Ashish Patel, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Colin Simpson, Analyst
Craig Bourke , Analyst
James Pearce , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon Hocking, Analyst
Kevin Ryan, Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst
Mitchell Todd, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Pat Regan, Analyst
Raghu Hariharan, Analyst
Tony Silverman, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Good morning, everybody. Thanks very much for coming to be with us today to talk
about our 2010 results. We're on the other side of the building today you might have
noticed. I know for one or two of you I was just talking to, it's complete confusion. But we'll
try and make things a little clearer on the numbers as we go forward the next half an hour,
45 minutes or so.

Page 1 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

What we're going to do is I'm going to say some things about how the business
performs, some themes in the regions, and why that's come together in a strong result.
Then I'm going to ask Pat to go into some more details on the numbers themselves,
profit drivers, which again we think sales are a pretty good story for 2010, but most
importantly in a sense then come back and talk about how we see prospects for 2011 and
going forward and the reasons why we think we have justified confidence in the near-term
outlook.
So let's get right on with that. First of all, this slide clearly just summarizes some of the key
metrics, IFRS operating profit up 26% GBP2.55b. The net operating capital generation, a
figure which, of course, has become very important to the market for obvious reasons, up
to GBP1.7 billion in 2010. You know that we gave guidance from last -- in the middle of last
year that were around GBP1.3b. We upped the guidance to GBP1.5b. It's encouraging to
see the actual number coming through higher than that at over GBP1.7b.

Bloomberg Transcript

IFRS return on equity nearly 15% in 2010, so I think that's a good result almost by any
measure I think relative not only to insurance peers but to other industries in an external
environment which, of course, has been tough in the course of the last 12 months. Quite a
significant movement in funds under management, so the balance sheet including thirdparty funds under management going above GBP400 billion for the first time. I don't have
to tell you there are knock-on effects to future earnings from that growth.
Through the financial crisis, of course, we saw two or three years when with markets
doing what they were doing, that was being suppressed. But I hesitate to say all of that is
over. But certainly in 2010, as well as gaining funds under management, we've given you
some net flow disclosures as well this year. You can see the gross numbers growing.
The dividend on the back of all of that up 6% to 25.5p, up towards the top of the cover
range or just outside it actually. As the balance sheet has strengthened in 2010 further,
we've seen the earnings grow. We see the dividend grow on the back of it. You can
expect it probably to stay towards the top of that cover range, around the two times IFRS
plus tax operating profit cover.
And the balance sheet, another very strong year, and the actual equity shareholders
under the Company back above pre-financial crisis levels, so moving up some GBP2.5
billion to GBP13 billion at the end of 2010.
That's a significant move. And it's been fueled in quite large part by a virtual elimination of
the pension fund deficit. That was a deficit of GBP1.7 billion at the end of 2009. It is flat at
the end of 2010. That's because we've put a lot of money into the pension fund, nearly
GBP600 million in the course of 2010. We've also closed the UK final salary scheme to
future accrual. So that's had a benefit. Mortality changes have helped us. Markets have
helped us as well. And we've taken action to reduce the volatility of the number going
forward. So Pat will talk about that in a little bit more detail.
But I do think it's a very significant change for the Company. It's something which has
overhung the Company for a number of years, like a lot of large UK employers who have
Page 2 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

had large, historical final salary pension schemes.

FINAL

Lastly on that slide, I think that's realistically embedded value number. We think that's a
comparable number with our UK peers. That's coming in at GBP6.21 at the end of 2010.
Pat will talk to you in more detail around that.
Now as always, we look across the business. And we just want to be sure that all parts of
the business are performing. Well in general, I would say there's encouraging news on
that, although I'll point out one or two areas where I think we still have more to do as we
go along.
The life profits have been growing strongly now for the last two years. And we saw life
operating profit up 23% again in 2010, so an encouraging performance. And that's on the
back of life sales up 4%. The focus on the balance between value and volume in life sales
has probably never been stronger possibly across the industry, certainly I think as far as
Aviva is concerned.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we have stepped back in the second half. You can see volumes in one or two
European markets down in the second half. That's intentional, where we've made
decisions to focus on the value part of the equation rather than the volume part. As a
result of that, you can see the internal rates of return on new business coming through
with a very strong increase in the year, up to 12.5%, above the short-term targets that we
set ourselves of achieving a 12% IRR.
Now, what about general insurance? A 9% increase in operating profit, taking us back up
above the GBP1 billion mark in 2010 and growth in the top line. Two years ago, we were
walking away from some unprofitable business, particularly here in the UK. That's
changed. We've been able quarter on quarter to grow premium volumes here in the UK
market in 2010 and to do that profitably.
So looking back over those two years, I'm very pleased I have to say with that progression
because the current-year profitability is coming through. And again, Pat will talk about that
in more detail.
Combined operating ratio group wise down just below 97%. I think a creditable
performance right across the group, I think particularly creditable here in the UK. We did
suffer some weather claims here in the UK. That's been absorbed in the 96% result in our
UK business.
So I guess just underlining in a sense the simplicity of the message around the results, we
are in the happy and intentional position that income's going up and cost is still going
down. And the result of that clearly flows through to the bottom line. The income's going
up. Yes. It's coming a little bit from asset management and investment returns. But it's
primarily coming from the underwriting side of the business and the pricing of the
business that we're writing.

Page 3 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

We're doing that in general insurance. But we're doing it in protection business. We're
doing it in annuity business. All of that is flowing through into the results. And meanwhile,
the expenses, which three years ago were about GBP5.75b, have gone down below
GBP5b. So those operational jaws, which obviously this graph is intended to demonstrate
for you, have opened again in 2010.
Let's go to the regions and just talk about what's happening in a little bit more detail on a
regional basis. We'll start in the UK with the UK life business. First of all, the top line, sales
up 16% in 2010. So against the economic backdrop that we're seeing in the UK,
demonstrating again I think that you cannot correlate economic growth and growth in the
life and pensions market. They are two different things.
16% growth overall, but within that the mix changing quite substantially, some terrific work
being done on teams in the UK on, for example, the protection market. We're certainly
aiming to be number one in that market. When we see the numbers, it'll come out in the
next few weeks, I think we may well be. I think by the time we put Santander on stream in
the middle of this year, we definitely will be. The team has done, I think, a fantastic job.
And meanwhile, in the individual annuity market, we've seen profitable sales growing
substantially as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The results of that comes through in that new business in total rates of return, a 15%
return on new business being written here in the UK market, obviously a well-regulated,
very reliable market, where we are gaining share.
The result on net operating capital generation is perhaps even more pronounced than
you might think it would be. And that is about business mix. But it's also about the effects
of the reattribution of the inherited estate coming through because that is the advantage
that we now have. And that will last for a number of years in terms of the capital usage on
new business. And again, Pat will talk in more detail on that.
The net result is a record profit in the UK Life business of GBP850m. So we feel that in
doubling the profits from the UK Life business, which is what we've done over the last
four years, and now building a sustainable base for the future; and we do think that these
numbers are at least sustainable; in a sense, I think we've proved not only that can we
outperform in the UK market but the market itself actually can be an attractive place to
operate relative to a number of other markets around the world.
Let's move to UK General Insurance. You can see there that premium growth that I was
talking about, up 6%, rising quarter on quarter throughout the year, combined operating
ratio, as I said, coming down to 96%, net operating capital generation healthy at GBP0.6b.
And Pat will talk to you about the effects of some of the lag on the capital numbers we've
been -- that's helped that. But essentially, of course, those general insurance profits come
through on a pound-for-pound basis into the capital generation numbers.
8% increase in profits, and I think all of that is about action that we've taken in the
business over the course of the last two years, GBP400 million of costs coming out of the
UK General Insurance business. And if you take the UK region as a whole, more than
Page 4 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

30,000 people employed in the business 2.5 years ago, that's down to about 23,000.
7,500 people have left our UK business as we've made it more efficient and created an
efficient platform for further growth.
In terms of the market environment and how we're feeling about that, well, I think it's well
known that motor rates have been going up strongly. Household rates, too, have been
moving up. Interestingly, in the last few months, commercial fleet, commercial motor rates
have been moving up. We're quoting a 7% increase number for the year 2010. The rest of
the commercial book still a little bit stubborn, still rather competitive, but we've been
gaining business in that market.
Let's move to Europe. It's a slightly different story, as you might expect, because some of
our markets in Europe, clearly in economic terms, are facing some fairly challenging times.
But overall, in local currency terms, we've got a 3% growth in sales across Europe. That
translates in sterling terms to a flat GBP13.5 billion of sales. But again, within that, there is
a mix story. We're seeing unit linked and protection business; and we're writing much
more more-profitable protection business through our bank assurance partners now than
we have historically. You can see that beginning to come through the numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

The unit linked story I think is just starting. And that's important to us because, particularly
in markets like France, when you see the shift away from fixed income products into unit
linked, the capital uses falls. Internal rates with return on new business rises.
A 13% internal rate of return across the European region, above our 12% target, so that's
encouraging, and flat net operating capital generation. That's an area I think that we can
focus on as we come through 2011.
But overall, in the face of clearly what's been a difficult environment, a 17% increase in
profit across Europe, despite economic difficulties of real severity in places like Ireland
and Spain. And it's true to say that at the back end of 2010, we didn't see quite the surge,
for example, of pension business that we have traditionally seen in Spain in December of
each year.
So I think as we go through this year, in terms of the volumes coming through the
European business, I suspect we'll have a few more months where things look a little
more challenging. But in earnings terms, I think there are many reasons for us to feel
optimistic.
The General Insurance, relatively small business in Europe, but it's had two years when
actually both in Ireland and France, we've seen quite significant weather losses, flooding in
Ireland again in 2010, wind storms in France again in 2010 as well, the result 103%
combined operating ratio and a downward move in profits. This is an area where I think,
as we focus on underwriting discipline and pricing in the course of the next year or so, we
will be aiming to improve. And we need to.
North America, a strong story, more than doubling our profits in the Life business, and
Canada also having a very strong year in the General Insurance side of the business. Let's
Page 5 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

talk about the US Life business. We've been very careful about the amount of annuity
business that we've written, overall sales up 4% in mix terms, an increase in the life side
of the business, a 15% increase. You can see it there, so overall a small increase in sales.

FINAL

But remember what our strategic statements were about this business. We wanted it to
stop absorbing capital from the center. We wanted it to remit capital back to London. It's
done that, paying dividends in 2010.
The new business story a strong one, the internal rate of return doubling to 14%, and
that's a real-world internal rate of return. It actually judges the return on what we're
actually going to earn on the assets in which we invest, on the credit assets. The margin
doesn't. I'm sure you're going to ask that question a little later on an MCEV basis.
Net operating capital generation tripling in the year, so that of course fuels an ability to
repay cash back to the center of the Group, and overall in the region, a 54% increase in
operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Canada, record profits, I think changes in underwriting disciplines again in the last
couple of years, actually some good weather conditions in Canada, unlike some other
parts of the country -- sorry, of the world. But at the same time, in late 2010, we took
quite a lot of action to take costs out of the Canadian business, a benefit that'll earn
through in 2011 and beyond.
The Asian Pacific business has also had a strong year, just under 40% sales growth in local
currency terms, translating into 48% sterling growth, as Asian currencies have continued
to strengthen in the year. But I think the real story here is the one on the bottom left. You
look at the sales growing but the expenses barely growing. And of course, once you
spread that expense base over the higher sales, then we look at the margin and the
internal rate of return on new business, you see a dramatic improvement. You see nearly
a doubling there of the internal rate of return on new business. And that is a function of
the maturity of our businesses in Asia Pacific.
What is also a function of the maturity of the business is that you see those young
businesses swinging from loss into profit in 2010. And that trajectory is something that we
expect to continue.
Let's move to the fund management side. Of course, we have Aviva investors, which is
our global fund manager, and Delta Lloyd, which operates as a separate fund manager in
the Netherlands. And Delta Lloyd had what only can be described I think as a stonking [ph]
year on the back of the performance fees that we earned in some of its funds. So I
absolutely congratulate the Delta Lloyd fund manager and team, who are actually
consistently very good performances.
Aviva Investors, the story's a little more complex. Profits are down this year as we continue
to invest in the business. We've continued to invest in people. We've continued to invest
in technology. And that costs money. And it shows through in those numbers. At the same

Page 6 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

time, performance fees in one particular part of the business have been lower in 2010.
And right now, that business is quite concentrated in terms of its earnings stream.

FINAL

Our objective, of course, is to make that revenue stream more broadly based, more
diverse, therefore more reliable, and do that by growing third-party funds under
management.
Investment performance in 2010 still strong in Aviva Investors, and I think the most
encouraging graph for us in the business is the one there on the bottom left. You can see
net third-party outflows in 2008 and in 2009 but swinging into net third-party in flows in
2010. And that's continuing this year I have to say. Just in the last few weeks, we've had
funded mandates for more than GBP1 billion from two large Dutch pension funds for our
real estate multi-manager portfolio. So that momentum is absolutely what we need to
see in 2011. But the evidence at the moment is that we can be quite encouraged that that
can happen.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's talk about Delta Lloyd. I've talked about their fund management business. Clearly,
they've reported their numbers today as well. An interesting story I think because, since
their listing; and as a member of the supervisory board, clearly, I've been observing this
closely; I think they have refocused their business to some extent.
That fall in life sales I think is quite significant. There's some business probably they have
chosen not to write in 2010 that they may previously have written. And you can see the
internal rate of return on new business just beginning to improve as a result. And we've
always been clear that we view the Dutch market as a low new business return market.
And that, of course, has underpinned our strategy of partial exit.
On the general insurance side, a good solid result, the core coming in at 95%, all of that
works through with the fund management numbers into a 34% increase in operating
profit. So that I think as a shareholder is exactly what we want to see. We believe that the
scope for continuing operational improvements in Delta Lloyd is very real. And so that
evidence is there.
The balance sheet, too, stronger, 13% increase in net assets. Some of you were quite
rightly focused on the below-the-line number there, a significant increase in longevity
reserving in the Dutch market. And I think at the end of the day, you're going to look at
Delta Lloyd's balance sheet. I think you'll see it clearly as a result significantly stronger at
the end of 2010 and I think unlike what we're seeing at the moment in terms of the Dutch
peer group, they've taken that through earnings. And they've taken a large hit through
earnings, nevertheless, in their asset value still very, very strong.
Okay. That's enough from me. At this point, I'm going to hand over to Pat. And we'll go
from there.

Pat Regan

{BIO 18417953 <GO>}

Page 7 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

Great. Thank you, Andrew. Good morning, everybody. My section as usual, we're going to
talk about capital generation and capital efficiency, then talk about the IFRS profits using -primarily using the IFRS profit drivers, some of the below-the-line items, going through
those in a little bit of detail, balance sheet, and then finishing off with our net asset values
and return on equity.
Starting then with capital generation, as Andrew highlighted, 70% increase in capital
generation, actually just -- it's actually just over 70%. The real number is just actually
GBP1.74b, up from GBP1 billion in 2009. There are obviously, two big elements to that, the
generated we talked quite a bit last year about the resilience of the life generated. In
total, we went up from GBP2.5 billion to GBP2.7 billion of capital generated. The life
element going up from, as you remember, going up over a number of years, increased
from GBP1.9 billion to GBP2.1 billion in 2010, driven off those 30 million customers on longterm contracts, driven off that GBP33 billion of undiscounted real-world cash flows that I'll
come back to later.

Bloomberg Transcript

So life up to GBP2.1b, general insurance at GBP600m, obviously, we believe as we go
forward I think we'll -- and hopefully we increase the profitability of that business, that
number has the ability to grow as well.
So generated up to GBP2.7b, the capital usage down by GBP500 million to GBP1b, three
elements of that, you'll remember from the half year we had a GBP200 million benefit
from the lower capital requirements and general insurance following all of the portfolio
actions we've done over the last two to three years. So that item lowered general
insurance capital requirements, probably more kind of one-off in nature in 2010 and
probably most of that not really recurring in 2011.
The two other items, though, lower new business strain in the US, that's basically
reflecting the way we run that business now, changes to product features, things like
redemption features, lower guarantee levels, and things like the AXXX reinsurance
charge are all helping that capital efficiency, and the benefit of the reattributed estate in
the UK again with about GBP100 million to capital usage.
Just with a slightly different angle then on those capital efficiencies, in total we reduced
our capital efficiency level. So this is capital usage for the Life business divided by sales,
down from 4.8% to 3.8%, so 20% reduction in capital usage, 4% increase in sales.
Region by region, in the UK, we've now got a 1% capital efficiency level, down from about
2.2% in the year before. Again, product mix is a feature of that, but also, the reattributed
estate really helping that number down to a 1% level.
In addition, obviously, we've seen significant pricing changes with significant product mix
changes, 60% increase in the overall level of annuity sales with IRRs up to 15% now. It is
worth highlighting that that number doesn't include the benefit of the reattribution here.
The number -- but if we included the benefit reattribution in the IRR, it's an almost infinite
number for the UK business.

Page 8 of 43



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

In Europe, capital efficiency was just under 4% in 2009 and in 2010, so broadly flat capital
efficiency levels. IRR's at 13%. There is a little bit of tale of two halves within there. The
second half, capital efficiency did improve. We consumed about 30% less capital in the
second half, again, as we talk a number of kind of product-related actions, more unit
linked, higher levels of protection. For example, Italy, we increased protection sales by
about 15%. We lowered guarantee levels in Italy. We talked to you I think a little bit about
that before, changed the guarantee structures in France and the affair [ph] relationship,
lowered interest rates on things like the SATA products to Unicaja in Spain.
IRRs in the second half in Europe were 14%. You remember about 12% in the first half, so
getting us back to 13% for the full year. And places like Italy had a much strong IRR in the
second half.
North America, big increase in the IRR, up from 7% to 14%. Capital efficiency, you
remember you have that C4 capital included in capital consumption in the US. But
withstanding that, that capital efficiency coming down from 11% down to 8% overall for the
year, again, product changes, reinsurance structures, pricing changes, all of those helping
on that capital efficiency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Asia, again, as Andrew said, 6% to 11% on IRRs, clearly volume played a big part of that,
but also a real focus on the types of products that we were selling in Asia and the capital
efficiency of those products as well.
Delta Lloyd, we've talked before about them closing some new business in Germany.
That again helped capital efficiency and capital consumption reducing in Delta Lloyd as
well.
The other bit I think is an interesting feature, so big reduction in capital consumption,
increase in IRRs overall from 10% to 12.5%. But we also had a big increase in our
undiscounted real-world cash flow, a figure now to GBP36 billion for the full year, obviously
contributed from new business adding on there, the RBS life book coming 100% onto our
balance sheet also helping in that number.
Turning then to the operating profits, the IFRS operating profits, so the GBP530 million
increase in operating profits or 26%, really three big drops driving that, the big increase
again in the life business, now GBP2.3 billion of profitability in our life businesses, and
return to growth of both premiums and more importantly operating profits in general
insurance, and fund management up 50% as well. More on all of those in a moment.
In terms of the other items here below the Life and GI result, other non-insurance, that's
primarily the regional cost and the group center costs at Delta Lloyd, broadly flat year on
year. First half, if you remember, included a one-time benefit in the Delta Lloyd health
business. Corporate costs slightly up, reflecting higher project costs to do with risk and
the successful brand campaign in the second half of the year. Group debt costs broadly
flat, and pension costs slightly higher, reflecting the higher opening deficit for the pension
scheme. Obviously, with the most lower ending deficit of the pension scheme, that should
help that number in 2011.
Page 9 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

Turning then to the profit drivers, and I'm spending a little bit of time with the increase in
life profitability, so 23% increase in life profits. Why? Mainly incomes up, incomes up 15%,
expenses up 4%, income up 15%. The way I think about -- why's our income gone up 15%?
And what's driving that? And what more can we get out of that? New business income,
our pricing up 26%. More on that in a moment and what we're doing. That really is
reflecting, as we refer through the presentation to pricing actions. That's one of the best
manifestations of that, over GBP1 billion now of new business income.
Underwriting now up 13% to over GBP800m. And the Group in total, if you take our total
underwriting, including general insurance, that's now GBP1.1 billion of underwriting profits,
up some 30% from 2009. And investment returns up 13%, as you'll see in a moment,
largely driven by credit, our ability to manage credit, so pricing, insurance, and credit really
coming through very strongly and driving our income levels. I'll be coming back to some of
the expense ratios in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

New business income, as at the half year, kind of good increases across the board, both
in terms of volumes, particularly in the UK. Worth noting in the UK are assets under
management up some 15% on the non-with profits side. And really, that's flowing through
both in terms of, as you'll see in a moment, in the unit linked and in some of the volumes
of new business sales as well, 15% growth in APEs, very large increases in -- 60%
increases in annuities, and the margin up 38% on new business income.
In Europe is kind of an interesting story. Again, based on those pricing actions we took in
the second half, you remember maybe at the half year, our margin percentage was some
20%, so a really significant increase in the second half of the year based on all of those
pricing actions I talked to a moment ago.
Rest of the world, again, good pricing action in Asia, but particularly all those new business
actions we took in North America flowing through and increasing the margin percentage
up to 13% now.
On underwriting, when we first kind of started talk about profit drivers, we said there
were eight countries generating more than GBP50 million a year of underwriting profits,
so very consistent by tight expenses, mortality, persistency, but also the big buckets being
generated right across our major underwriting business.
Continued large number, nearly GBP900 million now, 13% growth, we continue to deliver
expenses better than we price into our protection products, so maybe GBP440 million
now. Our persistency profits, again, emerging in a positive sense, the uplift there mainly
coming through in the UK business.
On the investment return, two --- I'd like to think this slide has two kind of two sides to it.
On the left-hand side, bigger balance sheet. And you talked about we've now got over
GBP400 million of assets under management, up from GBP20b-plus from the previous
year. We've also put in net flows for the first time, as I'm sure you'll have noticed in the
pack. We've got net flows information. And you can see the positive net flows coming in
ex-the with profits in the UK, again, giving a bigger balance sheet to earn in the future.
Page 10 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

On the unit linked side, real manifestation of that, some 15% higher assets in the
management in the UK, driving that increase in unit linked margin up to nearly GBP1 billion
now. And participating a slight reduction in profits from the UK with profits businesses, as
we've expected, more than offset by about a GBP70 million increase in the participating
income in Europe, particularly in Italy, and particularly in France.
And on the spread margin, again, the credit-based income we're driving, big increase
really coming through in the US business, slightly higher volumes but particularly much,
much, much higher credit spreads based on all the pricing we've done on the existing
book of business within the US.
Lastly then on the return on shareholder assets, as you'll remember, the big increase here
coming through from the reattributed estate, some GBP130 million additional profits in
that bucket in 2010, although the last quarter of 2010, that's GBP70 million in benefit from
the reattribution in 2009 results for giving that GBP60 million Delta 2009 versus 2010.

Bloomberg Transcript

On expenses, couple of things here, good story on expense, acquisition expenses across
the board, lower ratio in the UK, broadly flat ratio in the rest of the world, slightly higher in
Europe. The reason it's slightly higher in Europe is the Italian commissions you may
remember are not stacked. They flow directly through to that number, so giving a slightly
higher current acquisition expense ratio, and then a very good story on the admin ratios,
reductions in all three big buckets, so rest of the world down significantly, Europe down
and particularly the UK down in terms of both absolute dollars and ratio of admin
expenses.
On general insurance, growth in profits really entirely being driven by the underwriting
result there. As Andrew mentioned, we have taken weather within that result. We've also
had GBP160 million lower benefit from prior results, so still a positive prior year
development within that number, but GBP160 million lower benefits in that underwriting
result, so in other words about a GBP300 million benefit improvement in the current year
underwriting results in 2010.
So clearly seeing that flowing through in the claims ratio, also good to see a slight kind of
improvement still in the expense ratio down to 12.4%. And again, most notably in the UK,
we're now down to about 11% expense ratio, which I think gives us a pretty decent
competitive advantage there.
On the portfolio, slight reduction in the average assets, also a slight reduction on the
average rate. You can't quite see it in the roundings there. New money yield is just over
4%. And again, we've got some slight shifts in the portfolio there with basically slightly
more on preference shares, for example, in Canada.
Just giving a little bit more color then on the combined ratio performance, you can see
there the GBP160 million or equivalent to 1.3% of the core, lower positive prior-year
reserves. Again, you can see from all the triangles we've included, there's still positive
prior-year developments. We've still got a conservative and consistent reserving policy.

Page 11 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

But as over time we said we would do, we're relying less on positive prior-year reserve
development.

FINAL

A little bit of impact from the weather, about GBP40 million above long-term average in
the UK, so about GBP60 million in Europe, good weather over the year in Canada, and
then that GBP300 million or that 3.3% of underlying current year improvement.
Business by business, a really big improvement in the current year profitability of UK
motor, also better performance flowing through on the creditor book there. In North
America, particularly strong performance on the property book in Canada.
Fund management, Andrew's going to hit the highlights here. Still strong performance of
our Aviva Investors assets versus benchmark, so overall slightly higher performance fees.
But as Andrew highlighted, we've taken the decision to invest in people and capabilities
within that business.
Then extremely strong performance fees in Delta Lloyd coming from some of their equity
funds, driving up to GBP103 million of total profitability and again helping to again increase
our average basis points to nearly 19 basis points across those businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just turning then to kind of an MCEV look at the world, sales we've already spoken about.
In terms of the new business margin and the kind of the reduction from 2.4% to 1.9%, UK
was up. We're now at 3.4% margin in the UK business, up from 2.8%. Europe was 3.7%, so
still a very strong margin in Europe.
The US was down. We talked to the IRRs a moment ago. IRRs are up in the US, reflecting
those credit spread earnings coming through. But the risk-free rates at the start of the
Third Quarter and the start of the Fourth Quarter were much lower in the US environment,
giving the change in the economics on an MCEV star measure and giving that lower
margin in particularly in the second half of the year.
Risk-free rates have come back now at the start of 2011, so by about 90 basis points. That
will help the MCEV margin in that business in 2011.
In terms of operating profits, about 30%-plus increase in the UK, MCEV operating profits,
about 18% increase in the European operating profits. As you remember, the CFO Forum
guidelines somewhat oddly tell us to take the entire longevity impact in Delta Lloyd into
operating profit. So that flows through into their MCEV operating profit decrease.
70p increase in the NAV under MCEV, and I'll come back to that in a little bit more detail in
a moment.
Okay. So let's talk through a little bit more then on the below-the-line items. Restructuring
costs coming down by some GBP40m, it is still our intention to continue to reduce that
line towards zero over the period to 2012. In 2010, we had some of the costs coming

Page 12 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

through from our cost-cutting programs, including places like the US and Canada, where
we're carrying out those cost-reduction programs.

FINAL

I'll talk to exceptionals and investment variances in the next couple of slides. The profit on
disposals was mainly driven by the restructure of the RBS agreement, where we took
onto our balance sheet the RBS life business and disposed of our interest in the RBS
collectives business, giving a total GBP128 million overall profit.
On the exceptionals, you've got the two things we've talked about before showing up
here, the nearly GBP300 million gain on the closure of the UK staff pension scheme, then
offset by the longevity reserve increase in Delta Lloyd. So Delta Lloyd adopted the new
Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics’ 2010 table. And that gave that GBP483 million
equivalent impact.
As Andrew said, I think Delta Lloyd is the only Dutch company that's taken the full impact
into their IFRS earnings as opposed to kind of absorbing it, if you like, within their lat [ph]
reserves. So it's kind of once and done, if you like, and take it as a full reserve. Nets down
to the GBP273 million impact in exceptionals.

Bloomberg Transcript

On investment variances, then a couple of things going on here, you remember within
Delta Lloyd we have the Delta Lloyd curve impact. So this is the difference between the
yield curve impact on assets and liabilities. They use the collateralized AAA curve for
valuing liabilities. And that's moved by about 80 basis points in the year, which has given
about that GBP800 million impact. They've also had other positive investment variances
about GBP210m.
On the rest of Aviva, overall relatively small investment variances, broadly consistent with
how we described the balance sheet a few weeks ago on January 20th. So within the life
business, about GBP200m, again primarily driven by the slightly increased sovereign
spreads in Europe in the second half of the year.
On the non-life, it says general insurance. It's actually non-life is a better description
because they're almost all to do with kind of central. So there's a negative variance on the
equities held at Group center and also the mark to market of the equity hedging program
held at Group center as well.
All of that adding up to about GBP600m, GBP630 million increase in profit before tax and
some GBP400 million or 37% increase in our total return. Obviously, within there, you've
got the higher minority interest, reflecting the full-year post-IPO of Delta Lloyd at 58%. All
that coming down to overall a 50p earnings per share.
Again, also worth highlighting, that doesn't include the positive investment variances from
the available-for-sale securities, which were about some GBP500 million or so. You'll see
that coming in, in a minute.

Page 13 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

Hopefully this slide's pretty familiar stuff. Now this is our shareholder balance sheet, very
similar shape to what we talked about on January 20th, no real big movements to
highlight, government bonds still kind of GBP19b. A slight reduction in our exposure to
PIIGS, so we -- I think we quantified that at GBP900 million when we last got together.
That's now down to GBP700 million for those countries.
Corporate bonds continued high performance of corporate bonds, as you'll see in a
moment, continued strong performance on our major portfolios, minimal losses, and
minimal exposures to financial institutions in those PIIGS countries.
On the mortgages, some of the stats around that, we have continued to grow the book
as we've grown our annuity book, particularly in the UK and in the US. Some of the stats
about that in terms of arrears are actually even better than they were at end of 2009. The
block of value in arrears in the UK, for example, is about GBP350 million at the end of '09
is only GBP250 million at the end of 2010.
In Dutch residential as you remember is 40% guaranteed by the Dutch government, still
has incredibly low levels of arrears and losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the equity portfolio, as we've described before, most of that, some GBP4 billion or so
of that sits in Delta Lloyd. That's their 5% or more concentrated holdings, small amount
here. And we continue to have our equity protection program in place with some GBP5.9
billion of notional protection.
Really very much a continuation of what we talked about a couple of weeks ago on the
level of losses, just 5 basis points on UK corporate bonds. In the US, 30 basis points, you'll
remember maybe that the market for our type of portfolio runs at about 130 basis points
in the US. In the UK, we've averaged about 25 basis points over the last five years on the
UK mortgage portfolio, 36 here. That's about half of what we reserve for on that
portfolio, and the Delta Lloyd mortgage portfolio, incredibly low levels of the losses and
impairments.
Just on the pension scheme then, obviously, we're very happy with both the actions we've
taken and the market movements, reducing the deficit from GBP1.7 billion down to zero.
Just running through that for the sake of completeness, service costs, as you would
expect, a slight negative, reflecting the opening deficit position, GBP600 million of
contributions in the year, including the one-time special contributions we put into the
schemes, the GBP300 million benefit, reflecting the closure of the UK scheme.
Scheme experience is really updating the role of scheme membership deferreds and
actives, and reflecting the change of that managed -- positive change in that scheme
membership. Mortality is updating for scheme-specific data, we have some 60,000 or
plus overall scheme members so we are now modeling that onto scheme-specific data.
Then about GBP500 million of positive economic movements.
We are not stopping there. We are very much focused on continued de-risking of this.
We've taken equities down, for example, from just before the end of '09 from about
Page 14 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

GBP4.4 billion -- sorry, 44% of equity exposures down to about 22% of equity exposures,
and we'll continue to look to decrease that. We'll continue to look to increase our inflation
protection, continue to match assets and liabilities more closely. And probably actively
look at taking out a longevity hedge as well.
Lastly then from me on the net asset value increase, and the return on equity, fairly simple
story if you like on the net asset value increase. We've generated 68p IFRS profit and
investment variances. That's where you see the rest of the investment variances coming
in that other GBP500 million or so, adding to 68p of profit investment variances, including
those available for sale investment variances, payment of the dividend and then the
positive benefits of the pension scheme revaluation coming in, giving a total increase of
IFRS net asset value of 80p to GBP4.54.
It's a very story on MCEV, 62p of profits and investment variances. A couple of other items
to just note quickly within the profit, obviously we took a small impact from pension
legislation change in Poland that knocked about a couple of hundred million off the
embedded value there.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the EEV that really is a direct flow from that GBP36 billion of real world undiscounted
future cash flows. Obviously we've discounted that to get to our GBP6.21. Even using a
slightly higher discount rate at the end of the year, we upped it to about 7.8% discount
rate at the end of the year, just to be on the prudent side, compared to about 7.5%
discount rate if you remember when we updated you before. Like for like actually, if we'd
left that unchanged it would be about GBP6.35.
All of that then flows through to the return on equity increase, it's up to over 10% now on
our life business, almost 16% return on equity for GI, adding up with the benefit of our
capital structures held at the Group to a 15% overall return on equity for the Group.
That's me done. I shall, with that, hand back to Andrew.

Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Thanks, Pat. Okay, now I wanted to just spend a few minutes at the end talking about
prospects as we look forward. Let's just track back to November when we were talking to
you about the step back that we did last year, and looked at strategy.
And what we said to you then was that we are going to refocus and increase focus on
deepening our businesses in 12 key countries, so eight of those in Europe, including the
UK, the US, Canada and in Asia primarily focusing on the larger markets of China and
India. And we are very, very focused on that. There is no news today that we are reporting
on it, but you can expect in the course of the next six to 12 months to see some
meaningful movement around that.
Now we also talked about operational excellence that day. And the message we were
trying to get across really clearly was we need to be excellent in life insurance, excellent in

Page 15 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

general insurance and then on top of that reap the benefits of running those two
businesses under one roof.

FINAL

I think if you look at the results in 2010, I talked about the consistent improvement in life
profits, another 23% increase in 2010, we are well on the way, I think, on the life side to
being able to be satisfied, although there is more to come.
On the general insurance side we've taken a lot of cost out of the business. But growth I
think in the business is the priority going forward. And I'll talk in a little bit in a minute about
where I think that's going to come from.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in terms of the composite value of the business, whether it will be synergies in terms
of running these two businesses in the same premises for example and the cost benefits
that come from that, but also of course as we move into the Solvency II world, and it is
finally going to happen I think, the real tangible capital benefits of that for the big diverse
insurers, then that day is getting closer and already we are running with, under Pillar II
rules, capital in the general insurance business some 30% to 40% less than we would
need if we were not a composite insurer.
But let's just talk about growth and where it's going to come from just region by region.
First of all, let's look at the UK, what was the strategy that we told you about in the UK?
And it was to be an undisputed leader. And I think the progress that we've made in 2010
continues to foster my belief that in two years time we will be the undisputed leader
across the UK insurance space. We already have 19 million customers in the UK. We have
an insurance relationship with one in three households in the UK. The brand change that
we've made has seen us build on that customer base, the 200,000 new direct motor
customers in 2010 alone.
We are pushing forward on the protection space. I talked about Santander coming on
stream in the course of the next few months. Those bancassurance relationships we are
seeing growth across the UK, across Europe and in Asia Pacific, in fact, in our
bancassurance space. And it is that leadership in marketing and distribution, and we were
voted recently number one here in the IFA market here in the UK, that is going to continue
to drive our growth in the UK market.
So we see it as a growth market. We see it as a market where there will be further
consolidation. We see it as a market where our market position will continue to
strengthen.
In Europe, I talked about challenges in some of the economies. Of course, there are
challenges in Ireland. Of course, there are challenges in Spain. Let's think about Spain. You
know that we work with a number of different cajas [ph] in Spain, the regional deposit
taking banks. You also know that the Spanish government has now taken decisive action
to strengthen the capital requirements in the Spanish banking system. And that will lead to
change not only at the solvency levels, but potentially in the nature of ownership of those
banks.

Page 16 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

We see that as an opportunity. The reason being we have very strong contractual
protection in terms of the relationships that we have. And there will winners and losers in
that process. And we think that will present us with opportunities in the course of the next
18 months. And that will be one of Igal's main strategic focuses on a market by market
basis in the course of that period.
But that bancassurance distribution in Europe continues to grow. We have been selling
more protection business through it as well as more traditional savings type products.
That's more capital efficient business, it flows through to profits. So that marketing and
distribution strength across the European region is going to continue to fuel growth for us.
In North America, you've seen that we have tempered growth on the annuities side.
We've done that because we want that business to be a provider of capital back to the
center. A more than doubling of profits in the US Life business has clearly helped that.
You are not going to see another doubling of profits I think it's fair to say in 2011 in that
business, because the step change in pricing, and I mean of the new business and the
existing book, took place in 2010. But during that period assets under management in the
US life business went up by something like $7b.

Bloomberg Transcript

That flows through into further future earnings as we move forward. And you will see us
growing in the life business. And actually that's quite simple, more distribution, equals
more sales, equals more profit in the US life part of the business, not the annuities part of
the business. And that will happen I am confident of that in 2011.
In Canada, all of the benefits of the costs that we've taken out, the underwriting
improvements that we've made I expect that to continue to flow thorough. And they've
had a good start to the year in the Canadian business I am pleased to say.
Asia Pacific, our bancassurance relationships in Asia have strengthened again in 2010. So
for example, the DBS relationship in Singapore, I would say after quite a rocky 2009
actually right back on track. And a major fuel to our growth in the Asia Pacific region.
But over and above that, our Chinese business, for example, continues to go from
strength to strength. We are in 11 provinces now, nearly 50 cities. I expect us to continue
to grow that. It's a multi-distribution business. And it's continuing, I think, to grow value
very, very quickly in that market. So in Asia Pacific, yes, to some extent in some markets, in
some markets, the economic growth that we are seeing will be the fuel of the business.
Now I've talked about Aviva Investors, the focus on increasing external assets under
management, absolutely key. Now that's a region by region review, but I'd rather in a way
if we just step back and thought about it in slightly different terms, perhaps looking at it
through a slightly different lens.
What we said back in November is that to fulfill our strategic aims we need to be very
good at certain things. And the first thing is marketing and distribution. And we are. We
Page 17 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

work with more than 3,000 brokers here in the UK. We have a very strong position in the
IFA market. We have an almost dominant position in the UK bancassurance market. That's
because we are good at managing those relationships, providing products at costefficient rates to our banking partners. Santander coming on stream is another example of
that here in the UK.
That marketing and distribution strength works through Europe, 55 banks that we work
with through Europe, more to come. And you know what, the nature of those relationships
are changing. The days necessarily of making big up-front payments to get
bancassurance relationships I think that's beginning to change. Santander is a prime
example here in the UK as well as the restructuring of the RBS relationship. You saw the
profit that we took out of that relationship as a result. But we have a seven-year exclusive
distribution agreement with the largest bank in the UK still.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that is going to go on fueling growth across the company. And that's not even to
mention the strength we have in retail distribution across Europe in places like Poland,
where our sales forces are highly effective. In places like France where the Affair
distribution continues to give us what I always describe as a large niche, but very
profitable business.
So that's one side of it marketing and distribution. But let's talk about underwriting
excellence, let's talk about technical excellence in the business. Pat talked to you about
GBP1.1 billion of profit coming through the underwriting. And I think what you've got to
think about on a three-year view is a shift of risk and risk appetite in this company.
Because three years ago you looked at the investment risk profile of the company, and
you might have said that it was high.
Now, we've de-risked the equity part of the business. The performance in actual credit
defaults is there for all of you to see over the last three years. It's been very good relative
to our markets.
We do take credit risk. We think we are good at it. And we think the track record in the last
three years proves that. But the big shift is moving capital into insurance risk where we
have a definite competitive advantage.
We can't guarantee to make investment returns better than the thousands of other
people who operate in investment markets around the world. But in most of our major
markets, where we operate in the insurance space, we have four or five competitors in
the insurance risk market. And in many places we are in relatively leading positions. And
we are exploiting that whether it's in protection business, annuity business in some
markets, whether it's in household or motor or small business insurance.
And that growth, through our own efforts on the general insurance side taking so much
cost out of the business, improving underwriting disciplines I think is set to continue.
If the market improves, and I think there are some early, somewhat latent signs in the
corporate market that might happen, that's icing on the cake. That's a bonus. That's not
Page 18 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

what we are counting on.

FINAL

But there are other areas in general insurance where that risk appetite extension is real.
You've seen in 2010 we did extend our reach into the larger corporate risk market in the
UK. We wrote just GBP50 million of premium. We are careful about what we are writing.
The combined operating ratio was 81% on that book.
The distribution in that space wants to do business with us. It's a market that they like. The
Aviva brand works in that space. And we've hired some very good people to take us
forward in that space. It will be in a controlled way, but that number will move, and it will
move upwards and I expect it to be profitable as we move through the next two years.
And lastly, we are talking about growth, we are talking about earnings growth, the cost
commitments that we made back in November; GBP200 million of savings by the end of
2012, another GBP200 million of efficiency savings coming through to the bottom line.
That's GBP400 million not in these numbers, which we are very confident about delivering
on. When you put all of that together, I think, on an organic basis you have a strong story
in terms of growth prospects in the company.

Bloomberg Transcript

That's the slightly longer term, let's come back to the short term, we set some financial
targets back in November as well for 2011. Three out of the four we've actually beaten in
2010.
So we'll be taking a look at these targets as we go through the year. It's only early March
so I think it's a bit early for us to give any further guidance at this point. But the first three
we hit those numbers in '10, so clearly that gives us confidence as we move into '11. The
cost savings, very much still to come, and it will remain a focus of the company to make
sure that we are operating just as efficiently as we can.
So let me summarize, you've been very patient, thank you for listening. The heading there
I do think says it all, strong results but I think we've got to think about the future. We think
about them as paving the way for further growth.
Yes, profits up 26%, capital generation beating our targets, the balance sheet very
significantly stronger again in the course of the year. Good growth across life and general
insurance, I think more to come on the general insurance side, encouraging signs.
But I think what we've got now is that platform where we can allocate capital across our
businesses, and point it towards the profitable growth that we need. Some of that's inbuilt already. Let's look at the growth in the balance sheet. That's going to -- through to a
degree.
The pension deficit, Pat talked to you about the charge that went through the accounts
because of the negative pension deficits at the beginning of the year. Well it won't be
going through.

Page 19 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

In terms of the restructuring costs, yes, they came down in 2010. But we said to you
before their going to come down much closer to zero over the course of the next couple
of years.

FINAL

And the balance sheet much stronger. So the base is there, and we are able I think in the
course of the next year or two to put together all of the power that we have in marketing
and distribution in our markets, and drive that through to increased earnings.
All right. Thank you for listening. I am going to ask Pat and Mark and Igal to join me up the
front for the Q&A. And always we'll make time to answer any questions that you've got.

Questions And Answers
A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Shall we start here, yes.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Kevin Ryan, Investec.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning, Kevin.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Very simple question, you talked about underwriting excellence and I noticed in the UK
personal motor that the combined has slipped, the underwriting loss has had a huge
swing, premiums are up. Could you give us a bit of background behind that in terms of
what you're doing on rate increases? What's happening with bodily injury reserving and
that sort of thing?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, for sure. It's well known of course that the UK motor market has been a challenging
market over the last two or three years. But let me ask Mark to talk to it in more detail.

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Thanks, Kevin. We talked a bit about this in November in terms of rates
increases, so if you think back to 2009 we were increasing our rates, we saw some
volume losses because of that in 2010, 25% increases across the year.
If you look at the combined ratio it has slipped a bit from 2009 to 2010. A few factors in
there, we've got some weather effects which affect motor. There's effectively some new
business strain. As you grow the book there is a little strain comes through.

Page 20 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

We are very confident though, and actually if you look at the first half, second half this is
borne out by the numbers because it's come down, the combined ratio second half
versus first half. We are very confidence that with the rating increases we've got on the
books and will earn through into 2011. And the rating increases we are putting through
again this year that that book is profitable for us and the combined ratio is attractive.
So one or two factors in there, but the trend I think is that we've been pricing for bodily
injury and that's coming through and will come through in the combined ratio.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Andy.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. A couple of questions, I guess the
first one is obviously the banks have had a bit of a hard time in their reporting season
about guidance and numbers, etc. So just wanted to pick up on the GBP1.5 billion cash
flow, where you described it in here as a challenging short-term target. But everything you
said on the life side sort of suggests that the earnings are getting a lot better, cash flow is
getting a lot better, average funds under management at the end of the year are much
higher.

Bloomberg Transcript

What's holding back the GBP1.5 billion target going up? Is it growth in the GI that's
depressing the operating cash flow generation? And if so what would it roughly look like
without that growth in the GI business please?
And the second one is really a request, in terms of the yearend funds under management
being higher for each of these categories and giving us an idea about where the earnings
might be going, could we actually find out what the yearend numbers are for each of
these categories you've shown please, Patrick? Thank you.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Pat, do you want to comment on that one first?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. We'll take that one off line, I'm sure we can kind of slice it and dice it in a way that
kind of works for you on that, yes.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes. I mean on the target what's actually holding it back? To a certain extent the answer is
natural caution, Andy. I think you've seen the actual out-turn in 2010, we think you're
absolutely right, the factors on the life side should be encouraging for us, and of course
the amount of business that we write is genuinely within our control.

Page 21 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

The general insurance side of it we have to say there is a little more volatility around it as
we go forward. But what we've chosen to do I think is stick with the target that we set only
three months ago. And as we come through the year I would be delighted if, as we've
been able to do this year, we can up the guidance. We just think it's a little early for that
frankly.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions, the first is on the GBP800 million curve effect
at Delta Lloyd. Is that the GBP600 million at the half year which you said was going to
reverse? And in which case how sustainable is that number?
Then secondly, the new business margins within the IFRS result, and I guess this is also a
new business strain question as well, has gone up quite substantially. Actually you've
restated the numbers from last year, which have slightly muddled me a bit, it's gone up
quite substantially. How much of that is down to annuities? And is the annuity new
business profits a sustainable number?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Well look you're right on the first point, the GBp600 million that we said was going
to reverse has not reversed; it's gone in the same direction up to GBP800m. We believe
at some point it probably will reverse, at least to some degree, and that's really what we
are trying to flag. But Pat, you might want to comment more and on the second question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. No. I meant that, yes, it is the GBP600 million and no, it didn't reverse. Logically at
some point it will do. On the new business income, certainly there was increases across
the board. So certainly you saw in the US driving up the kind of rest of the world one. In
Europe actually it was pricing action in all of the major countries. The UK one, I think
certainly the annuity pricing is contributing to that. We obviously had much higher both
annuity and volumes and strong pricing as well. And in terms of the environment, Mark, I
don't know whether you --?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes, I showed a chart in November that showed the kind of -- the people reaching 65 the
bubble over the years, kind of 2010 to 2014, and to an extent that's driving some of the
volume. So we've invested a lot in the processes. We are very -- been more efficient as
you know, we've invested in pricing in terms of excellence, so post code pricing on
annuities. We think we've got a great proposition, so we are confident we can sustain our
position.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

(inaudible) in terms of new business proposition [ph].

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Page 22 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Well no we haven't split that out previously, no. It, as I say, I was up -- there was -- the
whole volume was up about 60% and obviously very strong profitability.

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Just one added comment -- a serious point, we and Delta Lloyd have been extremely
open about the curve effects. So I read most of the material from you guys, it's there, it's
recognized and I think it is important A, that we have been open and we'll continue to be
so.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Morning, Andrew Crean at Autonomous. Three questions, firstly, do you have an EEV new
business profit as you gave in January for 2010 with the risk discounting rating? It may be
in the pack, but I'm not sure I saw it.
Secondly, could you go through in a bit more detail the impact, the solvency impact on
non-life? In 2010 you grew 5% but your solvency requirement fell GBP200m. I think that's
because of the three-year averaging. That sort of flattens off in 2011. Does it then -- do
we then start reflecting in 2010 the actual growth in your business, so that there will be an
increase in the solvency? And how does that play through?

Bloomberg Transcript

And thirdly, just look at your IRRs, you're a company which carries quite a lot of central
costs both regionally and centrally, do you calculate your IRRs with a fully -- on a fully
costed [ph] basis when you allow for that? And if you do could you share with what the
IRRs are there?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

All right thank you. Most of those were for me I think, Andy. We didn't publish, Andrew, the
full embedded value margin. I think we would like to at some point in the future. It's a little
bit close to January 20, to get it out at this time. But that is something we'll look to do as
we go forward.
In terms of the capital consumption stuff, so I mean you are spot on in terms of the profile
of GI as we've reduced the portfolio and cleaned the portfolio. That's beneficially
impacted that reserve -- the capital requirement, because it's if you like, somewhat
staggered. Next year I would expect it to be a broadly flat impact, so it shouldn't be
positive or negative to capital consumption.
Logically as you go beyond that --

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

That's this year then?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Page 23 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

2011 yes, 2011, logically as you go beyond that you would expect some slight increase in
that, hopefully, getting more than offset by our increase in profitability.

FINAL

And the last also -- oh yes, sorry, in terms of the IRRs they are un-levered. They include
four regional costs within them. And as I mentioned briefly, and then we actually didn't
even include the benefit of the reattributed estate within there. So it includes virtually all
of the costs you could think of.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

James.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Morning, James Pearce, from UBS. Three questions, first, you said you were going to
focus on underwriting risk rather than investment risk, but in the analysis of shareholder
and bonds it looks like below investment grade has gone from 10% to 12%. Can we
expect that to reverse in 2011?
Second, there's a big favorable assumption change on expenses in Europe, despite the
fact that the IFRS disclosure shows European maintenance costs 2% higher year on year.
How should we think about that?

Bloomberg Transcript

And thirdly, what happened to the internal debt? And what's the amount at year end
please?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Let me take the first one if I may. What I tried to say, James, was that actually in the
way we've thought about it, in terms of deploying capital in risk areas, we've tried to shift
it more away from investment risk into insurance risk where we think our expertise lies.
And we also have an expertise in debt markets, there's no doubt about that.
And I think, as I said, if you look at the actual credit default experience in our portfolios
over the last three years, which clearly have been very testing years, I think we can look
anybody in the eye actually and say that we have a record of which we can be proud.
It flows, as you know that if you sell some insurance products such as annuities you have
to deploy the money somewhere, and therefore investment risk and expertise within
Aviva Investors is of great value to us. And it's something I think that gets forgotten
sometimes.
You can focus just on the profitability of Aviva Investors to measure their contribution to
the Group. In many ways their contribution to the Group is far larger in terms of the way
they've outperformed in terms, particularly, of credit markets over the course of the last
three years. That's been particularly true in the UK. It's been particularly true in the US as
well.

Page 24 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

There is also a team within Mark's team obviously on the commercial mortgage side,
which also I think has done a great job through that period, and continues to do so today.

FINAL

So I think your question is a really good one; I just like to answer it in a slightly more
nuanced way. I hope I've done that.
There were a couple of other questions as well.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. In terms of the expense assumption stuff, obviously Delta Lloyd had a kind of a
positive, continued positive MCEV expense assumption. And we had some other kind of
bits and pieces within Europe that really reflects expectations and actuals of expenses on
that.
And the third question, James, was?

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Internal debt.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Internal debt.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Oh, internal debt, it's still there, it's about almost exactly the same number as it was
previously. If you look at the capital allocation tables you can see it in the corporate line.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

(Inaudible)

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. It's pretty much exactly the same number here.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

You've been waiting patiently here I think so --.

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Thank you. Morning, Raghu Hariharan from Citi.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Hi, Raghu.

Page 25 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

FINAL

I had three questions. The first one was on the GI investment return. In the operating
profit the investment return is 4.6%. Below the line if you add in the negative investment
variances it's 3%, 3.5%. I was wondering, how should we think about the sustainability of
the investment returns in the operating profit line going forward.
The second question was on the pension fund deficit. Now obviously there is a 37p
benefit, accounting benefit in IFRS NAV, but you have a GBP300 million hit on your capital.
So I was wondering how should we think about the funding deficit as opposed to the
accounting deficit, and what's happening during the year?
The third question was in the UK for Mark really. The annuities businesses has had healthy
growth. There is a lot of regulatory discussion papers around which is talking about forcing
insurers to have -- offer their customers more open market options. And I was wondering
if you could tell us what your vesting pension rate is, or vesting annuity rate is? And do you
think this -- the new regulatory papers would challenge your automatic conversion of
pensions into annuities please? Thanks.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Why don't start with that one, because actually we are highly in favor of open market
options I think.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes, without speaking [ph] too colloquially I think we -- it's a kind of bring it on frankly.
We've invested a lot as I said in the capability. We are advertising in the annuity market to
try and get people to shop around, because we think we are very competitive, we think
we have a highly differentiated pricing basis.
But in terms of the capture rate it's still around 70%, it's been like that now for a few
years. It's something that we worked on maybe three or four years ago, and it's been
pretty steady. But frankly, yes, we are very in favor of more customers shopping around in
the open market, and very happy with the discussions going in that direction.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes, for the other two, on the general insurance investments, we rather unfairly actually
called it general insurance investment variances, which really wasn't anything to do with
them. It was Group center investment variances. Non-life would be a better term. They
were Group center investment variances to do with the equities we hold here and the
hedge -- and the mark to market on the hedging program at Group center. So virtually all
of those really didn't applied to the general insurance business.
In terms of the assets, we are not really seeking to dramatically change the asset profile.
So we hold virtually no equities. There is a little table in there showing the assets made up
of -- in GI. We are not really seeking to get back into growth seeking assets, mainly in kind
of fixed income as you would expect.
Page 26 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

We have, as I mentioned, just gone a little bit more into preference shares in Canada.
There are some beneficial tax advantages; my friend at the end understands better than
I; of holding prefs in Canada. So we've done a little bit of that. And as I say, our new
money yield is probably just over 4% overall.
On the pension scheme we have seen a significant improvement in the funding deficit as
well of about the same order of magnitude. Obviously, the absolute amount isn't the
same as you would expect a slightly kind of -- it's still in a deficit position from a funding
perspective, as all schemes are more negative from a funding versus kind of an
accounting perspective. But it has improved by about the same order of magnitude as the
accounting number.

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

So the accounting deficit is zero, and the funding deficit at the yearend would be how
much?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

I don't think we've published that number before have we? No. But it's more than zero.

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Nick.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes, Nomura. Couple of questions, the first one is on the growth outlook. Clearly
in 2010 there have been a number of step changes, some one-offs. You described a
number of opportunities that you see. I wondered if you could give us some sort of
ranking. I mean what are you most excited about? Is it Europe? Is it cost reduction, etc.,
etc?
Then second question is perhaps a simpler question which is on the credit provisions in
your annuity book, just really an update. You seem to be curiously silent about those with
the full year results. Thank you.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

All right, well, let's be conspicuously loud about it now Mark, shall we update on that first?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

In terms of annuity provisions they're unchanged. You've seen the performance of the
mortgage book. You've seen the performance of the credit book. In the conversations
that we've had we just think it's too early to do anything with the provisions.
Page 27 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

You'll remember that when we set them up in 2008 it was an interesting time. We are
very confident, highly confident about the performance of the credit book and the
mortgage book, but it's just in our view too early to change those provisions.

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Do I rank them by priorities? I suppose the simple answer is no, because we have a
diverse business, and when I look in different markets I think we have obviously different
priorities and things we can move faster on in some places than others.
The UK, I hope it came across in what we saying, we are incredibly enthusiastic about our
business in the UK right across the piece, and our customers are responding extremely
well to that. And that's where the business growth comes from in the end.
Maybe I can bring Igal in and maybe share a few first thoughts on a couple of the
European markets.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sure. It is only first thoughts, but I think actually if you look at the second half results
you're seeing the benefits of Quantum starting to come through. And I absolutely plan on
accelerating it. To me it's fundamentally driven by applying more discipline to the broad
portfolio and applying it consistently.
So if you're saying where I'd see the priority right now, I think we can grow profit. Now
whether you want to call that underwriting profit or investment profit, the reality is we've
shown through the framework the processes and discipline that we've put in with
Quantum. That we are now actively managing the portfolio across Europe far, far better
than we had historically, and there is just a lot more to come on that.
There will be more to come on cost, Quantum has made some very good progress
already, GBP100 million of cost savings in 2009 that sustained and carried through in '10
and there will be more of that coming through in '11.
If we get to specific markets, some of the markets are challenges as Andrew said. Ireland
will be -- continue to be challenged. We've seen our Polish business drop as legislation
has changed around pensions. But again I am incredibly impressed by that business and
that franchise. It started over a decade ago as a purely pension business. Today, more
than 70% of that business is non-pension. And they've been readying themselves for that
change.
We'll probably see another quarter or so of downturn. But again momentum is building in
the protection products in the unit-linked products, and even GI in Poland has got some
good potential and growth ahead of it.
Spain, Andrew touched on Spain. We have incredible -- I think we've got three things
going for us in Spain. We have an incredible business model in terms of how we operate

Page 28 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

bancassurance in Spain. And it is something under Quantum we are looking to expand. But
if I come back to Spain, it is a model that delivers incredible profit and benefit on a line
basis to both ourselves and our venture partners. That gives us a huge advantage. The
relationships are very strong.

FINAL

And as Andrew said the contracts were done over a decade ago but put us in a very, very
good position as we move into this period of a reshuffling of frankly the decks.
So it's -- I'm not going to predict the size and shape of that business. That would be, I
think, a bit presumptuous. But in terms of the advantages going in I feel very good about
our business model, the contracts and our relationships that that will continue to be a very
market for us in the long term. So that's some early views in terms of markets and
opportunities.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

There is probably one broader response as well, and I'd just like to pull it back to the
strategy, if I may. I wouldn't like to leave the impression that we are not pushing forward
on the focus that we talked about in November. It's just a little early to give you concrete
examples of things where we are de-emphasizing. But you can expect it in the course of
the next six to 12 months. Craig.

Q - Craig Bourke

{BIO 1764587 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning, Craig Bourke, MF Global, I thought I'd give the other lads a chance first this time.
All right, three questions.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

What, what I didn't hear any of that.

Q - Craig Bourke

{BIO 1764587 <GO>}

You can buy me a beer later. Three questions, one is a number, a large part of your or a
portion of your hybrid debt doesn't count towards the rating agencies' capital adequacy
model, now what -- in other words is above the tolerance levels. I wonder if you can just
give us an amount in terms of how much debt you can pay back before it starts hitting the
CAR model. That's question one.
Second one US in your general account business, I was wondering if there is any more
room to reduce the minimum guaranteed rates on new business furthermore or you are
bouncing up against the minimum? And the discretionary crediting, maybe you can give us
some idea of what they are and whether there is some capacity within your marketing
plan to do that.
And the third thing, I'd just go back to a comment that the Pru made in December about
there was an appetite for a number of US insurers to get into the fixed-indexed annuity
market, because its providing a natural and cheaper hedge than they could get from
investment banks against the -- some of the (inaudible) hedge their own books.
Page 29 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

I was wondering whether there -- because there is a desire to buy or get hold of blocks of
this business whether you'd be open minded about selling that block of business to one
of the existing players if the price offered was attractive, because of those dynamics.

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Well let me just take the last one first, I think there is no doubt actually that the value of
our business will have gone up quite substantially in the last six months both because of
the actions we've taken on profitability which will follow through to that, but actually the
market, you're right, I think has got more favorable. Clearly it wasn't particularly favorable
12 or so months ago.
But our priority just remains on growing the profitability of that business. And we think
there is still real scope for that as we go forward. So that's going to be our focus. And
over the next 12 months we will do that under Richard's management now. He has been
CFO of the business for the last 18 months, and has been really important with Igal, in
driving the profitability forward.
I think the honest answer on the -- how much more can you push in term of new business
and crediting rates and commission is we are probably pushing up against it.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. We're close to non-forfeiture in the US, minimum guarantees are already down to 1%
and that's frankly as low as you'll go without legislative changes.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

What was the first one?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

The first one was about the hybrids, I'll allow Igal to answer, he's clearly much more
comfortable on those US questions.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

I think I've (multiple speakers)

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

As you remember it is fully allowable for IGD, should be allowable under Solvency II, a
portion isn't allowable under S&P, you're quite right. But we -- I think we can pay back the
amount we've highlighted and not impact the allowable amount within the S&P capital
markets if that makes sense.

Q - Craig Bourke

{BIO 1764587 <GO>}

(inaudible question) just in terms of a US sale at the last presentation you refused to rule
out a sale, is that still your opinion?
Page 30 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

FINAL

No. I wouldn't rule it out at some point in the future Craig. Sorry, just to be clear on that.
But I really believe that we are driving value forward in that business in a very, very
meaningful and there is more to come. So maximizing that value is just the logical thing for
us to do whatever we want to do.
Tony?

Q - Tony Silverman

{BIO 2162363 <GO>}

Tony Silverman from Standard & Poor's Equity Research. A couple of questions, I noticed I
think it was slide 27 that the commission expense ratio for the GI business as a whole is
virtually unchanged at between 19% and 20%. Which sort of plays rather oddly against a
sort of background dynamic of moving to direct and aggregators and greater [ph] in
those channels. So I was wondering how does that work and how -- what would the
outlook be if you like for that ratio.
And the second question was I noticed there was lapses in the MCEV reporting a negative
lapse number of minus GBP27 million for the Asian business, which is quite significant in
the concept of the size of the Asian business. I do remember seeing these numbers
historically, and I thought maybe it was the last we had seen of them. What can you say
about their recurrence here?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. I'll ask possibly all three of you to comment on the commission question. And I think
lapses in the Asian business it's an interesting dynamic. And in some of the markets we
are operating in, in Asia are seeing very high lapse rates, by definition from your question,
higher than we expected.
So if you take the Indian market, for example, first year lapse rates are running at very,
very high levels. And what's that telling you? I think it's telling you that people are being
sold things that either they can't afford or in reality they don't want. And I think there is
going to be a regulatory action to that, and we are already seeing it in India. Whether that
spreads to other markets, I think we'll have to wait and see.
If you want my opinion on it, Tony, I think it will. I think those Asian regulatory markets have
been marked by very strong prudential regulation, but less focus on consumers. And if
they develop in the way that other markets have around the world then we'll see that shift
over time. And that may have an effect on margins clearly.
But as we see those lapses it's just going to alert the regulator further to those issues,
absolutely no doubt about that. It's one of the reasons why we don't have a large direct
sales force in India, because we think there could be a penalty to that coming down the
track.
On the overall costs?
Page 31 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes, on the overall commission levels most of our business is still sold through brokers,
whether it be in Canada, whether it be in Ireland or whether it be in the UK personal lines
and commercial lines.

FINAL

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes, just a color from the UK perspective on the distribution ratio which is an expense and
commission is down a percentage point. I think we've been very stable in our outlook. We
have a balanced book of business. So no one channel, whether it be direct or whether it
be broker or whether it be bancassurance has a disproportionate effect.
The outlook therefore is relatively stable, to answer the particular question. And certainly
as we grow into areas, as Andrew already highlighted, like corporate risks we are very
cautious about the nature of the relationships we are entering into, and we are very
cognizant of making sure those relationships are built on profitable foundations. So I
would say it's a pretty stable picture.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the other thing obviously we focus particularly on the UK business in terms of taking
out operating expenses and frankly of tackling the commission base. And we do that both
with Igal running the business and Mark has followed that through.
I think as we look at the businesses Europe there may be opportunities on that front. But
that's something that I think Igal will take a hard look at in the course of the next six
months.
Blair, thanks, Tony.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Blair Stewart from BOA Merrill, three quick questions. Just looking at
the life operating profit, I think there was a couple of hundred million of non-recurring
one-offs. I was just wondering to what extent did those go through into the cash flow
numbers in addition to the couple of hundred million positive effect from the general
insurance business, the first question.
Second question is I noticed there was an assumption change for the long-term
investment return in life operating profit, using the implied risk discount rate. What effect
did that have? Apologies for that.
And the last question is for the UK general insurance, what's your ambition for the current
year improvements? I think you've got a 3 -- just over a 3 point improvement this year.
What do you expect for the coming year? Thanks.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}
Page 32 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Well let's start with the last one, obviously we are pleased with the UK performance, but
we are looking for more. But Mark, do you want to comment?

FINAL

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes. If you discount the weather, so versus long term assumptions weather was about
1percentage point of combined ratio around GBP40m. That means the underlying is
around 95% combined ratio. Impact from prior years continues to be muted is around 2%.
I think that's a pretty good performance.
We are looking to continue to grow the book. I've already talked about the fact that motor
rates increased last year. Some of that benefit will earn through this year. We think motor
rates will continue to go up.
We think fleet rates are going up, that 7% average across the year was back ended, and
by the end of the year we received double digit increases across the fleet book. On
homeowner it's a fairly stable situation.

Bloomberg Transcript

And of course, because we've done a great job, I think, on cost because the cost ratio is
11% as we grow the top line, and Andrew has talked about some of the areas where we
think we can grow. I can add some color to that, some of the things I was saying in
November around personal lines, broker market we can still grow there. Around the RAC
panel in the aggregate space we can still grow.
In the corporate and specialty lines as we grow the top line we will leverage that cost
ratio. We think there is room to expand the business and not increase the cost base. In
fact you'll remember we set the target for the UK of reducing absolute costs as well as
becoming more operationally efficient.
You can definitely take the second question.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

The first one the truth is there are some ups and downs frankly in those numbers.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. I think on the run rate of OCG [ph] which is kind of what the question is about, there
were -- we have the general insurance and for example special distribution in the UK in
the first half. There wasn't really anything in the second half, Blair, so what I think what you
should take out of that is we had about GBP900 million in the first half as you remember
of operating capital generation. The second half was very close to that. It doesn't quite
show through in the roundings. And that didn't really include any one-offs whether it be on
the general insurance or life side.
I think from a run rate perspective that's what to look to. And it's about GBP30 million is
the positive impact from with that, so out of our GBP2.3 billion it's something like GBP20
million impact.
Page 33 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Jon?

FINAL

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Two questions please, could Mark talk a little bit about
what's going on in the personal lines broker market, how RAC is performing on the
aggregate and how you've been [ph] with direct strategies playing out.
Then a probably an unfair question for Igal, when we had the original Quantum Leap
presentation it was a sort of clear strategy, there weren't many numbers in terms of
targets both on costs and revenues, etc. When do you think we might get some more
color on what you can expect to do in that business operationally?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay, Mark, do you want to go first?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, I can go first. So the policy count on the RAC panel is up to 300,000 by the end of
the year, very pleased at the way that that's building. There is momentum in that number
and therefore we think we can grow it further in 2011.
The personal lines broker market we talked about talked about taking Aviva risk index into
the personal lines broker market, the policy count there is up around 100,000 as well
over the year.
And we are only 78%, 80% of the way rolling it through the broker market and it has built
as the year has gone on, so I think there is more momentum for us there as well. So we
are expecting, as I say, more ratings to come through and an ability to grow.
And in terms of the direct, direct as it were, Aviva Direct, 200,000 is the number that
Andrew referred to that's the growth in the policy count. Key thing there is we've made
the marketing much more efficient. We've actually halved the spend. And actually we are
getting the same volumes of calls through. So the integrating of the marketing campaign
that we've done having a stable marketing campaign now for a year or two has really paid
off for us.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Igal.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Yes, Jon, a very good question, five weeks in though I can't give you any numbers but it is
exactly what we and Helon Hislop, my new CFO and I are working on. So we'll give you
more guidance at the half year and certainly by the end of the year we'll be able to show
you deliver against some real figures.
Page 34 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes.

FINAL

Q - Mitchell Todd

{BIO 15765353 <GO>}

Just a quick one, Mitchell from T. Rowe Price. Can you just give some color or outlook on
the net flow development for the next couple of years in the context of GBP2 billion for
2010 and opening [ph] AUM of GBP280m?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Sure, how do we want to do that, do you want to start that and maybe bring Mark in on
the UK, because UK is (multiple speakers).

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

We had about GBP20 billion overall increase in funds under management, obviously, we
had positive market movements helped us in there. Then within that the kind of -- the big
flows, we had positive in the US. And again we'd like to think that would continue. Then in
the UK it was really the tale of two halves between the non-profit and with profit side.

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It's -- we put disclosures out sort of intermittently on the UK numbers. It's fairly
consistent underlying, the endowment outflow which is well signaled and will carry on at
around GBP1 billion a year. The non-profit side tends to be kind of plus or minus if you look
over the last three years sort of GBP0.5b.
Really the new issue in the UK and why the UK number is negative is there is an awful lot
of bonds reaching their 10 year NVR free period, and that's about GBP1b, GBP1.5 billion of
outflows, and that will probably carry on for another year or two. But those are the moving
parts in the UK.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

You want to come back then -- yes.

Q - Mitchell Todd

{BIO 15765353 <GO>}

So if I think about it in terms of the 70 basis points net flows that we saw this year,
structurally there is no real difference to that going through to 2011?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

I think it would be too early to say otherwise, let me put it like that.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes. Where shall we go? Colin, yes, Colin.

Page 35 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Hi, it's Colin Simpson at Goldman. Just your UK life business made GBP261 million of cash,
your smaller peers are -- one sort of targets GBP700m, the other has a target to be
GBP400m. Are we just accepting that you are a less efficient business?

FINAL

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Was there something else going on? That's the improvement we've seen in this year, just
to say -- so the slide that was shown from GBP100 million up to GBP400m. I think as ever
that's something we are very focused on. We've reduced the capital intensity. We are
reducing the expenses. When we talk about going forward it's an area that we are very,
very focused on.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, I think we are focused on continuing improvement. But what's the big difference,
Colin, is we have a diverse business with lots of different flows in different places. So we
don't have to just target one part of our business, it gives us choices. We can reinvest in
different parts of the business. And that's the great strength to our business model. And it
will continue to be so. So yes, do we expect the 1.7 [ph] to be important to us and to at
least sustain that's what we are focused on. Doing that we'll make different choices at
different times about where we'll focus effort and where we'll allocate capital.

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

UK (inaudible) the GI at this point.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Marcus.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Thanks, Marcus Barnard at Oriel. Can you comment on the ECJ ruling on sex as a rating
factor and how it affects you, particularly on -- presumably unisex pricing makes you more
profitable but you could face adverse selection in a competitive market.
Secondly, Delta Lloyd clearly it can stand on its own two feet. Owning it creates a minority
interest in your accounts. And as an investor if I wanted to own it I can buy it direct. So
question, why do you still own it? And secondly what conditions would cause you to review
that ownership?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Well let's go with the first one then I can ask -- actually it's a European issue as well
as a UK issue just to be clear, although we are already operating in some unisex pricing
markets in Europe, so Mark, just a UK view?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Page 36 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

FINAL

Yes. A UK view is it's early days in terms of what might happen. I think the fact that this
implemented from the December 21 next year is helpful it gives everybody time to evolve
into gender-neutral pricing. We were ready, had it been implemented immediately. I think
it's -- as you said it's a highly competitive market, the three most affected markets in the
UK will be motor, annuities and protection. They are all highly competitive. They are all
becoming more price transparent.
Gender is an important fact, but it's not the only factor. We've invested a lot in our risk
index in the motor book, we've invested in post code pricing in the annuity book. I think
that period that we have between and implementation gives us opportunities to test the
market, test new rating factors that we can bring to bear and look for those sweet spots
in terms of selecting risks.
What it means for actual prices and where the market goes, again, right now there is a lot
of uncertainty, but if you think about something like annuities the vast, vast bulk of
annuities the price is driven by either on joint life or for males by the male component. So
we are not seeing it necessarily as a huge change in prices for the consumer either. But
certainly I think it's very helpful that we now have 20 months to evolve into a gender
neutral world.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

May I jump in [ph] sorry, just to reiterate what I said earlier really, Marcus, which is as the
majority shareholder in a company where we think there are significant operating
improvements still to come we think we'll be the beneficiary of that. Now, exactly when
and how we wanted to change that, we'll keep it under close review.
Barrie.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Morning, Barrie Cornes from Panmure Gordon. A couple of questions on non-life if I may.
First of all you've mentioned about commercial motor fleet increasing 7% rates. Could you
comment on commercial property and liability, and given the comments from other
companies about how maybe -- on the verge of actually improving fairly soon?
And secondly, in terms of your relatively new London market operation, I think, Andrew,
you mentioned that in passing, could you give some more color on how you are going to
maintain discipline in what it has been described as a suicidal rate environment by others.
When might you move into public liability underwriting? When might you also perhaps
identify the performance of that operation going forward, just so that we can have good
clarity on it?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes. I always like our competitors complaining about us moving into their space, Barrie, I
have to say. But let me -- let Mark give a bit more color.

Page 37 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, okay. So commercial property, commercial liability from our perspective last year was
pretty flat to be honest. Selective rate increases through the book rather than across the
book. We'd been through, as you know because you've seen the impact on volumes, a
cleansing of our book in 2008 and 2009. So we are very happy with the book of business
that we've got. The retention rates were very high across commercial property and
commercial liability, up in the high 80s.
And so we weren't out there having to sort of replace huge losses from a lapse
perspective. But it was pretty neutral. It was kind in the 1%, 2% range of increases.
Where that's going, it's hard to predict. I hope and to take your point, Barrie, that some of
the competition are right are we are seeing some upward pressure, and we certainly
would welcome that.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the corporate and specialty risks book it's just worth remembering, although
we are talking about the GBP50 million new we actually have a book embedded
regionally in our business already. So this is -- when I talked about this it was about risk
expansion and capability expansion. This isn't a completely step in the dark for us. So we
had around GBP400 million of our current commercial book, if you were to reclassify it, it
would fit into this space.
We basically will grow the business, so where does the discipline come from? Well
hopefully some discipline from the top. I am very disciplined around profit and volume and
have been I think for a long time.
But it will be around recruitment. We will grow that book of business in line with our ability
to recruit. We brought around 16 specialist underwriters into the business pre-Christmas.
We are already out there recruiting in the new year. We have another 15, 16 joined us in
the new year. David Hall joins us from Zurich at the end of this month to be the Managing
Director of that business going forward.
I think the key thing to remember is we are doing this for the long term. This isn't
something we are starting on a whim or for a year or two. We are now in this business,
because as Andrew said we think we've got the brand, we know we've got the
distribution, we know we've got the brand as well. And we will win. We will win in this
market I am convinced.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

I think you've met our chief underwriter Barrie, you know exactly what he's like.

Q - Ashish Patel

{BIO 21085943 <GO>}

Ashish Patel from JP Morgan. Just two questions, one on liquidity premium, I can see that
you have changed the assumptions on liquidity premium for Delta Lloyd which is mainly in
line with the (inaudible) and not for the Group, so why that difference, first question?
Page 38 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Second is on, Andy, can you give some outlook on UK and this [ph] pricing, have they
changed over last year or they are the same? Thanks.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

FINAL

Mark, do you want to take the first one?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes. Delta Lloyd wanted to and we went along with bringing them aligned with (inaudible)
that makes, I don't know, GBP20 million difference something like that, it's tiny, it's c=tiny.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

And UK pricing.

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

For UK pricing it's a bit more different, it's very dynamic market. We price -- we can
change prices now on a daily basis there is a capability we didn't have. I think we -- I'd just
pull you back to the earlier comment, we think it's a growth market for us, we think there
are more customers looking to buy annuities, so we are positive about our outlook.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Couple of questions, in your slides you said in 2011 we should look for meaningful
movements in terms of your strategic portfolio. You've also said there are two key ones;
you'll be looking for operational improvement upside also in the US before you might
review it. So what -- where possibly could the meaningful bit come in there?
And secondly, I find it confusing, how can you have GBP40 million of weather losses and a
competitive who is smaller than you have GBP255 million of weather losses above
normal? How does that work?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Well I guess you better ask them.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

On the first point the meaningful, yes, look we are in 28 countries I think it is at the
moment, and we are going to focus on 12. So you're right, between 13 and 28 there are

Page 39 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

some smaller countries. So if that's how you measure meaningful then maybe it won't be
that meaningful.

FINAL

The fact is that in management time some of these operations sometimes take up far
more time than they should, given the returns that are available. And when I look at it, and
think about it in those terms I guess that's where I'm coming from.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Because -- just follow up on that I think previously you've talked potentially of selling China
or saying that there is a value on China. And yet I think you were also saying today that
you were going to invest in the bigger markets in China, and as you've see China as quite
a big market in Asia.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Absolutely, it's one of our 12 markets, and I think we've made that clear as we've gone
alone.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

On the weather numbers I think GBP255m, the competitor you were referring to was a
global number wasn't it, and the GBP40 million was the UK, but --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes, just in terms of that UK weather, Andrew, quite simply we had GBP100 million of
losses back in November and December, earlier in the year in January we had around
GBP50 million of losses which we reported at the half year.
But when you take February, March, April, which are in terms of our long term assumptions
we allow for weather losses in September, October and the vast majority of November,
they were offsets, which is why we are comfortable with our number. We've looked
through it. We've already paid 40% of the household claims that happened in December.
So we are very, very confident of our ability to predict those numbers, they're very steady.
I think the question is our numbers, we think, are very robust. I can't really talk about
anybody else.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Andrew, to be fair if you come to our European results for the -- between France and
Ireland we've got about EUR80 million of above normal weather losses coming through
the results.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Which was about the same as the year before.

Page 40 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

EUR100 million the year before actually. So it's a pretty chunky number.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

FINAL

Andy?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Sorry, it's a quick question on India basically, I know India was one of the markets you
wanted to keep back in October, and you've made some pretty bearish comments about
India generally today. Has that changed or do you still -- is it still a core market for you?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes. It is still a core market. And I think the thing that I was talking about today I think it will
get worked through in that market. You still have an enormous population, clearly underpenetrated. If you're taking a five to 10-year view, you've got to assume I think that the
market will work itself through.

Bloomberg Transcript

That country needs a long-term savings market. For example, it's a requirement to fund
infrastructure development; it isn't going to get funded all by cross-border flows. So
development of a long-term savings market in India, I think, is a major policy issue for that
country. I think that's appreciated.
What we are seeing at the moment I think is something that will work through over, I think,
possibly still two or three years, but you've got a little longer than that I think.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Just two quick questions, just on Group strategy, you had a target of 12%
longer term on capital employed. You had a very good in-profit outcome this year and the
return on capital employed for the Group is 10.5%. And the main drag is life still which is
10.2%. So I was wondering how should we think about timeframes in terms of when you
want to get the Group to 12%. Is that the way we should think about it? Then --

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

(Multiple Speakers) We are at 15% now for the Group overall.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Are there (multiple speakers).

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

You're right, you're absolutely right within that there are some markets which we are
committed to which we are not currently achieving that return on equity. And we are very
focused on that in two or three of those cases.

Page 41 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

Q - Unidentified Participant
Sorry, I was referring to ROCE rather than ROE because your 12% target I think at
November was an ROCE which includes preference shares and hybrid debt. Because the
ROE is 14.8% but I think your target was based on ROCE, so that's --

FINAL

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Well specifically what we said was we'd get all the countries to 12%. That was the target.
And I think, as Andrew says there is a number of them now performing well above that,
and some of those -- some of those core ones we are trying to get to less [ph]. Then as I
said we are at 14.8% in total there [ph].

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you. Just a question for Mark on net inflows in the UK, you've got GBP3.2
billion net in -- sorry GBP1.4 billion net inflows of which GBP3.2 billion are annuities so that
means there is about GBP1.8 billion of net outflows in the UK non-profit business. I assume
that's mostly in your pensions and investment bonds.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

Yes. Individual pensions. We talked again in November about the persistency, and then I
went through the various categories and talked about Group pensions, individual
pensions, bonds, individual pensions is the challenging area in the run up to RDR. You'll
see that the persistency charge is quite small still it's something that we think is
manageable. And we still think our long term assumptions post-RDR will hold or actually
be conservative. But yes, that's the driver.

Q - Unidentified Participant
What are you expecting on rate change in terms of outflows (multiple speakers)?

A - Mark Hodges

{BIO 15503226 <GO>}

I think if you go through '11 and '12, as we are in -- specifically around individual pensions in
the run up to RDR there is some pressure on those flows. As we go post-RDR I think there
will be a much more stable situation.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

I am just conscious of the time. Time for one more I think.

Q - Unidentified Participant
This is a follow up on Andy's question on India; there has been some changes in India on
the FDI rule, which is like now you can increase your stake from 26% to 49%. Would you

Page 42 of 43



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-03-03

like to do that -- would you like to increase your stake in India from 12 -- currently 26% to
49%?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

FINAL

Well we've always wanted to increase our stake. Simon, unless it's late breaking news, I
don't think we are aware that that's the case.

A - Simon Machell

{BIO 7271003 <GO>}

It's been talked about.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

It's certainly been talked about; it's actually been discussed in Parliament a number of
times in the last few years. But I think recently again the changes is not really -- you may
want to comment Simon, please do.

A - Simon Machell

{BIO 7271003 <GO>}

Yes, I mean I think it has been talked about as a possibility, but I think the pressure from
local businesses to stop it from happening is still there. So I don't expect any change in
the short term. I think as Andrew said we'd like to increase our share, but the opportunity
is not there at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay, well, look, let's put it a close there. Obviously you'll all have other questions. We've
given you, I think, it's 170 odd pages to claw through, so thank you. Thank you for taking
the time to do that. You know where Charles is, you know where we are if you've got
other questions. Thanks for all your time this morning.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 43 of 43

