Q1 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Morten Huebbe, Group CEO
Tor Magne Lonnum, Group CFO

Presentation
Morten Huebbe
Welcome to Tryg's First Quarter webcast. The First Quarter really marks another step in the right
direction, another step in the direction of continuous gradual improvement in our results towards
our mid-term target of 90% combined ratio and 20% post-tax ROE.

Bloomberg Transcript

The First Quarter, we have seen a doubling of the bottom line, really driven by an increase of 37%
in the technical result and then, of course, an unusually high investment income, which I guess will
benefit most players in this insurance industry.
On slide 4, we show the development in the combined ratio, which has improved 2.2 percentage
points, positively impacted by the price changes, the working on the claims and efficiency side,
positively impacted by slightly lower weather claims and slightly higher runoff, but actually very
importantly negatively impacted by 1.5percentage points from the lower discounting rate.
If we look at slide number 5, we show the key figures. The top line is up 1.2%, really reflecting a
reduction in the portfolio and commercial lines. The technical result, as I said, is up 37% and the
pretax has doubled to DKK721 million. And when we see the development in the top line and the
cost ratio, it really does show the need for us to focus more on reducing the costs as such and also
further address that during the year to the market.
On slide 6, we show the development in our various segments, private lines, an improvement of
1.7 percentage points to the combined ratio. We did have some profit-sharing negatively impacting
the quarter and some volatility between the quarters and we do expect slightly further
improvement to private lines during the year.
Corporate lines improvement of 1percentage point in the reported numbers, but bear in mind that
is including a 5percentage points lower runoff gain than the same quarter the year before and I
think it is really positive to see that for the first time in three years, we see a positive development
in the portfolio pricing as adverse or opposite to three years of actual price reductions. That is
really important for the future years' underwriting results in corporate.
Commercial, the first really clear sign of positive earnings in this area, a combined ratio of 91%, a
strong improvement, of course, helped by higher runoff gains and also we do see that the slightly
higher or lower top line actually impacts the cost ratio negatively. So we need to focus more on
that and we do need to further improve the claims ratio before runoff gains, but a good step in the
right direction.
Sweden and Finland, of course, we are not satisfied with a combined ratio of 107 or 106, but we do
see that last year the First Quarter was positively impacted by the release of unearned premium
reserve in Sweden and we do expect to be able to show improvements in Sweden and Finland
during the year.



FINAL

On slide 7, we show how the segments contribute to top line and technical results and most
importantly, we see a strongly improved balance between the segments where not only private
lines, but now also corporate and particularly commercial lines contribute to the technical result.
Now we only need to get Sweden and Finland on board that train as well.
If we look at slide number 8, we see the development in pricing in two of our core private lines
products. You see an increase in Norwegian motor lines pricing, which is also necessary when you
look at the inflation and then you see that house insurance pricing is up in Norway and particularly in
Denmark. And for 2012, we really see that also commercial, corporate and Sweden Finland
contributes to the increased prices for the group as such.
On slide number 9, you see that despite the price increases we have as more stable, we have a
stable development in the retention rates in the private lines and as expected, we do see an
impact on the commercial lines retention rate. And I guess you can say that we are really doing a
turnaround on the profitability of the commercial lines. And in that process, we do need to get rid
of some unprofitable customers and we do need to except and expect reductions in the retention
rates. But when we look at the resulting improvements of the combined ratio, that is a positive
trade-off. But it does, of course, mean that we need to focus more on adapting the costs in this
segment to the slightly lower top line.
Then over to you on claims, Tor.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tor Magne Lonnum

{BIO 16534375 <GO>}

Thank you, Morten. Looking at slide number 10, you clearly see some more in-depth on the claims
side and clearly, there is some underlying improvement in the claims ratio. However, the gross
claims ratio is significantly impacted by an updated estimate on the Copenhagen cloudburst last
year where we have actually added as much as DKK300 million to the reserves, thus impacting the
loss ratio by 5.8 percentage points.
If you look at the underlying claims ratio, as mentioned by Morten earlier, clearly, we see an
improvement in terms of the corporate and the commercial segment, whereas the private
segment continues to improve, but for this quarter, isolated. It seems like more or less in line with
last year.
If we move on to the next slide, looking at the weather-related claims, clearly, there is a lower
impact of large and weather-related claims this quarter compared to what we had expected, but
the impact is still more or less in line with last year, slightly lower and the impact in this quarter is
about 1.1percentage point lower than last year.
Moving on to the runoff. As Morten said earlier, we do continue to see solid development in terms
of our reserves. We continue to see a favorable development. We have a slightly higher runoff gain
this quarter than the same period last year and the impact is about 4.6 percentage points on the
combined ratio.
If we move on to the expense side, clearly, as Morten said, we do have a slight increase in the
nominal expense base. The expenses increases by 2.2%, which is slightly higher than the increase
that we see in the premium level and it clearly underpins the need to be able to adjust the nominal
cost base to the lower development in premiums.
If we move on and look at the investment side, as Morten said initially, clearly a higher investment
return than last year and in particular sort of driven by the positive returns on the riskier assets in
this period. We had an investment return in total of DKK360 million, which is, as I said, significantly
higher than last year. Clearly, the gains is driven by the favorable development in equities, but also



FINAL

we have seen a positive development in terms of high yield and also bank-related debt here in the
Nordic area. We also have a gain from a realization of an investment property in this period.
If we look at the development in terms of the asset allocation, it is more or less stable. However,
you will see that there is some adjustment to the figures and the reason being that we have
omitted our own property from the investment portfolio. And as such, the weights have been
changed slightly. We have also increased our exposure to riskier assets slightly; however, not
significantly.
Finally, looking at the capitalization, clearly, we have a solid capital situation. Our capital buffer have
increased to 9% in this period measured against the S&P A; benchmark or threshold that we use.
The buffer is now at DKK887 million, which means that about 65% of the profit after tax is added
to the buffer capital in this period.

Morten Huebbe

Bloomberg Transcript

I guess we can say, Tor, that if we look at the quarter as such, we are very pleased to see a
continuation of the ongoing improvements in our results. Of course, First Quarter, the doubling of
the bottom line is flattered by the unusually high investment income. But really the most important
is that we improved our technical result by 37% despite the 1.5 percentage points lower
discounting impacting the combined ratio negatively by 1.5 percentage points. And we need to see
this continuous gradual improvement is what we are searching for quarter after quarter and what
will take us to our mid-term target of 90% combined ratio and 20% post-tax ROE.
We are not changing that target despite the lower interest rates. Of course, the lower interest
rates are not helping. It does mean that we have to work harder not only on the premium side, but
also on the cost side and on improving our ability to work with claims and claims procurement, both
themes that we will address with you during the year. But clearly, we are pleased to see the
direction continue and we expect to follow that same road in the coming quarters.
And finally, on the last slide, we show where we might meet you on the road in the coming weeks
and thank you for listening to our webcast for the First Quarter.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

