Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

Y 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , BSc (Hons), FFA, ASA, MAAA, FASSA, Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Peter Cooper, BCom (Hons), HDip Tax, CA (SA), Non-Executive Director
Richard Farber, BCom (Hons) CA (SA) FCMA

Other Participants
Analyst

Presentation
Peter Cooper

{BIO 2055767 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well good morning ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Investment Analysts Society of
Southern Africa, we would like to thank Mr. Adrian Gore, the Board and the Executive of
Discovery for once again hosting us in the Presentation for the Results of the Group for
the Period Ending 30th of June, 2012.
Discovery is 20 years old and in the two decades it has established itself in South Africa as
a leader in healthcare products, in insurance that's life and now more recently in the
shorter term and also more importantly in the healthcare awareness through the Vitality
programs.
So today we have a group that is capitalized at 34 billion, but it's a much more than that in
society because its contribution to societies, the innovation, the creativity and
entrepreneurship has created value in our society both in South Africa and also a company
that is establishing itself with a global footprint.
This company is a testimony to what can be done through private enterprise and the
creativity of individuals for the benefit of society. So Mr. Gore we thank you for this
presentation today and we look forward to unpacking not only the results of the past that
into the insight as to what we can expect in the future. Thank you.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Peter thank you very much for that really kind
introduction, greatly appreciate it. On behalf of Discovery it really is a great pleasure to be
presenting results for the year till 30 June, 2012.
We're going to follow a similar formats to what we've done in previous years I am going
to give the presentation all of our key executives are here and afterwards I think Ricky
Page 1 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

Farber our CFO will join me up on the platform but our key people are all here to take
questions and then afterwards in the break should you want to probe anything please do
that I think the Discovery I believe is we have built a very thorough organization that the
more we scrutinize hopefully the better we appear. So I do encourage you to do that.
Let me begin by saying that I think it's been an excellent year for us it has been a year of
considerable growth it has been a year of frenetic activity and I think importantly there's
been a lot of foundations that we have continue to build and I think bode well for future
growth.
I think two themes I would highlight, one is that I think in our existing businesses there has
been strong progress, strong growth, a lot of work, a lot of investment and in our new
businesses we spent a lot of money building and investing and focusing in new
businesses, notably Discovery Insure, our new sure to ensure had its first trading year
during the period under review.

Bloomberg Transcript

In China, Ping An Health I think it was a very strong push the U.S. with Humana, a very
strong push and then a seminal year for our UK JV with the Prudential, PruHealth and
PruProtect.
So there is kind of a mix of themes I think coming out of the under review, kind of a
overwriting headline I would say to, that if you look at the dynamics of this is manifesting
very strong new business growth up 24% to just over 3 billion, operating profit increasing
by 21% to 3.4 billion, the normalized headline earnings per share up 14% reflecting the tax
relief on the investment in new businesses like Discovery Insure and you see that dynamic
coming through -- growing to 30 billion, just over 30 billion, I will talk on it little bit later.
I thought maybe just to echoing a bit what Peter said that the outset, I don't want to talk a
bit about strategy about intention and maybe about ambition for Discovery. We've built an
organization on a very simple core purpose, make people healthier and enhance their
lives and that really drives whatever we do.
I think that core purpose has given us an ambition, we are intended of building a global
organization. An organization that effects society in a different way and frankly an
organization that's best degree in its category across anyway you measure it.
To a large extent I believe that we have a very different business model, we are engaging
people differently, understanding a lot of the behavior of paradoxes and finding solutions
in a way that meets people's needs differently and in a very excellent way.
I think our ability to build and leverage and scale that business model offers us a great
opportunity both locally to reach other markets like Discovery Insure or globally to going
to other geographic territories like the Pru JV or to China or wherever it is that we may do.
Having said that, we have broken down this ambition in to a number of kind of metrics.
The first and I think it is the most important, again getting to Peter's very kind comment at
Page 2 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

the outset, is the modus operandi of the organization.
We do believe we have a social duty to progress, to innovate, to just drive markets in the
positive way. We are only into markets where we believe we can make a difference and
actually manifest in a very strong new business, should manifest in the leadership position
in the markets we enter and should manifest hopefully over time superior profit margins
to the organization. And so the modus operandi I would argue is different, it's difficult to
achieve, but it's something that we intend on doing.
That should manifest in the earnings growth and return on capital that is superior. We set
an earnings growth target a kind of a hurdle, CPR plus 10%, we like to get it to 20% in a
year that's the ambition. Return on capital, our hurdle is risk free plus 10% over the longterm and that's what we have been tracking against.
And then critically and I think more important are numbers, we need to be for social good.
We need to have positive impact on the societies in which we operate. And then finally,
foundation for us is we need to make sure we track, retain and develop and inspire frankly
the best people and that's fundamental to this vision of being best in our category.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having said this, I would argue that the modus operandi is alive and well. If you go across
the Group, I would argue that virtually every one of our business is in the leadership
position, is disrupting, is innovating, is pushing very hard.
Discovery health that's of scale, it's a big, it's a very big foundation of a healthcare
system, it's pushing hard for positive change Discovery Life also is a leader, or our new
starts line Discovery Insure that have come on stream over the year, Ping An Health in
China or pushing Vitality into all of them I would argue the cutting-edge of what we should
be doing.
We are solutions provider, we are making sure we can meet needs of customers in
complex markets like health insurance and life insurance, ways that are different to the
more efficient. And many ways of measuring this by market share I think across-the-board
we tend to lead all by objectives measures like the Pricewaterhouse Cooper survey a
clear review analysis of how we stack up against our competitors, and appears rank us
number one across virtually every category, except on the investment space where we
rank number two despite the fact we are a relative new comer.
In the UK PruProtect which I think had an absolutely brilliant year, you will see also
continues to win awards and is acknowledged as a leader in its category. So ignoring the
numbers just making the point I think for us it inspires us is to make societal change.
And across all of our businesses I would argue that we are remarkably well positioned and
are pushing ahead and I found that the more you innovate, the more you can innovate
because they kind of keep opening up pathways to new things you should be do. So, we
are pushing very strongly along these lines.

Page 3 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

Turning to the actual business model, I think it is one that our approach is to build
businesses organically, I think if you can achieve that, that is really value creation for
society and for shareholders and therefore we've built a very different business model
purporting on side of engaging the consumer and then making sure on the back of that
we can build excellent health, life and other financial services businesses.
And I think you would appreciate mathematically it is not possible to grow at 20% as you
can do just to kind of same store growth, you need to keep incubating and rolling out new
businesses else you will kind of drift down to the base line growth rate of the CPR rate.
And therefore, the approach we have taken is to use a capital-light approach to fund
incubation businesses and to grow them organically and to spin them up by becoming
emerging, by become established and they join the do businesses within the organization
that's been the approach that we've taken, we've set a benchmark out of spinning 5% to
7% of capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

We think we can fairly capital-light because a lot of work we're doing is heavy, we have the
ability in markets like the U.S. or the UK, China to partner companies that do provide
capital, we provide the know-how and expertise and as we get that right through the
ability to run around the circle and spin our businesses if you think add a great value and I
do think in the period under review, we seeing how the Prudential businesses coming up
stream, I think the Discovery Insure performance illustrates I think the merits of that
approach. That's really if I saying though as well as during this particular period we spent a
lot on new startup businesses, I think is many well spent.
Talking to the earnings, if you look at the earnings progression on the screen, you can see
that it has been strong over the period we have managed about 20% to 25% compound
for the last two decades every year as you can see, the growth is robust and in the year
under review the growth tends to continue.
I'll make a point about our target or our hurdle being earnings growth exceeding CPI plus
10 on the bottom chart in the blue that is kind of the CPI plus the 10 and I think we are
covering it quite comfortably. So in the period under review we continue to grow and I
think that is a function of the combination of strong robust growth from the established
businesses and then new businesses coming on stream and supplementing and
augmenting that from driving the -- and driving the growth.
In terms of return on capital, I made the point that our hurdle is risk free plus 10%, again
we've averaged about risk free plus 11% to 17% over the period, it's fluctuated slightly over
time, nothing dramatic I think that we are doing well on the capital employed and I think
we get -- the startups that we have in place now up and running I think that return on
capital can be improved quite significantly going forward.
In terms of allocation of capital, I thought it's worthwhile just explaining that the
organization is throwing off a lot of cash and earnings, and how we are redeploying it back
into growth and there are some fundamental differences to what we did in 2011 to this
2012 year I would say.
Page 4 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

First you can see the demand, redeploy is slightly less than it was in the previous period,
in the previous period we made the acquisition of Standard Life Healthcare in the UK and
you can see that bubbling up on the left hand side of the chart.
The second observation I've make is that we are allocating capital to certainty. We believe
strongly in Discovery Life and life insurance business, it's an excellent business, it is capital
intensive. I made the point think in the previous presentation that we are comfortably
investing capital and that process continues to grow the business at the rate that it is
growing.
And then the other point is if we're allocating IP to -- less certain, some office in the U.S.
we're running Vitality or markets like China, we are partly putting on we are fairly capitalize
as you can see.
And I think that expose us to tremendous upside if we get it right, but at the same time
take protect us from the down side. So, the capital process I think is prudent and to an
extent I think it underpins the value basis of the organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are strong believer in prudence of one hand and innovation on the other and getting
them both right I think if we do get them right, provides a kind of alchemy that is very
important for the way that we grow. So the allocation of capital I think as we are careful
prudent to the right areas, but I think you are getting what we are doing is considerable
growth.
I just want to make this point that over the year there has been frenetic activity in our
smaller businesses. And I do think because of this embedded in the plan going forward is
considerable growth that's there if we get it right and come through.
A few comments on this. The UK businesses I think had a seminal year. The core
operating profit of the UK is close to 10% of Discovery's total profitability of the business
is now have scaled. It's got a great potential to grow going forward.
The second point of the other extreme Discovery Insure's first year of operation I think
had a tremendous year. At the run rate currently, new business is being transacted around
9% market share of the personal lines business and I think we can grow off that base
significantly.
The Vitality Group in the U.S. had a fantastic roll out with the Humana, with Humana
covering 1,8 million lives, I am not going to say much more about it until we get significant
progress there. But I think we are very excited about what potential that holds.
And then finally, Ping An, the Ping An Health joint venture with Ping where we own 20% of
the company. I think an excellent year to reach kind of first base I would say we have got
the IP embedded there. We started to roll out, we are focusing hard on certain sectors of
the market and I think we are making traction.

Page 5 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

And so to an extent, the point I wanted to make is that the capital model I think is prudent
and relatively light despite that I think embedded in the plan in the strategy and what we
have built is considerable growth potential going forward.
On the UK business just to put a bit of context to it because I do think that the year has
been important, PruHealth and PruProtect have come from like, in a sense different
directions to an extent we are bringing them closer -- Vitality considerably the business is
off scale.
PruHealth through acquiring Standard Life Healthcare gaining scale I think has provided
great opportunity, PruProtect -- is just raw excellent performance across virtually every
single metric and the two have got fantastic scale.
If you bring them together we are forming a fantastic protection business in the UK and I
think the timing is right for that so difficult environment it is the difficult market but there is
a very strong push and focus on protection obviously and an innovative exciting different
Discovery style business in the UK we think is great potential.

Bloomberg Transcript

So today as we stand, the combined premium of the JV is close to R5 billion the core
operating we reported about 300 million of profit is 100 million duplicate costs that or
transitional cost that PruHealth is experiencing and I will touch on that later there is a core
operating profit sitting there 400 million a year that close to 12% to 15% of our total Group
profit. So, I put that the UK is a very important part for us and I think under review has
been I think one of the really great highlights of the performance.
Let me turn to some observations on the actual businesses. I don't have time to go all of
them, but I'll try and give you sense of them, we've tried our best in the disclosure to give
you a sense of the progress across-the-board.
So starting at the top just Discovery, I made the point that operating profit at 20%, a very
strong new business growth up 24% 9,3 billion. It was a strong focus across all of our
businesses in terms of that performance.
A few comments on each I think Discovery Health had a very robust I think exceptionally a
lot of progress made across-the-board. Operating profit of 10%, -- administration fees we
reduced the administration fees 100 million during the year despite that the growth
managed to allow us to increase operating profit by 10%. The dynamics of Discovery
Health and new Discovery Health Medical Scheme I think it will be quite remarkable over
the period that's just raw performance versus the environment I think is notable and there
is a strong focus on building the healthcare system.
Discovery Life had an excellent year operating profit up 14%. The difficult environment, we
increased market share is a strong growth in our agency force. But I think the notable
thing about Discovery Life and I'll talk about it later in the presentation was the focus on
quality the -- lapses relaxes mortality and integrated model, I hope you'll see that coming
up.

Page 6 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

Discovery Invest to an extent great performance business as usual, it's been a great
formula, we continue to roll it up, operating profit up 50% to 150 million, assets under
management exceeding 25 billion.
Discovery Vitality and DiscoveryCard, I am not going to share much about, I think the
performance is frankly remarkable. The levels of engagement, the signs, the data, the
way it's kind of helping us understand the risk and how to manage these quite
remarkable, it's foundational to everything we do.
So both them I think have performed remarkably well. DiscoveryCard is a great foundation
for future growth and future initiatives. Discovery Insure its first year insure to 239 million
of new business, I made the point about very strong growth in terms of market share, but
I think more importantly the product concept has been so well received there are so many
pathways that are coming out of it, I would like to spend a bit of time later in the
presentation giving you some insight into it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to UK, I've made the point about PruHealth and PruProtect, I think PruHealth has
been focus on bidding down the acquisition, the focus on quality, PruProtect has been a
focus on growth and PruProtect as you'll see has been excellent the quality business, the
scale everything will -- around. PruProtect is really a replica of Discovery Life in the UK and I
think the repeatability and therefore the scalability is quite remarkable.
In the U.S. Vitality, the Vitality Group is strong -- HumanaVitality 1,8 million we covered is
opening up a whole range of opportunities for us, I am not going to speak much about it,
we've just conclude another partnership with ADP, ADP is the largest payroll company I
think one of the largest in the world we are going to build Vitality into the offerings.
So, there are many opportunities we are pursuing in the U.S. and then finally I mean China
with Ping An Health, we are getting good traction. We focused on and I'll touch on that
later. We focus on being number one in the Group high end market. We manage to
achieve in the period under review covering over 560,000 lives. So early traction and I
think is going to take us time in China, but I think we're very encouraged by what we see.
Then you turn to the observations and firstly it would be financial observations and due
with new business upfront at 24%. You can see the growth is a staggering base 7.5 billion
in annualized premium income, you can see in the previous period we grew that 24% to
9,3 billion robust growth Discovery Health a 10% of a very high base.
In 2010, two years back, the performance of Discovery Health just kind of took us to a
different level to start that you continue to grow. I mean Discovery Health's performance I
think is remarkable in a very complex environment. Discovery Life in a difficult environment
continue to grow its market share, new business up 8% individual life business up 10%.
DiscoveryCard and Vitality have been following the others. I made a point about Discovery
Invest robust growth, it's really just pushing ahead in the same way we have been doing
over the year.

Page 7 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

PruHealth and PruProtect very different stories. PruProtect's new business up nearly 60%,
really reflecting growth. In the case of PruHealth, the new business was slightly less in the
previous periods, there has been a strong focus on quality.
We have avoided the corporate segment and I think that's an important option, there a
strong focus on only profitable business and you will see that coming through in the
presentation. Discover Insure from a base of nothing really has had a great start and you
can see the growth of the Vitality Group and Ping An in China.
It's important to note that this is a new business statement across-the-board of course in
the case of Ping An Health, about HumanaVitality we are minority shareholders. We are
simply showing that to give a sense of the total footprint.
If you look at it graphically, you can see the point I made about 2010. There is an
absolutely remarkable health performance there. Despite that -- base, the new business
this year I think is a point of inflection if you get those new businesses to really kick in I
think their growth can continue.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me turn to the profitability, just to break it up I said from the outset that operating
profitability was up 21% it's made up of two components, the established business is
growing 24% and then a significant investment in new businesses Discovery Insure mostly
Ping An in the UK and the stuff we're doing in the U.S. So we've moved our investment
from about 200 million to over 330 million that meant that operating profit went from
24% for established businesses up 21% taking that into account.
I think we've cast our eye over the performance, I would argue the performance of
Discovery Life and Discovery Health in a very complex environment is robust you can see
PruProtec and PruHealth really flipping from a small loss to a substantial profit and I think
that's one of the important notable achievements over the period.
If I can continue then just taking the normalized profit from operations which I've said is at
21%, normalized profit before tax up 25% one of the key issues I think you should bear in
mind is tax, the tax rate appears artificially high, the investment in Discovery Insure we
haven't raised the deferred tax asset so therefore we have a tax relief on that investment
in there and if you get this kind of floating at the tax line then that reduces the normalized
headline earnings at 14%.
I must stress the fact that we normalized the headline earnings in the previous period we
acquired Standard Life Healthcare that created a bit of distortion and therefore we had to
kind of normalize it up. So if you look at actual headline earnings they are up 30% year-onyear that's of course in our view not a measure issue you should look at the normalized
line up 14% and the operating profit up 21%.
On the back of this we are declaring a dividend of 53,5 cents that's an increase of 15%.
We've kept the fairly high dividend coverage ratio bearing in mind that the whole idea
behind Discovery is the concept of building organically the business and using internal
capital to fund that growth. So we kept the same dividend cover and we have kind of let
Page 8 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

dividend drift out at the same rate as the normalized headline earnings. I think there is
appropriate I frankly think it's prudent.

FINAL

Let me turn to the embedded value. I made the point the embedded value grew by 12%
to just over 30 billion. If you express it as an EV per share it's up to R53.78. The two
important, I think three important points I would make about the embedded.
There might be more about the business itself and what we're doing. Firstly in the case of
Discovery Life. The fundamental premise behind Discovery Life is the idea that the
integrated model will get better mortality experience over time and better utilization
experience and effecting the period under review that came through very strongly.
So, if you look on the left hand side, the experience variances in Discovery Life in terms of
lapses in mortality claim through strongly and then on the right hand side, we've changed
the model going forward, the embedded value and methodology is going forward to
bake into the much more conservative lapse as soon as you took the opportunity to do
that and at the same time to adjust for the mortality that we are experiencing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've actually taken a view that the mortality we are experiencing now continuously
get better, we have improved slightly the assumptions going forward and you can see
how those offset in the EV methodology going forward.
The other important point is I made the point that we we've been on a glide path around
the administration fees in Discovery Health Medical Scheme fees of Discovery Health -the Discovery Health Medical Scheme over the period under review we accelerated that
glide path we've taken a view to get that down to 10% over the next number of years that
has a significant effect on the experience variances that we experienced over the year,
reduced that fee by 100 million in the period. And I think very important we baked into the
EV calculation that glide path going forward. So, you see that again in the methodology
and assumption changes the embedded value.
So, embedded value bakes all of these dynamics in. And then maybe one other point I
would make, I am very excited about the performance of PruHealth and PruProtec.
PruHealth particularly has brought the loss ratio down. It looks robust and stable, we
haven't assumed that in the EV, we've taken a very conservative approach to the EV.
We continue to value PruHealth of the previous assumptions and as that settles down we
will bake that into the embedded value basis going forward. So just to contextualize the
EV excuse me, one sec.
Sure, I don't know I'm talking too fast, let's get slow, but I am going to keep pushing up.
So let me talk about Discovery Health. As I said, I don't have time to talk about every
single business, we'll give you a sense of each of the businesses and I think it's important.
I did want to talk about Discovery Health of course it's important and beside its important
in terms of -- in context what we are talking about here, it is fundamental from a societal
Page 9 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

perspective Discovery Health is in a sense part of the bedrock of the private healthcare
system, I would argue of the broader healthcare system.
We understand our responsibilities in that context. We are accountable for healthcare and
we're proud to be managing it where we think it is appropriate. We're also aware that
these are difficult times, people battle to afford private healthcare. So, we understand our
social responsibilities, therefore in that context Discovery Health has to perform and has
to perform in a number of different dimensions for all stakeholders in the system.
I think its evaluation must be on the sense of growth in lapses, are we growing and are
people staying with us. At the end of the day there is a kind of anopen market test for are
we are doing a good job. And I think what underpins the Discovery Health results is
growth in our lapses as you can see the growth in new business up 10%.
Lapses are remarkably low. Percentage of people leaving us every year is remarkably low
at about 4%. I am not aware of health insurance entity in the world that has that kind of
lapse rate and it is nationally responsible by a decree, you don't get the kind of lapse rate.
So it's remarkably sticky and I think that's very important.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operating profit despite the reduction in administration fees of 100 million, up 10% I think
reflecting the fact to an extent in line with the growth we are passing on a lot of those
efficiencies and then you can see the principal members inside the Discovery Health
Medical scheme growing by 6% both new business year-on-year growth, it's a substantial
amount.
So a very pleasing performance, I think for a number of areas. I do want to make the
point, just getting back to our societal, we have a very difficult role inside Discovery Health
and inside the Discovery Health Medical scheme.
While balancing of the number of tradable, classic tradable in healthcare between access
cost and quality. We push anyone, the others tend to suffer we're going to get the
balance right in terms of what society believes that the right social choice and that's a very
difficult thing to achieve.
I think in each of them we've made good progress in terms of cost, our rate increases
over the last five years inside the Discovery Health Medical scheme have been lower than
the average you can see on the left hand side on average CPI plus 2,9% whereas the rest
of the market has been about CPI plus 4,8%.
The compound effect of that has been today when you buy per unit of benefit when you
purchase it from the Discovery Health Medical scheme, you pay less than you pay from
the market so on the right hand side is an analysis by kind of the major benefit times
comprehensive intermediate all the way down to the lower income side, you can see that
typically we are 10% to 15% cheaper in the middle of the market on the comprehensive
side, 25% or thereabout on the lower side, we're dramatically lower in price.

Page 10 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

And I think at the end of the day that is how you should evaluate our performance I think
people answer to healthcare, quality healthcare at a lower pricing I think the answer is yes.
There's a lot to do we need to make less expense we need to fight hard on this front but
I think in the evaluation, a clear evaluation I think we are making good progress.
At the same time as focusing on cost issue of excess I think is important if you look at the
percentage of doctors inside the Discovery payment arrangements, inside the networks
that we operate across virtually every province we have 80% to 90% penetration.
So of course we deal with every single doctor and physician specialist in the country but if
you look at those linked to our payment arrangements where the price they charge is a
fee that the Discovery Health Medical Scheme pays, scope as you can see probably is
quite remarkable.
And the effect of this on coverage I think is important so if you look at the low end of the
slide I've put up on the screen and you look at the hospital cost what we people claim and
what we pay regardless of any doubts systematically you can see that we're covering
nearly 100% of the bill.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in the executive plan, the co-price around 0,39% as go down obviously co-price gets
slightly bigger, 5% on the coastal but across the entire range what you will see the
weighted average of in-hospital covers around 97% level.
So, I would argue getting in to a point to an extent that the hospital cover is almost free at
the point of care and I think that's a very important milestone, but it's a very luxurious
healthcare system we're building and I think that together remind me think about an
inflation and about cost.
And then importantly in terms of quality at a previous presentation, I took the risk of
actually doing my own kind of Steve Jobs impersonation of an iPad demo, I kind of pulled
it off, hope you remember of Health Idea. It's a fundamental part of our strategy of driving
quality in the healthcare system.
Over last few months, we've been rolling it out, it's a complex process getting doctors on
to, getting the technology in place. Many doctors are not technology savvy on this kind of
stuff. So it a process that's going to take us some time, we've given fantastic activity.
We have I think close to 500 doctors now actively using it, that's like kind of the 10% for
the GP base. It's early days, we're excited about that I do believe if we get the
penetration right the effect on quality and on cost will be quite incredible from Health ID.
And so the effect of this I would argue if you get quality across the -- growth and that's
what we've seen. I think you've seen this chart every year, the Discovery Health Medical
Scheme continues to grow.

Page 11 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

It's a fundamental attribute of the health of the scheme that it can continue to while you
can see despite a very high base over the last three years the growth in fact has tended
to accelerate. And then the point of lapses, the lapses are low and are very stodgy.
The stickiness of the scheme is quite remarkable. So, the people are joining us in big
numbers and that's simply not -- I think that's very, very important. And the point I made in
the previous presentation is despite anecdotes about affordability and of course that's
important, people can't afford healthcare, we know that, people stay with their benefits.
So if you look from year-to-year inside the Discovery Health Medical Scheme, the
percentage of people downgrading the benefits buying and staying where they are its
remarkably stable, 94%, close to 94% across-the-board stay the benefits 4% tend to
upgrade and 2% into downgrade.
So it's remarkably stable, I think that's a fundamental attribute of success of the scheme.
And just to make comparisons to the industry, the comparison I think the performance of
Discovery Health versus is our competitors, I think is in those two charts there.

Bloomberg Transcript

The scale of the Discovery Health Medical Scheme versus its competitors in open scheme
market is absolutely clear. It is demonstrably multiples in scale and then amazing statistic
about growth and growth -- technology important, attribute of success in health.
Over the last five years the Discovery Health Medical Scheme has grown by nearly 0.5
million lives, while the rest of the industry has shrink by over 800,000 lives, that 800,000
lives joined us, well they've joined the government employee medical scheme it has been
kind of a funding in two directions.
And I think that does illustrate the fact that's we to an extent are, there is a lot to do, but I
think we are getting it right competitively and doing and doing the right thing. Having said
this from a financial perspective, the Discovery Health Medical Scheme continues to grow
reserve levels of -- 8 billion and the credit rating is remarkably high.
So when you look forward, just on what we are tending to do I might say despite the
complexity of healthcare, we are fairly clear inside Discovery the only antidote is success
in this space is excellence we have to be absolutely excellent every single facet of what
we do there can be no...
And therefore the Discovery Health has to make sure across single attribute what it does,
the success investment brilliance and that's what we're focusing on.
One area we've been focusing on over the last number of years is bringing the
administration fee down you can see the glide path in fact on the right hand side around
2005, 2006 the administration fees we were charging the Discovery Health Medical
scheme around 13% to 14%, we brought it down over time to currently 11,7% all in.

Page 12 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

We have taken a view if we really get that down to 10% we think that's a right level we
think it addresses a number of different issues how did we get there well if you look at
some of the benchmarks on the left hand side I made the point that we currently are at
about 11,7% you can see that in the black bar on the left hand side, if you do a benchmark
locally 23rd percentile of local commercial open medical schemes is paying around just
over 10% and the 75th percentile is paying around 14%. So the 10% is rather on the low
side.
I am not convinced that, that's a great benchmark. Because I don't think that many of our
competitors invested in that -- in fact it does more and spend more to get better results
in our view. And therefore I think that our benchmarks need to be may be in other markets
like the U.S.
The U.S. is the only market where you have commercial health insurers covering
everything from running nose to a heart transplant. And therefore you need to
understand how those companies tend to function.

Bloomberg Transcript

Bear in mind as well that it is the most competitive market in the world. So you would
assume that in the competitive market fees get better down to their correct economic
value I would argue. If you look at the American market, now the Obama healthcare
reforms are pretty clear.
Health insurers in time will not be able to spend more than 15% on health expenses. And
as it shows you see on the chart, the average is around 12% to 13% and therefore when
you think of our target of 10% again I think it's low to appropriate and that's where we are
aiming to get.
And so it's a very strong focus on that. If we get that right together with the investments
we are making I do think that Discovery Health is covered hopefully every base in a very,
very complex market and we can offer our members value-for-money and that's what we
have to do.
I do want to use the opportunity to speak about healthcare and particularly private
healthcare. These are difficult times and people rightfully, so society is rightfully so,
scrutinizes worries, concerns, moans about the price of healthcare and its rate of inflation.
I think that's correct. But it's important to understand what is driving inflation? There
seems to be kind of a mystery what could it be? There has been a number of articles over
the last number of days about what could it be, is it old sick people using their medical
aids more. Is it that the market is failing the tariffs are going up too high. There seems to
be kind of a lack of clarity on what's driving costs.
Well the first thing I wanted to just say to you is that I think and I made this point in the
previous results presentation, I think the first thing we need to do to understand this very
complex question is to understand the healthcare system we built.

Page 13 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

It is a function of a number of social choices we have made as a society and you need to
know that. I would say that private healthcare is a very luxurious excellent system. Our
doctors are doing a good job as an under supplier and we need to know that.
Our hospitals are competitive worldwide they are doing well in other markets as well. So,
we have a great healthcare system. So the important point I want to make to you, firstly
please do remind this is an egalitarian system. It's open enrollment, community right that
means people can move in and move out but at the same times regardless the state of
health it's a remarkably valuable asset to society.
The problem is that it's inflationary, so we have for example all the attributes about the
Obama trying to do, we don't have the individual mandate, people don't have to join. So,
you get national selection so part of that is its expensive.
I have also said to open access environment, if you cover largely you can get any hospital
you like, any doctor you like, you can go to the specialist first, go back to the GP, there are
no waiting periods, nowhere in the world do you get that kind of excess.

Bloomberg Transcript

Try it in the British NHS, the patient pathway is radically different. I made the point about
other property expenses, we got to a point where we have for hospital care covers
virtually comprehensive. There is no co-payments, no deductibles largely at the point of
care it's free.
And so the coverage tends to be very comprehensive. And at the same time I think in
terms of access, we have access to the best technology, you are not limiting technology.
The latest biological drugs for oncology it's all baked into our healthcare system.
And so when you think about the cost of healthcare and you think about its rate of
inflation, it's important to understand these are choices we have made as a society about
the kind of healthcare that we expect and want. And therefore that has to be at the base
of what drives inflation.
Having said that I thought it's important that we are the repository of all the data. And
therefore we can tell you what it is that's driving up inflation and I've drawn some
confusions that I have been -- So, what I would like to, it's bit of a complex slide, but
please bear with me this is quite important.
What I thought I do is to just illustrate what drives that inflation, what drives cost over CPI.
So on the bottom of the slide is the CPI line and the question is, what drives things CPI
plus is that fairly clear. So firstly on the tariff side, I would say that to you that there is a
power balance in the market between an organization like Discovery, the Discovery Health
Medical Scheme and the supply side the hospitals and doctors and therefore we are
holding tariffs close to CPI typically CPI plus 1% to 2%, by the time we finish year-on-year,
they are around CPI plus 0.5% to 1%.

Page 14 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

So tariffs are not driving up inflation that's a reality. What is driving medical inflation, are
things that I think people don't understand, what we call demand side effect and supply
side effect. Demand side effect is that the population recoveries aging, so year-by-year
they consume more healthcare on the demand side.
Secondly, the price of egalitarian is that you get adverse selection although sick people
tend to migrate to much more comprehensive benefit plans and the young and healthy
buy down or when they join us, they join on to lower benefit options, you don't get the
cost subsidization that you need. And so you get this push of 46%. On the supplier side,
for a given health status medical care can do more, technologies driving our cost, the
hospital average rate goes up with the same condition, goes up year-on-year the rates
chronic sufferers is going up. So you get supply side push at the same time. When you
add that together, you get CPI plus 6% to 11%. That's a massive number that is not
sustainable.

Bloomberg Transcript

The question is that it must be managed and I believe it can be managed. So the things
that we do to manage it as you can see firstly our risk management interventions, we
estimate through studies, bring inflation rate down by 2% per annum. Vitality creates a
right kind of stability in the scheme, makes people healthy we're seeing the average rate
go down by Vitality status that takes up a further 0,7%.
A point I thought I'd make is often in the debates, the administration fees are at the core
of the problem, I am showing you the glide path if you do the math on that, I think you will
find the administration fees are deflationary. You can still argue they are too higher but
that they are deflation because they are coming down relative to inflation. And then the
final point, a critical point the 0,6%, growth is fundamental.
When you grow you bring in healthier lives than average consume healthcare less than the
embedded block instead that brings down medic inflation by further 0,6% this might
sound like small numbers but if you compound them over time they are dramatic and so
therefore I would say it's like ours is an natural inflation rate of CPI plus to 2% to 6% to 7%
thereabout if well manage we can do around the CPI plus 2% or 3% if badly managed we
can drift up to CPI plus 11%.
A few conclusions from this number one I think the market is working tariffs are not the
problem, medic inflation is driven largely by the supply and demand factors that are not
economic but demographic. The second conclusion I'd tell is egalitarian is fantastic we
need it, it is something we should be proud of as a society but it's expensive if we make
the choice it is inflationary.
The third point I would make is that growth is critical we have to keep innovating and
growing with that growth, you start to getting to difficulties and then a follow up I guess is
obvious with that intervention so that management, the system will spiral out of control,
you cannot sustain CPI plus 11%. The adverse selection spiral becomes worse and worse
and worse.

Page 15 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

And so the system we manage very, very carefully one just a brief observation I hope I am
not getting too technical, but one observation I would make as well is the effects that are
driving up inflation under the economic demographic and therefore in a high inflation of
environment, CPI plus 2% doesn't sound bad, when CPI is 15%.
When you're at CPI plus -- when CPI is 4% or 5%, CPI plus 3% to 4% is difficult to manage
and so these are complicated issues that we as an organization I think as a country have
to be aware of and have to manage carefully.
Our conclusion here is that we need to be aware of the quality of health system that we
have. We need to be progress I think very carefully we need to understand we have under
supply of doctors and therefore I would say it is axiomatic, we have an under supply
doctors in the egalitarian system. We will expect inflation to be CPI plus a couple of
percentage points.
I think we shouldn't mess with this too much because the system there I think is very, very
valuable. It's a national asset. We need to be careful as to how we proceed.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then moving on to Discovery Life and make the point that I think the performance
Discovery Life has been very, very strong. We set higher goals for Discovery Life and I
think the business continues to perform.
It's been a very tough new business environment, the market has not grown. Despite the
Discovery Life new business has grown 8% its individual business has grown 10% if we
continue to grow market share, operating profit up 14% and the value of -- up 17%, I think
reflecting the quality of the business. I think the recipe is relatively simple, we continue to
innovate, we continue to develop ideas, we think that solves solutions in a different way.
Over the period under review, we continue to learn about the Vitality amount of what we
can do, the cover boost that boost individuals policy on the cover and based on how they
interact with Vitality, they can retain their cover at a reduced rate and then I think it has
been received very well by the marketplace.
But the point I wanted to make in this presentation is I think the core issue of the
Discovery Life model is about the -- integration with Vitality, we can make people healthy,
offer them a unique value proposition.
But at the same time a business that has improving mortality over time. And our view is
that traditional static life insurance models tend to be fairly static and rigid. We have this
mortality curve that as you can see unfortunately goes up and what life insurers do, they
charge a price for your life cover that's an average price across your age and the price
you pay is a function of the -- what you underwritten for them, that what you pay for the
rest of your life. The difficulty with that is that it's not entirely flexible, not flexible at all.
So over time people don't exhibit average mortality, you get healthier people and
unhealthier people on either side of mortality curve. And the problem is, over time the
Page 16 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

people that lapsed tend to be the healthy, because they are paying essentially more than
they should be.
And so the time in traditional life insurance market you get negative adverse selection,
bad selective lapse and you don't add value and argue to customers to make them
healthier. So the approach we use and it's -- I do want to show to you because I think we
are learning more and more about its power, is a concept of flexing premiums based on
Vitality status.
A dynamic pricing model effectively that's kind of the core metric as you increase your
Vitality status, as you manage your health better, your premium rates go down and what it
introduces into life insurance space is a sense of dynamism, dynamic pricing year-by-year
and I think as you look pre-shift, when you match risk and price if it's matched properly,
you're going to match more stable system, it is better for customers and that they having
sense that you get healthier it is certainly better for us in terms of return on capital and
the quality of the mortality experience.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we get it right, what happens is instead of charging the average market price we charge
a lower price, we incentivize people to be healthy and if they do what we say they should
do their rates tend to go down dynamically, if they don't, their rates tend to go up.
And so you don't have the static averaging process, you get a much more dynamic
process that is more in tune with what you think should happen. If you do get that right,
you get three things coming out of it. Firstly, by density it's dynamic price should give you
an embedded value per status that's equal, so that kind of is the check on what we are
doing.
The second is you should get a better lapse experience over time and very critically you
should get better selective lapsation that help you last stay in the system and then finally
the result of this is you should get a better mortality experience.
The simple check is, is our mortality experience over time getting better and better and I
think if you look at the experience of what's happened that's exactly how it's playing out.
So on the left hand side, you can see escalated during the financial crisis in December
2008, 2009 they have come down strongly after that you can you see we're quite
comfortable below the long-term assumption in the embedded value basis. But
importantly we are getting very strong positive selective lapsation.
On the right hand side of the chart are the positive experience variances. In other words,
the performance, the mortality performance of the block versus the embedded value
expectation and you can see year-in year-out the mortality performance tend to exceed
our expectation.
Despite the fact that from certain years we tend to take that into account and lower our
expectations for mortality that keeps outperforming. And in fact in the period under
review as you can see on the extreme right hand side the experience variance has being

Page 17 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

the highest ever. And so this positive selection I think has been quite remarkable
illustrating how powerful the model is.

FINAL

Now we're trying to apply the science of Vitality to life insurance so one of the key things
is how people respond to these incentives, how they move about these symmetric I will
show you around Vitality status and health claims.
Now what this tends to show you, I am sorry it's a complicated slide, but what it tends
show you is our expectation where people should be that's the green claim at one kind of
we would expect them to be and red our lower what sales lower the green we are the
higher and what you can see is the expense is bubbling a bit in a high Vitality statuses and
in the healthier groups.
So you can see the selection happening where we gain the right kind of people coming in
and staying in and in fact they are moving strongly up the statuses in terms of Vitality and - centers and I think that's excellent. So the model doing all the right kind of things
directionally but we need to make sure that the science is correct.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at embedded value per status our latest calculation shows that it's relatively
flat because of not exactly equal you never going to quite get that but the identity that if
you are getting the dynamic pricing right you should have an EV per status that's equal. So
we keep trying to understand and reflect on how these statuses should be built.
You can see in the gold and diamond side the EV slightly lower than the average and the
other slightly higher. But on balance it's a pretty good distribution. Some of the work we
are doing now. We started last year is in fact to treat Vitality in such a way, that we
incentivize not just inputs, not just going to the job, not just going for that Vitality checkup
but actually achieving results and by doing that we think we will get a stronger correlation
between engagement, health status and mortality.
So last year, we introduced a point that we are achieving certain things in terms of by
blood pressure of wellness assessment. We are moving towards workout and fitness
assessments. We are not just going for the assessment, get your Vitality points, but in fact
how you are doing that assessment relative to your wellness. And so we are moving
more, more towards the science of Vitality and understanding making sure that we
incentivize better health and better mortality.
And I think if we get that right the ability to continue perpetuate that model are on
ensuring the EV is flat and are getting people healthier, I think is quite remarkable. The
power that cannot be over stated, I am sorry again for a three dimensional chart, but in
the middle of that chart in the red is the embedded value of Discovery Life as it is now
around 12 billion and what this analysis shows you is it -- we are bringing lapses up or
down.
We improve mortality or get it worse how that EV tends to flex and a simple example on
the -- at the back on the right hand side, if you can get the lapse rate down a further 10%,
get our mortality down a further 10%, the EV goes from 12 billion to 18 billion.
Page 18 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

So the effect is dramatically geared and therefore the importance of this model to
customers and to society to make people healthier cannot be overstated. But at the
same time I would argue that it's crucial from a return of capital that we -- the model
continues to perpetuate and I think the results we're getting give us great comfort and
great excitement about the way ahead.
I have spent a lot of time on Discovery Life, discovering best to make the point that I think
the business continues to perform. There has been robust growth. We haven't pushed off
the guarantee bonds as I said in previous presentations, issuing of guaranteed bonds for
us is a capital raising exercise to an extent the way it operates.
So, we have been fairly flat in that respect, recurring business has grown nicely over 20%.
Funds under management growing to over 25 billion and operating profit following that at
50%, so it's just over 150 million. Graphically you can see the rate of growth of Discovery
Invest this by assets under management, I think is very pleasing and we think there is a lot
of excitement and potential in that business.
Let me turn to Discovery Insure, I think this is a fascinating business and something we are
remarkably excited about. We've rolled out a business here that really takes a lot of the
learnings of Discovery and is baked into a very different market.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we are trying to build a business, it is not a insurance company, charging at premium
and paying out claims. We are trying to build an insurance company that has a kind of the
physical experiential effect on the people that we interact with make people better
drivers, make our road safer and that's the kind of journey we are on.
The business is pretty clattered on four distinct ideas. The first is that our core purpose
make people healthier is central to what we do, it is an obvious application in the most
dangerous roads in the world, if you can make people better drivers, they will buy less,
they will be injured less, and we'll make our road safer and that's of the core of the
business.
The second is amazingly driving follows the same behavior or paradox as healthcare
does, people think they are healthier than they are and you driving at the same issue
people think that they are better drivers than they are, so our analysis shows you may
have seen as 80% of drivers think they are good and the research shows that only 30%
are, 70% aren't.
So you get the same kind of behavioral optimism that you get in healthcare and therefore
if you can change behavior and you can kind of get kind get rid of some of the ignorance,
the ability to effect society is dramatic.
The third point is that the technology is there the telematics, the Vitality all of that stuff
kind of exist and it offers a great opportunity and then finally obviously the Discovery
capability distribution, actuarial all the stuff that we do is so well kind of suited for this
market the correlating of these separate strategic strengths I would argue create a
fantastic entry into the market.
Page 19 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

We rolled out at the start of the year a very different product that really gave people
incentives for driving better, if you drive better you get up to 40% reduction or cash backs
of your fuel spends with our partner BP, it was remarkably well market received.
Over the year though we've changed the product slightly -- become guidelines for us
around what came in included in the product what kind of effect to use the opportunity to
focus more on the fuel rewards and on getting people to drive better and so towards the
end of the year around April, May we rolled out all entirely different product, not entirely
different more accentuating some of the powers of making the fuel benefit essential. So
instead of up to 40%, you can get up to 50% discount we focus on getting supported
business, home owners and content into the same policy.
We focused on young adults that incentivized. People just getting a license to drive better
with kind of loss aversion in the behavior economics built in to the product roll that out.
And so the process has begun.
I think the results are been staggering frankly, if you look at the new business flow, the
kind APR per day million per day of new business we are doing. You can see during the
year relatively quiet from a marketing perspective, we got the product right, but towards
the end of the year we did re-launch and we started to push out into the market and
focus on the distribution channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can see the growth I think now starting to pick up very, very nicely. And at the current
run rate of kind of 1,7 million today of new business we are around the 9% recalculate
market share. We think we can continue to grow off that as we get elements right.
Now it's important to understand I made the point at the outset that we are trying to build
a business here that people experience. It's not a insurance product, it's something that's
quite special. And we thought we need someone who would almost be the perfect critical
citizen.
And so we chose this idea of using John Robbie working with him and getting him to be a
Discovery Insure policyholder and tell his story on 702 every morning as to what's it like
and how the product is working and we had some absolutely fantastic feedback from that
approach.
I mean he has learned the product. He talks about it he is using the tools online to check
how he is driving and I want to play you one clip that's just, speaking how it works and I will
show the actual tools that he is using that our policyholders get to see how they are
driving. How they can improve and I think it makes the point quite clearly, listen to this so I
hope it is clear.
[Audio/Video Presentation].
So the point I am trying to make is that we're trying to build an experience and I think
that's an anecdote data point of one, but systemic here we are seeing a difference, we're
Page 20 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

seeing that the incentives work it's quite remarkable, so we have about 25,000 cars, the
drivers out there.

FINAL

On the left hand side, the actual index of how people are earning their DQ points and
how they are improving around the time, it's quite remarkable. How quick you people
respond to the incentives. And I think it's actually easier than health.
It's far harder to get someone to lose weight and you get the right -- over time to sustain
that, then is to change driving habit. And so a lot of that is about ignorance about guiding I
think the Discovery Insure capability is quite remarkable in that regard.
You can see on the left hand side, how people are improving their driving and then the
right hand side how they are using the incentives, BP has a national market share of 22%
inside the Discovery client base, outside the Discovery Insure client base has close to
80%.
So there is a considerable difference in how people are responding I think to these
incentives. And then also I think systemically that's important, the quality of the business
we're building up I think is remarkable.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a fundamental issue and -- new short-term insurance company. Experience shows that
often the initial experience is very, very bad but people come in to your price, are price
taker, price makers trying to -- they shift around the market, we're trying to do quite the
opposite and I we are getting great quality.
So first point to make is, we're measuring an incentivizing the right kind of behavior. If you
look on the left hand side, the correlation between how you're driving a loss ratio is quite
remarkable. People that drive better claim less, it is as simple as that.
So the correlations that we are pushing for in incentivizing are spot on. Secondly, we're
getting fantastic selective lapsation, if you look at on the left on the right hand side you
can see that people lapsing at the low end of driving versus those that have advancing is
dramatically different. People at getting age to drive better tend to stick and I think that's
important.
If you look at other factors in terms of quality, the loss ratio coming in is now declining, so
that's just an index of loss ratio in the first half of the year it is coming down I think we'll
continue to bring that down and then a fundamental issue, we are not an organization that
believes in cross selling, our fundamental view is that we like people to buy the product,
integrate them, see the value and see how that fit together, and broker market to an
extent find that space.
Having said that, you can see that Discovery Insurers are appealing Discovery disciples to
an extent the noble point on the right hand side, the most people that buy Discovery
Insure have three products with us already so we're kind of appealing to the classic

Page 21 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

Discovery markets and getting them into this system to integrate the other elements of
their Discovery portfolio.
Now one of the opportunities going forward of course is to get our brokerage channels
and our agency channels to sell this product in greater numbers to an extent that's largely
embryonic, a lot of our broker agents have never sold short-term motor, household
insurance so there is a lot of education and training going on. But obviously one of our key
opportunities is to get that channel to start sending to the client base and if you get right I
think the potential for growth and quality is remarkable.
So there is a lot of an initiatives going on. One of the things I've been wanting to tell is we
have a strong commitment to digital technologies I showed you the health ideas the
previous presentation, we developed a piece of technology I do want to try and demo
here also on Apple as you see iPad capability, but it is really a suite that allows our
distribution channel to go to a Discovery customer and sell this product quickly and easily
in a very informed way.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in office, I'm going to do demo if it comes through then certainly I hope this works. But
I'll let you look at all the brochures that explain how the product works Vitality drive to the
customer et cetera but I what I wanted to do is just show you how simple it is to sell
assuming I am a broker here or an agent to an existing Discovery customer, because we
have all the data of that customer.
The pricing engine is built-in so there is a very sophisticated premium pricing model sitting
behind as we have TransUnion and other data sets that are sitting every news built in it's
simple and easy for the distribution channel. So if you text on this, I hope it works.
New quote I am starting a new quote, I haven't a clue what will come up here but I am
pretty -- You can see I've done this before I age 10 years in process I hope this works.
Okay. Next, do you have consent yes, this is a very simple process. I hope you are
following us on doing a quota I am the broker, have you insurance the answer is no. I hope
are you the regular driver, yeah and I think its right. And then it sucks to all the data pulls it
out of the database and everything is kind of populated simply there.
I think I will just push on next at any point in time. So at this point it sucks to the cars that I
own all the data about that car this is in fact my daughter's car, at any point in time, no
humor intended for that. Sorry I'm doing this bad, I wanted to show you that I can in fact
pull down the brochure at any point and explain the product. So while I'm going along this
journey I can show whatever I went all the data is now set in confirmed details I'm not sure
I didn't, but I need to choose the car sorry.
Confirm details, details are in, loads of vehicle, no claim in the last few years I hit next, my
address, next I am confirming I think that's right preparing quote, Then quote is done,
now the whole pricing engine sucks through all the data everything is done.

Page 22 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

I have done a terrible job at this, I assume my -- is smarter than I am and that could be
better at this, but you can see the pricing engine, the car, the quote R583 a month. Just
next I can touch on that get rewarded and it takes Vitality drive, I can then choose to show
how it works, what my driving expectation is how much I spend on fuel, what the car
insurance premium is and then it could tell me what I am likely to save.
I can then go back continue the existing, there is quote sign, I agree to a whole range of
things, postal information, I select the postal address. Next I am doing is badly banking
details, that's summoning the ordinances account, I won't tell what it is and I think just
simply give it all a date, confirm it's okay.
I think, sign in done. Electronically the policy is issued. Now I have done a pretty bad job, I
think at it, the truth of it is we are working very hard to use these technologies together
and to be able to very quickly illustrate few customers the value proposition. And then
importantly to be able to sum it up in an educated and inform I think it offers great
potential for Discovery Insure. So, when you are out of the gates, I think the business
offers great, great potential.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me turn to the UK. I have made the point that I think our performance in the UK and I
think progress made has being significant for both PruHealth and PruProtect, to an extent
this businesses came from different directions, but I have made the point they are
collectively now the business is on scale, I think it offers a great potential going forward.
Let me talk about PruHealth. PruHealth had I think an excellent year, new business was
slightly below the previous period, but a very strong focus on quality and I want to just tell
you why, operating profit grew by close to 30%, but you can see we're carrying 100
million of transactional costs in the system.
So therefore kind of core operating profit is around close to 200 million, we are still
paying standard life transitional services agreement around using some of their
technology over time that it will fall off. So the cooperating profit I think is quite substantial.
If you look at the strategy in the context of PruHealth we have taken a very careful
approach, number one is to bet down the acquisition, make sure it's robust, make sure all
the systems are working, make sure we can offer excellent service to customers.
Number two in a very difficult environment, I made this point for the UK, the economy is
difficult, there NHS is an alternative private healthcare, it is complex, you get very bad
adverse selection in this current environment.
So focusing on quality, focusing on the lost ratio, making sure the memory experience is
excellent and then finally now focusing on new business and making sure that we
generate business of exceptional quality. Just talking about this 100 million, this
transitional cost that we are carrying we have taken the decision to build entirely our own
system take into account the best of what the standard life system did and what the old
PruHealth system did, so at this point in time now we're keeping the structures on the
standard life healthcare block while we build -- and that will take us we think a year or two.
Page 23 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

The time less time to migrate the block from the one system to other I think it's fairly
common in such an acquisition but it does create this overhang and therefore I think it's
important you contextualize how the business is evolving is this overhang that I think will
be there for a few years.
In terms of the loss ratio, new performance is being frankly remarkable it's been one the
key issues that we are focused on in the UK, initially our loss ratio was too high, higher
than the average you can see our 12 months rolling loss ratio average has come down
dramatically we're now low and lower than the industry and I think that is fundamental,
that is the core asset of the health insurance business keeping that loss ratio down and
that's at a very, very low level.
The other thing I would say to you on the right hand side of the chart is a very strong
focus on conserving the business and conserving the right business so there is a strong
focus on making sure low loss ratio business is retained and high loss ratio business is
price up or priced out and you can see that coming through in that.
So we have reduced the loss ratio of 20% at the same time we've managed to get the
right kind of selective lapsation I think that's very important from a profit perspective. We
are also more and more bringing into the market place the risk management skills.

Bloomberg Transcript

We understand here and bringing the best of what we have learned in the UK through the
acquisition. So on the left hand side, one of the key value proposition that we say to our
customers in the UK is the -- base.
We will work with the doctors and hospitals to get full refund and in the process of doing
that building the networks, working with doctors we have brought the price of healthcare
down to PruHealth and we make sure that, that promise to customers is kept.
We are on our co-pays appropriate and we work with doctors to do that. And then on the
right hand side, a lot of the learnings we have done is South Africa around hospital rating
methodologies we are using in the UK and we have taken that technology and we
managed to blow out the country wide lists in the UK.
So now if you are country wide member of PruHealth you get access to London clinics that
are -- as well the London Clinic itself which is kind of the preeminent private hospital is
part of that using that technology more and more to drive the quality of healthcare. That I
think get those well for future growth.
On the Insure new business you can see the on the left hand chart and I would like to
point that there's been quite a growth in new businesses from 2010 to 2011 -- the loss
that hasn't been the focus I think they should be that's we're focusing on building out the
distribution channels. But it's been a strong focus on quality.
So on the previous period 23% of the new business was corporate, the margins there are
paper thin and we do not believe that is great quality business. We are focusing hard on
Page 24 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

getting business on the individual side that's new side and I think you can see it's paying
of dividends where to an extent the corporate business accounts for only 6% of the
market share of that business.
And then in terms of membership we expect a sliding down of the membership as we did
the acquisition we are kind of very much on track we are slightly below in terms of
membership level. I expect that membership now to turn and to grow as the new
business starts to kick in during this calendar year.
So, we're very comfortable as to how PruHealth has progressed and comfortable the year
ahead should see cooperating profit growth, membership grow and I think the focus on
quality will pay off in a very difficult environment.
Let me turn to PruProtect. I think to an extent like Discovery Insure, PruProtec has had an
absolutely remarkable year. New business growing by nearly 60%, policies enforced
growing by over 60% and nearly 110,000.

Bloomberg Transcript

The run rate of revenue is close to R1 billion of premium flowing through PruProtect, the
new business growing strongly and operating profit flipping from the loss of 86 million
strongly to a profit of 209 million. So, the business across virtually every single metric has
been quite remarkable.
I need to tell you that the idea behind PruProtect is really to Discovery Life and how
operating what it does in the products that we develop could it operate in the UK that is
kind of the basic premise that we ask if how the distribution works.
To a large extent the answer is yes and the more of it we do, the better we tend to do I
think in the UK. So many of the products ideas that we have rolled out over a decade with
Discovery Life, we are rolling out in the UK.
We are targeting them, changing them. But they find their way into the marketplace. So,
to payback benefit sitting inside Discovery Life is around the premium side that was rolled
out during the period under review. The cover booster now has also found its way into the
market.
So, all of the learnings that we have from this market we are tailoring, learning, getting
them in to the UK market, and I think our team is doing a remarkable job of translating
that and getting traction there.
Having said this, I think the market, I made the point at the outset, market recognizes the
PruProtect, I think is now acknowledged from innovation perspective, it just won an award
from Protection Review.
And it makes the point that despite the innovation, the team just doesn't stop innovating.
So, we have a very big I think, kind of tool chest sitting in Discovery. We need to keep

Page 25 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

rolling that out. And innovating in the UK and the team there I think is quite brilliant at what
they are doing.

FINAL

In that context, then it's interesting to compare how PruProtec is growing versus Discovery
Life. If you look at kind of month and section, you can see in gold line that's the Discovery
Life application account per month.
You can see the Discovery Life grew very quickly and it kind of got to a 3,000 to 4,000
level and that's a very high level kind of growing of that base. PruProtect had a learning
period where we spent a year or so really learning that market, if you recall, difficult times
understanding the market but thereafter the growth has been rapid and in fact the
growth rate is now, its application is now in fact exceeded Discovery Life and giving the
scale of that market I think can continue to grow.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it really has been an absolutely fantastic year or fantastic period I mean for the
business. In addition to quantum, I think the quality is remarkable. There has been a focus
on the franchise channel where the average premiums are bigger, loss ratios are lower,
lapse rates are lower you can see the previous period the franchise channel is only 44%
of the new businesses it has now gone up to 67% and planning I think remarkably on the
right hand side the high net worth cases, the percentage of the business from high net
worth cases where you get big premiums 3,000 to 4,000 per month has climbed to
around the 12% to 15% level. So there is a strong focus on quality and capturing the top in
the market. And then I think in addition to quantum of business, I think the quality of
business should be remarkable.
You can see they are coming through claims or below expectation. The loss ratios are
coming down very, very nicely and the growth is you can see is just quite staggering in
terms of policy count getting to about 110,000 and that turns around the operating loss
strongly to a profit and the annualized profit margin climbing from around 11% to around
the 14% to 15%.
It's also important to say that if you look at the lead table just go quarter-by-quarter,
quarter one 2010 we were of ninth position in the IFA market. By quarter one 2011, we
were in the seventh position. By quarter one 2012, we are in the fifth position and we think
we can jump one step ahead in the current quarter. So the business is making remarkable
progress.
Looking ahead, of course we remain optimistic and excited by what PruProtect can
achieve. It's a complicated market. It's a very big market. There are few things I would
mention. One which I think is very positive the Retail Distribution Review of the FSA has
meant that from 2013, the intermediary forces brokers and agents -- life commission on
investment business.
Now commission levels there are higher than they are here, and therefore to supplement
income is a very strong expectation that these investment writers will shift to the
protection market. So all bets on the potential market in fact growing over time and I think
that bodes well.
Page 26 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

The other thing interesting is complicated wrinkle is the EU directive of gender neutrality,
life insurance in the UK had an exemption, from that where you can still price life insurance
by gender that is now the disappearing from 2013 and if you have to price life insurance
the same for males and females and as you would know females live longer.
So we have to attract more females if we can than our competitors, that is one of the key
opportunities. Now obviously we have no long legacy it's a brand new company number
one and number two Vitality where a whole of lot of issues around women's health can be
worked on and we can attract I think a very different mix over time. So it's a complicated
market, complicated dynamics I think the opportunities are significant.
Let me end off with China and briefly talk about Ping An. I think the year under review has
been a good one. We have made solid progress I think we have been clear in our
expectations that I think this market will emerge strongly but it will take time.
Having said I think the team has done a great job on the ground number one, we've put in
place of very strong set of Discovery capabilities in China, we have rolled out to lot of the
claims system and risk management systems, Vitality into that market.

Bloomberg Transcript

We set a target this year of being number one in the Group high end space. So the Group
high end is multinational companies like at Discovery, we buy health insurance for
employees, we are trying to be number one in that space.
The second goal was getting Vitality on the ground during that time and then the real
ambition is of course using the Ping An distribution channels 0.5 million Asians to sell
health insurance that is the way forward.
On the first goal I think the progress has been swift in 2011, we kind of did 15% of the
market of the Group end market, the market itself is growing. You can see the China did
the most, companies like AXA, Cigna were kind of similar to where we were, dramatic
improvement the team with very good traction during this year and you can see they are
coming to the new business growth, where we've got 25% there for our market will grow
of course with the real price I think is the individual market.
The other progress we made and we spoke about this few months ago, we introduced
Vitality into that market. It was a very complicated evolution, being able to find the right
partners developing the concept of Vitality, finding the right kind of attributes of Vitality
that appeals to a very different set of expectations is complex. I think the team has done
an excellent job.
We have partners like Tesco, we have used relations like -- to take into that market. We
give have used interesting ideas around Discovery Insure where you can petrol benefits.
We in fact have used the similar structure here where we are getting a discounted -- of
petrol as well as part of the Vitality offering.

Page 27 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

We've changed certain aspects of the Vitality program and I think it's remarkably
comprehensive and we think very appropriate. It's now going through regulatory process
for approval, we think that is imminent and we are hoping that in the next month or two
we're going to start rolling Vitality out into that phase. And the sales as you seeing, I think
the -- sales continue to grow.
The real price is getting that individual market to get traction. So work has been done by
the team around product development, around the distribution channels of Ping An, we
remain optimistic and excited. I think this will take time. But certainly I think the progress
and the solid progress to an extent has exceeded expectation I think we remain excited
and optimistic.
So let me end by saying, it has been a very complex year, I think a very good year for us.
Making the point about our ambition of building best-in-class global organization, that's
what we are focusing on. The methodology is a disruptive one.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are far from 8 million unique customers now across different parts of the world, our
responsibilities in that regard and we are determined to continue to innovate to meet
their needs. Our earnings growth the CPI plus 10%, you can see over time we've
managed to achieve and I think we will continue to do that.
Our return on capital risk free plus 10%, we've done that again and I think we'll continue to
do so, but critically more important than that is our social obligation. We are all proud
believers in our country. We are proud believers in the issue of building the country,
building the capability, having a positive effect on society and there are number of
initiatives we are doing as an organization we think we are positive in that regard.
And then the last point I need to mention and the most important point is the quality of
our people. They build the organization. We on continue to do development them, inspire
them and I need to thank them for what they have done 8,000 Discovery people out
there.
We need to make sure that our team is the best. We attract the best and are confident
that we are and we will.
Thank you very much for listening. What I like to do is open up for questions and invite
Ricky Farber our CFO on to the platform. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

We have apparently shot over my time. We only have five minutes for questions, some
unknown reason. So, I will chair the session, all of our key executives are here so please if
you have any questions, please ask them. Yes. Nice to see you.

Page 28 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Mr. Gore, allow me to congratulate you and the team, the gentlemen sitting in front of me
on yet another outstanding performance. I referred now to the balance sheet and I am
specifically interested in the increases in financial assets, equity securities are up
approximately 45%, equity linked notes 35%, debt securities 85%, money market is up
over 100% although one must also state that cash and cash equivalents in down by 1.3
billion. Now linking that all is it fair to conclude that the increases in the financial assets are
in the main from stock exchange movements?

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

All right, thanks. There is some elements of that I mean fundamentally the increase in
financial assets has been driven by on balance sheet investment products, return to our
Investors as Mr. Adrian said in the presentation has grown very strongly.
So we've had growth across all of those. The money market as you point out is a little bit
higher and the cash is down because we've taken some of the share of the cash out of
the bank and put it in slightly longer-term in the money market. But other than that, the
bulk of the increase is coming from policyholder liabilities for the Discovery Invest
business.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. I would turn now to the cash flow statement there is an item of 2.97 billion being net
purchases of financial assets. Do those feature in the previously mentioned items?

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Yes they do. I mean the bulk of that is as I said a few moments ago, taking cash -- money
market.

Q - Analyst
On the liability side why have trade and other payables gone up to the extent of over
50%?

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Sure. Trade and other payables is the biggest item in there, is the funding that receive
from the Prudential. So when we write business in the UK we write from the Prudential's
balance sheet and PruProtect and we fund that by matching it with the policyholder
liabilities from the Prudential side. So it's effectively a liability to Prudential.

Q - Analyst
And finally please from the cash flow statement the differential between interest received
and interest paid is a positive 282 million. Now the income statement shows a negative
265, how do we reconcile that?

Page 29 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Sure and that's affecting in terms of the timing of payments, I mean we have really one
big debt item which is settled sort of in areas and so you have accrual basis obviously on
accounts and cash basis we haven't paid it, we haven't paid it yet of June.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Thank you Mr. Gore.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Can I allow one more question, I am sorry you to be rushing it's my fault, I spent too much
time. Thanks. Take this and we will have to wrap it up I am sorry, we are outside if you
need.

Q - Analyst
The 53.5 cents dividend that was a bit disappointing because the interim dividend was I
think 50 cents already. Now Adrian mentioned that the increase in the annual dividend
was in line with the normalized earnings.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time you're making quite a big issue about the tax rate resulting in the
normalized earnings not really been reflective of the growth in the business. So if you
really believe that the right growth rate is the operating growth of 20 odd percent, why
be so stringent on the dividend?

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Okay. It's a very good question.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

We settled on a -- kind of four and a half times based on the view that we are growing
and we don't -- we can do better with the capital and it's an obvious point.
We kind of have checked consistent view of looking at normalized headline earnings and
adjusting on a certain basis and we've kept that same formula throughout what you see
as a dividend. I think we were reluctant to make any kind of policy changes to reflect that
20% growth. We'll keep reevaluating that and I don't know Ricky we fairly comfortable with
that.

A - Richard Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean bear in mind as well that, although we will get a relief in Discovery Insure
time from the tax. We actually lay out 100% of the cash at the moment. So, we do need to
fund it. So that does limit our ability to pay dividend.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Page 30 of 31



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2012-09-05

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Can I wrap it up, I am sorry. You are okay with that, I am being very rude, but we're out of
time for some reason. Thank you very much for listening. We are outside and available any
time for questions. Once again, appreciate your time.

Page 31 of 31

