Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

S2 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Barry Stowe , Executive Director Asia
Chad Myers , Jackson National Life Insurance Co, EVP & CFO
Michael McLintock, Executive Director M&G
Mike Wells , Executive Director, Jackson National Life Insurance
Nic Nicandrou, CFO
Rob Devey, Executive Director UK & Europe
Tidjane Thiam, Group Chief Executive

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Chris Esson, Analyst
Fahad Changazi, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst

Presentation
Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Welcome to our 2013 half-year results presentation. Prudential
has produced a strong performance across all of our key metrics. And our strategy has
been now the same for a few years. It is quite simple; we are focused on capturing three
main opportunities.
The first one is the emerging Asian middle class; the second one is the 77 million or so of
baby boomers transitioning into retirement; and the third one is really the UK where we
have the second largest asset management market in the world with all the wealth
accumulated.
And given our progress during the last four or five years, I think the question, what next
for Prudential, is very often asked. We believe that the three areas we're focusing on are
the right ones. And our answer is that we will continue to execute that strategy with
discipline, creating significant value in the process. So in a nutshell, as I said in March, more
of the same.
Page 1 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

So this morning, we will follow the usual format with two presenters, Nic and myself. I will
start with a few performance highlights for the first half of 2013. I will then provide a
strategic update by region with Asia, then the UK, then the US. Nic will take you, with his
usual precision, through our financial results. And I will come back at the end to provide my
outlook for the remainder of the year.
We will finish, as usual, with a Q&A session. And we have our leadership team here from
all our businesses to answer your questions, as usual again.
So let's start. We have achieved a strong performance in 2013, delivering double-digit
growth across all of our key Group metrics. Picking out a few of the highlights; new
business profits, our preferred metric for growth, remained strong with Asia up 20% in
the first half. I am pleased with the continued progress we are making on IFRS operating
profit since our decision a few years ago to prioritize this metric.
IFRS operating profit for the Group is up 22% to GBP1.4 billion. In the first half, we have
delivered almost as much IFRS profit as in the full year 2009, that's not so long ago,
despite significant macroeconomic challenges in the period from '09 to '13.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, after new business profit and [ph] IFRS cash, cash generation increased by 12%
during the period to GBP1.2 billion. And net remittances increased even faster, by 16%, to
GBP844 million. Again, these remittances in the first half are greater than what was
delivered for the whole year 2009, four years ago. And within that, Asia delivered 51%
growth year on year in remittances. And we look forward, Barry, to another strong
contribution from them in the second half of the year.
Finally, we have declared an interim dividend of 9.73p per share, up 15.8%. We consider
these results good evidence that Prudential is delivering a distinctive and attractive
combination of growth and cash for its shareholders.
So let us now put this performance into perspective by looking at the longer term track
record of the Group. And you can see here our performance going back to 2008. Over
this six year period, we have emphasized the importance of delivering both growing and
resilient results across our three key metrics of new business profit, IFRS operating profit.
And cash.
The quality of our businesses and the quality of execution of the strategy have enabled us
to more than double on each of these three metrics at Group level in five years, in spite
of significant macroeconomic headwinds, I repeat. Of course, within that, the metric we've
paid closest attention to is IFRS operating profit. And I'd like to say a few words on that.
In '09 when our current strategy was designed, I committed to growing what I consider
our two preferred sources of earning; insurance income because it is relatively
uncorrelated to the equity and interest rate cycle. And fee income because it is capital
efficient and cash rich, two things very desirable in insurance.

Page 2 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

And one of the most pleasing aspects of our performance and our plans is that we have
delivered on that promise. The quality of our IFRS profits has been significantly improved
over the last four years, with more than 62% now of income being contributed by
insurance income and fee income from 38%, as you can see here, off a much lower total
in '09.
So this simply equates to trebling, in four years, the fee income from GBP203 million to
GBP667 million. And trebling the insurance income from GBP217 million to GBP613 million.
This has led to significant improvements in both our capital efficiency and earnings
resilience, exactly at a time when interest rates were dropping to historic lows. And this is
central to our story. We remain well positioned, we believe, to benefit as these trends
reverse and interest rates increase.
So now let's take a look at the 2013 objectives. We are entering the final six months
stretch towards the 2013 horizon. And I'm pleased to report that we remain on track to
achieve all six of these objectives which are, going through them; doubling 2009 Asia IFRS
profit to GBP930 million; doubling 2009 Asia new business profit to over GBP1.4 billion;
delivering cash remittances of GBP300 million for Asia, GBP260 million for Jackson,
GBP350 million for the UK. And lastly, delivering net cumulative Group remittances which
[ph] we thought was a relevant number of GBP3.8 billion over 2010 to 2013. So over four
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2012, as you know, we have achieved two of these objectives early by delivering
GBP988 million of Asia IFRS operating profit versus a target of GBP930 million. And by
remitting GBP341 million from Asia versus an objective of GBP300 million.
During the first half of 2013, we are pleased that we have achieved two more of these
objectives by remitting GBP294 million of cash from Jackson. And achieving over GBP4
billion of cumulative Group cash remittances versus an objective of GBP3.8 billion by the
end of 2013.
And I want here to highlight particularly the Jackson cash remittance that, for me, it proves
that our strategy in the US is working and is delivering tangible cash returns for
shareholders.
Finally, regarding the last two, we are making progress; doubling Asia NBP 2009 by 2013.
And a UK remittance of GBP350 million in the first half of 2013. As I said earlier, our Asia
new business profits increased by 20% to GBP659 million. And the UK remitted GBP226
million in cash towards our GBP350 million target.
Importantly, this performance has also translated into a return for shareholders. To be
meaningful, an analysis of shareholder returns need to be performed looking at a few
years. And this is what this slide does, looking at returns over a four year period.
Our share price has increased by 158% since January '09, outperforming the European
Insurance and FTSE 100 indices by more than 3 times. And the market capitalization of

Page 3 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

Prudential has increased by over GBP17 billion over this period. And we believe there is still
plenty of potential here.

FINAL

In addition to this share price appreciation, GBP2.6 billion of dividend payments have been
paid out to our shareholders over the period, including of the two dividend remittances
[ph] made in 2010 and 2012.
So our strategy is designed to generate value for our shareholders and we are pleased
that this has been happening.
I'd like to pause just for a few minutes on maybe a longer term picture of what we've
done and some of the challenges we've had to face.
As I said earlier, all that value has been created in the face of significant economic and
financial challenges; we have highlighted some of those on this slide.
You will all recall that, during the depths of the financial crisis, questions were being raised
daily around our industry's ability to weather the storm at home [ph].

Bloomberg Transcript

One thing we passionately believe is that our Company has a lot of levers we can pull at
various points in time to respond to a external challenges. We illustrated this in '08, '09
for those of you who were here, with the sale of our bad book in Taiwan, or the shift [ph]
transaction to improve our IGD.
Our strategic and financial positioning gives us the flexibility and optionality to adapt to a
rapidly changing environment. And this is possibly a good place to mention that as you
know Financial Stability Board has designated us an eight of the global insurers, as global
systemically important insurers in July, a few weeks ago.
At this stage, frankly the specific implications of this are not yet clear. We are in
discussions with our regulator, early discussions to understand the consequences of this
designation. And as with Solvency II, we will maintain an open conversation with you as it
becomes clearer.
In relation to Solvency II, I think that we are all up to speed on the latest developments.
We've made some progress. But there remain issues. But we have no additional update
for you at this time.
Coming back to the present, the main concern clearly seems to be this point regarding
our Company of a potential slowdown in emerging markets. Looking back to a ton of
issues we faced listed on this page three or four years ago, I would say this is a relatively
nice front [ph] to have. And I think we actually can give you some comfort in that regard.
On the ground, in our businesses, we have not seen signs of a slowdown. And our
franchises remain healthy and strong.

Page 4 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

This is confirmed by our Asian performance in the first half which you see here; our track
record of growth across NBP, IFRS and cash has continued unabated. We can achieve such
a performance over such a period of time because, fundamentally, the drivers of our
long-term success in Asia are intact. And I'll take a few minutes to talk about these.

FINAL

What are those drivers? Well, it is our exposure to countries and markets that are
experiencing strong GDP growth.
Second is the increasing demand for savings and protection products from a rapidly
growing Asian middle class, keeping in mind that demand for financial services. And
particularly life insurance, grows faster than GDP.
Third, having focused on the right markets, or the sweet spot within the region.
Then fourth, our track record of execution and delivery. We have both the platform and
the people to capture the immense opportunities available in the region.
We all know that GDP growth matters in our industry. But I am sometimes surprised that
so much of the analogies for the long term focuses on the rate of GDP growth, rather
than the absolute amounts of GDP growth available.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I believe by looking at growth rates only sometimes can lead one to underestimate
the scale of rebalancing in the world economy that is underway.
What I've tried to do on this chart is to show you that Asia is expected to create $21 trillion
of GDP over the next two decades, a long period of time, out of a total world GDP
increase of $47 trillion.
You can also see from the chart the increasing materiality of Asia's contribution to global
growth, from 10% of world growth in the 70s. So people with 70s frame of mind put Asia
on a sideshow, to almost half in the next 20 years.
That is the fundamental transformation of the world economy. And I think it illustrates
powerfully the point of the difference between stocks and flow. I think, thinking in terms of
stock in this world is very dangerous. To put this growth rate in context, this is the
equivalent of creating Germany six times over during the period.
In terms of the [ph] power of compounding over the long term, then in spite of the
intensity of debate on GDP growth rates, which frankly we're not very good at predicting,
plus or minus 1percentage point of growth in China will not fundamentally change the
central message of what is underway.
Even if we were to lower the forecast growth rate for the whole of Asia by 1percentage
point over 20 years, which is huge, Asia instead of creating six Germany's would create

Page 5 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

five. So that's what I say; the message will not change. We're going to debate at infinity by
how much share is going to grow. This is underway; it's going to happen.

FINAL

And the new Chinese leadership is determined to reduce some of the imbalances of the
Chinese economy to reach a more sustainable growth path, driven more by domestic
consumption and less by investment and exports. We believe that is the right strategy.
And that the new Government can pull enough levers to implement it successfully.
So the story of Asia's economy growth is largely a story of increasing productivity of
factors, particularly labor. The demographic trends that I mentioned earlier, coupled with a
compounding (technical difficulty) will remain particularly attractive.

Bloomberg Transcript

I've mentioned demography several times already this morning. This is because
demographics are a fundamental driver of our business and of our industry. Almost 90%
of the world's growth in the middle class population, over this period, will come from Asia.
90% of the world's growth in the middle class population, over this period, will come from
Asia. This rapidly growing middle class will drive high demand for savings and protection
products. Our product propositions in our key Asian markets are aligned serving these
needs profitability.
Now the fact that this Asian opportunity is highly attractive is not exactly a secret any
more. And many companies are working to build a position in Asia. We accept that. So
emerging markets can be attractive. But what I think discerning investors increasingly see,
as more and more companies are adopting emerging markets focused strategies, is that,
within emerging markets, it is important to choose, very carefully, where you compete. It is
important to be in the right markets.
To go back to a well-known analogy, the USA and Argentina had the same GDP in 1905,
everybody knows that. So it's important to pick the right markets. The detailed analytic
work that we performed in '08/'09, of global profit pools of insurance in the next 10 to 20
years, showed clearly that there was a sweet spot in Asia, of Indonesia, Hong Kong,
Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines. That's, today, GBP2.5 trillion of
GDP. So it's another Germany. And it's 520 million people.
We deliberately focused our effort and investment on that subset of countries. And said
so at the time. The selection of UOB in January 2010 as a partner, which is active in
Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, was not by chance; and the recent deal with
Thanachart, they were all inspired by this same strategic insight.
We were early in spotting this opportunity so that we are now the largest player in that
region, as measured by new business profit, while also holding top three positions in five
out of seven of our sweet spot markets, which, I remind you, is of the size of Germany.
And growing at 6% or 7% per annum in GDP.
Our performance in the first half of 2013 in a number of these markets has been
particularly strong. To mention a few; we have grown ourselves by 38% in the Philippines,

Page 6 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

32% in Thailand, 21% in both Singapore and Hong Kong. And 17% in Indonesia. We're also
taking action in that context to further streamline our Asian businesses.
I am pleased to report that the long-running project to domesticate our Hong Kong WithProfits business is approaching the closing stages. This will better align the legal entity
structure with our management structure. And we continue to work very closely with our
regulators in both the UK and Hong Kong. And with all of the relevant stakeholders, in
order to achieve a satisfactory conclusion for all of affected stakeholders.
As a consequence of this, we are also reorganizing our Asian businesses under one legal
entity, which I will chair. This will lead to a simpler and more effective corporate structure,
bringing all of our Asian geographies under a single umbrella company.
On the following slide, we have summarized the performance we have achieved in our
sweet spots. And we believe these numbers speak for themselves; 27% CAGR over four
years in NBP; 25% in IFRS; 32% in cash.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it is important to be in the right markets. But it is also important to address the right
needs with the right products. In our sector, the greatest opportunity in Asia lies in the
growing protection needs of the emerging Asian middle class.
The chart on this slide shows how medical expenses are funded in various countries. For
those who were in the '08 Asia trip [ph] we referred to this in 2008. On the left, in the
developed western markets, with extensive insurance coverage, like the UK or the US,
out-of-pocket health expenditures are minimal. And this shows you the value of insurance
and the benefits of insurance; 9% in the UK out of pocket.
There is a stark contrast between that situation and the situation in our Southeast Asian
markets, where a significant proportion of these expenses are borne out of pocket
directly by the consumer. You can summarize our whole Asian strategy in this slide.
This protection gap is a textbook example for the development of an insurance market.
We can go into such a situation, offer products that will generate huge benefits for all
stakeholders, customers, society, government. And shareholders.
As the Asian population gets larger and wealthier, demand for quality healthcare is likely
to grow exponentially. And given finite and legitimately so, government appetites to fund
it, this demand will have to be met by private insurers. We have the expertise and the
product suite to respond to this demand. So let me now illustrate, if I may, with a concrete
example what we mean.
We're often asked, how can we sustain the high returns that we generate for our
shareholders in Asia? The format works [ph] by creating a lot of value for our customers.
The need for insurance in emerging markets is so high that this creates a virtual circle of
genuine value creation opportunity for all stakeholders, for customers and shareholders.

Page 7 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

The basic function of insurance, I repeat, is to create a consumer benefit, a consumer
surplus, from mutualization of risk that the consumer would find more costly to bear on
their own.
So on the left-hand side of this chart, we contrast the out-of-pocket spend for heart
treatment in one of our leading markets in Asia. When the individual is covered by a basic
government health insurance, he or she saves 19% of the total treatment cost, or pays for
81% out of pocket. These savings increase to 73% of the total cost for a Prudential
policyholder.
This is very significant, because we're talking in this case of the GBP9,000 procedure. So
a different cost [ph] between a person to the left or to the right is very significant. There
is a huge customer benefit. And that's where we make our margin.
We provide this cover at a reasonable cost. And I really wanted to show you the chart on
the right, too, it's not that we overcharge people. These are very, very reputable
international companies. And we price 20% to 30% below them, for a 50 year old. So
we're not achieving these returns by overcharging.

Bloomberg Transcript

Prudential compares favorably with competitors on price. And this reflects the advantages
of scale, of efficiency. And underwriting expertise.
Ultimately, our protection products can generate high IRRs, with short pay-back periods
again, because we create genuine value for our customers. Our focus on protection
products has changed the economics of our Asian business, which is now increasingly
cash-generative on the back of this.
So having the right products is important but, of course, distribution is always a crucial and
very necessary condition to success in Asia and elsewhere. We have two major routes to
market, Agency and Bancassurance, each with growing scales and productivity, which only
contributes to improving our economics.
We have over 280,000 agents in our sweet spot markets. And we access more than
15,000 bank branches, enabling us to reach customers across the spectrum of wealth and
insurance needs.
In a nutshell, we are in the right markets, with the right products and the right distribution.
The last think I'd like to do on Asia is to move to a few country updates. And I'd like to
spend some time talking to you about Indonesia, which our largest market; the
Philippines, where we are seeing, in a very short period of time, a change in absolute
scale of what was before a non-material business for the Group; and Thailand, where we
are technically really a startup operation in a market that is already well developed. And
with high long-term potential.

Page 8 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

So let's start with Indonesia. We are the clear market leader in Indonesia with 2 million
customers -- think it's between 1.9 million and 2 million -- and a wide geographic reach
spanning 137 cities. Almost half of our APE now comes from outside Jakarta. And that's an
achievement we're very proud of, because we believe in the power of a first-mover
advantage, not just by country. But within a country by region. And within a region by city.
So what we're building outside of Jakarta will generate value for a long time to come.
And in places like Cambodia, we are doing the same thing today; moving in early. And
planting the seeds of our long-term success. Here too, of course, distribution is the name
of the game. And we have an excellent distribution footprint. I visited that business with
Barry in June as usual. And I was very impressed by what I saw. Our agent recruitment, onboarding and training programs are one of our key competitive advantages in the country.
Our agent-get-agent referral program has been successful in driving 27% growth in Asian
recruitment in the first half of 2013. It's a simple idea, just asking agents to recommend
agents. And it works very well and we've found it's a very good source of recruitment.
Our agent training program such as Fast Start induction. And continuous professional
development, have resulted in a 26% increase in active agents in the first half of 2013.
And the benefits of that will, of course, materialize over time, not immediately.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to growing scale, we are also focused on improving agent productivity for our
registered financial planner training initiative.
In addition to Agency, our Bancassurance platform has seen good momentum as we have
grown our reach to 900 active branches across our six partners in the country.
And we continue to launch new riders, bringing more benefits to our customers. And
more tailored to their needs in this under-protected market. And also enhancing, in the
process, our profitability, illustrating again the virtual circle I mentioned earlier.
So over the last four years, new business profits from Indonesia have increased by 4.5
times. And we remain confident of our ongoing success in this large and rapidly-growing
market.
Let's move, now to the Philippines. It's an interesting country, because the macro
environment in the Philippines is supportive, with the country have better and better
macro policies. And reporting 7.8% GDP growth in the First Quarter. It is one of a few
countries on the planet right now that saw its sovereign debt rating upgraded this year.
Our focus on the Philippines is to increase the scale of our Agency business. We have
what we call the Club 30 [ph] campaign for Agency leaders. And it's driving strong growth
in recruitment, with 48% growth in agents in the first half. Our Agency force in the
Philippines is now three times larger than in '09, contributing 65% of our first half APE.

Page 9 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

We are also gaining good traction in Bancassurance, with APE quadrupling since 2010. And
adding a new leg to the business; another illustration of our ability to innovate. We just
signed a new partner, China Bank, in 2013, further expanding our Bancassurance reach.
And that's good progress. And we often get asked as to why it is that we talk so much
about so-called immature or exotic markets. Are we running out of growth? [ph]. The
reason we do so is because of the exceptional and exponential growth that these
markets are capable of delivering.
The Philippines, for example, you see the numbers here, is currently delivering as much
APE every two months as it used to deliver four years ago. Went from GBP5 million to
GBP29 million. And in a country with 99 million people, we have a grand total of 100,000
customers after all this progress, which shows that we have not even scratched the
surface in terms of capturing the growth potential in this market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, let's move to Thailand. As you know, we completed the acquisition of Thanachart
Life. And launched a 15-year exclusive Bancassurance partnership with Thanachart Bank on
May 3. We sold our first policy on May 4. The addition of this partnership gives us access
to the fifth largest bank network in Thailand with over 800 branches in the country.
I must say, the quality of our preparation in the run-up between November and May, to
the approval, has meant that the integration has proceeded very smoothly, with our
insurance specialists selling in the branches from the first day after closing the transaction.
And I spent a week in July in Thailand with Barry. And there, too, I was very impressed. I
must confess, I actually engaged in a bit of mystery shopping in the Thanachart branches.
But I was spotted very quickly so I had to retreat.
We have launched a full product suite. There are pictures, for those who want to see
them, particularly accelerating the preexisting focus of the Thanachart Life sales force on
protection products.
Results to date have been very encouraging. And have been tracking significantly ahead
of our agreed business plan. The latest monthly sales data that we have for July, which I
wish we could share with you, shows Thailand accelerating in absolute terms, ahead of
some of our other Asian markets in absolute terms. So it's exciting.
As we grow our scale in Thailand, the increasing visibility of our brand will also benefit our
Agency sales force. Ultimately, we aim to build a strong multichannel platform in what is
the third largest life insurance market in Southeast Asia.
So after our Life business in Asia, let's move now to take a closer look at our Asset
Management business, Eastspring.
Eastspring is the leading onshore retail asset manager in Asia, with GBP62 billion of assets
under management; and it varies with the pound, dollar. But it was briefly over $100 billion,

Page 10 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

which was a historic goal for us. We've talked about it internally for many years. It was
above $100 billion in assets for a few days. And it will go back up.

FINAL

It is well positioned to capture the opportunities emerging from the rapidly growing Asian
middle class. And the significant long-term demand from global investors looking to
access Asian growth.
Eastspring had a record first half, with net inflows of GBP2 billion. This is its highest level of
half-yearly net inflows since 2000. So that includes the bull markets of '06 and '07. These
strong flows were particularly evident in Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan, where have
seen strong flows, mostly into retail bank funds [ph].
So to summarize on Asia, we are confident in the medium to long-term growth potential
of the region. Demand for our services will grow faster than GDP for a long time, with a
focus on savings and protection products. And we have the distribution, the products and
the skills to capture a disproportionate share of that opportunity. And the best is yet to
come.

Bloomberg Transcript

So after Asia, let's move to the UK, where I will start with M&G, leading asset manager in
the second largest asset management market in the world; an enviable position.
In the first half of 2013, M&G generated GBP3.8 billion of net inflows, with a particularly
strong performance coming from its expansion into continental Europe. M&G's external
funds under management grew by 25%, with these funds now representing 50% of the
total, up from 31% in '07.
Retail funds under management from continental Europe have grown by almost six times
since 2007, from GBP3.8 billion to over GBP21 billion. So that they now represent 33% of
our total retail funds under management.
This asset growth has led M&G to deliver a record half-year performance, with IFRS profits
up 17% at GBP204 million. So above the GBP200 million mark for half year for the first
time.
Looking now at our second business in UK, our Life Company. The UK has maintained its
focus on disciplined capital usage, concentrating on the lines of business that can
generate good returns.
In the first half of 2013, we saw 34% growth in sales of a popular income choice With
Profits Annuity; our With Profits Annuity is attractive in this environment. But, as expected,
volumes in our Savings business continued to be impacted negatively by RDR as
distributors, of course, addressed the new environment.
IFRS operating profits for the Retail business were flat, on an underlying basis, showing
resilient delivery in spite of decreasing volumes on the metric that we primarily focus on
across businesses.
Page 11 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

And, as you know, we did not complete any bulk annuity transactions in the first half of the
year, contrary to last year, since the returns available did not compare favorably to those
available to us in other parts of the world.

FINAL

Overall, the UK has delivered a solid performance in a challenging context. I would like to
thank Rob Devey for his many contributions over the last four years and wish him well.
And, as you know, his successor is Jackie Hunt and we look forward to working with her.
Moving, finally, to Jackson. In the US we continue to calibrate our approach to the VA
market to match our Group risk appetite at this point in the cycle. We have been
increasing the proportion of sales of VAs without living benefits. The undeniable success
of Elite Access, which you can see here, which has generated $3.3 billion [ph] of net flows
since its launch last year, is at the heart of the strategy.
Elite Access now ranks number 10 in the league table of the best-selling VA products in
the US.
(inaudible) its success [ph], VA sales fell by 10% year over year, in line with our
expectations. And VAs without living benefits now represent 29% of total VA sales.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let us now take a look at something that I find really interesting, which is the position of
our in In-force book.
We showed you this chart, those of you who were in November in New York. And you'll
remember that at the end of the year 10% of the book was In the Money. Only 2% of the
book was In the Money at S&P levels at the end of June 2013.
This is an improvement and reflects the benefits of rising equity markets, which are
substantial. The economic benefit of rising market is not immediately reflected by our
accounting; it's due to valuation and timing differences, as you can see from the IFRS
below the line result that we reported this morning.
Jackson's success over this crisis period has been due to our focus on hedging the
financial economics, rather than managing accounting volatility, which we are happy to live
with.
Nic will take you through this in more detail in his presentation. However, the ultimate
proof of Jackson's performance should be cash generation. In the first half, Jackson
remitted GBP294 million to the Group, equivalent to a growth of 19% on the prior year.
Please note, I don't want to give Mike a heart attack. But this represents Jackson's fullyear contribution for 2013. Please note also that with this, as I've mentioned before,
Jackson has exceeded its 2013 objective of remitting GBP260 million of cash. Well done,
Mike.

Page 12 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

Over the last three years, Jackson has remitted close to $1.5 billion in cash to the Group,
validating the discipline and profitable execution of our US strategy.

FINAL

So let me now wrap up this first section of my presentation. We have made a strong start
to 2013 with double-digit growth across our three key metrics of NBP, IFRS and cash.
This strong operating performance is a result of our disciplined execution which allows us
to capitalize on the long-term secular trends available in our markets. And having achieved
four out of our six 2013 growth and cash objectives, we remain focused on delivering the
remaining two in the second half of the year.
And with this, I will hand over to Nic.

Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Thank you, Tidjane. Good afternoon, everyone. My presentation follows a familiar theme
of growth and cash, with a detailed look at the drivers of overall performance in the first
half of 2013. And an update on the capital position and balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

Starting with the financial headlines, which are summarized on the slide, we have
delivered a strong performance in the first half, continuing the positive momentum of
2012. A disciplined execution and prudent management of balance sheet risks have
enabled us to improve all of the key financial metrics shown on this slide.
As a result, new business profit rose by 11%, IFRS operating profit increased by 22%,
shareholders' funds on an EEV basis were up by 19%, free surplus generation was also
higher 12%. And this has led to a 16% increase in remittances to Group.
Our overall performance so far this year demonstrates the quality of our new business
franchise, the resilience of our In-force book of business. And our ability to continue to
deliver growth in both earnings and cash.
We proved our flexibility when interest rates fell by taking decisive pricing and product
actions throughout the Group in 2011 and 2012. Our performance in the first half of this
year has benefited from the recent rise in yields. And I will highlight the areas where this is
evident as I step through the results.
Turning to new business profit, this metric grew by 11% to GBP1,268 million, led by Asia. All
three regions continue to write new business at internal rates of return of more than 20%,
with short payback periods.
These attractive new business economics are underpinned by our strategy of prioritizing
value over volume. And by our approach to directing our investment to those products
and geographies with the highest return and shortest payback characteristics.

Page 13 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

In Asia, NBP was up 20% at GBP659 million, outpacing the growth in APE with both Agency
and Bank channels increasing NBP at similar rates.

FINAL

The improved profitability in the region reflects our ability to capture profitable growth in
the markets that we refer to as our Southeast Asia sweet spot, six of which achieved
record Second Quarter sales.
It also reflects our discipline of taking product action, where necessary, such as in Taiwan
where we refuse to offer certain guarantee products. And in Malaysia where we have
refocused the business on health and protection.
Finally, the recent rise in yields has also contributed positively to the region's NBP, most
notably in Hong Kong.
In the US, NBP increased by 8% to GBP479 million. Within this number, the new business
profit from variable annuities increased from GBP402 million to GBP454 million,
representing a new half-year high.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is despite the 10% reduction in sales of VAs with guarantees, the negative volume
impact of which was countered by the positive effect of product and pricing actions taken
over the last 12 months, the contribution from Elite Access. And the beneficial impact of
the 86 basis points rise in 10-year Treasury yields.
We're pleased to see the NBP of the US business move forward positively, at a time when
we are changing the shape of our US sales.
Turning to the UK, in contrast to 2012 no bulks were written in the first half of the year for
the reasons that Tidjane has already outlined.
At the Retail level, although sales declined by 8%, we maintained our new business profit
of GBP130 million, reflecting improved business mix and the benefit of repricing actions.
Overall returns in our UK business remain attractive and are, in my view, market-leading.
I have summarized, on this slide, the key drivers of the movement in NBP between the
two periods. As you can see, higher sales volume in Asia, together with the strong growth
of Elite Access, have more than compensated for declines elsewhere to deliver a net
GBP43 million positive volume impact.
Pricing actions and changes to business mix continue to contribute positively. And the
uptick in US and Asia long-term yields have driven an additional GBP54 million of new
business profit.
Not shown on this slide is the contribution to NBP from risk products such as health and
protection which, in the first half of 2013, was GBP440 million, equivalent to 35% of the
Page 14 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

total, up from 31% this time last year.

FINAL

So the key takeaways on NBP are; one, that the higher health and protection content,
combined with the lower volumes of VAs with guarantees, means that the new business
written this year is higher quality and lower risk; and, two, that the benefit from the recent
rise in yields demonstrates the potential upside to our NBP as rates recover from the
current low levels.
Turning now to IFRS, operating profit at the Group level increased by 22% to GBP1,415
million. This improvement is driven by an 18% increase in both our Life and our Asset
Management operations.
Starting with our Life businesses, as you can see in the breakout box, we have achieved
operating profit growth in all three businesses, highlighting the quality of these insurance
operations.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the next few slides, I will set out the reasons for these increases, which in overview
reflect the growth in our overall book of business, the improvements in the quality and
balance of our Life income. And further economies of scale.
One of the factors that underlines our IFRS earnings' momentum is the sheer scale of our
Life business inflows. Over the last three years, our Life operations have attracted total
net inflows of over GBP30 billion. In the first half of 2013, net inflows were 13% higher at
GBP5,871 million, continuing the growth trend that we have seen over the three-year
period covered on this slide, which clearly demonstrates our impressive organic growth.
When these net inflows are combined with the effect of positive investment market
movements. And the impact of acquisitions such as REALIC and Thanachart Life, total
policyholder liabilities for shareholder-backed business have increased by GBP68 billion
over this period to GBP179.2 billion. It is this increase that has driven forward both our Life
income and our IFRS operating profit in recent years, with this momentum continuing in
the first half of 2013.
Looking at our life IFRS profitability by region, Asia has reported growth of 18%, to GBP474
million, with roughly two-thirds of the increase coming from our four largest businesses in
Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore. And Malaysia. We have also seen a strong step up in
contributions from Thailand and the Philippines, two of our smaller businesses, where
we're making rapid progress.
Compared to the same period last year, the combined operating profit from these two
businesses increased five-fold to GBP20 million. I am pleased to report that our
acquisition of Thanachart Life in Thailand, which completed in May, is already making a
positive contribution to the results.
In the US, we have reported a strong increase in operating profit to GBP582 million,
reflecting business growth and the additional earnings from the acquisition of REALIC. As
Page 15 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

you can see in the breakout box, REALIC contributed GBP56 million to our US result. And
is on track to deliver the GBP115 million pre-tax profits in the first year of ownership.

FINAL

The individual components related to DAC and new business strain are more
straightforward this time round, in that they have moved in line with the scale of the
business. This means that Jackson's underlying profits, shown in the dark blue bars on the
right, have increased by 16%, primarily reflecting higher fee income.
In the UK, IFRS profit was slightly higher at GBP341 million. As I said at the 2012 prelims,
the strict capital criteria that we apply across all of our businesses limit the level of
investment opportunities in our UK Life operations. And this will continue to place
downward pressure on the earnings growth prospects of this business. We're entirely
comfortable with this, as it does not detract from the important role that the UK plays in
our Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to the sources of earnings, both insurance margin and fee income are, for the first
time, individually larger than spread income, highlighting the transformation that we have
made in the overall shape of our earnings. Our bias in favor of risk products such as health
and protection in Asia, along with a contribution from REALIC's seasoned book of term
business, has driven a 46% increase in insurance margin, shown in red.
Fee income in dark blue is also growing fast, at 31%. In contrast, spread income has
increased by a more modest 1%, reflecting our lower appetite for spread products at this
point in the cycle. So what you can see is a very healthy evolution in both the quality and
the balance of our Life earnings. And one that enhances the resilience as we move
forward.
Taking a more detailed look at sources of earnings for each business and starting with
Asia, total life income, shown in the top left, is up 22% at GBP1,267 million, driven by a
double-digit increase in all of the sources of income.
As you can see below, towards the right of the slide, technical and other margin remains
both a fast growing and a dominant feature of Asia's Life income, up 22% in the first half.
Within this category, insurance margin grew by 18%, to GBP303 million, reflecting strong
growth in health and protection business and a continuation of positive claims'
experience. This category also includes the deductions that we make from premiums to
cover our costs, which are higher at GBP778 million, consistent with the growth in Asia's
premium income.
In the US, Jackson's total income, shown in the top left, is up 27% at GBP1,197 million,
outpacing the 9% increase in expenses, highlighting once again the influence of
operational leverage in these results. Fee income, in the middle of this slide, is now the
largest source of earnings in the US and is also the fastest growing, up 36% to GBP554
million. The uplift reflects the 37% increase in average separate account balances, which
benefited both from the $7 billion of net inflows in VAs and the strong equity market
performance.

Page 16 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

Our average fees are broadly similar to last year, at 196 basis points, as Jackson continues
to take product and pricing actions. Technical and other margin, shown in the adjacent
box, was boosted by REALIC's Life Insurance income, contributing GBP83 million to this
line in the first half of 2013.
Finally, on the left of this slide, we have seen an increase in spread income to GBP377
million, principally reflecting the higher level of general account assets. We have held our
margin, due to the continuation of the fixed account allocation from new VA business,
which attracts a low crediting rate of 1%. This is a temporary effect. And we still anticipate
that this margin will continue to trend towards the 200 basis point level over the next
three years.
In the UK, total income was broadly unchanged, while total expenses was somewhat
lower than last year, in part reflecting lower commission costs as a result of RDR. Spread
income, on the left, was lower at GBP102 million, due to the reduction in conventional
annuity sales and no new bulks in the first half of this year. I would like remind you that
bulks contributed GBP18 million to the 2012 IFRS result.

Bloomberg Transcript

Insurance margin is higher, as it includes a GBP27 million benefit from a longevity swap
executed earlier in the year for risk management purposes. Income from With-Profits,
shown in the bottom right, declined in line with the reductions in policyholder bonuses.
Moving to Asset Management. And other non-Life businesses, IFRS profit was 18% higher,
at GBP312 million. As you can see in the breakout box to the right, the improvement in
performance is driven by M&G and Eastspring. But also from US Asset Management
where operations such as Curian, which were previously subscale, are now beginning to
make more material contributions.
Looking at M&G in more detail on the left, operating profit was 17% higher at GBP204
million. Stripping out performance-related fees and earnings from associates, underlying
income increased by a healthy 19% to GBP421 million. The increase tracks the 17% growth
in average funds under management, which as Tidjane has already covered, reflects M&G
success in attracting significant new business inflows and at [ph] higher market levels.
I indicated at the prelims in March that we would be making additional investments in
scaling up the infrastructure of M&G in 2013 and 2014. Reflecting this, expenses have
increased by 22%. And as a consequence, the cost-income ratio has ticked up
1percentage point to 54%.
I would remind you that, as in previous years, M&G's cost base has a second-half bias. So
pleased allow for these in your forecasts. In 2012, for example, the full-year cost ratio was
6 points higher than in the first half.
Eastspring Investments reported a 19% increase in profits to GBP38 million, with total fee
income growing at a faster rate than expenses. A continuation of the consumer-led
preference for bonds over equity saw average fee levels reduced by 1 point. Fund growth
mitigated this effect, driving income and earnings higher at the half-year stage.
Page 17 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

Turning to our results on an embedded value basis, you can see from the chart on the left
that total Life profit was 15% higher at GBP2,497 million, equivalent to an annualized return
on opening embedded value of 16%.
Our Life businesses in Asia and the US have reported strong increases in operating profit
of 24% and 26% respectively and are both above the GBP1 billion mark for the first time.
This performance reflects both business growth and the positive effect of the recent
rebound in long-term yields.
The UK reported an 18% decline in EEV profits, as 2012 included items that have not
recurred, such as the positive effect of reductions in UK tax rates. In line with our
established reporting practice, the benefits from the further reductions in UK tax rates
enacted in July, which amount to GBP115 million, will be recognized in the second half of
the year.
Across the Group, our overall In-force profits increased by 20% to GBP1,229 million. This
reflects our relentless focus on managing the existing business for value.

Bloomberg Transcript

It also illustrates the positive gearing to higher interest rates, which is evident in the
component labeled unwind. This has increased from GBP761 million to GBP954 million.
And we estimate that GBP75 million of this step up comes from the rebound in long-term
rates.
Despite the ongoing the global macro headwinds, our focus on delivering the right
outcomes for our customers. And on managing our affairs efficiently, saw all three
businesses sustain positive contributions from operating experience and assumption
changes. Overall profits were slightly higher at GBP277 million, demonstrating both the
quality and the resilience of our franchise.
On this next slide, I will briefly run through the rest of our profit and loss account for both
IFRS and EEV.
As I have shown you in my presentation so far, rising equity markets and higher long-term
yields are beneficial to our overall operating performance. The other positive impact of
such market movements is that the guarantees provided to policyholders by certain parts
of our Groups, such as Jackson, become less onerous, as Tidjane has already
demonstrated.
But as you know, under IFRS, the accounting does not fully reflect these effects, which has
resulted in negative investment variances in the first half. As we have previously flagged,
this is driven by the accounting mismatch from hedges that are fully mark-to-market and
liabilities that are marked mostly to cost.
While our total IFRS profits are susceptible to this type of accounting noise, we remain
steadfast in our approach to hedging on an economic basis. And we accept the
accounting volatilities that ensue.
Page 18 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

The rise in interest rates has also generated negative value movements on our holdings
of fixed income securities, which, under IFRS, come through the investment variance and
the unrealized losses on AFS securities line. Again, these negatives are not economic, as
we will typically hold these instruments to maturity.

FINAL

These factors, combined with the payment of the 2012 final dividend, have driven our IFRS
shareholders' equity lower at GBP9.6 billion.
On an EEV basis, we can fully recognize the economic benefit of the higher market levels
and, as you can see on the slide, the overall investment variance is a net positive. As a
result, post-tax profit for the period on this basis was 41% higher at GBP1.9 billion. And
after allowing for foreign exchange movements and dividends, retained earnings boosted
our shareholders' funds by 80p to 958p per share.
Turning to the balance sheet, the overall picture is unchanged. We remain well capitalized
and defensively positioned. The Group's IGD surplus at the end of June, after paying the
2012 final dividend and acquiring Thanachart Life, was GBP3.9 billion, equivalent to a cover
of 2.3 times. I would remind you that the IGD surplus now includes Jackson's capital in
excess of the 250% RBC level, in line with the change we adopted earlier in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Group's liquidity remains sound. The $700 million perpetual Tier 1 notes raised in
January 2013 further supports the financial flexibility of the Group, while taking advantage
of low interest rates.
Higher remittances from businesses have increased central cash resources to GBP1.5
billion. We continue to experience no defaults and minimal impairments. We have,
nevertheless, maintained the level of default provisions in the UK. And generally retained
a conservative approach to credit.
Finally, our stance on hedging the US variable annuity exposures is unchanged. We hedge
on an economic basis, utilizing the full 120 basis points of fees charged for providing the
guarantees, which equates to a GBP1 billion hedging budget.
We have seen no significant shift in customer behavior. And our pricing and reserving
assumptions remain conservative when compared to our actual experience. The GBP294
million remittance from Jackson in the first half of the year confirms the soundness of its
overall capital position.
Moving now to free surplus and cash generation. Free surplus stock has increased from
GBP3.7 billion at the start of the year, shown on the left, to GBP4.1 billion at the end of
June, shown on the right.
As you move from left to right on the slide, you can see the GBP1,548 million of free
surplus generated by our In-force book, which is 11% higher than last year, with strong and
growing contributions from all of our businesses.

Page 19 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

We continue to take actions to optimize capital consumption and have used GBP396
million to write new business, equivalent to a reinvestment rate of 26%, in line with last
year.

FINAL

After taking into account market movements and the impact of corporate activity, our free
surplus stock rose to GBP5 billion, allowing us to remit GBP844 million to the center.
Staying with this theme for a moment, I want to highlight the scale of free surplus that our
business has generated and how this has been deployed since January 1, 2010, the start
of the period covered by our cumulative free surplus objective.
The left-hand column shows that we started 2010 with a free surplus stock of GBP2.5
billion, on top of which in the blue bars, our growing Life and Asset Management
businesses have generated a combined GBP9.2 billion of free surplus over the 3.5 year
period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving one column to the left, you can see that from this total, GBP2.2 billion was
reinvested in writing new business; GBP1.2 billion absorbed market effects and foreign
exchange and other items; GBP4.1 billion was remitted to Group, leaving a free surplus
stock of GBP4.1 billion at June 30, shown in the gray bar, to support the increased scale of
our local businesses.
The GBP4.1 billion of cash remitted to the center has enhanced the Group's central
resources, as illustrated in the chart on the right. This chart shows that all four businesses
have made material remittances over the last 3.5 years, ranging from GBP0.9 billion to
GBP1.3 billion.
Together, these remittances have financed interest central costs and other corporate
activities and provided the cash to pay GBP2.3 billion of dividends to shareholders,
including the additional outlay from the two upward dividend re-bases during this period.
So how does this compare to the objectives that we set ourselves in December 2010?
We expected to generate cumulative free surplus of GBP6.5 billion after financing new
business over the four-year period to 2013. 3.5 years in, we have already exceeded this
objective, having generated GBP6.9 billion.
We also expected that the cumulative free surplus would enable remittances totaling
GBP3.8 billion to the center over this four-year period. We have already exceeded this
objective, having remitted GB4.1 billion, which as you can see, represents a remittance
ratio of just under 60%.
So what this demonstrates is the consistency and pace with which our business has been
able to generate free surplus after financing new business. It also illustrates how quickly
this free surplus generation has translated into cash to the center. And how these
remittances have enabled to grow our dividends to shareholders.

Page 20 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

Our discipline of managing the In-force book for value. And our focus on writing high
return, fast payback new business, make us confident that this positive dynamic will
continue, going forward.
So to conclude, Prudential has delivered a strong start to 2013. Our performance in this
period is broad based, with our key financial metrics of NBP, IFRS operating profit and cash
achieving strong double-digit growth. At the same time, we have improved the quality,
consistency and balance of our earnings and have accelerated the generation of free
surplus and cash to Group, all of which underpins our confidence in the future prospects
of our business.
Thank you. I will now hand you back to Tidjane.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, thanks a lot, Nic. As you have seen, we have had a good first half of the year. So
let's now turn to the outlook.
The significant long-term opportunity for sustainable and profitable growth for our
Company in Asia is well captured by this slide illustrating three key and simple points.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first one is that we have a great platform in Asia. We have the right products and right
people.
The second is that we are well positioned in the right markets, our so-called sweet spot.
And third, that even with the scale we have already achieved, our customer numbers
remain a small fraction of the opportunity available in these countries, with between 0.5%
and 1% of the population in our customer base.
To put this in perspective, one only has to look at the UK, where our customer base of 7
million represents 11% of the total population. This, for me, confirms that we have not
even scratched the surface in terms of capturing the potential in these markets.
This is why we are confident that this Company is well positioned to deliver profitable
growth in Asia. And to generate significant additional shareholder value for years to come.
So to summarize, the Group has delivered a strong operating performance for the first
half of 2013, with double-digit growth across its three key metrics of new business profit,
IFRS operating profit. And cash.
Shareholders continue to see the benefit of its performance through both capital
appreciation and a growing dividend. We continue to execute our growth and cash
agenda by focusing on delivering profitable growth in Asia and cash generation from all
businesses, as Nic just told you.

Page 21 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

So more of the same will generate, over time, huge value for our shareholders. And there
remains very significant untapped profitable growth potential for this Company.

FINAL

With that, I'd like to thank you for your attention and we are happy to take your questions.
If my colleagues will join us on the stage, we'll move to Q&A.

Questions And Answers
A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

If you want to ask a question, the usual format, stick your hand up, state your name, firm's
name and off you go.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Gordon Aitken, RBC. A couple of questions. I'm interested in the six objectives you set,
three of them are in Asia. I think, at the time, some of us doubted that you were going to
achieve them; it looks like you're going to achieve them all. But, in Asia the remittance and
operating profit targets, you're already well ahead. I'm just wondering, presumably when
you set the targets you set them with a similar level of buffer and stretch built into them.

Bloomberg Transcript

Why has it taken, the new business profit target, why has it taken longer to achieve that
one? Was it a tougher target to start with or was there any other reason?
And the second question, the UK. You mentioned you were not liking conventional
annuities quite so much. Why is that?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Sorry, the second question is --?

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

You're not liking conventional annuities quite as much.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, fine. Secondly [ph], I just said that the With-Profit annuities were popular in the
current interest rate environment in the UK because they provide a better return,
basically, than conventional annuities for customers. Personally, no I don't have a dislike of
conventional annuities.
On the first one, it's a really important point. If you wish, when we were setting the
targets, that was -- where is Barry -- the most heated discussion between Barry and me
was about NBP, because what you don't want to do when you set a target. And also
Adrian [ph] is nodding there, is to make yourself a hostage to fortune.

Page 22 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

The simple truth is the one we control the least is NBP. You see it being moved by interest
rates, up or down. You see it being moved by a lot of things we do not control. And it's
the one we like the least. We're committed to it to give a sense of how confident we
were. But it's one that is the most dependent on things outside our control. And we don't
think it's particularly wise to make yourself a hostage to fortune.
We did that, really, as a sign of our confidence and I think it's going to happen; if you look
at the targets you can do your own calculations. I think 8% in the second half takes you
there.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

6.7%.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, 6.7%. I was trying to be authoritative [ph].

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

7%.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

7% in the second half will take him to his NBP target. So we would have had a lot of
trouble doing the target in the first half. So it's the one we cannot deliver in the half year,
the NBP.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Effectively, it's a sales target so unless we were able to write as much -- to do it six
months earlier you'd have to write the full year's new business in the first six months of
the year.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And you can do many things. But (multiple speakers)

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

We're good. But we're not quite that good yet.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Fair enough, it's the one we frankly we like the least. It has all the negative features of
what people don't like about targets.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Blair Stewart, BofA Merrill Lynch. I think I've got three questions. Firstly, the domestication
of the Hong Kong with-profits fund and the legal entity structure in Asia. We can all have a
Page 23 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

guess what that might mean strategically. But what does it mean from a financial
perspective, if anything, for the Company?

FINAL

Secondly, given that cash levels are so strong, I think you've re-set the dividend twice in
the last three years. Any comment on what your thinking is there?
And thirdly, in the UK, I think on individual annuities you've got a very passive strategy.
What implications, if any, do you expect from the review of that market going on at the
moment? Are you going to have to become more active. And does that mean lower
margins ultimately? Thank you.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you. On the domestication maybe I'll let Nic take that one and I'll come back on the
dividend and have Rob inform [ph] on the annuities.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So we're domesticating both With-Profit business and also Non-Profit business. The
With-Profit business will be domesticated with its share of the estate and I will provide the
appropriate working capital not only to write new business. But also to provide the
ongoing protection to existing customers.
The Non-Profit business will also be domesticated; that will also go across with its own
capital base. But in Hong Kong it will have to be managed to clear, if you like, a hurdle
above the minimum. Therefore, there will be some marginal friction in terms of the capital
that we need for the Non-Profit side. But you've seen the numbers that we've reported
both in terms of free surplus and also in terms of the cash that we're generating. That
impact is manageable.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, the cash and the dividend. You know our thinking there, Blair. We've kept the same
dividend policy and the approach we've taken is rather than touch our dividend policy to
re-base the dividend itself, every time we've created enough headroom. So the logic is
simple.
We stress this, our cash flows on almost every metric and quite a few of them, although
you can see it on account of [ph] rating agency capital, or IFRS, or EEV shareholder funds,
etc., starting to reap capital. And we set the dividend growth at the level where it is safe
to pay as much dividend as it is safe to pay.
We have no reluctance to do a step-up when actually that headroom appears, just that
there have been a number of favorable factors and, as you can see in the targets, etc.,
we've made progress faster than we thought. Every time that's happened we've raised
the dividend. And that's really all we have to say on that.

Page 24 of 39



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

We are fortunate enough to have a lot of organic growth available. So we saturate our
appetite for profitable organic growth. We continue to build the capital base, because
one consequence of this growth agenda and growth in cash is that the room [ph] does
get bigger. So we do have to retain some of those earnings not to weaken the capital
position of the Group. And frankly, M&A, as you've seen, we're very opportunistic; we're
very, very happy with the two transactions that we've done. REALIC was a fantastic
transaction and the integration has been very good. The numbers are excellent.
Thanachart is phenomenal. I told them, if it's proven I would come [ph] in July; this was a
long-planned visit with Barry and we visited the branches, just a remarkable transaction in
a great market.
It's anecdotal. But I had a meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister, who is very influential in
Thailand, with Barry. And I told him what we say, usually in those cases, we invested $0.5
billion in your country, an expression of confidence; we like the economy, we like your
country and he stopped me and said, I'm not interested. Tell me what we can do better; I
want some detail. What were the things we could have improved? To hear that from the
leadership of a country, as an investor, gives you great comfort.
So back to my central point, we have the luxury of not needing to do M&A. We have
enough organic growth. So we can really be selective and only do it when it's very
attractive. So you don't need to keep a big war chest prediction of M&A. We do relatively
small transactions. So the rest is for the shareholders, really.

Bloomberg Transcript

Review of annuities, Rob, are we being cautious?

A - Rob Devey

{BIO 5103083 <GO>}

Happy to pick that up. We've been involved in the annuity review. And very comfortably
supporting what's going on there. I think in terms of the implication for ourselves, we have
to remind ourselves what our UK pensions' and annuities' portfolio looks like. It's a very
large number of really rather small annuities. So the average ticket size is around about
GBP20,000. Those are very satisfied and normal Prudential customers.
Our vestings customers get a benefit when they come to us, because we give them a
better price, because we don't have the anti-selection risks that we get there. So we're
very comfortable about our pricing in that market. And with the introduction of the Code
of Conduct for Retirement Choices that came in, in March, we're also seeing very strong
feedback from our customers around them being aware of the choices they already have
available to them in terms of whether it's different types of annuity. And in terms of the
ability to shop around in the market more generally.
So albeit there will be focus on this. And we're supporting the focus on that; we're very
confident as we look forward in terms of that book. As you know, we do not play
aggressively in the conventional open market, because we think the marginal pricing in
that market is not attractive, relative to other opportunities we have as a Group.

Q - Greig Paterson
Page 25 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

Greig Paterson, KBW. Three quick questions. One is, just in terms of the inherited estate
discussions, Nic, do you still stand by the statement? I think I asked you before that when
the Standard Chartered deal renews, you'll be able to finance those renewal costs via the
inherited estate, as was done before last time.
Second question is Indonesia, to me that seems like the other area where there's
potential new distribution deals. I was wondering, is there any regulatory restrictions on
how many licenses or deals you can do?
And then as a final one, I was listening to your targets in terms of remittances and new
business. And free surplus generation. I was just wondering in Asia out of the UOB [ph]
and the free surplus generation, how much of that has been acquired through new
distribution deals over the period 2010 to 2013?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Nic, do you want to take the first one?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Look, I'm not going to speculate on what will happen towards the end of the decade
when we come to that point. So I don't have anything to add to that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Indonesia, how many licenses? What can I say. I don't really -- a bit like Nic, I don't want to
comment on speculation in the media. What I can say is that we are very happy with our
performance in Indonesia. I'm sure you've noticed some of it is optical, because in local
currency it's much stronger than the 17% we announced. And NPBs of 27%. On a business
of that scale we're very happy with our performance.
And we think we have enough growth available. Again, with 2 million customers in a 251
million people country, if we only do what we've done in the UK we would end up with 25
million customers in a reasonable time. So no, we're not really worried. I don't know, Barry,
you want to say more about Indonesia?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

There's no regulatory limit on number of bancassurance deals, or other sort of structures
that we could use to drive distribution. And as we say with respect to Indonesia, with any
other market we obviously see every distribution deal that's available in the marketplace.
And a handful of those we really go after because we think they make a lot of sense.
That's where UOB came from; that's where Thanachart came from.
Many, many, of these deals we look at and, for various different reasons, we think they
don't make sense and we don't go for them. And we'll continue to use that system which
we think, if you look at it over the last six years or seven years, it's paid very handsomely
for shareholders.

Page 26 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

So it's a bit of the answer for your third question. Because we really don't -- we never give
you breakups in terms of new deals, because really we see sometimes when I want to
surprise I say we only have one channel in Asia. And it's face-to-face sell; sometimes it
takes place in the bank branch. But we've always seen banking distribution [ph] as part of
our organic strategy, just adding more people frankly. It just happens to be in branches
sometimes. But it's not a different strategy from our perspective.
And you know those deals, we really do post-acquisition reviews, etc., etc. From a
(inaudible) you pay for a business plan; that's why we keep giving you this kind of wink and
nod we are ahead of our plan, comfortably. That means we're gaining extra returns on the
IRR we targeted, to be in plain language. And right now one of those deals -- UOB has
doubled every year.
The price we pay that you see is a business plan we buy; we've outperformed that every
time. But we won't say too much because there'll be future deals. And every time it
becomes harder. Every time we pull that trick it becomes harder and next time to extract
a good price. But we have no doubt in all the situations that we are really getting the
returns we expected on the capital invested. And more.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions; firstly, I think the first thing you did when
you arrived, Tidjane, was look at the inherited estate in the UK. And decide not to go for
it. Now that you are unbolting the Hong Kong business. And with the UK inherited estate
more mature with less policyholders, could you give us an idea as to what the realistic
value of it is. And what your plans are and timescale on that?
Secondly on M&G, could I get a sense as to what higher rates mean for your Retail
business, the flows impact on the bond side? And also what your views are on clean-clean
pricing. And how a fund manager views that?
And then thirdly, I think at the full year, you talked a bit about being prepared to give
some of the economic capital data. I wonder how you're getting along with that. And what
that's showing.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. Maybe, Nic, you can take the -- we'll go in reverse order, take the
economic capital. Then over to Michael on the clean pricing. And higher rates, return flows.
And I'll take the inherited estate.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Sure, now we continue to work on that, Andrew. And we'll bring that information to the
market in the New Year.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}
Page 27 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

Okay, that was efficient
Michael.

FINAL

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

Two parts to that question; clean-clean pricing, it's too early to say is the short answer,
Andrew. It's not positive. But we're playing in an awful lot of different channels and an
awful lot of different markets. As you've seen from the numbers, there's a lot of growth
taking place in Europe. So there's a whole mix going on in the marketplace. And it really is
too early to say how this whole thing's going to shake out.
On rates and flows into bond funds, we have been experiencing steady net outflows from
our main corporate bond funds in the UK. There are two flagship corporate bond funds
where we've been the leaders for actually, I can now say, many years. These two funds
were getting very big last autumn and we decided to take action to choke off the flows.
And ever since then, there's just been a steady movement of money out of those funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

How quickly would rates back up, you can see multiple different scenarios. If you have
rates going up very quickly with a sudden sharp shock, it could be over before you've
even had a chance to analyze the consequences. And suddenly the flows are stable again.
On the other hand, you could have a perception that, fundamentally, inflation is really
coming back and rates are going to keep backing out for a long period of time, in which
case, that would probably be much more negative.
Again, there's a whole range of scenarios and it depends where the money's going to,
because what's coming out of bonds is going somewhere else. And we've got to capture
our share.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And I think the other question was on the inherited estate; you and I discussed it a lot at
the time. If you remember, the things we said when we make a decision, a key
consideration was the growth prospects of a with-profits fund. And the fact that we were
going to continue to write new business, in the with-profits fund. And we felt that the
attribution was a transfer of value between the future policyholders and existing
policyholders. So our view as a Company that future policyholders had actually rights [ph]
to benefit from the products.
And also, last consideration, was there really a surplus to distribute or not. And that was
depending on how you looked at markets, etc.. And I think, with hindsight, it was a good
decision to have kept that inherited estate. I think -- is it GBP7.8 billion, or not? Yes, well
that's valued GBP7.8 billion in total, at June 30.
Sorry? The inherited estate, it's our valuation at June --

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}
Page 28 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

Well, that's the face value on a realistic basis, which is Pillar 1, on a Pillar 1 realistic basis,
GBP7.8 billion. In terms of how much of that is included in our embedded value, it's 1/10th.
But given that we assume the embedded value of this stuff gets paid out by way of a
terminal bonus, it gets discounted down to about 7% or 8% in its value.

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

So the short answer on that is we will look at that issue again, once the investigation has
been completed. And work with the same parameters to make a decision.

Q - Chris Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Chris Esson, Credit Suisse. Just a quick question on the composition of Asian new
business profits. On page 15 of the EEV disclosures, it suggested that Hong Kong saw
something like 60% growth. And the other markets, which included fairly appealing
markets like Singapore and Malaysia among others, saw flat year-on-year trends. Just
wanted to get a sense of what's going on, country by country, on NBP.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Yes, we can give you some color on that. Between Barry and Nic, do you want to speak to
it?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

What happened in Hong Kong was really -- it's all economics. It's increases in interest
rates that materially improved.
What you're seeing elsewhere in terms of new business profit movement generally is a
continuing strength of health and protection products. And you're seeing a continuing
strengthening of margin, a little bit, as a result of geographic mix. So that's why the
margin is where it is.
In terms of new business profit progression in other markets, there's a little bit of a ding
[ph] in Vietnam because there was a change in the regulations there on how we split
bonuses between shareholder and policyholder. So that had a little bit of an impact in
Vietnam, even though the business is growing very strongly there. We had a very good
first half there.
Other places, basically the progression continues to be good. As I say, you saw in the
overall regional results, 12% growth at the top line, 20% of the top line that we really focus
on, which is NBP. And again, the factors I already mentioned drove that. But the exception
really of those two instances, it's pretty good stuff. Nic, you want to --?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

The only thing I would add is, in places such as Indonesia and Malaysia, where most of
what we write, nearly up to two-thirds, is health and protection, rising interest means that
are discounting those future profits at a higher rate and, therefore, their NBP is lower. So if

Page 29 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

you like, the headline year-on-year movement in those two countries is depressed by that
effect.

FINAL

Places like Hong Kong and Singapore, you see the opposite; the mix of business is such
that rising interest rates gives a kicker to the NBP progression. So those are the effects
that you're seeing come through. And the rest, as Barry said, is a function of products you
sell with mix distribution channel and so on. And so forth.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It really goes back to the central point of diversification that it can be frustrating
sometimes. But what we always take you back to is the total performance of our portfolio,
because it's a strength of insurance companies. That's how it works.
When you discount the insurance income in Indonesia, yes, higher interest rates hurt us.
But during the whole period where interest rates are going down, it protected us. And
that's the way it is.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Hong Kong, we suffered when interest rates were going down. And now we're gaining
where interest rates are going up. And that's why you want a diversified platform. And
that's actually what allows you to have all those nice progressions on the total Asia
performance, every time, because it's well diversified.
So at every point in time, we'll come under pressure, in a given country; depending on
how the macroeconomic environment is, there will be countries benefiting, countries
suffering.
And then you get more country-specific factors, the elections in Malaysia, (inaudible). And
the total Malaysian market, that's very busy from industry statistics struggles in the first
half. And that comes through our numbers. We're not completely insulated from that.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Last year, the Second Quarter was in Malaysia. The market in the First Quarter was -- the
growth rate was 0.2% for the market. So --

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi, JPMorgan. A couple of questions. First, on slide 81, you have given GBP100
million negative impact from economic hedging. That's 20% of your US earnings. So how
should we think about that, given that it's on an economic basis? That's the first one.
Secondly, can you give us some color about your leverage, how rating agencies think
about your leverage, given that the increase in leverage is supporting your IGD capital as
well? And also, the NAV went down, mainly because of just mark-to-market, the bond
portfolio.

Page 30 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

And thirdly, can you just remind us, when does this bond take practice [ph] on interest
rate swap ends [ph]; is it (inaudible) if I'm not wrong, something [ph]? Thank you.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thank you Ashik. The hedging, slide 81, Nic, do you want to take that?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes, what we've done on slide 81 is to convert if you like, the IFRS number, with all its
shortcomings, into something that is more economic by adjusting those shortcomings in
IFRS. So one of the things, even for those products that are accounted on a FAS 157 basis,
you're only allowed to account in the way you think about those products, only a portion
of the fees. So what the first adjustment we make, is to then give ourselves credit for the
full portion of those fees.
Then you have a whole host of products that are accounted on an SOP3-1 basis where
nothing is economic. So what we've done in relation to that is we've moved those passive
assumptions to align with FAS 157. And that also mitigates the impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then you have one or two other assets. We talk about having -- the way the book is
structured, there are some internal hedges, or internal offsets, that inform our hedging
philosophy. And you see the other two bars relate to that.
So if you like, this is an IFRS adjusted result. Now, the reason, although it's called hedge
result, it's not fully economic, because one of the things we don't do in IFRS is to take into
account the additional net present value of the M&E fees, which, as you see from our
sources of earnings, are 200 basis points.
So if you like, yes, it's the hedge result on an economic basis. But of course the business,
because the balance sheet is that much higher, we're able to earn GBP196 million [ph],
which is what we earned at the half year, of M&E fees. And that's not NBP, in these
numbers.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

So all of the accounting endorse that [ph]; we of course, take that into account when we
define our hedging strategy. We take that fully into account. We don't try to manage that
negative GBP100 million. I don't know if Mike or Chad, you want to add anything?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

No, I think we flagged this in New York, that both IFRS and stat [ph] floor out at these
levels. And so we knew there was going to be a material mismatch and the firms,
historically in the US, that hedge to smooth accounting results did very poorly in real
economic events. And we stick with a strategy of hedging the economics. I think it's the
only way to do it.

Page 31 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Also, the metaphor we use is, if hold a bunch of umbrellas. And there is a drought, that
says your umbrellas are worthless, that's no ground to get rid of your umbrellas

FINAL

So we will hold onto our umbrellas, because when it rains they're going to sell for $20
apiece. That's the way it is.
So that's what our hedges are. Mark-to-market says okay, it's not been raining. So your
umbrellas are worth nothing. I say, don't listen to mark-to-market; the simple way.
Leverage rating agencies, Nic, do you want to take that?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

You've seen both S&P and Moody's have taken us through committee this year. That's
part of the process of they look at a whole host of metrics, not only the financial ones. But
also the non-financial ones.

Bloomberg Transcript

Leverage is not an area that we're getting a lot of noise from the rating agencies. Of
course, they also look at our ability to cover the interest. And that's been, with the
increase in earnings, that's been going up strongly as well. So no issue, from my
perspective, in terms of the leverage. And as I said, there's no heat from rating agencies,
quite the opposite.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And a growing balance sheet creates debt capacity as we go. And that's something
we've always, how can I say this, taken advantage of.
Permitted practices --?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

It's an annual renewal; it continues to understate the strength of our financial position. I
think it's arguably quite conservative and we're going once a year to the Commissioner
and go through it. They review the hedges much more frequently than that. But that policy
is annual.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

(inaudible)

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Yes. From memory, it's October, it's every year and we're still doing it [ph].

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Page 32 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

Fahad Changazi, Nomura. Could I follow up on Blair's question, please, if I may? You're
generating very strong free surplus emergence [ph] and there's always a line there that's
about GBP200 million of changes in operating assumption variances and, again, it was
quite strong again. Could you give us some guidance on that in H2 and going forward?
And, secondly, just on that basis again, could we have a guidance on investment in new
business because it always seems to be H1/H2-weighted. You said the reinvestment rate
was the same as last year; I presume that's going to be the case, going forward.
And, finally, the cash balance is significant, GBP1.5 billion. Could you tell us how you think
about the cash balance and what you're targeting there?
And this final question on the US, if you don't mind. You did comment that there were
increasing competitive pressures. Could you talk about the quantum and timeframe of
these pressures and how you look at the tradeoff between rising yields, risk appetite and
market share?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

That's a lot of questions. But we will take them; hopefully, very quick. Nic, you can take the
first three and then Mike the fourth one.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Look, when I think about capital generation, I don't factor into any of my forward thinking
continuation of positive experience. I take that if it happens. But the way I think about it is
assuming it won't happen but if it does, then that's upside.
The H1/H2, candidly, that in part reflects, more often than not, mix. The bias is not driven
by anything smart. What we do with our capital in the second half, it often reflects the mix
of business which, again, is done to a degree driven by customer preferences.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you. Mike on the US dynamics market?

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

In 18 plus years I've never had a market share target. So we've never, as a Group, said we
want X% of the market or X ranking in the market. I think with the success in Elite Access
you're going to see us in the number one slot for a while. But you're comparing a variable
annuity with no living benefit to sales of companies, products that are with other benefits.
So that ranking becomes a little less clean; it's sort of like the net ranking numbers. There
you have players that actually would like their net assets to decline. So that's no longer as
direct as it was. We absolutely look at rising interest rates' volatility.

Page 33 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

We test the pace and the products real time. As you've seen, we can adjust them now 90
days, fairly major change, six months at a full rewrite. And then there's levers we can pull
in shorter periods. So we're looking at that all the time.

FINAL

And then there's other levers like where the distribution team focuses, those raise or
lower your sales in a given product as well. So we're looking at all that real time. Does that
answer your question?

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

I was more concerned with what you think the market was going to do, how it was going
to develop in terms of the --

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Oh, okay. So what you're seeing -- the variable annuity market in general?

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

The variable annuity market. So it's very mixed signal now. So you have some players
pulling back or stating targeted caps, if you will. You have a number of companies, maybe
five, coming up with more consumer-friendly or more aggressively priced products,
depending on if you're a buyer or seller of that. And it's actually doing very well. I think
you're going to see a larger number of firms share the bulk of the market now.
AIG's done a very good job coming back. You have others trying, Allianz. You have some
interesting new products coming out of competitors that have varying retirement solution,
risk limitation strategies built in them.
I think the overall market for living benefits is clearly down. And I think the mistake to make
when you look at US market trends now is the top line only definition.
So if you said how have variable annuities done year over year, they're down. It looks
down a few %. If you said the products sold a year ago, it's actually down much more than
that because the new products, including Elite Access, have filled in some of that gap. So
it'll be a little more complicated from where you guys sit to compare it company by
company, I think, going forward.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's going to be fascinating to watch what happens from here because, as interest rates
improve margin, does it create headroom for some to again change their pricing and
move in the opposite direction of what we've seen the last four, five years? What impact
is that going to have on the sales?

Page 34 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

You've heard us give the same answer over and over and over again which is we don't
know. Okay, a lot of what we do at the time will depend on how the competition behaves
and, historically, that's been something that's been very hard to predict; that's why we're
always reluctant to.
We're often surprised by what others do. So just a degree of caution there and we'll
adjust to the involvement [ph] that we see. An optimist will tell you that some lessons
have been learnt and will go towards a more healthy behavior in market, going forward.
But that would be contrary to past experience. So we'll see how it goes.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Sorry, I haven't answered your question on cash. Yes, GBP1.5 billion, look, that is a little -it's optically flattered by the fact that Jackson paid us all the dividend in the first half.
But to the substantive part of your question, yes, I'd like to keep cash above GBP1 billion
at the center and we tend to be pessimists, I guess, that I want to have the cash if I need
to hedge in the event of a market shock. We saw the value of that back in '08.
Last year, we also took some action in the lead up to the Greek election, believe it or not.
It feels like an age away but, yes, we want to have the money to protect a downside if we
need to. And, yes, there needs to be something there if there is a distribution
opportunity, not to have to worry about where the money is going to come from.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's always a minor philosophy [ph] point. When you see the GBP1.5 billion we should at the
beginning of the period, in '10 that was absolutely built up on purpose because,
throughout the crisis, we believed that optionality would come from having cash available.
And if we can do UOB in January 2010, which I think personally we got at a fantastic price,
we know others were surfing around the target. So we had the cash. The value of cash
varies across the economic cycle. We know what it's like to have a lot of cash available.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. A couple of questions on, I guess, the US first and a
couple on Asia, if I can? On the US very quickly, I'm not sure -- on G-SIFI I'm not sure really
what the message is because my understanding is that variable annuities were going to
be non-standard under G-SIFI. And I'm just wondering how we should view that in the
context of the Group.
And the second thing on the US is, the lapse rates I saw from Met and some other peers
in their presentations they've given out since your Investor Day have been a lot lower than
yours. I'm just wondering if you can think of a reason why your lapse rates are substantially
lower than the expectations of everybody else's.
And on Asia, a couple of high level questions, if I could? The first one is, coming back to
your slide on you should buy Prudential because of the need to fund healthcare out of inPage 35 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

FINAL

the-pocket expenses, I'm just wondering why you think that's a market for you and not a
market for employers because, in most of the regions, it's the employer that provides the
private medical insurance and, in which case, do you need an agency network and
bancassurance to do that?
And the final bit on Asia is, how much of the protection sales are linked to the housing
market? So if there was a housing market slowdown in Asia, what impact would that have?
Because obviously, I can see bancassurance has been growing quite strongly over the
past year.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, we can take -- G-SIFI, I'm not sure, you're asking how VAs are classified. The short
answer on that is we don't know. We're waiting to hear from the regulator on the SII and in
the US --

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Clearly, yes, when you look at the criteria that they've used in designating variable
annuities, sizes of the derivative program were factors. But so were the size of unit-linked
funds and unitized with-profits because it was deemed that those, in an extreme
scenario, if there is a mass lapse, it could create liquidity problems.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

That's one of the debates we're having, that we are telling them that there's never been
-- the attitude of a retail investor is not to sell at the trough. Okay?
So the exam [ph] question is what happens if you're running at GBP30 billion of unit-linked
liabilities, what happens if people want to cash them in at the bottom of the market? Not
just us. But that's how many other are saying, that it's never ever happened in history it's
not what they do [ph]. Your lapse risk is actually when you come out of a crisis.
We have experienced that a million times. People invest GBP100 million [ph] and they
come back to GBP95 million [ph] they think about selling. But when they're at GBP20
million [ph] they don't sell; that's economic history. But how do you prove that it will never
-- so we're having those types of debates.
That's why we are saying there's still a lot of work to do; I know that. It's very early stages.
We haven't even been told formally yet what is the logic behind these decisions. So that's
why we're just cautious in many things. So we'll see.
We're engaged with them; we'll understand better. I've met some of my US peers, the
CEOs, everybody's in the same position and we're ready to engage with them.
Lapse rates, I'll let you answer that.

Page 36 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I wonder if I understood your question. Are you saying that their lapse rates are lower than
ours, or higher? Which way which side?

FINAL

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

They tend to be substantially lower than yours. I think Met was showing a 3% lapse rate at
its Investor Day presentation.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

That may have something to do with the on the moneyness of the book.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I think Mike was going to give you an answer, Mike?

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I like our book better than their book and it's on product design, on vintage [ph] -- thinking
about New York, I'm talking about the various vintages, the years of the S&P point at which
they were sold, they have a book that's got more exposure and more consumer benefit
relative to what they were charging and relative to the payout.
Remember Mets is effectively a GMIB-based book. So it's an annuitization option. Pru's is
more of a range product, a portfolio controlled product. So they're different products than
ours, different timing of sales; they're getting different behavior than we are.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

The other thing, in Asia it goes to the structure of the economies and sociological
structures and culture. If you take Europe, you will see that the provision of health
insurance varies a lot from market to market.
in the role of the employer, you'll see that a lot of the economies we're talking about
have a lot of very small businesses that are not likely to provide insurance to their
employees. And that the employees are very happy to take that on a private basis and
prefer it on a private basis [ph].

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Really, what you're describing is more of a western phenomenon, most notable in the
United States where it seems to not be going as well as some people would like. It
creates portability issues which, having individual cover mitigates. So there's lots of
reasons why it has worked the way it's worked in Asia.
As Tidjane said, you've seen virtually no inclination on the part of employers in Asia,
generally speaking, particularly in the sweet spot markets to do full-grown cover. And
typically, where you do see group coverage written in our part of the world, it tends to be,
Page 37 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

if anything, life insurance only, term life, just basic amounts of group life. And historically,
where medical benefits were provided, they were often provided only to expatriates who
were coming from someplace where they did need an employer-based healthcare plan.

FINAL

So that's what drives that. Your question about the real estate are you talking about
mortgage-reducing term?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Do we sell credit -- if you wish put insurance on the credits of the loans? [ph]

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

On housing, it's virtually nil. There's very little. There's a little bit of credit protection type
products get sold on like, for instance, through Thanachart, because Thanachart's the
number one financier of automobiles in the market. So there's a bit of that. But if you look
at it in terms of overall protection business, then it's miniscule.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

But the simple truth, to be transparent is, we've always told you that protection was an
upside in the banking channel. We don't do a lot of protection in the banking channel at all.
So we wanted to grow it. So it's not a problem we have today. We don't do that.
So thank you very much for your attention. Our message was just that the first half has
been a good first half, that we're on track to achieve our target. And we'll update you
soon. I think we have an Investor Day on December 3.
I heard an interesting comment this week which I'd never thought about, someone told
me. But surely you're going to announce your targets. And I said, why? And someone said,
because the time you announced your targets, it was in December usually and the other
times it was in November. So I'd like you not to draw too many correlations there
The date is December 3. We're looking forward to seeing you and updating you on the
whole Group then. And have a good holiday. Thank you. Have a good day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily

Page 38 of 39



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2013-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 39 of 39

