Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

Bank of America Merrill Lynch Insurance Conference
Company Participants
FINAL

Neill Currie , CEO

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Unidentified Participant
Very pleased to have with us today Neill Currie, head of RenaissanceRe. Neill was one of
the original leaders of this company; left for a while, came back. But something that I think
Neill has done remarkably well. And I don't think it is very easy, is to maintain a very
consistent culture at this company.

Bloomberg Transcript

Culture is a tough thing to talk about. It is tough to write about. We can't model it. But one
thing I have learned over 20 years of watching this industry is that it is really important.
And I think it is key to the success of RenaissanceRe.
There is other stuff going on, too. I will let Neill tell you about that.

Neill Currie

{BIO 6676681 <GO>}

Gentleman, have we got the mic going here? I like to wander around. Let me see if I have
got the clicker here. Let me try this out; green means go.
I want everybody to memorize this please. There will be a test later.
This is a pretty good spot, coming up after Dinos. They have got a marvelous company,
very good market value to share price and we kind of vie for that leading spot with those
guys. They are a very well-managed company. We think we are pretty well managed.
The intro to RenRe; we are a leading global provider of reinsurance and insurance. We do
property cat, we do specialty reinsurance. And we have a Lloyd's syndicate.
So I was -- I didn't know whether I wanted to mention this or not. But why not? It is
Valentine's Day, step out. One magazine had a survey; you know people do these things
about who is the best at this, who is the best at that. Well we have been lucky enough to
win the best property catastrophe reinsurer several times, maybe best Bermuda

Page 1 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

reinsurer. But this last year we won best global reinsurer. How about that? And we were
up against the big boys.

FINAL

10 years ago we never would have won an award like that, deserved or otherwise,
because we were viewed as a property cat company. But now it just shows the
recognition of the value we are bringing to the table with our specialty reinsurance and
our Lloyd's operation. So with that immodest statement it reminded me of Ben Franklin.
You know Ben wanted to be come as perfect as he could be and he would keep up with
certain traits and he would focus on one at a time. He was pretty good at most of them.
Somebody told him, said, Ben, you need to work on your modesty; you are a little bit
conceited.
And so he focused on that and became very good at it. Then he started bragging about
how good he had become at modesty. So I always remember that story and get a kick out
of it.
The rest of the stuff is pretty straightforward. We were started in 1993. This is our 20th
anniversary. We were founded with two guys. And I was one of them, back June 14, 1993.
So we are going to have a big celebration in Bermuda in June to celebrate our 20th.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange is RNR, which is completely ridiculous
because back in the war RNR stood for rest and relaxation. Ain't too much of that going
on at Renaissance.
Market capital of around $3.9 billion. Pretty good numbers on an ROE basis. And the thing
that we really focus on is tangible book value per share growth; we have been very
fortunate there. And the rating agencies like us and we want to keep it that way.
Jay, are you going to give me a fighting chance with the clock back there? Otherwise I will
talk for an hour. Okay, good. You will pull the hook out when it is time? Okay.
Everybody has a mission, a vision statement and you guys are well educated, you can
read that; but we do strive to produce superior returns. And frankly, one of the best ways
we do this is we look after our customers, both internal and external. And try to always
exceed our promises. We tried to excel in every way that we possibly can.
Our vision, we want to be a leader in financial services in the lines of business that we are
involved in. And I think we are.
This is a pretty -- speaking of immodesty, how about this one? Our identity. We are
committed to be the world's best underwriter of high severity, low-frequency risk. We
want to be the best that we can be and we strive constantly to get better.

Page 2 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

As Jay mentioned earlier, our culture; we are fortunate we have got a good group of
folks. They are smart, they are hard working, they get along. And that is not a very easy
thing.

FINAL

We are a pretty reasonable sized company financially. We are not very big from a people
standpoint. I think we have 311 employees. But really very talented ones. And guess what,
they work together well.
So the last part here on the strategy is to employ an integrated system and it matches up
most desirable risk with the most efficient capital. I have seen over the years that people
they get silos. We are the best actuaries, we are the best underwriters. And over here we
are the best finance guys. And over here we are the best venture guys.
But what makes Renaissance hum is all these folks work together well in an integrated
way. Fancy word, integrated; call it teamwork. But you will see in our annual report that is
going to come out, we are going to talk quite a bit about the integrated system.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other thing I find pretty humorous is back when we started the Company I was
vehement that we wouldn't have any pictures in the annual report and we didn't. Now I
came back as CEO in 2005 and, guess what, my mug is in the annual report. First thing
you see is a picture of me. So crazy world we live in. I wouldn't focus on the pictures; I
would focus on the writing.
Our competitive advantages. We say this all of the time. We refer to them as the three
superiors -- superior customer relationships, superior risk selection, superior capital
management.
So to have superior customer relations that I think is one of the things that is
underappreciated in our business. By having very good customer relationships we have
very good flow. We get to see virtually any deal out there and people want to do business
with us.
People think we are smart and we got a black box and we are good at modeling. And we
are all that stuff. But the client relationships -- we help our clients, we provide coverage for
them when they need the coverage. We have always done that.
Historically, we are there after loss to pay quickly. There is no faster payer of claims out
there than we are. And when a customer comes into our office we want them to walk out
of the office feeling like they have learned more about their business. And that happens
quite a bit of the time.
So by having these three superiors it enables us to have access to the most desirable risk
and we match that up with the most efficient capital through our superior capital
management. That gives us a superior portfolio.

Page 3 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

FINAL

Now, since we have been in business for about 20 years, it is really helpful -- we have a
portfolio of business that produces very good return. So every year we just have to
modify that a little bit. We lose a piece of business here or there. We gain a piece of
business here or there.
We buy retro -- we never buy retro because we have to. We buy it to make our book of
business more efficient. So if you have got a relatively stable book of business, then when
you put a pro forma out -- so when you look at a piece of business coming in does it
make your portfolio better or worse.
It is a lot easier to do that if you have got a pretty good idea of what that portfolio is and
is going to be versus being a new start up trying to put together that portfolio. Because
you might find a piece of business you want. But it may be very difficult for you to get on
that piece of business.
I guess this goes back to a Ben Franklin slide. This is rather immodest. But it is factual. We
have done a pretty good job of growing tangible book value per share plus accumulated
dividends, those are the bars that you see. And then you see the share price is typically a
good bit higher than that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Historically in the Company we have had one of the higher multiples of book value to -I'm sorry, market value per share to book value and I kind of view it you get what you pay
for. We do have a very good business and a very good number of folks that work for us.
The only thing I might say, my GC would -- I have to be careful. Don't tout the stock; well, I
love the stock, I love the Company. But I think a lot of people in our space are
undervalued. I think it is pretty silly that some of our competitors who are good guys are
trading at a discount to book value. So I think the whole industry is rather undervalued.
If you look back at our market multiple now, it's somewhere between, what, 1.2 and 1.25.
Historically, it has been a whole lot higher than that. So I think we have a real franchise and
that deserves a market value substantially higher than the book value.
I guess this is bragging again. But it is factual again. So you see the bars, this shows you
RNR's operating ROE going back to 1996. So in that year, man, we did pretty good, about
a 30% ROE.
So the squiggly line -- so the bars are us. The squiggly lines are the peer group as picked
by us. You got to pick a peer group. It is pretty hard to pick a peer group and this is the
best we could come up with.
And so how have we performed on an ROE basis since 1996? Might have been better if
we went back to the beginning. But it is hard to find other guys to compare it to I guess.
So just look at 1996 as an example. We had a 30% ROE. It looks like our peer group was
about half of that.

Page 4 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

FINAL

So the heading here says ROE of 18% since 1996 versus 10% for peers. We don't outstrip
the peers every year. We did a pretty good job in the World Trade Center. Look at that,
we had a very nice return that year and the peer group lost money which is very
understandable.
One of the reasons we did so well -- there were several reasons. I think we'd bought a
pretty good retro program. This was back at the time when I was retired so I can't take
credit for this. But we manage our portfolio for tail events. We want to be the last guy
standing.
One of the reasons we did so well that year is we were concerned about the earthquake
exposure in New York City. We didn't want to have too much aggregation of exposure in
New York, which helped us out in the World Trade Center. There is no way we would have
predicted an event like that. But we look at tail events and are very cognizant of that.
Then, as you might imagine, in 2004 we underperformed the peer group and the reason
for that -- that was kind of the perfect storms. Once again that was right before I came
back. But the guys had bought some retro in Florida and all these events happened and
weren't very big. So we had paid out for retro but didn't get any recovery. So it sort of
added insult to injury. So 2004 was not a banner year for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Right on the heels -- welcome back, Neill. Come back the day after Independence Day in
2005 and become a dependent again and then we stepped into KRW. And we didn't do
as well as the peer group then either. But the next year, 2006, not too bad.
So you will see sometimes that we do worse than the peer group and sometimes we do
better. Most of the time we do better. So the RenRe story is we are going to have a little
bit of volatility. If you are willing to accept a little bit of volatility, we will give you a better
than average return.
Disciplined underwriting. Well that is what we do. So we are showing you some of the
different cycles here and that our premium volume goes up and down.
We got out of the US insurance business a couple years ago. We had started to write a
fair amount of admitted insurance in the US. And that is not really our forte. We are
underwriters' underwriters and to do that you have to run a very efficient and lean, low
expense ratio type business.
We are better at underwriting. So the insurance business that we do now is actually
written in Lloyd's. And that is on an excess and surplus lines basis so you have more rate
freedom and you have a better chance to earn a higher margin. But we are still widely
much -- the predominance of our business is reinsurance.
But you can see the squiggles in the cat business and the other lines. We tend to put the - well, we do put the foot down on the accelerator in good times and we put our foot

Page 5 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

down on the brake in less good times. Some companies are good at doing one or the
other; we are pretty good at doing both.

FINAL

Strong franchises. So here are the three main things that we do. We have got reinsurance,
the Lloyd's syndicate. And we have got ventures.
Some other folks were kind of following our lead in ventures. Ventures is the special unit
dedicated to managing our catastrophe joint ventures if we make strategic investments.
Then our energy advisory firm, REAL. As I touched on the first slide, we now do stuff other
than just property cat reinsurance and do it well.
Some of the analysts out there and shareholders like looking at this graph. This is our view
of the world, it is nobody else's view. But we get to see virtually every cat deal out there.
We look at it and say how much of the business provides an acceptable return, which you
see in the grouping on the left, how much is a low return. And what is a negative return.
Negative return meaning if you actually wrote that business we think you would lose
money over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so nothing particularly interesting going on in these charts changing year on year,
other than I think it is interesting to note that usually about half the business is acceptable
return and about 35%-ish is low return. And 10% to 15% is negative return. So what we do,
we strive to have all of our business over on the left and none of our business on the
right. Business written on the right is not a good career path at RenRe.
Then we mentioned the superiors again on the right and by having those superiors it
enables us to get more of the business on the left.
Return on risk capital. If you look at the purple line that is us and if you look at the aqua,
sort of greenish line that is the US total cat market. So you can see, for example, that the
expected return went up substantially after KRW. And so there is typically a margin
between returns that we think we provide versus the returns of the average in the market.
And we want to keep it that way.
Risk management is core to our culture. I guess one of the things -- some people think
RenRe has good numbers; they are lucky. They've been pretty lucky for 20 years. If the
big one happens in Florida, they are toast. I mean people kind of look and say, well, it
must be luck.
I am sure there is some luck in there. But one of the things that I look at, if you want to see
how we run our business, is look at the history and see what our losses have been
compared to what one might think those losses would be.
So this is on a % of equity. If you look on the top the more recent events going down on
the left. In Sandy our peer average lost around 4% to 4.5% of equity and we lost a little bit
less than that.

Page 6 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

FINAL

Then you look at the Thai flooding. Our peers lost a higher percentage of equity than we
did. You look at the Japanese earthquake in 2011, the same thing. New Zealand
earthquake we lost a little bit more than our peers, Chilean earthquake did better than
our peers. And in the US hurricanes, Ike and Gustav, we did a little bit better.
Now another chart we could have shown you. But it was harder to get the information
together and to actually have a fairer comparison would be we were one of the biggest
property cat writers in the world. So if you did this on a percentage of cat premium we
would look far better. But other people have taken risk in Sandy in the form of facultative
insurance so that might not be fair. But just think about it; this is not a bad track record for
guys that specialize in writing property cat and write a bunch of it.
Another bragging point, as I look at the bullets over here, we are one of the few
companies that still has an excellent enterprise risk management rating from S&P.
Specialty, a disciplined approach. We have had some evolution on the specialty business
and maybe I will use this slide to kind of plug the people and the culture here a little bit
again. I'll come back to that in a second.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you see how much specialty business we wrote going back after 9/11. It got up over
$400 million at its apogee. Before 9/11 you could buy reinsurance for workers'
compensation and catastrophe for pennies. People just didn't think it would happen; you
have a lot of employees together in one place and as a result of an event you would have
a lot of losses.
Well after 9/11 that changed and a lot of people ran away from it. Then we said, well, that
is probably a pretty good time to write this. And we wrote, I think, I know over $100 billion
worth of the business. But I think may be up closer to $110 million, $120 million of that
business. And I don't think we ever paid any losses.
But then as time went on people said let's diversify from property cat; let's write some
workers' comp business. It is catastrophe exposed; the cause would be from a
catastrophe. But rates went down and now I think we have probably about $3 million of
workers' comp cat. So we are very disciplined in our approach.
The other thing that we changed is the team. We had one very strong underwriter in the
specialty area going back to this period. Now we have a lot of very strong underwriters.
When you talk about rocket scientists, guys that graduated with honors at MIT, etc.. And
then get their actuarial degree for fun; we have got some really smart people.
I think I am probably the stupidest person in the Company and I would like to keep it that
way. You have everybody else smarter than you are you don't have to work as hard. But
we have got some very bright people underwriting this business. And as I talked about
earlier, the recognition of us being a true global reinsurer that expertise is being
recognized by the marketplace.

Page 7 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

So this has been a real, surprisingly large source of profits for us over in the years. And
may it long continue.

FINAL

Lloyd's, long-term growth opportunity. When we started at Lloyd's we said we didn't really
want to go out and buy a syndicate. People bought syndicates and the cost was
substantial. So we bought a managing agency and then we started our own.
We are very proud of our culture and we wanted to have our folks over there. So a fellow
named Ross Curtis, who is one of our top underwriters -- and by the way, if you look at
the pedigree of our underwriters, Ross' claim to fame was a philosophy degree from
Edinburgh.
And John Paradine, who is one of our top underwriters who is now down in Singapore,
used to be a rock performer in Dubai. But we felt like if he was good at music he could
certainly handle reinsurance. One common thread is they are all bright. But not everybody
came through the actuarial ranks.

Bloomberg Transcript

But at Lloyd's we said, look, we are just going to start off, do it our way, go slow and
steady. Slow and steady; you can see pretty rapid growth there. But that is a huge fishing
pond over there.
And the question comes up, when do we think we are going to make some money? Well
we are getting pretty close to that, right at breakeven-ish. And over the coming decades
this will be a significant source of income for the Company. And I am very pleased with the
team that we have over there.
Another thing that we like doing, we like having offices in different parts of the world
because not everybody that is smart is in Bermuda or North Carolina or even New York.
There are actually some smart people in London or Dublin. And we are going to find out
there is some smart people in Singapore. So it gives us an opportunity to throw a wider
net to attract talent and I am real pleased with the team that we have got there.
Ventures, expanding the franchise. Well (inaudible) carries four cell phones with him now.
He doesn't. But he probably should.
Everybody is talking about third-party capital and we have been at third-party capital going
back to 1999. So the main thing that ventures does is it sells the RenRe soap. He has got
good soap to sell. So I think he has got a pretty easy job.
And I say that, it is hard to match up capital with risk. So for example, the State Farm
relationship at TL Re that has been a marvelous relationship. They are terrific partners and
that is a long-term marriage.
We write international reinsurance on behalf of Top Layer Re. We own the company
50/50 with State Farm and then they provide an aggregate stop-loss for about $3.9 billion

Page 8 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

above that. But that capital -- we match that capital with large buyers of reinsurance that
need top layers where they can be certain of recovery.

FINAL

And that is a great way that we match up good long-term capital with very meaningful
long-term needs of the clients. We typically can get above market terms on that because
somewhat our reputation and also the reputation of State Farm and the certainty of
collection of claims.
We also, if we have strategic investments, we would do that through ventures. An
example of that would be down in Florida we own 25% of the Tower Hill Group for
example, if we decide we want to make an investment. Occasionally we will invest to help
a start-up company get started, hoping that they will develop and be a meaningful client
for us in the future and that we will make a couple bucks.
Then we have RenRe Advisors that we have the help solve complex problems for people
primarily in the energy and public utility sector. These guys are highly regarded and they
win a bunch of awards, too.

Bloomberg Transcript

Manage risk capital, right risk, right capital, right time. So staying on that theme a little bit,
a fair amount of people have started these sidecars. So what we will do, you have like
DaVinci Re and Top Layer Re that are very long-term players. Then there might be a
specific need in, say, Florida typically where -- Florida just chews up capital.
It is a high-risk area and so we have matched up several times now with Starbound and
Tim Re III where we have matched up more short-term capital a year at a time. The client
knows that capital is only going to be there for one year and may or may not be there
next year. We may dissolve it. Then the capital that is providing them the capital knows it's
short term.
But you don't ever want to get short-term capital matched up with a long-term need and
you need to make sure that everybody understands what the other party is interested in
doing here. So for example, RenRe you have got public investors that invest in us. You
take DaVinci Re; that could be pension funds, endowments, financial investors. It could be
clients that invest in DaVinci Re.
And you might have noticed that our ownership with DaVinci Re has gone down a little bit
over the last 18 months. The reason for that is we have just had some terrific investors
come along. People that have come to us, also people that we have sourced that we think
are very good long-term players.
Then we have Top Layer Re on the right where there are only two parties. So we call that
a bilateral agreement. Then the sidecars are typically the two types of capital in the
middle.
Then we also have something called CPPs, which are clients of ours that have enjoyed
doing business with us but think we have a pretty good business. And they say, gee, I
Page 9 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

wouldn't mind being on your side of the deal. Those are people that provide the CPPs.

FINAL

They are kind of like a quota share. They are notional quota shares where people say this
is how much I am willing to place a bet. And that is very helpful for us and has become a
pretty significant source of capital.
History of our joint ventures. So you can see with Top Layer Re we started that back in
1999. We also did some work with OPCat, which was a sub of UPS back in the year 2000.
But you can just see these march along. Recently we have had Upsilson Re I and II that
have worked out quite nicely for us that specialize in writing property cat retrocession.
Capital and investments. So on the left this is our capital structure. And when we say
capital structure what capital are we bringing to bear to solve problems for our clients. So
the part of DaVinci that we don't own is the redeemable part. Then you come down we
have an undrawn revolver, we have debt, we have preferred equity, we have common of
a little over $3 billion. So we have total capitalization of about $5 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

But as I mentioned to you before, with the backing of State Farm and Top Layer Re that is
roughly another $4 billion. And this doesn't take into account the value of our property cat
retro or the CPPs. So we play ball as if we have got about $10 billion of capital when in fact
we only have $3 billion of common equity.
We have historically done a good job on reserving and I was very pleased. We were put in
an awkward position after Sandy because we had an earnings call pretty soon after that.
And so we put out a notice; we told folks that we would have a significant loss, wanted to
put them on notice. But we didn't say material and there is this finance lingo about what
these different things mean. So it was how big was your loss?
So we got the troops together and looked at it and said do you think it will be contained in
the Fourth Quarter? Everybody crossed their heart and hoped to die; yes, we think we can
and we had a little bit of margin in there. So we stuck our neck out and said it will be
contained in the Fourth Quarter.
So we found out later that some people got telephone calls like how can they know that
so quick. They are going to blow through it. Well somebody very kindly said, well, this is
RenRe and if they say that you can take it to the bank.
I remember my friend here, Mr. Jay Cohen, on the call I said I think it will be contained in
the Fourth Quarter. And Jay said, well, Neill, to be clear will this loss be contained in the
Fourth Quarter. And I said, yes, Jay, it will be contained in the Fourth Quarter.
And I said, boy, I sure hope it is contained in the Fourth Quarter. So far. So good. It has
been and I think we have done a good job reserving on that as we have done on others.
So now if you look at these two blocks we have got case reserves, which is basically the
reserves we have up that is based upon what our clients tell us those losses will be. And
Page 10 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

then on top of that we have additional case reserves where we think maybe our clients
are being a little bit too optimistic. And also IBNR. It really doesn't matter too much how
you break those out.

FINAL

But we don't have just big bulk IBNR. We go down and we look at the individual deals. We
model them. So we go back to the individual case and figure it up. So we think we are
adequately reserved and, fortunately, historically we have been.
Active capital management over time. So you can see -- see when I was on vacation the
guys went out and diluted shareholders by raising capital. But when I was here we bought
shares back. I like buying shares back. Since I have been back in 2005 look at all the bars
down here.
I think we had somewhere around 75 million shares when I got back and now we (under)
42 million, 43 million, something like that. So now all of our shareholders own more of
RenRe and we have bought those shares back, I think, at an attractive price.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now you can issue shares. I mean the guys did a good job. They had so many
opportunities to issue shares. But I am very loath to do that. I don't like giving away part of
our company. This has been part of our strategy since we started the Company way back
when in 1993 and this will continue over time I would imagine.
Investment portfolio, pretty boring stuff for the most part. We do have other investments
that include some private equity and some cat bonds, etc.. But for the most part we need
to be liquid and short term and highly rated because you never know when we are going
to have to pony up some money. So nothing terribly exciting about that slide, fortunately.
So this looks like we are coming to the conclusion. You can read those. I don't know if we
have to say that again, that again, that again, that again, that again. I think that is all I need
to say.
I think we have got a great company. We are in a great position, terrific employees. And
with that I will open it up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant
Question about if you look out over the next five or 10 years, I think right now your fee
income is roughly $140 million, $150 million a year. If you were to stay in a most likely
scenario five or 10 years from now do you think that number will be meaningfully higher?
And if so, do you think it will come from the permanent sidecars, temporary sidecars?

A - Neill Currie

{BIO 6676681 <GO>}

That is the best question I have heard in a long time. That is a good one; you have done
your homework.
Page 11 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

FINAL

I can't legitimize your number there. It doesn't sound wildly off and I guess a few years
ago we made that number public. We don't make a habit of doing that. But it is
meaningful to the returns of the Company. I would guess that it would be higher over the
next five or 10 years.
As to the mix between the near and the short term, I mean the long-term versus the oneyear sidecars sort of thing, my hope that it would be more along the lines of permanent
type arrangements, like a Top Layer Re and DaVinci Re. I think that is more valuable to our
clients.
It is harder. The ramp up time for those relationships take a while. But if I had to guess I
would guess that it would be more meaningful and it would be more of the permanenttype partnerships.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Neill, I did have a question. You talked about this trend of alternative capital coming in. It
feels as if there could be a big opportunity for you guys to use some of this capital that
might have a lower cost of capital than you would freeing up capital for you to do other
things, like buy back stock.
Have you increased your use of third-party capital as far as ceding risk through those
parties?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neill Currie

{BIO 6676681 <GO>}

Yes. It sounds like the Martians are landing here. So I guess I will have to answer that
question. Yes. It is according to what time period you look at.
So first of all, another good question, Jay. You always have good questions. I would say a
quick digression is one of the things that sets us apart is we get questions like what do
you wish; don't you wish this or wish that? We don't wish anything.
What I wish is that no matter what comes along we can handle it. So we play the hand that
we are dealt. So we could sit here and say, oh my gosh, third-party capital is coming here.
They are going to take our business away, woe is me. Which is not going to happen.
Or you can say here is third-party capital. It is interested; how can we be involved? Well we
can be involved by having them come in and be investors in our various relationships, or
we can buy reinsurance from these folks.
Another area that we think I think we will be doing more of is being a transformer. People
like doing business with RenRe. They know we pay the claims.
If there is new capital that comes along, it looks like good capital but how do we know?
They are new. They maybe might drag their heels in terms of paying their claims or pull
out some technicality. Then a lot of the third-party capital, because underwriting is very
Page 12 of 13



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2013-02-14

difficult -- to underwrite indemnity protection is hard and the clients like it because there is
no basis risk.

FINAL

So you have got the seller or the new capital that says I would like to provide industry loss
warranties because I can get my head around that. Like I can guess how often I think a $20
billion Florida event is going to happen. But I can't guess how often that deal is going to
get hit. We can and we can be a transformer for that.
So you have got third-party capital comes in and they might offer $100 million of capital on
an ILW basis. The client wants to buy indemnity. We will sell indemnity and out the
backdoor use this as our collateral because -- and we will get margin for our expertise and
taking the additional risk.
So we will see more of this and we will see -- we will utilize more of this third-party capital.
And our retrocession buying is not finished for the year. I mean we have done some. My
guess is there will be some opportunities that will come up to help us make our book
more efficient over the coming months.
And yes, I still think Sandy is going to be contained in the Fourth Quarter.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. We got about a 10-, 15-minute break. Grab some lunch. We got MetLife coming up
in about 15 minutes. Thanks.

A - Neill Currie

{BIO 6676681 <GO>}

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

