Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

S1 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

John Neal, CEO
Neil Drabsch, CFO

Other Participants
Andrew Adams , Analyst
Andrew Kearnan, Analyst
Brett Le Mesurier, Analyst
Daniel Toohey, Analyst
James Coghill, Analyst
Kieren Chidgey, Analyst
Nigel Pittaway, Analyst
Ross Curran, Analyst
Ryan Fisher, Analyst
Siddharth Parameswaran, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Toby Langley, Analyst

Presentation
Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to QBE's full year results
announcement presentation for the year end 31 December 2012.
My name is Neil Drabsch. I'm the Chief Financial Officer. Just a few housekeeping matters,
if I may. This is a webcast. So I would kindly ask that you turn your mobiles off. There will be
question time, both from the floor and online and to the extent you put your hand up
when you are asking a question and if you wouldn't mind waiting for the microphone.
I'd like now to introduce our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. John Neal. Thanks John.

John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Thank you, Neil. Good morning, everyone. I think, without further ado, I will just take you
straight into the presentation and look at 2012 in review.
The 2012 results that we've announced today is in line with the guidance that we provided
to the market on the 12 November. So we're reporting cash profit up 32% to $1.042 billion
Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

[ph]. We're seeing an insurance profit margin precisely on 8%, net profit after tax up 8%,
to $761 million. We'll explain as we go through the slides, the impact on the net profit after
tax, due to the accelerated amortization and impairment and intangibles charges, which is
$194 million up after tax than was the case in 2011.
The underlying insurance business is in good shape. We'll have a look at 2012's underlying
margin of 11.8% in a moment. The attritional claims ratio is improving. I think it's important
to stress that our US crop business does distort the attritional claim ratio and when you
take crop out, the first half 2012 and second half 2012 attritional claims ratios are flat.
Our large individual risk and catastrophe claims allowances have come in just slightly
under the planned allowance for the year at 10.4% and that's despite the increased cost
of crop claims from the US drought and Superstorm Sandy and an uptake we saw in 2012
of large individual risk claims.
We've undertaken a very extensive review of our entire claims portfolio, with particular
emphasis on the US that we've discussed previously and confident that we've done that
job as thoroughly and as completely as you could ask. When Neil talks in a moment, he will
point you to some of the numbers in the balance sheet which will show the changes that
have taken place. So in fact, our central claims estimate is up $1.3 billion in the year, IBNR
$800 million at the full year and risk margin $133 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our capital position is improved through the year. Net tangible assets are up almost $1
billion and looking at APRA's old MCR multiples, we stand at 1.7 times at year end, as
compared to 1.5 times 12 months ago. The new PCA multiples stands at 1.6 times.
We're declaring a final dividend today of AUD0.10 per share fully franked and that's
AUD0.50 per share for the full year. I'll talk in a bit more detail on the outlook for 2013 at
the end.
But direct insurance conditions are still good. We are still forecasting rate increases going
through the book of approximately 5% through 2013, which is following on from the trend
that we saw in 2012. I'll talk again, as we go through the slides, on some of the global
initiatives we have in place and in particular around the operational transformation
program, that I have spoken about previously, that we're now confident to say will save us
at least $250 million in run rate expense savings by 2015.
Later in the presentation, I'll cover off the senior management changes that we've talked
about in the market release today.
So just looking at the financial results in summary, we're looking at a top line growth rate in
premium that is broadly flat, up marginally. That is despite acquisitions adding $620 million
to the top line. So that illustrates that we are very focused in terms of getting our risk
selection right and getting our underwriting right, as we look to stabilize the insurance
margins we can report to the market.

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

Combined operating ratio is at 97.1%. A very, very good investment return coming in at just
over $1.2 billion and there you can see the amortization and impairment charges, $407
million pre-tax and $281 million after tax.
So let's just pick up on some of the highlights through there. So growth up 1%, as I said.
There are four major acquisitions in 2012. La Buenos Aires in Argentina and Hang Seng in
Hong Kong, were two businesses we acquired off HSBC. We bought a small insurer in
Puerto Rico Optima and we acquired the renewal rights to some UK corporate business
from Brit Insurance also in 2012. So those four have added $620 million.
To counter that, with the work that we've been undertaking in the US, through a
combination of remediation plans, lower crop prices and falling volumes on our lenderplaced book, we've actually seen income in the US drop by nearly $1 billion.
If we look at the underwriting result, that 97.1% COR actually suffered a drag on the
insurance margin of nearly 4%, as we've looked hard at our prior accident year claims
provisions and increased those by $464 million. The main activities there, again, as we
discussed in November, are around the US business and particularly the US program
business. So we are actually carrying $316 million as an increase on prior accident year.

Bloomberg Transcript

There is some pushover onto Equator Re, through the quota shares they have with the US
business and also through some deterioration in the 2011 catastrophes that we spoke
about at the half year and non-US casualty business coming out of Europe.
So the insurance profit, as I mentioned on the previous slide, is up 16%, at nearly $1.3
billion. Insurance margin at 8% is really bolstered by a stronger than expected investment
return contribution of 5%.
So if we look to the next slide, really that's telling a story on the underlying margin and I
think the easiest way to concentrate on this slide is to go from the reported margin of 8%
to the underlying margin of 11.8%, is really to look at it in two boxes. So those first three
green boxes on the left-hand side of the slide are really the impact of the prior year, the
risk margin strengthening that we've taken and also the discount rate impact. Those three
together add up to almost $650 million.
Then on the right-hand side of the slide you've got a tick up on expenses at 0.6% above
the 30.5% underlying and that's really arisen for three reasons. One is the integration
costs around Balboa, as we've looked to consolidate our lender-placed business and also
the integration costs supporting Hang Seng in Hong Kong.
We've also been carrying out some pre-work ahead of the operational transformation
program on the IT platforms in Europe and in the US and we've seen increased
government levies, both here and Australia and in Europe.
So looking again at the highlights coming through, investment income up 57%, realized
and unrealized gains of $504 million. Good news also on operational cash flow. That's up
Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

29% in the year to a very commendable $2.7 billion and with that reduced income coming
through on crop and lender-placed insurance, both of which are very short tail classes of
business, we are now seeing our premium held increase up from 1.2 full years to 1.35
years, on average.
A higher amortization and impairment of intangibles costs add up to $407 million pre-tax,
when compared to $133 million in 2011, driven mainly as part and parcel of that work we've
been carrying out in North America. So as we've looked to reorganize the North American
business into a consolidated PNC business, with the two specialty businesses in addition,
then it's been quite right as we look at a one QBE business, that we see $92 million of
write-down against brand names, agencies and distribution rights.
We've also taken a look at the 10 year distribution arrangement we have with the Bank of
America and felt it's more appropriate to accelerate the amortization of those distribution
rights towards the front end of the 10 year period and hence you're seeing accelerated
costs there of $80 million and we've also got a write-down of $58 million of intangibles
and acquisitions for Hang Seng and Optima in Puerto Rico.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tax rate slightly lower than anticipated, coming in at 17%. That's driven by a combination
particularly of lower tax rates in the UK and also the US losses coming through at a higher
tax rate. There's a fair bit more detail on the divisions actually on slides 33 to 38 for those
of you in the room and equally the same slides that are actually posted on the website. So
this is really just a snapshot of the divisional results and I will actually go into a little bit
more detail both on Australia and New Zealand and, indeed, on North America in the next
couple of slides.
But on the other divisions if you look at Latin America we're looking at gross written
premium up by 59% in the year largely fuelled by the acquisition of La Buenos Aires but in
fact organic growth is still up 12% year-on-year in Latin America.
Claims ratio in Latin America very good and as expected at 55%. We've got increased
acquisition costs of 7% and that's really reflecting the change in business mix for La
Buenos Aires and we believe that that will improve and settle as we integrate that
business through 2013.
In Europe we're looking at gross written premium up 6%. That's almost exclusively due to
the acquisition of the renewal rights business with Brit and the combined operating ratio is
94.6%, very similar to 12 months ago which sees a 3% fall in the claims ratio offset slightly
by 2% due to an uptick on expenses as they've completed their IT transformation
programs.
So in Asia Pacific we're looking at growth of 24%, good, organic growth coming through at
18% and really with the benefits of the Hang Seng acquisition to follow in 2013. The action
that we've taken particularly in flood prone zones in Asia is really showing through in a
very good combined ratio of 85.8% and we've got some exciting plans to develop our
business in Asia through 2013 and beyond. If you look at Equator Re there is actually a 6%
improvement in the insurance profit margin 2012 over 2011 and that margin
Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

improvement's been slowed slightly by obviously the impact of Superstorm Sandy going
in there and the prior year movements that I referred to earlier on.
So I just wanted to pick out two divisions in a little bit more detail. I think when we look at
Australia and New Zealand, if you looked around the world I think the trading conditions
here in this market are as good as any and that's reflected in a very commendable
combined operation ratio of 90.6% and 9% improvement on 12 months ago and an
insurance profit margin is closer to 19%.
However, I don't think those numbers really do justification to the story because it's really
not about a turnaround on reduced cat activity. I think I've spoken before and said that it's
always been our intention to be clear in defining that we'll only write a risk where we can
get the right price for the exposure we're being asked to. So we've cut back in cat
exposed areas and typically when you look at the market losses being reported for flood
or catastrophe damage in Australia our market loss is 10% or less of the market loss. So
when you look at Cyclone Oswald we're talking about loss forecasts of $55 million to $60
million.

Bloomberg Transcript

So our remediation has pulled us away from cat exposure. And the significant step change
we've seen in the combined operating ratio comes on the attritional claims line. So that
gives us the confidence the results we're putting forward are sustainable and the
confidence that we can work hard to remediate our portfolios.
I think the final point on the slide is equally important. Despite being tough in the
marketplace we're still recognized as providing a leading service for the 11th year in
succession, Colin Fagen and the team have been awarded the NIBA General Insurer of
the Year prize.
North America's obviously been our problem child in 2012 and we're looking at an
underwriting result, a disappointing underwriting result, of a combined operating ratio of
106.8%. Three factors, really, at the top of the slide are telling the story. The abnormal
crop performance and Superstorm Sandy is really adding 5.2% to the cat loss ratio in
North America where we've taken the strong action on the claim central estimate and
therefore the impact on prior accident year claims and the risk margin top-ups. They're
adding 6.6% and 3.4% to those ratios so that's just over 15% in total.
We've undertaken a thorough review of the prior accident year claims in fact not only in
the US but also across all of our divisions in the entire portfolio. The predominant
strengthening that you've seen in the results has really come through in the US but that
figure of $316 million, $236 million of which relates to the review of the program business
that we discussed in November that we've either put into runoff or believe is remediated.
I've put a couple of comments on the slides about the specialty businesses which always
attract a reasonable amount of attention.
So when we look at crop prices we're forecasting those to be up 10% this year so that will
push the gross written premium up to $1.8 billion for crop and we see no reason as to why
the crop business should not return to its long term average COR of 88% or better in
Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

2013. Those of you that follow the weather in the US will see that there's snow and rain in
Kansas, Missouri and Nebraska. As far as we're concerned, long may that continue. When
we look at lender-placed business, we've closed down the discussions on pricing with the
main states and the main department of insurances in the main states for 2013.
That will actually result in a reduction this year of 8% in price, in fact 9% on a full year basis.
So that's what's been disclosed in the slide and we're at the low ebb of the income
expectations for that class of business in 2013 and forecasting $1.2 billion. I'll talk a little bit
later on about the way in which we're adjusting the expense base in reinsurance to match
that change in income. So I think as far as North America's concerned when we look at the
fundamentals and the work that we put in we are seeing rate increases across the P&C
classes of between 5% and 6% and we see no reason why we can't achieve a combined
operating ratio of 92% or better this year.
I'll hand over to Neil now to talk about capital, funding and investments.

Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, John. I'll just take you through a few of these slides and obviously afterwards
we're happy to take some questions on it. In relation to the balance sheet, just again point
out that we're seeing shareholders' equity now up near $1 billion for the year. Obviously
that was driven by the $600 million aid dollar capital raisings we had in the first half. But
also very strong cash profit and now the lower dividend payout.
I will talk about, in the following slides, the intangibles and investments. But while we're on
this slide, I'd also like to point out the insurance liabilities and particularly the outstanding
claims provisions. John indicated that a lot of work has been undertaken during the year
to take a full assessment of the outstanding claims. And it's in that process we also
adopted and took on, for the first time, a global single external actuary. We always had
external actuaries in the various divisions. This time we undertook and appointed an
external actuary to look at the whole.
In that process and also as part of our overall review, there were some various differences
in assumption bases in determining the central estimates. And during that period and our
internal actuary we have now taken on and standardized that. The impact of it was to
match where there were some mismatches between our divisions and some of that is
reflected in the prior year, particularly through our CapDiv. I'm happy to talk about a bit
more detail, particularly with the analysts. But it is a factor in relation to the prior year and
certainly adds to the strength of the central estimate.
Risk margins, as Sean said, were up. And the probability of adequacy at 87.5% and that
compares with 86.3% at the end of December 2011. Goodwill and intangibles did have a
higher amortization rate than we would normally see. The normal rate is around $170
million to $175 million. And that's based on the amortization of the identifiable
components, those which have a limited useful life. The increases were direct related, as
set out in the slide, particularly around the US where we had changed brand names, et
cetera. I think those full details are there.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

Going forward, to give an indication, particularly for those looking to model, we would
expect amortization for 2013 on the identifiable components to again be around about
$170 million, $175 million before tax, or about $120 million after tax.
In relation to the capital levels, over the year we've obviously had a lot of comment about
QBE's capital levels. And with the capital raising and also the retained profits, we're now
seeing quite a strengthened position. At the same time, I've included details of where we
see the regulatory capital at this stage. The Australian regulator APRA does set out a riskbased criteria. And using their basis we have a 1.7 multiple.
That criteria will change from 1 January. And at this stage it is an estimate. And we say it on
the basis that APRA have yet to finally view it. But there's enough information around and
we're comfortable around it. It should be around about 1.6 times, so significant headroom.
We're talking about a regulatory surplus capital getting close to $3.7 billion, with net
tangible assets overall at 22%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In relation to our overall capitalization, which of course includes borrowings, I'll just have a
look at those borrowings. But of our $4.9 billion of borrowings, just around 53% of it is
subordinated or deferred perpetual capital. On the slide that follows with the borrowings,
just set a bit more detail out in respect of that, we've given an indication that by the end
of this year the borrowings which were increased right near the end of December in our
discussions with APRA and the transition arrangements under the new LAGIC reforms, we
had some securities that those might remember in 2008 we purchased, back when the
market was in disarray, at quite a high discount, a number of capital securities, those at
tier one.
We still had $150 million of those at December. But in discussions with our regulator, we
were actually able to increase that. So we sold another $150 million back into the market,
increasing that amount to $300 million. That did slightly increase our debt equity to
around 43%. But we'll see that come down naturally as we move through 2013. And we're
comfortable that a ratio of around 40% by the year end should be achievable. The
weighted average interest rate is just slightly over 6%.
In investments, I think it's fair to say that there's been a great result by the team on
investments. Another year of volatility. Very strong cash flow, operating cash flow, at $2.7
billion, has pushed the total invested funds now up to $31.5 billion. And the investment
yield on that was net 4.1%. So it was a great result. We're expecting, you might recall
during the year around about 3%. Some of that was driven by spreads coming in. But we
in the team look very, very carefully at exposure in relation to spread. And given the
volatility from time to time, we were able to take advantage of that spread volatility and
that resulted in very strong realized and unrealized returns at the year end.
You might notice from the pie chart in the investment that the government bonds are up
from around 14% to 25%. And naturally at times when credit is cheap, we'll actually move
the bonds. But in the month of December and as it's been the case, credit isn't cheap so
we'll weight back into government bonds as we see fit to keep that balanced. But overall
it was a great result. And for the year ahead, we're saying that we are looking at a 2.25%

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

yield. That's what we'd call our mean average yield. We can do better than that. But it will
rely not so much on our fixed interest and books. But we do have equities where we can
expose up to 3%. You may have noticed also during last year we took the opportunity in
equities, the way we manage them. And they also form part of our overall policyholders'
pool.

FINAL

With that, I'll pass back to John. Thanks very much.

John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Thank you, Neil. If we just have a quick look at our reinsurance programs for 2013. In
placing the programs for 2013, the credit risk profile and the quality of the reinsurers has
been enhanced. But I think the most important point under the business as usual
comment is that we've not changed our retentions, either on the risk or the catastrophe
program. So we have retained the same risk appetite for 2013 as for 2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we have done is improved the aggregate catastrophe protections that we buy. And
we've done that at no change in cost. So where we buy a Group aggregate catastrophe
cover, that now attaches at $800 million as opposed to $1 billion. And provides twice the
cover, $400 million versus $200 million. And we've simplified the protections around
Equator Re to be more conventional aggregate protection.
I mentioned earlier on when we were talking about our lender place business, previously
known as QBE First, now Financial Partner Services, is that we're able to flex the business
model as income either grows or falls. So we've always placed a separate catastrophe
treaty for that business. And that's allowed us to reduce the amount of cover that we buy
to reflect the fall in income. And those savings will obviously flex with the margins to
protect the margin on that business, at least partially.
So if we look at that in the round, we've actually saved $50 million in terms of our
reinsurance purchases for 2013. We've improved the cover and we've just drawn a parallel
at the bottom of the slide. I think it's well reported that the catastrophe activity in 2011 was
extreme. So if we applied that activity against our 2013 programs when compared to
2012, that would have given us an additional $55 million in recoveries. But far, far more
importantly would have left us with $271 million of further cover, or our 2012 programs
would have been close or at exhaustion.
There's more detail, I think, as the slide says on 39 and 40, if you want to go through the
reinsurance program there. So global reinsurance treaties is the first of a set of global
initiative that QBE has been following. And that's really based around a value creation
strategy that we're talking about for the first time in our annual report this year.
As I close off, I'll talk about the confidence that we actually have in both the insurance
margin, the underlying margin for 2013, where we're suggesting a combined operating
ratio of 92%. But equally we are very concentrated on ensuring that we do define what
businesses are core for us and ensuring we leverage maximum value out of that. But very
importantly, we look at our global scale and reach and whether that's the way in which we
Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

develop or derive business or the way in which we manage the business, ensuring that we
maximize the benefits here. So we do have a number of Group-wide programs that are
designed to improve our margin and our combined operating ratio to push it closer to
90% over time.
So if we look at the operational excellence initiatives we have running that I've spoken
about previously and indicated savings that we would communicate to the market, we're
now able to say that the annual run rate benefits of these programs will deliver at least
$250 million by FY15. In saying that, these are expense numbers and we've deliberately
not included the procurement benefits that will come from the supply chain on the claims
line. So there are benefits coming from there as well. And they are in addition to the
numbers that we're quoting here.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we're really looking to do is to simplify and standardize the way in which we do
business. In many instances, we do things five different ways, sometimes more than five
different ways. And it's not just about cost for us. If we can standardize the way in which
we do business, then we create a scalable platform for future growth. So the platform
that we're creating is about setting the business up for success for the future as well as
the cost benefits that will come through.
It's a global program. So it impacts each of the three major trading divisions we have in
Australia, North America. And Europe. And on the slide we've also detailed the functions
that are in scope. I should stress as well that the program is being expensed with little
monetary value being carried through the balance sheet. So the numbers you're looking
at are P&L numbers with little carry forward through the balance sheet. So you can see the
investment going through 2013, 2014, into 2015, $330 million. And you can see the P&L
benefits coming through quickly. And whilst we're saying run rate savings of $250 million
for FY15, we're pretty close to that number during 2014.
So if we look at the outlook through 2013, we are in a marketplace where rates are
firming. The key benefit for us there is it does allow us to take the action that we want and
feel we need to on those areas of the business that are under focus. So particularly where
we're seeing rate increases of 5% to 6% in North America. That gives us the confidence
that we can drive the COR of 92% I spoke about. And the level of returns we expect on
that P&C business.
We're only talking about modest growth expectations in 2013. We're not planning any
material acquisitions in the year. So the real focus is on the core business. We continue to
carry a 10.5% allowance of net earned premium for large individual risk and catastrophe
claims. We're confident that the allowance is appropriate. And indeed the reinsurance
protections that I was speaking about a few minutes ago further strengthen and validate
those allowances.
As I'll look at in a minute when we look at the detail of the margin core, we do expect the
attritional claims ratio to fall, both as a result of the impact of the rate benefits we got in
2012 coming through this year and further rates coming through in 2013. The expense and
commission ratio sits at 31.5%. That is an underlying level of 30.5% but includes a 1%

Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

allowance for the costs of the operational transformation program. So as I was saying
earlier on, we are expensing that and taking that cost straight through the P&L.
So the insurance profit margin that we're calling out for 2013 is 11%. That's actually an
underlying margin of 12%, 1% higher when you take out the investment for the
transformational costs. So it's an insurance profit margin absolute of 11%, against a
combined operation ratio of 92% and insumes an investment yield on policy-holder's
funds of 2.25%.
So we just pick up on the slide that we were looking at earlier on. It really takes us from
the actual reported margin in 2012 of 8% through to that underlying margin of 11.8%. I
won't repeat the reasons that one goes to the other. But you how we've actually called a
margin guidance of 11% for 2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've got 1% assumed as an investment for the operational change programs that
we've got going through on the expense line. You've also got the reduction in underlying
performance on the investment book there, calling out at 2.25% taking 0.9% off. We've
taken a call of 1.1% for improvement in the attritional claims ratio through the benefit of
rate increases and remediation activity. For that reason we're calling out a margin
guidance of 11% and again can I say that 11% includes a 10.5% allowance for large individual
risk and catastrophe claims.
So just in closing, we've also explained today some senior management changes that
we've communicated to the marketplace. I think Neil Drabsch has been very clear when
he's spoken previously, that his intention was to support the business and support me
through two full closes and that is his intention. So Neil is with us until February 2014 and
we have an orderly internal succession with Steven Burns who many of you know as the
CEO of European Operations, relocating to Sydney to take on the CFO responsibilities.
In addition there will be now there will now be Richard Pryce who succeeds Steven Burns.
We recruited him six months ago as Deputy CEO to come in the business so I think that
was fairly well forecast to the marketplace. We've also announced in February this year
David Fried joining us from Allianz to lead our Asia business.
We have also made a change in the US and we're grateful to John Rumpler for the four
years he's afforded us as we've looked to integrate and grow the business there. But we
think the time is right to appoint a US leader to take us through the next stage of
development in North America. And we're delighted to secure Dave Duclos who was
previously the CEO of Insurance Operations at Excel.
Our transformation programs are now underway. I think we will talk to you in a lot more
detail as we go through the year how those break down and apply through the divisions. I
think we have an intention specifically to talk about that, probably around July of this year.
We do believe the fundamentals that underpin 2013 are in very good shape. As Neil
mentioned we took a very complete review of essential estimate of our claims over the

Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

past 12 months and you can see the actions we've taken to strengthen the claims
provisions here.
So we are confident in putting forward a combined operating ratio of 92% and an
insurance profit margin of 11% to you today. In addition, perhaps for the first time for four
or five years, the macroeconomic conditions in the marketplace are starting to move in
our favor as you look out two to three years on interest rates, discount rates. And the
benefits for multi-currency businesses such as our own.
We have a focus on ensuring that our capital position can improve year on year and we
spoke earlier on, of the increase in net tangible assets through the balance sheet in 2012.
It's very important that we retain the flexibility in our capital base and that's a priority for
us to do so. So we do see 2013 as a stable year, a year of transition, for the year that
positions us very well for consistent returns in the future, returns that we believe can pull
our combined operating ratio in the nearer medium term back to towards 90% and allow
us to grow profitably. Thank you.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Hi John and Neil, it's Nigel Pittaway here from Citi. Couple of questions please if I can?
First of all, in terms of your margin guidance for next year, it doesn't seem to allow for any
increase in the probability of adequacy or top of the risk margins. So first of all, is that
correct? Secondly, does that presume that therefore you're happy with where it currently
is at 87.5%?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think with the probability of adequacy, yes I am happy. I think I've been on the record
before as saying that it needed to be in excess of 85%. I'm certainly happier, 87.5%. I'm
happy with the work that we've done through 2012 in looking at our entire claims portfolio.
When Neil referred to the independent actuarial review, that looked at 97% of the carrying
was as an entire business. So if you eliminate very, very short tail business such as the
crop, we have undertaken as complete an exercise as we could on essential estimates.
So I'm happy with the carrying position.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Thanks. Then obviously on the lenders placed, you are -- you made mention of the fact
you're obviously targeting much lower premium there, now it is overall down to $1.2 billion,
whereas previously you were guiding to around about $1.6 billion. So can you explain that
movement? Also maybe I think there is also a slight reduction in the overall US over and
above that, because you were going for more than $7 billion. And you're now down to
$6.5 billion. So can you please just give us a bit more color on that?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}
Page 11 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

Yes I can do. So you're absolutely right. The major movement in the US forecast is through
the lender placed business. That's actually been driven as the Bank of America has looked
to sell on parts of its loan portfolio which it did most recently to Nationstar so 20% of its
portfolio was sold in the early parts of this year. And that's driven that income estimate
down. So I think in -- for year '13, we do see that as a low-ebb of income for lenderplaced. We've got quite a number of initiatives underway and are in discussions with a
number of the major banks in the US. And we're hopeful that that business can grow
again, albeit I don't think it will come through to 2013.
I think the overall change, if you take lender placed out, on the income for the US is about
$200 million. That's really as a result of that review of the US P&C businesses. So we've
just pulled back slightly on the midmarket business and slightly on the program business.
So that's where the net change has come through.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Previously you'd said those two businesses were ready for growth and you thought you'd
remediated them sufficiently so that they could grow from here. After you've done the
$200 million will they grow there from or --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think they can grow. I think the US market's an interesting one. I think many people see it
as challenging. I think there are opportunities for us to grow. I think in appointing an
experienced US veteran of the P&C market we believe we can grow that business. The
priority in 2013 is to deliver that combined operating ratio in the US of 92% or better. I
think when we're satisfied that that is happening and that the remediation activities in play
are working, then we'll allow that business to grow.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - James Coghill

{BIO 14006200 <GO>}

James Coghill with UBS.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Lost you, James, sorry. It's my eyesight.

Q - James Coghill

{BIO 14006200 <GO>}

A couple of questions, just extending that one about the US business. I mean, you
mentioned that you would like to only be exposed to businesses that you think can add
value over the long run. Can we interpret from what you've responded there that the new
CEO's mandate is to go in and just run what you've got? He's not reviewing that portfolio
again for appropriateness, for the long run?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}
Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

I think in early discussions with David Duclos going in there, he would share the same view
as me. When I look at the US market I think some of the best insurers in the world trade
there. We both share the same view that our US P&C business can be larger. He's on the
same page as me, that we need to be satisfied the remediation activities are working.
We've got rate increases coming through that are helping us so let's just be clear,
particularly as we go through the first half of the year, that we're seeing the
transformation we expect to see in the bottom line. And then we'll look and decide
whether it's appropriate to grow those businesses. But short-term in 2013 we just don't
see the growth.

Q - James Coghill

{BIO 14006200 <GO>}

Just perhaps a question on Australia and New Zealand, looking at your guidance measure
there. That's pretty much flat on 2012. I'd be interested to understand in a bit more detail
your comments earlier, about being cautious, growing in this market and 40% of your
portfolio is actually in personal lines, another 20% in property. So those comments appear
to be in quite strong contrast to what the other domestics are saying.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think the view that we're taking across all our businesses. And Australia's no exception, is
we're looking for stability in terms of a combined operating ratio. I think you've seen, even
this year, with Cyclone Oswald -- though I think that could be a claim that $600 million or
$700 million and total flood losses of $1 billion, but the catastrophe exposures still exist
here. We think in some sectors of the book the levels of rate are still not strong enough
so we'll wait until they are strong enough before we're prepared to increase above the
six or seven % we're forecasting for the moment.
So we're happy that we've got a business that can run at a combined ratio of 90% or
around there through the market cycle. If pricing moves and moves again, then we'll be
prepared to grow but not until.

Q - James Coghill

{BIO 14006200 <GO>}

Perhaps I can just sneak in one third and final question there on the capital position, for
Neil. Could you just explain to us why the actual risk measure moved up on a PCA basis
from the last time you presented LAGIC numbers, I think it's moved up from 5.2% to 5.6%.
So that's been that main driver of your ratios being squeezed. Perhaps in that response,
just comment s on what you think an appropriate coverage target for CT1 should be for a
business like QBE?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Right. Thanks James. You may recall we, like other companies, were still struggling to fully
understand the implications of these changes under the LAGIC regime. So I think when I
did the update for the market in October it was a good guess. We're obviously getting
now closer to understand it and we've worked with APRA. And a few of the moving parts
and particularly a Company of QBE's complexity, where our insurance concentration risk

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

charge, which now takes into account not just the maximum of retention. But the sideways
elements. And particularly frequency, need a lot more work.

FINAL

There are things with QBE such as currency which we've now sorted out with APRA. Then
overall you've got a more complex formula driven factor which gives us a diversity credit.
So those three items but two particularly, being the moving parts -- I've used the word
(inaudible) but this time we're pretty comfortable with that.
What we have said in our own internal -- our own risk management, criteria that we're
comfortable with that at around about 1.55 times and we would expect that to grow from
that base. Is that too much or not enough? We're quite comfortable with it and one of the
tests in that is the CETI range, the common equity tier 1. We're running at 113% at the
moment of our tier 1. I think that's more than adequate for a Company of this size and the
risk profile, understanding that the minimum is 60%.
What's the right amount, I think we'll find companies like us in this market, based on this
criteria, will settle down to a ratio. But I think anything between 100% and 110% CETI range
is probably right for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Daniel Toohey from Morgan Stanley. Just a couple of questions, one on capital and the
second one on underlying margin outlook. Just in light of some of the changes that
conglomerate standards still yet to come, the S&P revisions to their capital framework.
Also, we've had some further top ups to reserves and impairment charges. How
comfortable do you think S&P will be with their positioning and the likes of A [ph] invest
given your negative outlook?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Shall I start with that? I think you're right to raise the question that when we look at capital,
we're looking at regulator's view of capital versus we're looking at S&P's view of capital
and we're looking at A [ph] invest view of capital. We keep an eye on each of the
expectations and we're in constant dialogue with all parties.
With S&P, in terms of their change in standards, we don't know absolutely what the
implications of those changes will be and we don't know when they'll be released. The
reason we don't know is because they've not said. S&P in particular tend to look out 24
months when we're making an assessment to rating. So when they put us on negative
outlook, they said that they wanted to see how we were progressing at the half year, at
30 June. So there's no suggestion that they would look at what we're communicating
today in any other light than an understanding of what we said on 12 November.
We'll be in active dialogue with S&P through the half year. We're confident that the
measures we've got in place will satisfy S&P and those are the conversations that we'll be
having with that.

Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thanks. On the underlying margin you point out that X [ph] the additional one
percentage on the expense you'd be at 12% for 2013. Just looking more broadly beyond,
would we be right in thinking that the underlyings could be around 13% X the rate and
remediation that's ongoing FY13?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think it's -- guidance is always challenging I think for an insurance business. I think what
we've tried to do today is call out the margin that we think is a fair and balanced
assessment of what we can achieve in 2013. It could well be that the remediation, the rate
activities, have greater benefit on the attritional claims ratio than we're forecasting. But
we'll just have to wait and see. But equally it could well be that cat activity is more
extreme than we thought. So we've tried to take a fair call down the line so at this point in
the cycle we do think an underlying call of a guidance of 12%, combined operating ratio of
92% is fair. But you're right, there could be some areas where that might be better but
equally, particularly around catastrophe activity, there are some areas where it could be
worse.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ross Curran

{BIO 17605313 <GO>}

Hi, it's Ross Curran from CBA. I just noticed in the rem report that the Sydney
management team has had the ROE hurdles lowered from 14% to 12%. Is that a comment
on the long-term sustainable ROE that the Board views?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think the Board's having a look actually through 2013 in detail at the remuneration
structures that apply across all of the divisions. I think the Board's view is that it's important
to recognize our performance for the business and so around our targets of 92%
combined operating ratio the Board's considered it appropriate that approximately 50%
of the at risk rewards should be paid at that level.

Q - Ross Curran

{BIO 17605313 <GO>}

Then secondly, on the segmental disclosure I notice the US business actually gave
negative tangible equity now. There's $3.2 billion of intangibles and $3.1 billion in assets.
I'm just wondering if you had discussions with the US regulators on the cap position and
the US position -- North America, sorry?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Ross, I'll answer that. In the segment report, that's an allocation of borrowings across the
Group, those borrowings sitting in other places but it's our allocation particularly for
management and how we monitor that business. So it's not a regulatory. Effectively, we
don't have any direct debt in the US at all. It's all via our other subsidiaries.

Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

Q - Andrew Kearnan

{BIO 1702520 <GO>}

FINAL

With the premium rate increases that the Group's been talking about for the last few
years around 5%, probably for the last three years, I'm surprised that we haven't seen an
improvement in the attritional loss ratio coming through on the back of that. Can you talk
about the mechanics of that and then what gives you confidence that rates can add a
point to your underlying margins in 2013?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think I'd look at in three different ways and in three different areas of our business. I think
where you're seeing sustained rate increases move into a third year, which you have here
in Australia, I think you're seeing the benefits come through quite pointedly in the
attritional claims ratio. You know, my experience, it takes 12 to 18 months to see the real
benefit come through. That's now happening and that's really why I wanted to call out the
performance in Australia and New Zealand earlier on in the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think in the US we're now moving into the beginning of a third year of sustained rate
increases. I am confident that that will show an attritional claims ratio. I think it's masked in
2012 because of the strong action we've taken on the prior year which obviously has an
impact on that attritional claims ratio.
I think in Europe, if you look at rate increases, we're not seeing the same levels of rate
increase that you see either here in Australia or in North America. So we're looking at
rates that are around about 2%. So the activity there is really around ensuring that they are
constantly remediating that business to hold on to that combined operational ratio
between 92% and 94%. So the one weak spot at the moment in terms of an ability to get
rate into the attritional claims ratio would be Europe, which is our most challenging market.

Q - Andrew Kearnan

{BIO 1702520 <GO>}

Thank you for the response. With respect, return hurdles, lower interest rates obviously
make a higher return hurdle more difficult. Can you share some insights into how the
Group's thinking about that and assuming that the return target remains 15% or better,
what operational targets you need to hit to achieve that? I use the reference the
numbers, the guidance which you've given which the Group quoted to deliver in 11% ROE
in 2013. Thank you.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Do you want to take that Neil?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks Andrew. I mean, the lower interest rate environment that we're operating in,
as over the last four or five years, has a significant impact on the investment income but
also the underlying construction and the discount rate on outstanding claims.
The way that we run the divisions is that capital is allocated on a risk basis to those
divisions. And if you look at it in simplistic terms, if we're looking at say $11.5 billion at a
Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

Group level, which includes intangibles and other funding, effectively, the divisions on a
risk basis get allocated around about $9.5 billion [ph] and that moves relevant to the risk.
So the return on that risk capital is what is measured and that basic target of 15% still
holds for the majority of those portfolios, if not higher in many cases.
So there's no relaxation of minimum targets. And given the risk business that we're in, I
think anybody could see that a return of at least 15% in some of those areas, is the
absolute minimum, given the risk exposure that we're taking. So structurally it is a sum of
many parts.
The divisions operate on an allocated capital but when you take that to the Group and
we're carrying intangibles as well. And in a lower interest rate environment. Clearly the
reported net shareholders' return is going to be a lower sum and hence the Board have
recognized that, for example in terms of remuneration. The balance sheet and the
business as a whole, of course, is highly sensitive to interest rate movements. And a
question again, are we at or near a bottom. But as that moves up, a quite significant
impact on top line and return on equity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brett Le Mesurier

{BIO 5909278 <GO>}

Brett Le Mesurier from BBY. I've been looking at your claims development triangle
towards the end of your annual report. And in the four years before, four accent years
before 2007, there was $1.6 billion release, or improvement in your outstanding claims
central estimates. In the four years since 2007, it's a little over $800 million adverse
development, of which $400 million [ph] odd was what you were talking about today. Can
you comment on why the Company went from being so conservatively reserved to so
aggressively reserved over the last four years?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

I'll talk to that first, Brett. Clearly, the period 2003, '04, '05 and '06 we saw some quite
exceptional pricing in the globe and the average releases from memory, out of the
central estimate, were generating anything up to 2%, 2.5% benefit to the bottom line and
that's what the CDT [ph] indicates.
Pricing in this market. And globally, started to soften at the end of 2007. Obviously the
GFC on its own was an impact there, particularly in classes with credit and other related.
So in '08, '09, '10, and part of '11 you had a diminishing pricing and therefore central
estimate releases were significantly reduced down to, what I would call normal levels over
a cycle, probably somewhere around 0.5%. The year itself here, of course, we've had the
prior year development and that's the major impact on the 2012 year.

Q - Brett Le Mesurier

{BIO 5909278 <GO>}

But you would know that when you set the reserves, wouldn't you? You knew that the
prices were less. So that shouldn't be an impact on your reserving, should it? Because you
would be looking at what you think was the most likely outcome, given the premiums are -

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I mean, the central estimate is meant to be that. It's an estimate at the central point
where we think it's 50% right or wrong and all the other moving elements in it. So there's
nothing wrong with the reserving. The impact on this year result of prior year is for a
number of other factors, not necessarily reserving with some of those portfolios requiring
prior year adjustments.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think, all I would add to that comment is, if you look at in two sort of five year cycles, you
look at 2002, 2007 and you look at a book that's got significant long tail liability, I don't
think anybody predicted just how good those years actually were. So I think the benefits
that we saw coming out of those years later were far above what anybody expected and
you'd consider to be normal for an insurance business. I think what we've done this year is
looked hard at the carrying reserves we particularly got through the tough part of the
cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I think 2008, 2009, 2010 were tough accident years before we saw rates moving up. I
think what you've seen us reflect on that marketplace, reflect on the carrying reserves for
the business and take I think pretty strong action in terms of the carrying central estimate
and what we're taking forwards into 2013. So from my perspective, as I was saying earlier
on, I think we've done as complete a job as we can and I am satisfied that we're carrying
an appropriate central estimate and an appropriate set of risk margins through into this
year.

Q - Brett Le Mesurier

{BIO 5909278 <GO>}

Can I ask one more question, on a different topic? Can you tell us the proportion of the
European profit that came from Syndicate 386?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

For -- have you got that information?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

No.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I don't think I have. I mean, I'm happy to come back to you on that.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

Confirmation, if I can. The margin guidance that you've given, that excludes the supply
chain benefit that you mentioned in your speech, John, is that right?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

It does, yes. I'm very much of the view that you can improve your supply chain and you can
improve the cost base in the claims line. But I think it's very difficult to isolate that and call
it out. So I would tend to point you to the attritional claims ratio. So where I've called out a
1.1% improvement in the attritional claims ratio for 2013, it's on that line that you'd expect
to see that coming through in future.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

To follow that up, you put it under your two times cash cover ratio formula on your
dividends. Does that -- is that a long term target and is it more to do with rebuilding the
balance sheet or is it about fuelling future growth? How should investors be thinking about
that balance there?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I think it's been challenging to determine what's the appropriate level of dividend for a
business such as ours and I think if you stood right back and said if you setting up a global
insurance, a reinsurance business today, what level of dividend would you look to pay, I
think what we've done is said long term we think 50% of cash profits is bang on what
people would expect and support in terms of a [ph] creating the right yield for the
business. And b [ph] allowing the business to grow its capital base to fund these growth
expansions and potentially future acquisitions.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Kieren Chidgey, Deutsche Bank. Two questions, if I could. The first one is following up on
the earlier question about the underlying margin outlook. The premium rates you were
guiding to during last year were 5% real. And it seems -- I'm not sure from the
commentary today whether or not we've ended up with 5% nominal. So perhaps you
could clarify that and also the FY13 outlook, the 5% is at nominal terms as well. Then the
1.1% margin uplift you expect from rate improvements flowing through, what the net drag
you're seeing there through specialty portfolios, as opposed to the positive coming
through from those real premium rate increases?

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes, I'm always conscious I seem to confuse people more than clarify when I talk about
rate increases. In our planning cycle we pre-superimpose underlying claims inflation as we
move the plan through and then apply the rate increase on the adjusted number. So the
rate increase applies after we've adjusted the claims ratio, for what we think the impact of
underlying claims inflation of between 3% and 4% will be.
I think if I look at the rate increases coming through on the book, I would be hopeful that
through 2013 we would see a better improvement than I'm calling out. I think I'm just
being cautious and saying I think it's sensible just to take a prudent view, particularly as

Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

we're remediating the US business and not call too early. So 1% felt fair at this point in
time.

FINAL

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Okay. And the 1% margin improvement, the 1.1% on slide 21, that's obviously the impact of
two factors. How big is the drag coming through specialty in your eyes? I mean the rest of
the traditional business, is that basically saying that you're getting at least a 2%
improvement there.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. I think it is suggesting that we're getting that improvement. So when we've looked at
say, take that North American business, when I look at the underlying improvement in
North America, excluding the business we put into run-off and the business we
discontinue, then that is already performing at the levels of combined operating ratio,
slightly better, than when calling out for North America. So I'm looking at a business that's
already performing at those levels, post the rate increases that are in place. So I'm just
expecting some further improvement. I'm saying relatively nominal, 1.1% to 2013.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Second question, just around gearing and long term growth which you talked
about earlier. But Neil, just perhaps a point of clarification around the gearing target which
seems like it's still sitting at 45% despite flagging you want to come down to 40% this
year. Where shall we think the business should be headed long term for gearing?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Yes. It's a good question, Kieren. I think 35% to 40% is the right sort of rate. It depends on
the mix. And what we're experiencing at the moment, as the banks are as well, is that the
available products to us, be it Tier 1 and Tier 2, are diminishing. As we progress, the book
as we now see it, if you take it forward I think two or three years you'll see it at around
those, mid-30s will probably be the right rate, given that there will be a fall away of some
of the hybrid type securities -- which may also answer some of the questions I think in
relation to dividend.
In companies such as us, be it stable or with a slight growth, it's important to maintain that
flexibility. The Board's trying to deal with these things necessarily have to take the tougher
decisions, that in growing a global business such as that it's important that we retain
sufficient profits to allow that buffer. Then the new dynamic that we now operate, that is
going to be an important part in the capital preservation.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Thanks. Just given that multi-year de-gearing, you said you don't expect much growth in
'13. But presumably that is the outlook in '14 and potentially '15 as well.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

I think we can grow the business. I think if we see a strong pricing cycle and we see price
sustained through '14 and '15, I don't see why we can't grow the business, either
organically or by acquisition. So when you look out two years, yes, we can definitely grow.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

We do have a call online from Ryan Fisher from Goldman Sachs. Happy to take that call.

Q - Ryan Fisher

{BIO 3487027 <GO>}

Thanks, Neil, just a few questions. Just curious about the rationale for putting equities in
technical reserves. And how far that might go? Also just in relation to the other point
there, when you mentioned you might move more into equities and infrastructure, might
some of that go into technical reserves as well?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a good question, Ryan. During 2012, in fact at the end of '11, we looked very hard at
the way that we were managing portfolios and particularly companies like all of us are
necessarily chasing yield but at the same time being very aware of the capital cost,
particular equities. Equities, as you may be aware, both from a regulatory point of view
and a rating agency, have nearly doubled in that charge. So you ought to be very cautious
about the approach.
Therefore, Gary Brader and his team adopted a very active management of equities, to
the point where management. And also the Board were quite comfortable effectively in
running the pools of investment funds. And it should also include an appropriate
proportion of equities. They did a great job last year. Going forward into 2013, similarly
active manage equity portfolio. And there may be some additional exposure to bonds
with perhaps infrastructure or property characteristics will also form part of that. Certainly
those pools, that's policyholders' funds, will receive a share of that.

Q - Ryan Fisher

{BIO 3487027 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Neil. That leads into my second question, which, I guess this might be
linked, how comfortable are you that if we see any increase in economic inflation, that
your investment portfolio can cover that without there being a net balance sheet strain?

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Yes. The credit portfolio bonds, which is about 42% of the whole portfolio and just over
50% odd of the fixed interest and cash, is still short in duration, it's still around six months.
So if we see, as we expect to see in this current bond market, the back end of the curve
start to rise, our portfolio is very well protected against that at that balance sheet level. At
a P&L level, while the short end is still probably going down, we're far enough out of

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

FINAL

maturity and the mix of this books with the spread that we're comfortable around the
2.25% [ph].
To put it into context, if you look at our current fixed interest cash book overall, probably
running now at about 2.0% for the year. And I think that's a comfortable rate going
forward. In addition to that we believe that we can enhance that with, say, 10% of our
portfolio in other types of securities such as the equities we spoke about and some of the
infrastructure, other property type securities. Really what we're doing is leveraging off our
-- we have a long tail portfolio so therefore our liquidity requirements at the short end are
not as strenuous as perhaps some others that are writing a short tail book.

Q - Ryan Fisher

{BIO 3487027 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Neil.

Q - Siddharth Parameswaran

{BIO 15037291 <GO>}

Siddharth Parameswaran from JPMorgan. A question just on the claims inflation
environment that we're seeing at the moment. Could you just comment on what you're
seeing and whether you're actually seeing any superimposed inflation in any portfolios
around the world. And also whether you're assuming any superimposed inflation, given
that a lot of your peers are actually saying that it's quite a benign environment?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes, I think the simple answer is we're not seeing any evidence of superimposed claims
inflation. And we're certainly not assuming it in the modeling that we're putting forward,
both in forecasts we're putting out today and the pricing models we're running. The only
issue we saw in 2012 that I called out was a slight uptake in the cost of large individual risk
claims. We judge a large individual risk as being in excess of $2.5 million, which is in fact
quite small. If you cut that figure higher at $10 million you're only looking at a 1% cost on
your claims ratio.
So even in that area we've had a hard look at those claims to say is there a pattern. And
there isn't. In fact as we've moved into 2013 through to February we've been particularly
quite and even benign on large individual risk claims. So nothing that should give us a
concern in either respect this year.

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

We've probably got time for one more question. Is there anyone from the floor? We do
have Andrew Adams from Credit Suisse on the line. Happy to take your call, Andrew.

Q - Andrew Adams

{BIO 20116222 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, guys. Just a question on reinsurance. You highlighted cost savings there but it
appears that your reinsurance ratio that you're guiding to in '13 is up a fair bit on the old
12% target. Can you just confirm what reinsurance ratio you're expecting in '13. And can
you also comment --

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I mean, the reinsurance ratio for us is complicated, Andrew, by the cessions that we
made to the US government, particularly around the crop business. So where we talk
about a reinsurance ratio of 13%, 13.5%, we believe that's unchanged, just ticked up
because of those increased cessions for crop last year.

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

Maybe too, we gave guidance at the beginning of the year at 12.5%. And excluding crop
that ran at 12.7%. What we're looking for in 2013 around that 12.5% is probably still the right
number. Although we are getting some broader cover and there's a slightly lower cost
base, clearly the net earned premium will have an impact on that. Then on top of that you
should look at any variables through crop.

Q - Andrew Adams

{BIO 20116222 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Can you also outline what reinsurance you've got in place for crop for 2013?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes, pretty much unchanged. We're going through, the crop renewals actually come
through on 1 April. So we're actually just going through the discussions now to place the
crop going forward. If you remember post 2011 we bought a lot more hail cover and we'll
continue to do that through this year. The only issue we're looking at for crop is whether
we need to buy right the way up, as high as we did last year, because even with the
losses in 2012 we went about 40% through the program. So there was still a lot of cover
left. So the debate we're running at the moment is whether we need to buy as broad a
cover as we did 12 months ago. But we're right in the midst of those negotiations as we
speak.

Q - Andrew Adams

{BIO 20116222 <GO>}

Great. Thanks.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Daniel Toohey from Morgan Stanley, just a follow up question on European pricing and
international general liability classes. Any signs or improvement or increasing optimism
around that? I note in the reserve top-ups you had $30 million related to European liability
classes.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yes. In terms of pricing outlook, I think, certainly the view we're taking on the European
markets is that we might be 18 months away from an uptick in the pricing cycle and I think
that's driven by the economic conditions in Europe. So our focus has actually been on
defending the book, which is what we've been doing for two or three years now. And just
maintaining the quality of the business that we write.

Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2013-02-25

So business is still performing for us, performing well, not as well as it was four or five
years ago. But we're confident in our risk selection, we're confident with what we're
retaining but I think we're 18 months away from the same pricing cycle you're seeing in
Australia applying in Europe.

FINAL

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Neil Drabsch

{BIO 2093435 <GO>}

I'd like to just thank everybody for attendance today and for those online. As usual, very
happy to take any questions afterwards, either through Tony Jackson, Investor Relations
or directly through to John and myself. Thank you, again, that ends the webcast.

A - John Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

