Q4 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Lars Aa Loddesol, Group CFO
Odd Arild Grefstad, CEO
Trond Finn Eriksen, Head of IR

Other Participants
Blair Stewart, Analyst
David Andrich, Analyst
Matti Ahokas , Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Robin Buckley, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; welcome to Storebrand's Fourth Quarter 2012 conference
call. My name is Trond Finn Eriksen, I'm Head of Investor Relations at Storebrand.
Together with me are Group CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad; Group CFO, Lars Loddesol; and Finance
Director, Sigbjorn Birkeland. As we have notified, the slide presentation will be running on the
webcast available on storebrand.no/ir. The slides are similar to the analysts' presentation released
this morning.
In the presentation today, Odd Arild will first give an overall view of the development in Q4, before
he can give an update on the operational improvements done in the business over the last quarter.
After the presentation, the operator will open up for questions. To be able to ask questions, you
will need to dial into our conference call. I will leave the word to Storebrand CEO, Odd Arild
Grefstad. Mr. Grefstad will now present the Q4 results, starting on slide number 2.

Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you, Trond Finn. Storebrand reported a full-year result of (about) NOK1.960 billion for 2012,
and the results in the Fourth Quarter was NOK498 million.
The transformation and focusing of the business continues in the quarter. It has led to nonrecurring costs, which will, in turn, reduce costs going forward.
The Life Insurance business in the Group is going through a period of extensive regulatory
changes. We expect any day now that the Norwegian FSA will publish new mortality tables,
including also lengths of the reserve strengthening period.
Storebrand has set aside, during 2012, NOK3.2 billion; and is then a total reserving NOK4.3 billion
over the last two years to meet the future reservations for new mortality tables. All reservations
are made from excess return in the collective portfolios.



FINAL

In a situation where customers' assets significantly contributes to the longevity reserves
strengthening, it is natural also that the owner capital must contribute. Though the Company's
shareholders have not received any profit sharing from these portfolios during 2012, and also
there is no dividend payment for 2012.
When that it said, it is also very pleasing to note that we deliver a very competitive return in 2012.
Excess return in Asset Management compared to relevant benchmark indexes is NOK2.6 billion. It
has contributed to a value-adjusted return of 6.7% in the defined benefit portfolio in 2012; and an
11.7% return on the main allocation profile within unit-linked defined contribution pension.
There's been a significant buildup of buffers -- customer buffers, in 2012, totaling to NOK6.1 billion.
And this is on top of the NOK3.2 billion set aside for longevity risks.
Then I move to slide number 3. As we see, all business units, except the Asset Management, show
a significant result improvement in 2012, compared to 2011, even after allocation for reorganization
and restructuring of roughly NOK200 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Group result in the quarter is negatively affected by around NOK50 million costs in nonrecurring costs, and reserve adjustments of NOK330 million for change disability assumptions in
the Norwegian Life business. Taken together, these two non-recurring items explain the deviation
from the analysts' consensus.
Then I'd like to draw attention to slide number 5 shortly. New mortality tables are, of course, a very
important issue for the report and for the time going forward. It's still unclear what will be the final
outcome from tables from the Norwegian FSA. We have looked, of course, into these different
reservation opportunities, and what we present here is to give a magnitude and the standing of
the reserve effects for Storebrand.
We have put in place a middle -- so-called middle alternative from a Statistic Norway, on the
expected development in mortality. And on top of that, we have included a 10% security margin. All
together this gives a 7% reserve strengthening, and approximately NOK10 billion in the total
reserving need, if this is used for Storebrand's portfolio. And as we have said, NOK4.3 billion has
already been reserved.
Norwegian FSA is expected to publish new mortality tables any day. We expect that to give a good
(in-view) in the level of reservation, the reservation period and step-up plans, and also what kind of
contribution from shareholders that is expected into the different plans.
I'd also like to draw your attention from slide number 5 to slide number 13, because 2012 has been
a very strong year when it comes to building customer buffers in the operations. Actually, the
Norwegian buffer capital, made up of wholesale accounts, has been doubled from NOK8 to more
than NOK16 billion during the year.
We see the result strengthening when it comes to mortality tables as an important part, but there
is also strong additional statutory reserves and excess value for bonds at amortized costs, and our
market value adjustment of NOK1 billion. Of course, these buffers will be an important element,
together with the future excess return, when it comes to cover (up) for the full mortality tables at
the end of the day.
If we then move to slide number 14, this is a slide that I have been using for the three quarters
now. And the year target managing the business without raising new equity capital is the main -the target that also goes forward. And we have said that it's four main elements in making this
happen; it's the risk reduction, cost reduction, product optimization and also capital optimization.



FINAL

Now, let me give you a bit of a update of what we are doing in the business to make sure that this
target is met. Looking at slide number 15 we see that there has been a significant de-risking of the
portfolio during 2012.
The Norwegian Life guaranteed life portfolios has more than halved its exposure to equities, and
we have also been increasing duration and working with a better match towards the liabilities in the
business. And this is, of course, one of the most powerful means to reduce future capital needs, in
addition to increased quality of earnings.
As we see, the equity allocation is also substantially reduced over the past year in Sweden. In
addition, we build bonds at amortized costs. And I can confirm that we are buying high credit
quality 10 years' bonds today with a return, a yield, around 4.5% and 5%, well above the guarantee
level.
And we are, of course, also very glad to see the increase of the last month when it comes to the
Norwegian and Swedish swap rates. It's actually now 0.5% point up; and almost 10 basis points up
only today. And going forward, this is, of course, important to meet the solvency requirement, and
also to make sure that the reinvestment is done on a reasonably higher level than the guarantee
levels.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to slide number 16, I'd just like to confirm that our cost program is heading according to
plan. We are somewhat above the run rate level that we were expected to be at this stage, with a
NOK65 million cost effect on an annual basis. And the most important element here is reduction in
staff. It's also closer on strategic activities, such as hedge funds and online stock trading on the
Bank, and also a significant offshoring to the Storebrand Baltic.
Moving then to slide number 17, of course a reduction in workforce is one of the real cost drivers
that we are following very tight. And we're pleased to see that it is now being billed down and is
expected to also go down on a quarterly basis, with a some of reduction of workforce, with
NOK300 million, as established in the NOK400 million cost plan.
Moving to slide number 18, I can now confirm that the Storebrand Life Board on December 3
announced to withdraw from the defined benefit public sector market. 11 of the 25 municipalities,
with NOK6 billion assets under management, have already decided to move to other suppliers.
And we expect very much of the remaining portfolio to move in 2013 and 2014, and be basically
out of the market when it comes to 2015.
Moving to slide number 19, we have updated you on the new regulations earlier on. Main point
here is that we now see an end date for accumulating interest rate risks and longevity risks in the
back book. It's also important that we see that all guaranteed products will be open for conversion
to non-guaranteed products with investment choice. And that is a proposal of increased maximum
savings rates within DB pension -- the DC pension schemes.
We are now in a very thorough dialog with our customers to develop solutions that are attractive to
the market. At the same time, we can confirm that Storebrand will provide only a limited number of
products, based on our ability to produce them and serve them cost effectively.
Moving then to slide number 20, and we are pleased to say that our work with the customers,
giving information, giving advice around opportunities to move from guaranteed products to nonguaranteed products gives results.
We see that within a few months now we have actually been able to move to (NOK1 billion)
guaranteed portfolios to non-guaranteed portfolios in Norway and Sweden. And this is on a very
limited portfolios compared to what will be open with the new regulation, especially when the



opening of the paid-up policies, the bid conversion into paid-up policies with investment choice
opens up.

FINAL

But it gives a good in-view in the opportunities and the possibilities to give good advice and give
good value propositions for our customers in a non-guaranteed world.
If we then move to slide number 21, the Board has reviewed the financial targets for the Group.
And it confirms the Solvency I target and also the rating target. Let me go more into the return on
equity target on next slide, 22.
Storebrand had in the market a 15% return on equity target after tax. With the new tax regime
Storebrand moves from a 0% tax company into a normal taxed company. This, everything equal,
will reduce the expected return on equity with around 3percentage points.
In addition, as we have discussed around new mortality tables, combined with a relatively low
interest rate level, this will reduce the profit sharing from the Norwegian guaranteed business on
the next few years to come. And this will also reduce the expected return for the full Group with
around 2percentage points to 3percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, we are responding to this, and we have several initiatives to close this gap. But on the
short term, we expect to be able, with our cost programs and also with programs when it comes
to price increases, to meet around 2% to 3% of this gap. Altogether, that leaves us in a situation
where we like to guide the market and say that we -- I suppose, that we will meet a return on
equity target about 10% points going forward.
If you then move to slide number 23; as mentioned, the Board proposes no dividend for 2012.
However, the Board maintains that the dividend payout ratio will normally amount to over 35% of
the full-year profit after tax, but before amortized costs. We expect to see a continued shift from
guaranteed to non-guaranteed products on the balance sheet, which will reduce required capital in
the business. Storebrand will now be well positioned to pay out dividends going forward.
In 2014, new product rules in Norway will be put in place, and new mortality tables will be
implemented. This represents key clarifications in the future regulatory environment that
Storebrand operates in. The Board is very clear on the point that dividends shall be adjusted to
ensure the right capital structure in the Group, and that the ambition is to add up to changes in the
regulation without raising new equity capital.
That leads me to the summary. And to sum it up, 2012 has been a strong year in the terms of
customer returns, both when it comes to the investment choice portfolios and with the guaranteed
portfolios, leading to a very strong buffer capital increase in the Group, NOK6.1 billion in increased
capital -- buffer capital. And on top of that we have been able to reserve altogether NOK4.3 billion
to watch the new mortality tables that we expect to be in the market soon.
Our own measures to improve the business are implemented according to plan. The cost
program, the closure of the DB in the public sector, price measures within the guaranteed
business, de-risking of the portfolio, and transition from guaranteed to non-guaranteed products
are important measures to strengthen the operations going forward. Thank you. And I now give
the word back to Trond Finn.

Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

Thank you, everybody. Before the operator opens up for questions, I'd just like to draw your
attention to a slide 25.



FINAL

I remind you that Storebrand will host an investor and analyst update in London, March 15 this year,
where we will be more into the measures that are implemented in Storebrand, and the changes
that you see in the regulations and, of course, how Storebrand works with the customers and in
the markets to remain the leading pension provider in the Nordic region. The operator will now
open up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Peter Eliot, Berenberg.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

I guess the first question, predictably, was on these reserve increases. And in particular, I notice a
sentence in your report which basically says that the reserve strengthening can come from risk
profit, in addition to the excess investment returns.
And I just wanted to clarify to what extent risk profits are available to contribute. I notice they
weren't used in 2012. So just if you could perhaps just clarify exactly what part of shareholders'
profits is available to be used and which should not be?

Bloomberg Transcript

And perhaps actually just related to that, your previous guidance on the reserve increases was for
3% to 7%. That's now become 7%. I was wondering if you could just explain the reason for the
change.
The second thing, again probably predictably, on the dividend, the reason you give -- the
additional reserve is given as the reason for this in the report, unless we have an absolutely
exceptional year in 2013, that's almost certainly still going to be the case this time next year. So I'm
just wondering if there's any reason we should be in a different position this time next year to
where we are now.
And perhaps the third area, if I can put in another question, is just on the cost-cutting. You have
made some great progress, but just looking at the quarterly costs coming through, it's difficult to
see much.
Some of the costs have actually ticked up, if I look at the Asset Manager, that was running at
NOK128 million in the first couple of quarters of last year; it's now at NOK143 million. The Bank was
NOK86 million in Q3, underlying, it's now NOK99 million. SPP has ticked up a bit, I know, on the
head office class, but I just wondered if you could guide to where the underlying costs are going?
Sorry for the detail there.

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Okay. Let me start with the reference to risk profit. As you are aware of, Peter, we have something
called the risk (equalation) fund in Norway. That fund was approximately NOK640 million at the end
of last year and that is what is referred to as you seeing a positive risk result.
Also, remember that is approximately half of the risk result created, then the other half is given
back to the customers as a surplus return, you might say, and that will be open up for using for
longevity. That's what we -- that's we refer to the risk profits as well.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I'll try to answer your second and third question, and then Lars will answer on the cost element.



Well when it comes to the new mortality tables, of course, this is all about future mortality and
future longevity elements. And what is very important then is do you expect to see the future as
you have seen the development over the last 20, 30, 40 years?

FINAL

Will you see this coming through into perpetuity, or will you stop the reduction in longevity in one
kind of year, or -- and on top of that, will you have security margins on top of the tables that comes
out of statistics?
All these elements, of course, with long time horizons, will have significant effects on what you do
for total reserving today. And this is about future development. We are right reserving for what we
see in the market today, about mortality but, of course, it's all about expectation, about future
development in longevity elements. And that's why we have this span from the 3% to 7%.
Then, of course, this process has been going further. There has been a lot of calculations and we
also have had the signals during this process from the FSA that they like to use, more like a milltype of element, from the Statistic Norway. And that they also will use tables that have an interperpetuity-type of development of longevity. And that's why we now are guiding more towards 7%
of these tables, compared to the 3.7% that we stated on the earlier stage.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I will be very clear that this is just from our side stating what a middle alternative with a 10%
security margin will give in our numbers, both when it comes to reserving needs and percentage of
it. And of course, what comes from the regulator at the end of the day might, of course, differ
from this number.
When it comes to dividend, of course, again, it will be important for us now to view what comes
from the FSA when it comes to longevity -- risk and longevity reserving. 2013 is a very important
transition year into the new regulation, both when it comes to enter into a more stable table with a
number of years for reserving for longevity. And also, it is the year where we expect to be in the
new products being open in the market, and the new regulations around our business.
Expect much more clarity during summer and during autumn around that. And it would be wrong
for me now to be very clear on what that means for dividends for 2013. But it goes without saying
that I feel that 2014 should be a much more normalized year compared to the transition we are in
2012 and 2013.

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And to answer your last questions on costs, I totally agree with you that the numbers do not give a
clear direction -- or a clear right direction on costs. But I would like to emphasize that we have used
also the Fourth Quarter to continue to satisfy some money to reduce administrative expenses
going forward; i.e., for example, discontinuing paying provisions for guaranteed life products, which
you see highlighted in the Life insurance graph on page 4. So that's one element.
And furthermore, we have in also the Life business taken a charge of NOK9 million related to
writing-off IT investments within public sector, as we are no longer going to be in the public sector
in the next few years.
In SPP, there has been a high customer activity in the Fourth Quarter. There has been a transfer to
new head offices, and there has been certain expenses related to product development that hits
the Fourth Quarter number more than you should be -- should see going forward.
On Asset Management, I guess those are the numbers that are weakest overall here. And in those
numbers, there is an additional investment during 2012 in risk management and reporting, which
leads to additional IT resources and consultancy resources. Those IT expenses have been taken,
and the consultants are now out the door.



Furthermore, they have been transferring some full-time employees to our office in Baltic, in Vilnius
and Lithuania. In the transfer period, you need double set of people. We see that, in January, those
people are leaving the organization, and the number of employees is going down.

FINAL

And furthermore, you see in the Asset Management business that the sales were pretty weak
during most of the year last year. It picked up towards the end of the year. And also, some of the
contractors we signed were at higher margins than the contractors leaving us during last year.
And furthermore, as we have closed down some of the hedge funds that we were running
ourselves, and also some of the Private Equity business, we lost the income last year, where we
kept the expenses. But the expenses will disappear from year-end last year.
So we are quite comfortable that, with the measures that we have put in place, we will see lower
costs going forward.
And in the full time -- on the full-year numbers for 2012, I'd like to reiterate that there is
approximately NOK200 million worth of expenses related to layoffs, and discontinued operations,
which, obviously, had -- will not come again, as this has been -- this was a non-recurring item.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Matti Ahokas, Handelsbanken.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Could you, a bit, discuss your thoughts about the capital position overall and look at your business?
The profits are up. The solvency margin is up. The buffers are up. Then, we've actually seen a fairly
meaningful potential delay in Solvency II. So how do you look at your capital position at the
moment? What is the most relevant ratio we should be looking at when assessing this?
And was the decision to scrap the dividend mainly based on this longevity charge? I couldn't read it
in the report. Or the uncertainty regarding the longevity charges, or what was the key driver when
the Board made the decision?
And the second question is regarding the tax rate. Is 22% the tax rate we should be looking for,
going forward? You say up to 28%, but then in the slides, there's also a mention of 22%. So what is
the tax rate we should be looking at, going forward?

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

On the capital position, our capital position is sound. We have -- as you mentioned, on all those
numbers they are increasing and they are good and we've picked up buffers in the business.
Odd Arild said earlier during the presentation that the fact that we are putting aside all of
customer excess returns in a longevity reserve strengthening bucket. It would be fair, from a
Norwegian point of view, then -- or it would be very unfair, in the Norwegian point of view, to
distribute high dividends to shareholders in a period where you have a combination of uncertainty
as the actual mortality tables, as such. And furthermore, the way they have been funded.
So creating or paying out dividends now would not be fruitful for the process that we have in the
way of finding a good solution to do the necessary reserve strengthening.



So I feel that our capital position is a good one, but there is uncertainty related to mortality
strengthening. And we are increasing the likelihood of finding good solutions for shareholders and
customers alike, by contributing in this way.

FINAL

On the tax position, I can confirm the 22%. We have guided on 20% to 25%, and we continue to
guide on those levels. Specifically, the tax rate in Norway is 28%, while the tax rate in Sweden is
22%.
However, approximately only about half of our business in Sweden, i.e., the Risk business is taxed.
So therefore, the Risk is now the overall tax rate from Sweden, is lower than 22%. So in
combination, we -- or in the average between the Norwegian and Swedish business, we do
continue -- we continue to guide on 20% to 25%.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Sorry, if I just may continue on that note. When you calculate your financial target, the return on
equity, is that based on 20% to 25% tax rate as well? And also, what was the actual return on
equity with this measure for 2012?

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I can confirm that when we have put in place the new return on equity target, this is the type of tax
rate we have used in that calculation. If you look at return on equity for 2012, I think it's very much
around 10% before tax, and around 7.5% after tax.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Then, the amortization would increase it to roughly 8.5%?

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

The 7.5% is after tax, adjusted for amortization.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Operator
Blair Stewart, BofA Merrill Lynch.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

A couple of questions from me. I think you mentioned in your address that you were able to find
some attractive bonds yielding, I think you said, 4.5%. I just wonder if you could comment around
the availability of those in sufficient volume. Then, perhaps comment on what the average new
money rate of investment that you're achieving is in the market today.
And secondly, could you comment a little bit about the impact of losing the business from the
municipalities on the income statement? I realize it's very beneficial from a risk and a capital
perspective, but what is the impact on the P&L?
And finally, you -- I wonder if you can comment a little bit about the use of the buffers, and how
easy that is to do in reality. Clearly, if you were forced to make longevity provisioning changes very
quickly, then you've got those buffer reserves at your disposal. But clearly, that's not without longterm cost.



So I just wonder if you can talk a little bit about your thinking on that, in terms of the use of these
buffer reserves, especially on the hold-to-maturity bonds, or the bonds at amortized cost, rather,
nowadays; what the impact of actually using those gains would be, when you think about the
business over the long term?

FINAL

And talking about earnings quality; capital requirements; the embedded value of the business
would all suffer presumably, if you used those high-yielding bonds. Thanks.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Okay. We'll try to take it step by step here, Blair. First, when it comes to investment grades, we can
confirm that we have AA/AAA bonds that define swaps from European countries into Norwegian
krone. And that has a yield actually between 4.5% and 5%. And so far, we have been able to build
up the portfolio with these kinds of bonds.
And it's also about how much we build-up the held-to-maturity bond portfolio out of changes -expected changes in the portfolio, and the need to have liquidity in the portfolio. That is more
limiting the way we are building up the portfolio, as we speak. So that is an opportunity, and we are
tapping that opportunity here, of course.

Bloomberg Transcript

When it comes to the use of the buffers, that is an important question, of course. We can use very
straightforward realizing the market value adjustment return into the accounts. When it comes to
bonds held to maturity, it's both in loan and receivables, and in real held-to-maturity bonds.
Altogether, they are (that one) highest cost.
What we, of course, see is that, with the increase in the interest rates that we have been expiring
during 2013, you will see a reduction in these whole values. But as you, of course, know, that is
good when it comes to solvency requirements; and also, for return and reinvestment returns about
guarantee levels.
But it is possible, especially for loans to receivables portfolio, to realize that portfolio and, of
course, reinvestment -- reinvest it in the market, and take off that gain. But in a low interest
environment, that, of course, lowers everything equal the return on the portfolio; and, of course,
also then when it comes to the capital strengthening, going forward. So you can't have the cake
and eat it here, that's for sure. But it is a possible buffer.
Then, of course, it's a very interesting discussion about the additional statutory reserves. When you
look at what is put forward from the Banking Law Commission, it's put forward that the additional
statutory reserves can be used for a longevity reserving. And NOK4.1 billion out of the additional
statutory reserves comes from the collective portfolios.
But I would also like to say that this is one of the elements that is very highly discussed, when you
are on a hearing process now. Of course, strong parties also feel that this is customer funds; that
they should not be used for this purpose.
So it's too early to say. What we put forward here is a very strong list of offers that has been
increased significantly during 2012. And that will be helpful in the process to cover up for the
reserving that needs to be done, going forward. When it comes to the impact of the municipality
portfolio, Trond, would you like to …

A - Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

Now, if I can limit the answer to 2013, you know that we have a price increase in the public sector of
25%. At the same time, it's roughly 25% of the portfolio leaving us, so those two should, pretty
much, even out for 2013.



And for 2014, I think it's a little bit early to give a very clear guidance, before we see how -- a
development in customer transfers. Also, how good did we managed to take down the costs in
the public pension during this transition period.

FINAL

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. It's maybe not something for today, but I'd be interested to see if there's a P&L
number you can give for the municipalities business as at today. It would help us try and gauge the
impact. Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

We'll revert to that. Thank you.

Operator
David Andrich, Morgan Stanley.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I was just wondering, in terms of the, approximately additional SEK5.7 billion reserving that you're
anticipating you'll have to do, how much of that -- I'm assuming given your restatement of the
return on equity target that you're going to -- you see profit sharing being at sustained kind of lows
for quite a while. How long do you anticipate this for? And how much longer do you think it'll be -- it
will take you to rebuild up those reserves at the rate you're currently going? Thanks.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Now we have been able to SEK4.3 billion in two years. Of course, 2012 was a very strong year, so
we don't expect to have a surplus return in the magnitude of SEK3.2 billion in a normal year.
But of course, with the -- what you see in the market with the interest rates and the return in the
portfolio, it should be possible to have an additional return, maybe between SEK1.1 billion to SEK1.5
billion on an annual basis.
And we (hope), 2013, that can be used for full before we are into the tables. And based on that
element, of course, it will take some years, but maybe a five to -- 5-year's period or something
could be a period that is needed to be sure that we are able to cover this reservation.

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

If I may just elaborate, there is approximately SEK150 billion of reserves. And if you say that you are
having 1percentage surplus every year, (then we) create SEK1.5 billion for longevity. In that scenario
you need four years to reserve approximately SEK6 billion.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Matti Ahokas, Handelsbanken.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Just a follow-up question if I may? Looking at the comprehensive result, and there's a SEK473
million positive item from change in pension experience, could you elaborate a bit what this is and
why the increase in the Fourth Quarter is so massive? Thanks.



A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

FINAL

The reason being that previously you have discounted the overall pension liabilities; that means
the pension liabilities for Storebrand's employees with -- using the government rate. Then
throughout 2012 there has been a discussion whether or not the mortgage bond market is liquid
enough to be used as a reference rate when discounting that kind of liabilities.
At the end of the Fourth Quarter there was a decision made that that will be recommended from
the accounting body. And hence, the pension liabilities, our own pension liabilities, are discounted.
Now you're seeing a higher interest rate than previously.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

All right. Did -- how much of an impact this had on the solvency margin or did it have an impact?

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Let me just take care, if you have SEK500 million that should be 3percentage points or something.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Yes. But that was anyway in the 162% solvency margin, so this is included in that figure.

A - Lars Aa Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Operator
Robin Buckley, Deutsche Bank.

Q - Robin Buckley

{BIO 3596512 <GO>}

Can I just clarify, just on the ROE target again, in terms of the earnings you're adjusting those for
the VIF amortization. But can I just check it is just for straight reported equity that you're taking
that? You're not making any adjustments to that in terms of goodwill or what have you?

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

This is the full equity number, not tangible equity, no.

Q - Robin Buckley

{BIO 3596512 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Blair Stewart, BofA Merrill Lynch.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

I just wanted to ask if you've noticed any change in your customer behavior over the last few
months since the government Law Commission details were published?

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}



FINAL

I will not say change in behavior in the way that we see massive changes in what kind of products
they are moving towards, but there is a change in behavior that needs much more need for advice
and discussion with the large customers. And of course, it has led to a massive pension debate in
Norway.
Actually, if you look at the colored press in Norway you have pension on all front pages on almost a
daily basis and that, of course, is very interesting for us as a pension provider, because suddenly as
we move from a B2B type of operator from defined benefit into really a B2B to a C-type of a
provider the attention around pension, both what you get from the public pension; what you get
from your state pension; what you get from your Pillar 2-type of pension; and what you need to
add on on your private savings, is a very hot topic this day.
So on the retail cost of our behavior, the need for additional savings and the focus on that I will say
it's a lot of change in behavior. When it comes to the corporate I will say that they are basically still
waiting for clearance around the regulations, before they make any decisions about the hybrid
products versus the DC products.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

And I guess, if I may, just one follow-up. When you think about an ROE target for the business, to
what extent could shifts in the shape of your book along the lines of those discussed under the
government Law Commission report, to what extent could those affect your ROE target, if more of
the business moves to effectively a paid-up status?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Well this is, of course, a target that is moving though, because we see a downward shift when it
comes to guaranteed business.
We see that we have quite a good success in having dialog with our customers, moving from
guaranteed business into non-guaranteed business. And on top of that we see a tremendous
growth with -- in defined contribution, both in Norway and Sweden, and we are actually taking
market share in that market, also during 2012.
Now, there is easy to draw a picture here where you see that we are in more or less an effective
run-off when it comes to guaranteed products. And you have a strong growth in non-guaranteed
products. And we like to revert on this graph when we have the meeting in London also for the
investor update.
But that draw a very interesting picture, both when it comes to the market and for Storebrand
going forward. But there will, of course, be a transition period here into the new regulations, where
we have more back book than we have on the new products.
But when that shift really happens, of course, we move into being much more like an asset
management-type of business with fee products and fee results compared to today's guaranteed
books with a lot of equity needed to back the products.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
David Andrich, Morgan Stanley.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}



Yes, sorry, the conversion to products without guarantees, do you see that continuing on target? I
think you had a target before -- an expectation that about 25% would convert over. In terms of how
it's tracking, are you on target to meet that?

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. Actually, this is before the new products that will be converted, because still there is now
opening for moving defined -- paid-up policies into paid-up policies without the guarantees in
Norway. The law is clear, but there is still not an opening for it.
And I will say we expect that this will happen from 2014, maybe for the first half of 2013, but most
possibly from 2014. And that is the large part of the guaranteed business that then will be able to
move into non-guaranteed product, and we are well aligned to do that.
What we now see we have large success on is really the -- moving the old (inaudible) guaranteed
products in the Life insurance company, so from long time ago into non-guaranteed product.
That has been open market for transfer for a long time. But when we now put effort into that
market, we also see that we are able to move like EUR2 billion in Norway and Sweden in a short
term into non-guaranteed product. And of course, that gives us bigger opportunities and hopes
for the market when it really opens up into the paid-up policy market.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
At this time, no further questions.

A - Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

Then we would like to thank everyone for joining the call this afternoon. And again, remind you of
the investor and analyst update in London, March 15. And we will also be in London tomorrow at
the Chartered Insurance Institute at 2 pm UK time. Thank you. Good afternoon.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

