Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, President
Shinji Tsuji, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Hideyasu Ban, Analyst
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Tokyo Securities Co. Ltd.
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Sakurada, the President of NKSJ
Group. Thank you, so much for attending our IR meeting today.
Our IR team had a conference call with you last week. And we had a Q&A session with you
on that telephone conference call already. So we'd like to really simplify the explanation
about the numbers. And I'm going to just hit the highlights for today.
As we disclosed last week, first of all, we revised our guidance for the full year upward in
light of our current business improvement trends, as we disclosed last week.
Our new projections are, for net income, is JPY72 billion; and JPY128 billion for adjusted
consolidated profit. We are making a good progress steadily towards achieving our
targets for FY 2015.
Improvement in the combined ratio in domestic P&C business is outpacing the
management plan. Against a plan of 6.7 points improvement in four years, we project to
achieve 4.4 points improvement over the first two years up to this year, which is
equivalent to two-thirds of the whole improvement planned.

Page 1 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

In the core automobile insurance business, profitability is improving. And the loss ratio in
the first half was improved by more than 5 points. There is a noticeable fall in the number
of claims made.
In the domestic life business, we are continuing the shift to protection-type products and
expansion in P&C sales channel. The preparation for the merger of two P&C companies,
which is our unique strategy, is proceeding smoothly. There is no change to the merger
synergy, as well as the scale and the timing of one-time costs.
The reduction in the exposure of strategic-holding stocks has progressed more than 50%
compared to the fiscal year plan. Our dividend policy remains unchanged, which is JPY60
per share. Based on the upward revision of the full-year business forecast and the capital
conditions, we will examine the option of stock buybacks.
Let me explain each point. Please turn to page 3. Here is the update on the progress of
management plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

We revised our adjusted consolidated profit forecast upward from JPY113.5 billion to
JPY128 billion, up JPY15 billion. We project adjusted consolidated profit to improve farther,
mainly in domestic P&C business, with the merger of two P&C companies to around
JPY150 billion level.
We think we have more visibility of achieving our JPY215 billion. It doesn't include
extraordinary losses and profits in this number. So as we mentioned earlier, we think we
have more visibility of achieving our 2015 plan.
Please turn to page 4. This shows J-GAAP based performance trend.
Business improvement is proceeding ahead of our plan, with the upward guidance
revision this time, although J-GAAP based profit level in FY 2014 is projected to be in line
with our plan. Since there are one-time merger costs associated with the release of the
integrated system, there is a possibility that it may be a temporary correction phase.
However, the key message here is the fact that our fundamental earnings base is
improving, as we saw in adjusted consolidated profit plan.
As for one-time merger costs, many of them will be posted as extraordinary losses. As a
result, they do not impact adjusted consolidated profit, which is the fund available for
shareholder returns.
Please turn to page 13. This slide shows the trend of the combined ratio in domestic P&C
business.
In our current plan, we aim at reducing the combined ratio by 6.7 points over four years to
94.7%.

Page 2 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

FY 2013, the second year of the plan, saw an increase in commissions due to the
expansion in the reinsurance business. But combined ratio fell to 97%; contributed to
improvements both in premiums and claims. We forecast to achieve 4.4 points
improvement over the first two years of the plan, which is equivalent to two-thirds of the
whole improvement planned.
We plan to improve furthermore by around 3 points through expense reduction as a
result of the merger of two P&C companies. Towards FY 2015, we are determined to
achieve the plan by implementing additional actions to improve profitability with
consumption tax hike in mind.
Please turn to page 14. This page shows the trend of combined ratio of automobile
insurance business, which is our core business.
In FY 2013, loss ratio has improved dramatically as a result of products and premium rate
revisions, which will put the combined ratio 98.8% level, below 100%.
We think we have higher probability of achieving the plan of profit improvement in
automobile insurance business. But we'd like to study necessary measures continuously
by paying attention to rising trend of repair cost per claim, impact of consumption tax hike
on the plan, etc.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please go over to page 27.
NKSJ Himawari Life, the life business of the Group, is growing profitably, with
uniquenesses in distribution channel and product mix. The main sales channel is crosssales channel, making the use of our P&C insurance agency network where our strength
lies, representing 62% of our total life sales.
On our product front, we have been focusing on high profitable protection-type products,
such as medical and income compensation since 2008, which puts protection-type weight
higher and higher every year to 51% currently. As a result of our high profitability product
strategy, our new business margin is 9.4%, which is higher than that of our peers.
Please turn to page 28. This shows the new business margin. And this slide shows the
trend of annualized premiums in force and MCEV.
As I mentioned earlier, tapping on the unique characteristics of our life business, as I
explained on the previous page, both annualized premium in force and MCEV are steadily
growing.
Please go over to page 29. This page shows trend of P&C channel mix, as well as
protection-type product mix.

Page 3 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

Our strategy to increase P&C channel mix is gradually bearing fruits. From 57.9% to 61.6%,
the weight of P&C insurance channel has increased.
Sales competition in medical insurance business is becoming more intense. And it will be
even more intense in the future. In this environment, the importance of P&C distribution
channel, which has a strong grip on our customers, will be even higher, because they have
the opportunity of contacting them. So the competitive edge of our P&C distribution
channel will be even more useful in the future. And we are going to continue our steady
effort to strengthen this channel even more.
Protection-type product mix on the basis of the number of policies in force is surely
increasing. We plan to continue this profit-driven product strategy in the future.
Next topic is our overseas business. Please turn to page 35.
As I mentioned when we announced our plan, there is no change in our strategy and
direction to promote overseas business. We continue to achieve growth by disciplined
investment in our targeted markets we classified last year, such as commercial markets in
Europe and the United States, as well as Brazil and Turkey.

Bloomberg Transcript

We started to include Maritima in Brazil, one of our key regions, as a consolidated
subsidiary in June this year. I attended a party of Maritima in Brazil celebrating the 70th
anniversary. As the President of the holding Company, I made a speech at that celebration
party. So that our Company is doing very well.
We continue to keep taking actions to enhance the presence of NKSJ Group in each
region, as you can see on this page.
Please turn to page 38. Let me next explain our overseas assumed reinsurance business.
There is no change in our policy of making steady progress in the overseas reinsurance
business while rigorously managing risks. We recalculated our overseas assumed
reinsurance net premiums written. Reflecting our first half performance, we now project it
to be JPY47 billion, up JPY13 billion year on year.
Our plan for the final year of the plan, which is 2015, the net premiums written in this
business is JPY60 billion against which we are making good progress.
Please go over to page 40. This is the progress of the merger of the two P&C
companies.
In one word, everything is very smooth. Prior to the Nippon [ph] merger in September
2014 as we announced, we will be integrating all levels of the Company structure in April
2014 so that the entire organization will be managed as one entity. As part of the practical

Page 4 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

merger, we have already unified offices and head office general managers in April this
year. And have unified sales and claim office managers nationwide.

FINAL

We plan to unify section managers as well in April next year, establishing the one-wheel
[ph] structure. If market sees it appropriate, there will be more locations where we will
unify the structures prior to the plan.
In any case, this one structure is not only helping the cost reduction through reduction of
the number of the managers. But it is also helping to speed up the decision-making
process significantly.
As we have already announced, we are recruiting voluntary early retirement scheme
applicants. And development and testing for systems in division is making progress
smoothly. We will have done all sorts of tasks necessary before the merger date so that
merger date will come seamlessly.
Please turn to page 41. This is the situation of merger synergies and one-time merger
costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2013, merger synergy will increase due to reduction of headcount. On the other hand,
we expect one-time costs to slightly increase due to pre-emptive consolidation of offices.
I'd like to remind you that what's happening is as we had expected. There is no major
change with the scale and schedule of the plan for next year and after. Specifically,
synergy effect will increase to JPY40 billion in 2014. And to JPY56 billion in fiscal year 2015.
Next, I'd like to talk about capital-related matters. Please turn to page 43.
This page is showing the situation of stock price and capital level. Since NKSJ was
founded, share price has been trending below the net asset per share level. And it is my
concern, as of the end of September, according to J-GAAP, net asset was JPY1.3 trillion.
And adjusted consolidated net assets was JPY2.3 trillion; whereas as of today, the market
GAAP [ph] was JPY1.2 trillion. So both from accounting standard point of view, as well as
from economic value point of view, evaluation of NKSJ Holdings from the market is below
the actual value of the Company.
As we have explained with earlier slides, earnings is on the recovery trend, even
outpacing the medium-term management plan we have towards 2015. And we believe
that there is high probability to achieve the targeted profit as well as ROE of the mediumterm management plan.
We would like to show to the market the steady earnings recovery situation, as well as
progress we are making towards financial target in order to improve the market
devaluation of NKSJ Holdings.
On the next page, we are showing the capital management policy.

Page 5 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

The basic policy of capital management has not changed since the founding of the NKSJ
Group. By striking a balance of the three elements, namely maintaining financial
soundness, improving capital efficiency and increasing shareholder return, we will aim to
expand corporate value.
To represent those three elements simply with numbers and such, they are what you can
see, with the underlying parts as follows; target credit rating of AA; ROE of 7%, or more;
stable dividend payment; and total payout ratio of 50%. In order to achieve these targets,
we simply need to reduce risk, or risk take appropriately. And do the right resource
allocation.
Please turn to page 45. I'd like to confirm the value of the different categories that make
up the adjusted consolidated net asset.
So as of the end of the September this year, it totaled to JPY2.3 trillion; and from the end
of March, we increased it by over JPY100 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 46. This is the situation of the capital and risk according to the
economic value basis internal standard.
For measurement of risk, we use a confidence level equivalent to AA credit ratings, which
is valued at a risk of 99.95%, which is a risk that will occur once every 2,000 years. The
result of the calculation is as you can see on the graph. Capital buffer defined by the
variance between the capital and risk is JPY800 billion; solvency ratio, which is capital
divided by risk, is 150%.
Comparing this to the end of last fiscal year, increase in capital was mainly realized by
increase in unrealized gains of stock holdings. On the other hand, because we have
aggressively reduced strategic holding stocks, the increase in risk is limited and solvency
is on the increase.
The buffer is on the trend to increase, because earnings is on the recovery trend. And
stock price is rising. At the same time, we are also in a situation where we cannot ignore
the negative impact coming from the stock market, such as fall share price. Therefore, we
would like to monitor the stock market and grasp the right timing in selling down strategic
holding stocks in order to reallocate capital to higher efficiency businesses.
Next page is about the asset management. Let me first explain about the asset
management situation with the domestic non-life insurance business.
Basic policy of portfolio management for general account assets is diversified investment;
and for savings-type account asset, ALM is executed, centering around yen-denominated
fixed income asset in [ph] general account asset, while we are aggressively reducing
strategic holding stocks.

Page 6 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

Due to the stock market rally, the proportion of domestic equities has increased from the
end of March to 35%. Therefore, in that sense, reduction of strategic holding stocks
continues to be on the agenda and use that money for other types of investment.

FINAL

For savings account asset, as you can see, the duration gap is five years versus six years.
So there is a one-year duration gap. Then interest fluctuation risk is limited. Therefore, we
are well managing the portfolio.
Next pages explains about our life insurance business.
The life insurance business has main product as a savings type of insurance and
protection type of policies. We have a conservative stance in asset management, mainly
by ALM execution. The yen-denominated assets are mainly JJBs [ph]. And asset liability
duration gap is small. So we have a conservative portfolio with mitigated risk.
Going forward, we will be monitoring the interest rate movement and lengthen asset side
[ph] duration so we can gradually minimize the duration gap. So by extending the duration
on the asset side, as you can see, which is 12 years now, we will able to catch up with the
duration on the liability side.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you go to page 49, this is about the reducing of the strategic-holding stocks. Last year,
we sold about JPY197.8 billion of strategic-holding stocks; and this year, we also plan to
reduce a similar amount of strategic-holding stocks.
The amount of reduction in the first half of the year with spot sales was JPY43.7 billion.
And with stock futures was JPY63.8 billion. So in total, we have reduced it by JPY107.5
billion. And we have achieved more than 50% of the planned reduction for the year.
Again, the gain from the security sales will make a major impact to the financial P&L. So we
would like to closely monitor the stock market as we sell down these equities.
Lastly, I would like to mention about shareholder return.
As I mentioned in the very beginning, this year, we plan to maintain the dividend per share
of JPY60 per share. As for the share buyback, it will be considered based on the fact that
we made an upward revision to the full-year projection, as well as on the capital situation.
For fiscal 2014 and after, we would like to minimally maintain the dividend payment of
JPY60 per share so as to maintain stable dividend payment.
On top of that, we would like to be mindful of the capital situation. And we will keep the
right balance between that versus investment and improving capital efficiency through
growth investment. And we will consider the scale and method of shareholder return after
that. For fiscal 2013, we will pay the interim dividend of JPY30 per share.
That concludes my part of the presentation. Thank you very much.

Page 7 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Now we'd like to open the floor for questions. When you have a question, would you
please raise your hand and state your name and your company name?

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Masao Muraki, Deutsche Securities. I have two questions.
My first question is on page 13, which is about your plan of the combined ratio.
Your combined ratio is outpacing the plan in terms of the improvement pace. But as you
can see on this page, there is a 3 points increase factor from the consumption tax hike
with the combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the actions that you can take on the premium side and also on the expense side,
what is your direction of the counter measure from the consumption tax hike? And
although consumption tax hike is official. But are you going to change your management
plan?
And my second question is about page 43. And you have shown the trend of your net
asset value. And as you explained for long time, your PBR [ph] is below 1 [ph]. In your
assessment, what is the discount factor putting the pressure on your stock price in
general? Sometimes, it's because of the low ROE which is lower than cost of the capital,
or simply about accounting method. No one can put a valuation on your stock based upon
the financial reported numbers.
Or, as was pointed out by some foreign investors, you have a tail risk associated with
long-term natural disasters such as fire and allied segment. So there is a potential tail risk
which is becoming a discount factor which is depressing your stock price.
So there are various potential cases. But in your opinion what is your assessment or
reasons why your stock price has been depressed for such a long time?

A - Shinji Tsuji

{BIO 16148256 <GO>}

My name's Tsuji [ph] from Corporate Planning. I'm going to answer your first question,
page 13, which is about the combined ratio.
As we mentioned when we disclosed our results of the first half, combined ratio of the
automotive insurance business is improving very steadily. And in the future, our action
towards the consumption tax hike is as follows.
The impact on the tax hike is not included in the management plan at the moment.
According to our trial calculation, as we have explained in the past, in 2015, the impact will
Page 8 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

be JPY35 billion of the total Group. That is a result of our trial calculation of the Company.

FINAL

And as you know, the insurance product is exempt from the consumption tax. However, as
a matter of course, the cost, which is the claim or agency commission imposed of
consumption tax. Therefore, we'd like to devise our pricing upward reflecting those cost
increases.
But in the main core business of automobile insurance business, we had the division of
drivers' ratings scheme last year. And we are seeing the benefit from that currently. We
see a significant decrease of the number of small-scale petty claims. And in October last
year, we had the start of this new driving ratings scheme.
So it depends on the timing of the impact, on our revenue from this division as
policyholders gradually shift to the new revised table. So we have to really wait and see
the specific impact from that.
But we have no intention to change our numerical targets in the management plan.
Therefore, I would like to offset the negative factor by expense reduction and positive
impact from the Drivers' Rating Scheme. We'd like to wait and see the specific positive
impact from the Driver's rating scheme change. So we'd like to continuously study and
scrutinize the numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And answer to your second question is going to be provided by Mr. Sakurada.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Long-term stagnancy of BPS [ph], as you asked, is my headache. And this may sound like
an excuse. But this is not our only the phenomenon of our Company. But you cannot name
so many financial insurance -- financial organizations, as PBR is dramatically above 1. And
over the past six months to one year, I had opportunities talking with overseas investors.
And this point has been raised up very frequently. And always discussion ends up with
talking about the share buyback. And these discussion points are as follows.
First, our low ROE. Putting aside the J-GAAP difference, or the definition of how we
calculate a numerator and the denominator, even on the equal footing basis, our ROE is
low. And if you look at other non-life companies and the life companies in Japan, we all
face double structure issue. So what we can do is just to address this issue steadily.
And other than this low level of ROE, there is an issue of tail risk. And there are many
investors who say that they feel that there are more natural disasters than before and
that they feel that tail risk is larger than before. But I don't have a feeling that that's the
factor that is making them reluctant investing in our stock.
Another factor for our industrial P&C and for some listed companies in the life business,
there is strong co-relationship with Nikkei average. There is very high beta [ph] against
Nikkei average. And our stock is almost like an investment trust. So beta is very high, or

Page 9 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

higher than 1. So when the total stock market moves, then our valuation moves
accordingly.
Personally speaking, it's very difficult for the Company to control the beta. So what we can
do as a company is to enhance our ROE. But we cannot dramatically increase ROE over
one year or two years. But if you look at major European insurance players such as Allianz
or Berkshire, especially if you look at players who are in the retail primary insurance
segment, not B2B segment. And if they look at their performance over the past 10 to 20
years, there were some years when their PBR was below 1. So how did they improve their
PBR?
When I look at what they did, they did ABCs [ph] of the business just like a textbook. So
that's what we have to do as well. And those ABCs of the business that are included in
the textbook are like actions that we explained today.
So there is no unique factor unique to NKSJ Group other than the beta issue. So we think
we can address this issue as a company.
And about the share buyback, as I mentioned earlier, there is no clear yes or no at this
point. But we made an upward finance projection revision. So by looking at the
appropriate opportunities or timings of capital allocation, we'd like to live up to the
expectation of our shareholders as much as we can.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you. So much. Let me ask you a follow-up question about my first question on page
13. This number does not include the impact from the consumption tax hike. But your
target of 94.7%, which is below 95% for 2015, you're not going to change this plan.
There is a positive impact on the Drivers' Rating Scheme change. But are you going to
scrutinize the number of specific impacts from the Drivers' Rating system? And rest will be
adjusted by the price increase and you have no plan to change your medium-term
business plan?

A - Unidentified Speaker
That's correct.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Tsujino, JPMorgan. I have three questions. My first question is regarding the net premium
income, net premiums written and the growth rate for Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa and
other companies. When I compare these different entities, Nipponkoa is lower than the
others.
Prior to the merger, I know that the two companies were working on this. And is that why
this is happening? Or having said that, the Nippon Japan and Sompo Japan added

Page 10 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

together, I think it's going to be a little bit below 1 plus 1 equals 2. So do I expect this to
improve as the two entities actually merge?
My second question is about Himawari Life. In the slide, excluding the lump sum payment,
the ANP [ph] of new policies is also increasing, as what you mentioned. However, in the
third sector of products, the new policy ANP since last year has seen declining trend from
last year. So in the third sector, are you selling less products which are lump sum payment
and is that why this decline is occurring?
That's my second question.
And regarding Himawari Life, I have another question. Channel, sales channel, what's the
channel situation? How much further can you strengthen this? So what is the ratio? I
believe the ratio of life -- products for the P&C is improving. But including the P&C sales
channel, as well as other sales channels, what areas of the sales channel can you
strengthen going forward? In other words, what other areas and sales channel can you
utilize or expand in the future. And what are you doing to do so?
And lastly, overseas business for the reinsurance assuming business, you are showing the
top line growth. But is there any data that shows the profit level of the overseas
reinsurance assumption business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me answer that question. First of all, your first question was about net premiums
written, the growth rate of different entities. And from the perspective of net premiums
written growth, in this industry, auto policies, auto insurance, is experiencing hike in the
premium rate.
The timing as well as the number of the hikes that take place, of course, may differ. Most
recently at Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa, we raised the premium rate in April this year.
And prior to that, in this industry, the peers raised their rates in October. And then they will
do so again in October this year, or they have done so this year as well.
So looking at those timings, the level of the hike may make some difference to the
growth in the net premiums written. And because of that, maybe we are less than the
peers in the growth of the premium income.
And because we are expecting the merger. And the practical merger will take place
effective of April next year, after we have merged the entities, there could be some share
adjustment that may take place. And this is something to be seen in any industry. So I
believe after we made that announcement, that it did take place.
Going forward, I think that the phenomenon is now done. And I think it's going to improve
from here onwards.

Page 11 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

Regarding Himawari Life, for the new policies, including third sector, the ANP growth is
lack-lustering, as what you mentioned. On this point, as you know, the third-sector
products and others, there is fierce competition taking place in the market. Especially
after this fiscal year started with medical insurance, etc., the premium has been
discounted. And there are peers who are attacking this area with price policy. So we are
impacted by those moves.
Our strength is that we have the P&C channel and we have a good grip of the P&C
policyholders. And we only have about 6% penetration of the life sales within the P&C
channel. After the practical merger takes place, which is the P&C side. And then with
Himawari Life within the same Group, we will be creating, or we have created a plan to
strengthen the sales channel. And towards the end of March, we are already acting on
those plans.
Another factor is that every company has been impacted by the lowering of the price in
the industry. In Himawari Life, the premium level had not been revised for more than five
years. Therefore, right now, we are preparing to revisit the premium level for Himawari
Life.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the P&C channel, strengthening of the P&C channel, from the P&C side, actually,
although the branch managers have been put into one structure under the one-bill
strategy; and the sales target originally for both Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa now have a
combined sales target so that the two entities can cooperate and collaborate in achieving
the sales target. And we're already doing this one year prior to the legal merger. And I'm
sure we will see some good fruits coming out of this effort.
About the reinsurance assuming business overseas, the profitability of the reinsurance
assumption business, when we show you [ph] on the combined ratio slide, if you look at
the combined ratio improvement auto, combined ratio improved by 3 points and,
therefore, reinsurance assumption business improved by 2percentage points for
combined ratio. That was our plan.
Therefore, the profitability of the reinsurance assumption business is sure to be achieved
to some extent. However, the nat cat loss does bring in some volatility to the business. If
there is a large natural catastrophe, of course, our original plan for 2015 was JPY60 billion.
And so it might diminish that profit. But of course, we have leveled such impact of the
natural catastrophes in the plan.
For nat cat occurrence, in years with less nat cat, it expands profit. If we have a year with
big nat cat such as hurricane, then that might blow off the entire profit. But towards 2015,
we are expecting the leveled profit in the years included towards 2015.
I believe I covered all your questions.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Page 12 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

For auto, looking at the number of vehicles, Nipponkoa is reducing its number of vehicles.
So I believe that comes from the adjustment of market share. And I know I am still on this
point. But for this fiscal year, you are already seeing that come through this year.
Therefore, we will not see that impact next year. Is that correct?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
That's right, because we did already announce about the decision and the announcement
about the merger. So for such impacts that may come from the announcement, I am sure
that has already come through and is diminishing.
For this year in October, looking at the situation in October this year, this is for non-fleet
auto policy, number of policies, the vehicle number is actually on the increase. Towards
the end of September, it was declining. However, if you combine SJ and NK, the number
of policies for auto is now on the increase. And I believe it's going to continue to increase
as a trend is what I believe.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Wataru Otsuka, Nomura Securities. I have two questions. My first question is on the
merger. On page 40/41, as it shows the merger plan, on page 40 specifically, actions to
be implemented and actions that have been implemented are laid out. And among those
actions, what were the positive factors and what were negative actions?
In other words, directors and sales forces are combining into one-wheel, one team. And
there is confusion in the marketplace, or is it more positive offsetting all the negative
factors?
And on page 41, you explained merger synergies and one-time merger costs. And onetime merger cost was increased and merger synergies also were revised up. So simply, if
you add merger synergies and one-time merger costs together, it seems like synergies
are larger now on a net basis. Am I right?
That's my first question.
And the second question is more qualitative question. As Mr. Sakurada mentioned,
towards the achievement of the management plan, you feel that you have good
probability of achieving the management plan. But specifically in P&C business and life
business and overseas business, where do you see the higher possibility of achieving
medium-term business plan? In what specific business areas?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Page 13 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

Let me answer your first question, one-wheel strategy. There are positives and negatives.
And sometimes, negatives became positives. And positives do not really become
negatives usually. But simply put, the human resource HR area was the most impactful
area, close to 30,000 employees.
I really think about the future of the Company and the symbolic, atmosphere [ph]
symbolic trend, was the HR selection. Who is going to become the general manger? Who
is going to be the head of sales; director representing sales over HR head? So it's very
important for the Company to really select and decide right people.
In that process, myself and Mr. Futamiya [ph] shared our views together and we took a
long time. And we really made this process very transparent. We asked third parties, such
as consultants, to be included in this process. And they helped us evaluating people. And
we got involved directly and we had discussion directly. And we evaluated each person.
So employees now know that this is a fair and open process that was positive. And
secondly, they think -- they really agreed on what we did on that selection or evaluation
process. So they may had some anxieties. But those anxieties are now gone with this fair
and open process.

Bloomberg Transcript

So selection of directors, selection of store managers were selected fairly. And that HR
decision making was made quickly. So nobody is from either side, SK or NK, we are
representing both companies now, we are working for the same company. And now we
face more concrete challenges such as agency issues, such as non-exclusive agencies or
exclusive agencies. So the challenges that we face now are more concrete.
In my opinion, there was no negative action. If I have to name one, as Mr. Tsuji mentioned,
probably share adjustment happened partially. But share adjustment was less than we
anticipated at the beginning.
And as we mentioned, merger synergies and one-time merger cost, both were devised
upward. In terms of the one-time merger cost, it was due to the system-related cost.
One-time system-related cost is going to occur earlier than planned. And secondly, the
early retirement special program is going to be implemented additionally. And on the
synergy side, we are going to see positive merger synergies ahead of our original plan.
So the specific mechanism, or specific numbers, will be explained in more details later.
In the medium term and in the long term, what is my view of our performance in the
future in P&C life and overseas? Probably, NKSJ Group is going to see the most
contribution from overseas in terms of the top line growth and bottom line growth. But it
depends on how we measure. Is it going to be measured by growth rates? If so, then this
year, we see the most growth in Japan. First in P&C and life business in Japan, we would
like to solidify this base, whole market business first.
For P&C business segment, at this point, I cannot say clearly. But I feel that it has
bottomed out. There are some uncertainties such as consumption tax hike, frequency.
And repair cost hike per unit per claim. But these are common issues faced by the
Page 14 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

industry; this is not unique to NKSJ. So with some time back, it should be recovered. So
P&C is bottoming out. And I think we can secure 5% margin, as planned over time.
This is cyclical business. We are getting to the positive phase now. As Miss [ph] Tsujino
asked, the price competition has started at faster speed than we anticipated in the life
business. So in the life business, we have to really make sure that we improve our
performance. If we really prioritize on the volume, it will hurt our bottom line profit. So we
have to be prudent. So at the holdings level, Himawari Life, we are telling them not to be
so aggressive on the pricing front. We have to strike a good balance.
In the future, as we expand our product line-ups in the life business, we have a good sales
channel. We have sales channel presence in 35 prefectures out of 47. And we have sales
channel which is very strong, with financial organization such as banks, regional banks. So
non-savings type. Protection-type products will see needs in the future more and more.
So I see there is a growth potential. But I cannot quantify this opportunity at this point.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

About the merger synergies and one-time merger costs. On the one-time merger cost
side, in 2013, it increased due to the recruitment of the early special retirement program.
So we have to pay JPY5.7 billion special premium to those retirees.
And versus the beginning of this fiscal year, the number of people for which we recruit for
this program is larger. And we are consolidating agents or stores ahead of the original
plan. That's one of the reasons.
And also, merger synergies were increased because of the following reasons.
First, we conducted early special retirement program last year. We asked for 400 people.
But 470 people applied for this program and we accepted all applications. Therefore, the
labor cost was decreased. So that's a positive merger synergy.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Let me confirm one more thing. Mr. Sakurada mentioned that he felt that P&C was
bottoming out. That's because new prices being penetrated well and agencies are
working towards the revised pricing table?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. In principle, that's correct. But if you look at the whole market, I think the sentiment of
consumers in reaching for lower priced insurance products has changed. It has turned
around. One of our Group companies, which is Saison Fire Company, is doing well. It's
been accepted very positively by the market. But they are not offering the cheapest price

Page 15 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

in the industry. So price sentiment or price sensitivity has improved positively. I think they
are more sensitive towards quality.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Shiota, Daiwa Securities. I have two questions for you. My first question is regarding
shareholder return. If you go to page 50, you are showing the diagram for fiscal 2013,
JPY60 per share of dividend payment; and shareholder return stock buyback is
considered. And if you look at the bar for 2014, the size of the bar is quite similar. Then
looking at the length of the bars beyond that, it looks like the bar is getting longer and
longer.
Dividend plus share buyback, how do you see them to you? Because once you increase
dividend, you cannot reduce dividend. So I guess shareholders have better reliance over
dividend. However, looking at the length of the bars, what will be the timing, the right
timing to see increase in dividend going forward? So from Mr. Sakurada, I'd like to know
your thoughts over the dividend hike timing.

Bloomberg Transcript

My second question is regarding that do have more accuracy in achieving the target for
the medium-term management plan? Beyond the current MTP, ROE of 7% or more is
beyond the current MTP. However, when you said that you need to mention ROE, I don't
think you'll be satisfied just with 7% of ROE.
In actual value, P&C combined ratio of 95% or below, if this achieved, then what will be
the level of the combined ratio to be achieved beyond MTP? Do you think you'll have
more room to lower the combined ratio beyond 95%? So what is the profitability of the
P&C business looking at the long-term horizon?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Thank you for your question. It was a very difficult question. For the first part of your
question, it's not that we have something like a formula. So it is a concept of how we look
at it. Right now, what we think is as follows. And the policy should not change so often. Let
me give you that as a footnote before I answer.
We do exclude life adjusted profit. We take the consolidated adjusted profit, excluding life
adjusted profit. And 50% of that is the total shareholder return. So that is the basic policy
about shareholder return.
The consolidated adjusted profit, excluding life adjusted profit in value, how much of that
is going to grow is part of your question. And that means we need to be raising ROE. And
how you measure the return, the R part is, of course, on an adjusted basis. Therefore, it is
different from the statutory accounting basis P&L.

Page 16 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

The other important point is that when we exclude life adjusted profit from the
calculation, do we exclude this part forever? Embedded value contribution to the P&L,
once we become more clear, or once there is a wider understanding about the EV
contribution to the P&L. And once EV becomes a more reliable calculation among the
investor circle, then we might not exclude the entire life adjusted profit but we might
consider a part of it or part of the EV to be part of the source for shareholder return. That
is my personal view.
So how will that evolve over the medium to long term? Will I be satisfied with ROE of 7%?
Obviously not. Of course, part of that depends on the calculation. But as it was mentioned
with the BPS question, there is a double structure issue. And especially for financial
institutions in retail business, how to raise profitability is an industry-wide issue. And
especially us. Because we want to be strong in the retail area, this is obviously an issue for
us.
So what is the specific ROE percentage that we want to target over the medium to long
term? At least, we want to achieve double-digit ROE over the medium to long term.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, there is a way to not go after scale by simply going after the percentage. So I
do not intend to just stick only percentage. But in any case, 7% is not a satisfactory level.
The assumption behind that is the combined ratio as well as ROE. These are the two
important indices. And beyond 95%, can we improve it much more? Because P&C
insurance is so public in nature, we will never see a day when we have a combined ratio of
80% or 85%, because if we achieve such combined ratio, we have to be taking more risk
or we have to be lowering the premium. There is a cyclicality involved in the market.
So I would say that in between 90% to 95% is a good level to be considered as the
combined ratio in the future. Once we have 90% or 95% combined ratio, when you back
calculate it, you can calculate the return. And also do another calculation to come up with
the ROE.
If you do the math, you might say that, no, that will not get you to a double-digit ROE. Well
you're only looking at the insurance side of the business. We have other businesses within
the Group, such as financial business or services business. And these are the businesses
that we want to nurture going forward as part of our medium-term management plan.
That is my answer to your question.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

On the first point, the share buyback versus dividend, if you compare the two, what your
thoughts?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Page 17 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

That theme, actually, I'm in charge of that theme. And I need to make many proposals to
the Board of Directors meeting. And I will be responsible for that.

FINAL

So stable dividend first of all is our basic policy. So it's not something that we make
decision on every year or every time. However, for example, even if the payout ratio is
below 50%, as long as it does not go below 50% over the medium to long term, that is
not a problem to us.
So if you look at this MTP, for 2014 and 2015, I guess in 2015, excluding life, the adjusted
profit will be about JPY100 billion. And 50% of that is going to be JPY50 billion. And so
JPY60 can become JPY120 by math. But for 2010 and after, when we were even booking
a loss, we paid out JPY80. So for 2014 and 2015, we were pre-emptively using the profit
that we projecting to make in the future years back then.
For share buyback, the decision will be made in a flexible manner every time the time is
right. Right now, it's not something that we have a decision to do so now. We will have to
look at the profitability flow, the risk buffer, etc.. And make decisions from time to time.

Bloomberg Transcript

What you have pointed out, some of the large factors, the reason we did share buyback
this year, it was by about JPY8.3 billion. And the reason we did that is, first of all, looking at
the risk buffer, overseas M&A, about JPY200 billion in size, was going to be executed.
And that was part of the plan after the announcement of the merger.
And it's not that we have withdrawn that plan. Right now, we have about JPY50 billion to
be the source of the shareholder return, including dividend increase.
Looking at the overseas companies, if we buy them with the PBR of 2 times or so, risk
buffer would be required by about JPY100 billion. And if you look at the risk buffer, we
have about JPY800 billion. And then that much money could be paid from that buffer.
For the selling down of strategic-holding stocks, the value of the stocks are sold. And 40%
of that value is the risk that we will be able to mitigate. And so that reduces risk and
increased risk buffer.
Driver Rating System change; the total effect coming from the Driver Rating System
change has not come through fully yet. We also need to counter the rise in the
consumption tax. And we need to put some measures to that after reading off the full
impact coming from the Driver Rating System change. And all of those will be combined in
a set and to be considered towards the end of the year. And after doing all that, we can
finally make a decision about share buyback. That will be the flow of the process.
Of course, share buyback, we have done it by JPY8.3 billion. If we execute it, the risk
buffer does get reduced. But by value, from the entire amount, this is not a huge weight.
But there certainly is a managerial issue. And together with making managerial decisions
about other matters, in a similar way, we want to be making decisions about share
buyback.
Page 18 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

Looking at the profitability situation, the economic situation, etc., the shareholder return
plan will be made as part of the major management decision as we make on day-to-day
business.

FINAL

Thank you.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Sasaki, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. I have two questions. My first question is
about your stock repurchase. Earlier, you mentioned that you were going to make a
decision by applying your common sense. But if you do so, for example, last year, you
paid out about JPY8 billion in total. Is it possible for you to do the share repurchase
exceeding that amount? Is that rational? Does that make sense to you?
That's my first question.
My second question is about the long-term profitability projection of automobile business
segment. Japanese Government is trying to build a transportation infrastructure free of
accidents. And by a large scale, by 2020, MLIT is going to build a significant infrastructure;
and there may be more innovations, such as more automatic driving support systems. But
how does that impact your profitability going forward on your automobile insurance
business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me answer your first question first about the size of the potential share buyback. We
did JPY8.3 billion in share buyback last time. When we decreased our dividend from
JPY80 to JPY60 per share, we allocated JPY20 difference for the share buyback. So in the
future, or for 2014, we are going to study whether we are going to do share buyback or
not based upon the performance of 2013.
So we would like to see how we perform in 2013. And the study of shareholder return
specifically in 2014. So at this point, there is no set specific size. Our mind is very flat, is
very open to whatever depending upon the performance.
And let me answer your second question. So your question was about self-driving
vehicles; and I've been thinking about this. But a short answer to that question is that I
don't know at this point. But what's clear at this point is that there are three methods for
self-driving cars. First method is Google type, surrounding GPS technology. They use the
map that is very close to real map; and utilizing GPS, the vehicles are self driven.
And the second method is Toyota or Honda method by communicating infrastructure,
such as roads and streets.
And the third method is Nissan method, which is totally autonomous. And wherever you
are in the world, your car can be driven automatically.

Page 19 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

FINAL

So among these three methods, we don't know, at this point what method is going to be
adopted by the Japanese Government? That's something that we are going to discuss,
or the Government is going to discuss. But when they choose one method among the
three, for example, when they choose the other method, are they going to not need
Nissan method or Google method at all? The answer is no. It takes time until they decide.
And when the number of self-driving cars increases, is that going to decrease the number
of accidents? It's neither yes nor no. But the risk profile will be totally different.
So if the vehicles will be auto-driven vehicles, are we going to see no accidents at all?
That's not correct. It depends on the risk. When an accident happens, who should be
responsible for that? Is that the responsibility of the car maker, or is it the responsibility of
the owner? Or is it the driver's fault? He or she could put their feet on the brake. But he or
she didn't. Is that their fault?

Bloomberg Transcript

So the product liability, this involves product liability whole matter as well, where or who
should take the responsibility. So it depends on the kind of risks that we are talking about
here. Is it going to be a brand new insurance? Or is it going to be continuation from the
current insurance scheme? We don't know at this point. We are in the middle of that
process.
I don't know how much of vehicles will be shifted to auto-driven vehicles. It's not 100% as
a right of citizenship. The Government can't deprive people of the fun to drive. So is it
going to be 20% auto vehicles? If that's the case, then they have to drive by looking at
manually-driven vehicles. So there are prudent drivers, like myself. And there are wild
drivers like my colleague, Mr. Tsuji. So I am fully supporting this auto driving scheme. But
the quality, the nature of the risk may be changed.
So premium is not going to go down because of the less accidents. But there is a precrash system which is commercialized already, like EyeSight made by Fuji Heavy. And they
are currently collecting the data with that device. So they can get other data, such as the
vehicles with less probability of accident, or high probability of accidents. Then we can
have a discount scheme depending upon the risk profile of vehicles.
But the data is not enormous yet that can be treated as low or large numbers. So it's a
very tricky issue. But in the transition phase, we are going to see more visibility. We are
talking about the phase of five years or 10 years.
I don't know if I answered your question correctly. But thank you so much.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Majima, Tokai-Tokyo Research Center. As answer in factors [ph], you talked about the
consumption tax as well as the effect of the new grade rating system. This may be
another uncertain factor. It could be. And what I think is, the impact of the revision of the
insurance business floor [ph]. For P&C agents, there will be requirement for information

Page 20 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

confirmation as well as intent confirmation of the policyholders. And also allowing the FSA
to do an on-site inspection of the exclusive [ph] agents.

FINAL

If it goes to the Diet within 2014, it may take effect as of 2014, which means that the
revision of the law may take place within your medium-term management plan period.
And will this require additional cost to the exclusive agents, or on your side in order to
revise the systems? So this a cost incurring item? That is my question.
Also is that if the revision takes place in order to facilitate the autonomy of the agents, do
you think it will be impactful enough to unwind the double structure that exists in the
insurance industry?
Please answer two of my points.
Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
To your first question, as of today, the specific impacts coming from the revision of the
laws, especially the numerical impacts coming from the revision of the law, is still
uncertain. Therefore, we have not done any specification. So we have not created any
projections based on it. Therefore, our stance is to monitor the situation as it progresses.

Bloomberg Transcript

To your second question. We are basically doing the same thing. So it will be an agenda
item going forward.
Thank you.
Directly to the business plan, or will it get reflected on to the constat [ph] is what that
Tsuji-san answered.
Another point about this revision is to educate the policyholders. It's not that we are
looking down on them. But it's important for the policyholders to be assured about the
quality of the agencies that they are buying policies from. I think it becomes a good
chance for that to happen in the market, because up until now, it was the insurance
companies through the agency channel to make them more autonomous in order to
evade the double structure.
However, it is the policyholders who hold the abundance power because they pay the
commission. But there's agency A and agency B; why is the cost so different between the
two? And when they realize that, some major change might happen in the market. And if
it leads to revision of the law, then I'm sure the framework will be re-set. And I'm sure that
kind of move will happen; I think it should happen. And this is going to be a positive impact
to the entire industry.
Did that answer your question?
Page 21 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

Q - Hideyasu Ban

{BIO 15250840 <GO>}

FINAL

Ban, Morgan Stanley. I have two questions. I don't know how appropriate it is to be asking
you about next year's business. But today, on page 41, you update us about the merger
synergy and one-time merger cost. And if you compare the two numbers for next year,
the difference is JPY33 billion. And I think this is going to be a factor to push down the
profit next year.
And I know that the reported P&L numbers is not the most important number. However,
there are index such as Nikkei 400 which decides what to be included based on the ROE.
So I don't know how you regard the reported ROE. And also, when you have a factor to
push down the profit by JPY33 billion, how you plan to fill that next year.
For the adjusted profit for fiscal 2014, I know that JPY150 billion of adjusted profit is on the
horizon. For life EV, we will make up JPY100 billion; overseas will be about JPY10 billion.
That means domestic P&C will be about JPY40 billion to JPY50 billion of adjusted profit.
That means you need to make your top line to increase by about JPY20 billion in order to
get to the adjusted profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's only on the rough estimate. But if the price revision takes place in the early part of next
year and will still make effect for the rest of the year, then would that be a significant
factor? And with that possibility included, am I right in estimating that the domestic P&C
adjusted profit for next year will be JPY40 billion to JPY50 billion? And what will be the
steps of the process to get from this year to the JPY40 billion to JPY50 billion next year?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me answer that question for 2014. For fiscal 2014, synergy is JPY40 billion. The way we
showed it that way, actually, was the first time that we've done so today, because up until
now, we talked about JPY75 billion of one-time cost. That's all we had explained so far.
And what we have been saying is that with the practical merger, there will be more
rationalization and more synergy to surface. Therefore, we have come to announce the
synergy and cost in the way we did.
For one-time cost, it's going to get excluded from the adjusted profit; not the entire
amount. But most of the amount will get booked as extraordinary loss. Therefore, the
source of the shareholder return, which is adjusted profit, will not have the impact of the
cost.
And in 2014, how do we secure the profit of the domestic P&C business? The heaviest
factor is the consumption tax change. For this fiscal year, for claims reserve, although the
claims payment may occur next year, then we will have to top that with consumption tax,
higher consumption tax, in paying the claims, even if the provisioning wasn't this year.
Therefore, as I repeat, the grade rating system impact has to be fully understood. And we
must also consider the pricing. And if necessary, we might have to do the price hike in

Page 22 of 23



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-11-26

order to counter the situation. However, it has not been decided. And going forward, we
will take some time to study the issue.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

No further questions? If not, we would like to close this IR meeting. Thank you. So much
for attending our conference. Thank you.

Page 23 of 23

