Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

Q3 2014 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Esteban Tejera Montalvo, First Vice-Chairman of MAPFRE SA, Managing Director of
MAPFRE S.A and Chief Executive Officer of Mapfre S.A.
Luigi Lubelli, Deputy GM-Finance & Investor Relations Officer

Other Participants
Atanasio Pantarrotas , Analyst
Avinash Singh, Analyst
Federico Salerno, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

[Abrupt Start] Chairman of the Group, who will conduct the presentation. Please go
ahead, sir.

Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to MAPFRE's results
presentation for the first nine months of 2014. As usual, I'll give an overview of the results
and the main business developments. And later Mr. Lubelli will explain the financials in
greater detail. Please go to slide number three.
During this period, MAPFRE continued to grow, increasing its premiums 1.8% to €16.9
billion. And its assets under management grew 13.6% to €37.7 billion. The combined ratio
remained excellent, with only a small 50-basis-point year-on-year increase.
The strong development of the life business, together with larger financial income, made
up for this, as well for the negative impact of the economic situation in Venezuela,
containing the decrease in attributable result to only 1.6 percentage points. Shareholders'
equity per share increased strongly, by almost 12%.
On page four you have the highlights of the results. Business growth mainly stemming
from sustained development in Brazil; recovery in issuance in Spain, which is very
important to remark, because this in the change of the tendency, not only for MAPFRE,
but also for the sector as a whole, even if MAPFRE is leading this change of tendency;
And, (02:04) growth in the Reinsurance and Assistance businesses, along with positive
impact of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar and other currencies.

Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

The combined ratio remains at excellent levels, as I said before. We have significantly
larger financial income, driven by the increase in the market value of the portfolio. And the
equity has grown €1,242 million since year-end 2013 due to several factors; firstly, the
results for the period; secondly, the positive mark-to-market adjustment; and thirdly, the
appreciation of the Brazilian real, the Turkish lira and, above all, the U.S. dollar. At constant
exchange rates, the premium would have grown 8.3%, and the attributable results, 3.7%.
On slide five, I would like to remark how the signs of the growth in the Spanish economy
now. There is a growing evidence here of that growth that is some kind of recovery that
are supported by the GDP figures, but also by numerous other indicators, such as the
sales of consumer goods, vehicles and real estate.
The outcome of the stress test for the banking sector provided further evidence of the
strength of the economy. In this environment, as in other times I have mentioned, we have
the position in MAPFRE that allow us to benefit of this.
If you look at page seis, MAPFRE traditionally benefits from its traditionally proven
approach to pricing. And during this period, we have reduced our average premium only
by 9.4% in a period; where in the rest of the sector has declined their average premium
by 19.2%.

Bloomberg Transcript

This obviously has a positive impact in our combined ratio and enhances our competitive
position, vis-à-vis our competitors, to withstand any increases in the loss experience
possible to occur in the next months, due to the recovery of the economy.
As you can see in the page – on the page seven, MAPFRE has found itself in the similar
operating environments previously. And usually, when the economy starts growing again,
if I could say (05:38) recovers, our competitors have to raise tariffs more than MAPFRE.
Given that ours (05:46) continues to be the strongest brand in Spain, that strengthens our
competitive position and we tend to outperform the market at times of economic growth.
According to ICEA, the cooperative research institute for the insurance sector, in third
quarter this year, we have already added 30 basis points to our market share in motor
insurance.
On page eight, you can see how we are performing very well in the Brazilian market also.
Our joint business with Banco do Brasil is strongly outperforming the market and now
ranks number one in several lines, and number two in motor insurance, with a very, very,
remarkable market share in every rank.
As you know, MAPFRE – and we describe the operation on page – on page nine, MAPFRE
has agreed to buy Direct Line's Italian and German businesses for a consolidation of €550
million. These companies fit well our targets, because – and their profiles fit well with
MAPFRE's diversification strategy, which included – it involves the expansion of business in
Europe in direct insurance.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

They are leaders in their respective markets and profitable. And they complement very
well our strengths and give us opportunities for improvements in both ways – in two ways.
In the operations, we acquire through the deployment of our systems and expertise, and
especially our expertise in online business; and in our businesses in other countries
through the combination of our Internet platforms with the guided pre-insurance systems.
On page 10, you have the agreement of the board of directors that have resolved to pay
an interim dividend against the 2014 results of €0.06 per share. Therefore, the total
dividend paid in the year amounts to €0.14 per share, which means roughly more than 5%
of the dividend yield in the year. In total, the outlay amounts to €431 million. Well, these
are the highlights of the period.
And I will now hand the call to Mr. Lubelli, who will comment upon our financials in greater
detail.

Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Esteban. Good afternoon, everyone, on the phone and on the line. Please let's
move to slide number 12. Here we have the consolidated income statement. As we
explained in the previous result's release, when talking about financials, we will be giving
explanations both on the cumulative figures and on the valuations on the – in the third
quarter alone, third quarter of 2014.
If we compare with June, the consolidated figures I'm talking about, we can see in the
Non-life account a turnaround in premiums; now we have a positive growth. In the first and
second quarter we had small contractions. In comparative terms, we also have the best
reading in the year in the technical result. And we see a strong rise in financial income,
which was mainly driven by realization gains that came primarily from Spain.
Also, in the Life account we see an acceleration in growth compared to June, while – and I
mean premiums' growth, while the bottom line is developing broadly in line with what we
saw in the first half. There's nothing really significant to report about other business
activities, which are very much in line with the first half. We see, as we saw then, the
adjustment for inflation in Venezuela, which is clearly a large figure, its €57.9 million, but
compared to June it only increased €12.5 million.
So thanks to the better performance in the Non-life account and this slower growth in the
negative inflation adjustment in Venezuela, we can see that the growth of pre-tax profit
accelerates compared to June when we had 8.7%, now we have 13%. However, in the
bottom line, we see a small 1.6% contraction, which is mostly due to a higher tax rate. Just
as an observation, if we were to exclude the inflation adjustment, the profits would be
basically flat, at the same level as they were in 2013.
On slide 13, we have the Non-life account. And when comparing the variations in the
cumulative figures of September against June, we have to bear in mind that this year we
saw exactly the reverse of what we saw in the third quarter of 2013. This year, we had
premiums' growth in Spain and a depreciation of the euro; while last year, we saw exactly
Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

the opposite: an appreciation of the euro, which reduced the amount of premiums
coming from abroad, and the contraction in Spain. So the combination of these
movements magnifies the increase that we've seen in the third quarter of this year.
There is greater detail on the Non-life account on slide 14. On a cumulative basis, we can
see premiums' growth, which comes from primarily Brazil, the Assistance business, and
the recovery in the Spanish retail sales. This was enough to make up for a contraction that
we are observing in the commercial insurance business, both in Spain and abroad, which is
mainly due to a very intense competition in this line.
We see the loss ratio go up, on a cumulative basis I'm talking, due to a slight decrease in
net premiums earned, as well as higher frequency in Spain and Brazil, together with
weather-related claims in the U.S.; we've had a few of them even in this quarter. These
increases were made up to, by a very large extent, by MAPFRE RE which has, this year, a
much lower amount of catastrophe losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The expense ratio, once again on a cumulative basis, falls thanks to lower acquisition
expenses at MAPFRE América, especially MAPFRE América, but also MAPFRE RE, which
compensate the increases that we are experiencing in other companies, especially in
Spain, which is due to different recognition criteria for acquisition expenses and to
changes in the business mix.
Quarter-on-quarter, if we compare the first quarter to the second quarter, we see that
premiums fall. And this is mainly due to seasonality, which was especially pronounced in
Spain in Reinsurance. If you compare the figures in 2013, the third quarter of 2013 with the
second quarter of 2013, you will see broadly similar variations.
When we compare now, this period, with the same period of the previous year, we do
see a significant increase of 4% in the premiums, which is basically moved by the same
drivers as the cumulative figures, which I will say was Brazil, Assistance and the recovery in
Spain, plus the positive impact of the appreciation of foreign currencies.
The loss ratio in this quarter went up mainly to hurricanes Odile and Ela; and to weather
and household claims in the U.S; and some seasonality effects in MAPFRE EMPRESAS,
which normally sees an increase in its loss ratio in the third quarter. These increases were
partly offset by the improvements we saw in Brazil. And the expense ratio was broadly
unvaried in the quarter.
On slide 15 we have the financial income of the Non-life account, which has a significant
impact on the result of this account. We have, clearly, larger realization gains, which were
driven by a significant increase in the market value of investments; I imagine that doesn't
surprise anyone. We had growth in business volumes, which made up for the falling rates
in Western economies.
And if you remember, last year, we had negative mark-to-market adjustments in Brazil in
which the figure was around €50 million, which had a negative impact on the accounts and
which we no longer have this year.
Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

Slide 16, we have the Life accounts, which shows a significant improvement over 2013,
both when we look at it on a cumulative basis and also on a quarterly basis and the
reasons are on slide 17. We can see that we have premiums growth, which is driven by
strong performance of the bancassurance businesses in both Brazil and Spain, especially
Brazil, but Spain is significant this year; it's quite a remarkable amount in terms of growth.
On a yearly basis we have a significant contribution of the Reinsurance business. As you
know, reinsurance comes – develops differently from the direct business. But given that
we wrote significant new business in the year 2013, now, in the year 2014, we are
recognizing the premiums coming from that business.
On a quarterly basis, we see a decrease and that's because the sales volume in Brazil in
the second quarter was exceptional; and because of the seasonality in Spain, which
applies to both the Life and Non-life businesses.
It does not show up in premiums, but it is worth mentioning the very strong performance
of the agents' channel asset management business in Spain, which has a net inflow of
€205 million, which is over four times the amount collected in the first nine months of
2013. And of this €205 million, €67 million came in the third quarter alone.

Bloomberg Transcript

The technical financial results benefits from the very strong development in Brazil, which,
of course, bearing into account the impact of minorities now makes up more than 50% of
the technical financial result of the Life account, the growth in funds under management,
better technical results in Brazil and in Reinsurance and realization gains of slightly above
€30 million in Spain.
As I said before, on slide 18, there's not really anything to report about the other business
activities. So I will move directly to slide 19, where we have the bottom line. I already
mentioned before the variations in the bottom line.
And on slide 20 we have a more detailed description. We have a significant increase in
pre-tax profits that's coming from larger financial income and better technical result in the
Life account, especially in Brazil and Reinsurance, which, to a large extent, is offset by the
inflation adjustment in Venezuela.
As I said before, tax rate goes up. And that comes from many reasons but, clearly, the
larger one of them, the one that has a greater impact, is the growth of the Brazilian
business, which, as you know, has a tax rate of 40%. And the share of minorities goes up
because profits are growing comparatively faster in Brazil and in the bancassurance
subsidiaries in Spain.
The balance sheet is shown on slide 21. The trends are very much the same as we saw in
the first half. As you can see on slide 22, we have total assets, they are growing solid, in
my view, 12.5%, which is driven by business development.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

And this business development was strongly compounded by the fall in Southern
European credit spreads and in this quarter – specifically in the third quarter, by the
appreciation of several foreign currencies that are relevant for MAPFRE, chiefly among
them the U.S. dollar.
The overall solvency is developing especially strongly. Year-on-year shareholders' equity is
up nearly €1 billion, and debt is decreasing €175 million. So there's a material improvement
on that front.
On slide 23 we have the movement in equity, including minorities, which continued to
increase, and very much so in the third quarter, and now exceeds by €1.2 billion, the figure
for the end of 2013. The reasons are very much the same that we saw in June; they are
on slide 24. Of course, there's profit growth.
In addition to that we have strong and positive mark-to-market, especially on Spanish
assets, even taking into account shadow accounting. And as I said before, we have the
appreciation of the U.S. dollar, the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira. In this quarter, the
positive impact of the dollar was special.

Bloomberg Transcript

On slide 26, we have the information by regions, profits and premiums. And in terms of
premiums, year-on-year, there's basically no change. The figure is almost identical to –
except for a few figures (20:27) in terms of breakdown of premiums. We do see, in terms
of profit, a significant increase in the contribution of Brazil and MAPFRE RE.
They both have gone from a contribution of around 11% last year to a contribution of over
13% this year and they made up for the fall in LATAM South, which is negatively impacted
by Colombia and Chile, as well as for the contraction in MAPFRE USA. If we compare
quarter-on-quarter, the differences are minor as well. The most that changes, compared
to June, is LATAM South, and I will be explaining shortly why.
On slide 27, we have the premiums for the regions on a cumulative and quarterly basis.
On a cumulative basis we have several drivers: the sustained development in Brazil; the
growth in MAPFRE RE, especially in the Life business; the growth in LATAM North, in
general Life insurance; and in Iberia we have the growth of retail Non-life and Life.
These positive developments make up for the fall in LATAM South, which is due to several
reasons: there's a contraction of the Life business in Colombia; there's the impact of
depreciation in several countries, which is especially strong in Argentina and Chile; And
there's a decrease, in Chile, of the mortgage-related business.
If we look on a quarterly basis, we see that the volume of issuance has decreased
significantly compared to the second quarter. As I said before, there's a strong impact of
seasonality in Iberia and RE. I have to say, in Brazil, the growth was not as strong as it was
in the second quarter where it was exceptionally strong, but it continued, both in Life and
Non-life.

Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

As you know, we changed the exchange rate for Venezuela in June. And as the year
progresses, its impact is – becomes greater and that had an impact on the development
of the figures of LATAM South in this quarter.

FINAL

Internationally, these decreases were partly offset by the positive impact of exchange
rates in the United States and Turkey, as well as a very good development of business in
Assistance throughout the world, but especially in North America.
Lastly, we have the profit figures for the regional areas. On a cumulative basis, we see
notable increases in Brazil and MAPFRE RE. In both cases, that is due to better technical
results and larger financial income. We also do see a strong improvement in EMEA, thanks
to a very significant increase at MAPFRE GLOBAL RISK, which had a large claim in 2013 and
no longer did so this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

This positive development made up, to a large extent, for the falling profits in the United
States, which is primarily due to weather-related claims. LATAM South, which has this year
the impact of the Iquique earthquake and last year, had extraordinary realization gains in
Venezuela and Colombia, which magnify the fall in 2014. And to a much lesser extent we
have a decrease in Iberia, which is small in MAPRE FAMILIAR, MAPFRE EMPRESAS and
MAPFRE Portugal.
If you look quarter-on-quarter, we see that the profit increase is in MAPFRE RE, driven by
larger financial income and EMEA, reflecting a better performance in Turkey and the
assistance business. And they were partly offset by a fall in LATAM South, which, in the
second quarter, had large gains in Venezuela on dollar-denominated assets, due to the
change of exchange rate and no longer had so in the third quarter.
And in the second quarter LATAM South also benefited from reserve releases in Peru. And
lastly, in the case of Iberia, we saw a higher loss ratio in the commercial insurance and the
Assistance businesses. As far as I'm concerned, this concludes my presentation.
And I'll give back the call to Mr. Tejera for the Q&A session.

Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Thank you, Luigi. Well, we are now available to answer your questions.

Q&A
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Q&A sessions starts now. Our first question
comes from the line of Federico Salerno from MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

Yes, good morning. Good day, sorry. A couple of questions please. On Venezuela, you
touched upon it, I was wondering, could you repeat what the exposure is and if you guys
are preparing for a default from a business perspective? That's the first question. On a
more cheerful topic, the dividend, is it reasonable to expect a similar increase for the fullyear dividend? What's the outlook here considering that shareholder's equity has gone up
another €500 million during the quarter? And then last point, where do you stand with
regards to your discussions with BBVA on distribution via Catalunya Bank? Thank you.

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Hi, Federico. Good afternoon to you. I will have to look into – and actually, I'm trying to look
into the annual report for the exposure of MAPFRE to Venezuela. In terms of the net
equity, the exposure to Venezuela is not a large proportion of our total equity, but we'll
look into the figures to give you an answer. Mr. Tejera will expand on that. In terms – over
the years, MAPFRE has received a significant amount of dividends from Venezuela, which
somehow means that we have recovered a very significant proportion, if not more than
what we have invested in this company, thanks to a very good performance. But I wonder
if...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Yes, in any case – well, first of all, this is a possible continuity in the future but not probably
in the short-term. But in any case, it's not my role to comment and to forecast about the
future of the countries. But I would like to remark that we have an activity in Venezuela, like
in other countries, that is mainly an activity of insurance for particulars and we have there
our business. And just in case of a – the fall, the probability and the (28:09) possibility of
increasing dividends from the country for a period of time. It depends on if it happens or
not; and then if it happen, for how long is the situation?
From the point of view of this position, we'll give the figures. (28:28) And we have passed
for bad periods in different countries during the more than 30 years that we are in Latin
America and our will is to stay there.
So if we are able to maintain our activity and helping our policyholders in the country, we
can wait for a period of time in order to get dividend. We are not thinking about leaving
Venezuela or another country in Latin America, due to – according to our situation in the
short-term.

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

The net equity in Venezuela, roughly, at the end of the September is around €280 million
equivalent. Federico?

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

Your question about the dividend was it – the dividend can be higher or the – are these
dividend the (29:44) final figure for the year? Well, I think that the good news is that this is
20% higher than the interim dividend we paid a year ago. And this shows, in our view, the
strength of the company from the point of view of solvency and in the financials of the
company. We need to wait until the figure at the end of the year to know exactly the final
figure, and then the board will decide what will be the dividend.
Our policy is to have a dividend that is good from the point of view of the yield we are
giving to our policyholders and according to the financial situation of the company, and
both are very strong at this moment. But I can't give you more details about the decision
that we will be taking in four months or five months.
And you mentioned the BBVA agreement. Well, at that time we continue to work in the
same way that we did before. BBVA have not communicated to us a decision, and we
have to wait until the time they have a decision on the continuity of the business or even a
change of the partnership. So we are not considering the issue in the short-term, to
change our policies of dividend or in other material things.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Atanasio Pantarrotas from Kepler Cheuvreux.
Please go ahead.

Q - Atanasio Pantarrotas

{BIO 5933123 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon to everybody. I've some questions. The first one is related to the
expense ratio which improved materially, especially in the Brazil business. You mentioned
that it was due to the lower acquisition cost and I wonder if this level could be considered
sustainable or not also in the future?
The second question is, if you can provide us an outlook on the evolution of the Spanish
motor business. The last data, the market continue to show a further decline of the
premiums, so the further decline average in (33:02) premiums, as you mentioned in your
slide also? And some pick-up in claim frequency, I guess also due to the higher number
for vehicles around and maybe an economy recovery? And I wonder if you think how long
could go on this competition and if you expect Baremo to have an impact on this next – in
the next years?
Final question on harvesting, I saw that you have a material contribution from realized
gain, (33:38) especially in the third quarter, close to €100 million just in the Life business. I
wonder, what is your investment strategy for the next quarter, so if you will continue to
harvest and to sustain profit by realized gain, (33:56) or you will be more cautious maybe
due – believing in a prolonged low-interest rate scenario? Thank you.

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Good afternoon, Atanasio. The expense ratio in Brazil is simply due to a different mix.
There's a greater mix of certain kinds of business coming from the bank network. And as
you know, acquisition expenses, the fees that we pay, depend on the type of product.
The types of products that have been sold through the bank have comparatively lower
commissions and that is why the expense ratio has fallen. As you know, we don't give
forecasts. I mean, to the extent that the development of sales as the bank continues at
the pace we have been seeing, that should be a – some sort of a reference level. Yes,
that is contingent on the volume of sales at the bank continuing to develop as they do.
Perhaps on the Spanish motor business, we are a bit more optimistic than you are. It is
true that the contraction of the market is 1.7%. It's also true that a year ago it was 8%
negative, so there clearly is a recovery in sales. The cumulative figure is the result of the
figures of several quarters.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now as far as we can see, and from anecdotal evidence from other companies operating
in the market, we see that something similar is happening elsewhere. We have seen,
especially in the second quarter, that – and you will be able to notice that if you look at the
quarterly figures alone – there has been a small, but very encouraging increase in sales in
motor insurance. So we are seeing – we believe it is a turning point.
Frequency somehow comes from the same piece of answer. There is frequency, because,
as Mr. Tejera was highlighting, the economy is doing better. So simply, people are moving
around more, and it is obvious that that makes them more likely to have accidents or
losses. So we are actually – we believe what we are seeing, both the frequency and the
premiums, are evidence of the fact that the economy is moving again.
The impact of Baremo; we will know when Baremo is established. Personally, and we at
MAPFRE, we have always encouraged you not to get too carried away in terms of
concerns by Baremo. Obviously, or most likely, Baremo will – means that some kind of
claims which are in courts of law will become more expensive, that is true. So in the
shorter run, they can impact the loss ratio negatively.
But at the same time, at least if you take a technical approach to underwriting, they should
result in higher tariffs. Whenever similar changes happened in the past, they were
followed by a season of tariff corrections, which eventually were positive for the business.
Of course, we cannot guarantee that it will be the same this time, but there are reasons
to believe that it is possible that this could happen again.
In terms of harvesting, it's difficult to answer your question. At the end of the day, we do
the – we try to act in the best interests of our shareholders, and this was – our business is
made of both technical and financial results. It was a good moment. And actually, we
believe we did the right thing, because only a few weeks after the closing of the quarter,
things in the market were no longer as good as they used to be.
So we think it was good to at least take part of that, and time will tell on what will be
possible in the future. As you know, in the Life business, the level of rates in MAPFRE is not
Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

that relevant, because our business is fully matched. So that is really not an impact on the
ongoing business. On the Non-life side, clearly, there will be less financial income. But at
the same time, we have good underwriting results that help us out on that front. I wonder
if you want to add anything.

FINAL

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

No, it's true that we saw seasonal good conditions at the market up until summer, and we
took advantage of that. But as you know very well, our approach is very cautious in this
area of investment and the recession gains. So no, nothing more to add.

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Atanasio Pantarrotas

{BIO 5933123 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Avinash Singh from Nomura. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Avinash Singh

{BIO 20134511 <GO>}

Hi good afternoon. A few questions. The first one is, now, when financial markets are
more stable and as Spanish economy is recovering, can you please provide some sort of
guidance for premium and bottom line for this year and the next?
My second question, related to the first one. So far this year your Reinsurance business is
doing really great. Financial income has been also really good. So, from where do you see
a positive earnings momentum that can come for the next year? And third question would
be if you can just provide some kind of color on your economic and rating capital, post this
recent acquisition, where you are going to spend some € 550 million, and then after this
dividend – interim dividend? Thank you.

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Good afternoon, Avinash. Let's see. Just as a rule, MAPFRE long ago decided not to
provide forecasts on premiums and profits; so we cannot give you figures. We can tell you
– however, we can help you out or illustrate, let's say, the trends that we are observing in
our markets, in the markets where we operate. And if those trends continue then you will
be able to draw your conclusions alone. As we are saying, we do believe that things are
developing much better in Spain, certainly, than they did a year ago. But I would go as far
as to saying as they did in the first quarter of this year.
We have a Spanish business that is performing materially better than it did a year ago. If
you look at our performance relative to the market in motor insurance, we have been
closing the gap quarter-by-quarter. We began in the first quarter of this year,
underperformed in the market, and now we are in line with the market; actually, slightly
Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

FINAL

above the market, because we are selling comparatively more. As a matter of fact, we
have added, if I'm not wrong, 30 basis points to our market share in motor insurance this
quarter alone in Spain. So if you look at health, it's growing twice as fast as the market, if
not more. Life, we're doing much better in the market as well.
So clearly, Spain is, for once in a long time, a bright spot in the MAPFRE business. And on
the back of the improving economy in Spain, it's clearly something that looks poised to be
a positive contributor to our development going forward. Another element, which possibly
people did not pay too much attention to, but it's a numerical reality, is the fact that we
are along the U.S. dollar significantly. We closed the year with about €2 billion equivalent
net position in U.S. dollars. And clearly, the performance of the currency, if – and once
again that's your conclusion to draw, if the exchange rate continues developing the way it
is now, but you already are seeing the impact on our figures, these figures were closed at
€1.27, I believe at the end of October, and we are €1.25 now.
So that, clearly, whatever gain there is on that front, it will be a positive one. So I would say
those are main trends. The business, as you know, is developing reasonably well. I have to
say that the business in LATAM South perhaps this year has been affected more than one
would have expected. Next year, we'll likely have a much smaller Venezuela, but it is also
true that many countries this year are very strongly affected in the southern part of Latin
America; possibly next year will not be as affected as they are this year, which would be
also a positive addition. I wonder if these elements help you in answering your question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Avinash Singh

{BIO 20134511 <GO>}

Yes. Partly, I'm getting the sense. But I mean, the second part of that same question that,
okay, because your Reinsurance business this year has been very, very strong. Your
financial income has been strong so far. So going into the next year, I mean, can you just
provide some sort of a sweet spot? So do you see that, okay, there is a possibility of
further profit growth, or rather the further profit growth may even come from the cost
savings? So which of those areas, where can we expect the positive profit earning
momentum to continue?

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Well, you know that our Chairman in the Annual General Meeting stated a very clear goal
of reduction of expenses and of containing our combined ratio below 96%, and that is our
goal. The goal is public. And that goal is a goal that is aimed at the year 2016, and we
continue to work on that. So that remains, that certainly will be a driver of profit
improvements.
I will also say that – and now remembering another place that this year is especially
strongly affected and it is bearing on the results negatively, is the United States, because
of the weather. So a return to normality in the United States would be felt on profits quite
strongly.

Q - Avinash Singh

{BIO 20134511 <GO>}

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

Okay. All right. So that leaves with one more question that is on your capital position in
terms of rating and economy.

FINAL

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Yes. Well, firstly, the first answer to your question is that we have not acquired those
companies yet, so they have not had any impact on our capital position. But whatever the
case, if we were to crudely look at the economic capital, I would say that the increase in
equity coming this year from profits, foreign exchange, and appreciation of the market
value of investments greatly outstrips the economic capital impact of this acquisition, if it
has been already carried out.

Q - Avinash Singh

{BIO 20134511 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Federico Salerno from MainFirst. Please go
ahead, sir.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. On the U.S., which you mentioned, do you expect the cycle to get better
beginning of next year? What's your outlook on that if you have one?

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Federico, really this year it's not actually a matter of cycle. If you look at the business itself,
the business itself is doing – for the size of the economy that we're talking about and for
the economic situation, actually the sales are doing pretty okay; we are growing at around
4%. And especially we're growing at more than twice that rate outside of Massachusetts.
So the business itself is all right.
The issues have not come from the business. There's two main issues in the United
States: one is that we've had really a big impact of all sorts of weather-related claims with
it, especially in the first quarter, but we also did in this one. Then there is one which is, yes,
is structural. It's the fact that this company now has a smaller investment portfolio than it
did a year ago, because we repaid, on maturity, the bonds in December, which of course,
consumed cash.
And then, as you know, the Company paid a dividend of, I think, around $100 million – $150
million, which of course, also reduced its investment portfolio. So that does have an
impact, because the smaller amount invested, and it is invested at a lower rate, so that
does have an impact on the performance of the U.S. company. But not the cycle; the
business itself is actually all right.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2014-11-05

So it's fair to say that the combined ratio you are expecting next year at MAPFRE
INTERNACIONAL should be – count for – below 100%?

FINAL

A - Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Well, astrology is not my ability, but the – I have to say that this year, the incidence of the
weather-related claims is especially large. I'm calling up the figures, and you have a full
three percentage points more in the loss ratio, which is a lot of money. In this company,
it's about $30 million, (49:53) which is almost precisely the decrease in the net results that
we have in the year.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
[Operator Instruction] There are no further questions.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, if there are no further questions, I would like to thank you for attending the
conference call. And as always, I hope to speak to you again, probably end of the year,
last week. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

