Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Captial Markets Day
Company Participants
***<Q>

FINAL

Christine F. Deputy, Group HR Director
Clive Bolton, Managing Director, Savings and Retirement
Colin Simpson, Director-Investor Relations
David Barral, Chief Executive Officer-UK & Ireland Life
David McMillan, Chairman, Global Health; Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Europe
Euan George Munro, Chief Executive Officer
Hock Seng Khor, Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Asia
Mark Andrew Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
GI

Maurice Tulloch, Chairman Global, General Insurance; and Chief Executive Officer, UK&I
Monique Shivanandan, Group Chief Information Officer
Nitinbhai Babubhai Maganbhai Amin, Chief Operations & Transformation Officer
Scott McFie, Head-Systems Thinking
Thomas Dawson Stoddard, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director

Bloomberg Transcript

Unverified Participant

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
William H. Elderkin, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Aviva. My name is Colin Simpson, Head of
Investor Relations. I'm here to help. So if you've got any questions or concerns, please
send me an e-mail. For those of you in the room, Wi-Fi details on the screen and if you do
ask a question, please say your name and company before asking. Could you also just
take a moment to check whether your phone is on silent.

Page 1 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Now, let me introduce the first of all speakers, Group CEO, Mark Wilson.

FINAL

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Thank you, Colin. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us here in our offices
in the city, in the heart of London of course. Now, I should also welcome the people,
we've got a lot of people in the webcast this morning as well, so welcome to them. And
thank you for those of you who were able to join us last night. It was a nice venue and I
understand quite a number were rushing home to watch the World Cup. Quite an
interesting result, but I guess it just goes to show, doesn't it, that and different
environments, different teams perform well. And I guess that's somewhat like business
isn't it?

Bloomberg Transcript

Now of course, we're in the UK and speaking of sport, one of those quintessentially British
sports is of course clay pigeon shooting. And although I must confess to have never
participated in such a sport, I was on the plane recently, I was watching a documentary as
we went to the Olympics and was featuring a British gold medalist, Peter Wilson. As far as
I'm aware, he's no relation. Now, what was interesting was in that the double check shoot
there was a whole sequence involved in it. It was about a sequence of aim, fire, reload,
aim, fire, reload, and of course once you fired both barrels of a shotgun, you need to
reload it, adjust your aim and do it all again. And I think that's exactly where Aviva is. We
are at the stage where we have just reloaded.
Last year, we took our aim on some key issues such as improving the capital base, selling
underperforming units, reducing our expenses by £400 million and of course, addressing
that very problematic internal loan. And I hope by the end of today, you will also see
we've hit the target with some of our management team.
So over the past few weeks and again last night over dinner, I've been asking a few
investors and some PMs what they wanted from this Analyst Day, this investor conference
and the answers were quite varied. So, I think, many of you wanted to know our overall
business strategy. Some want new cost targets, some are focused on our Aviva investors
strategy, some want to understand the outlook for cash flow. And I think all of you wanted
to get to know our management team better.
Now today, we have a very full agenda. I think it never – (00:03:12) never rest values, but
hopefully addresses all of these areas and a little bit more. But from my perspective, I
have four key objectives. First, I want to give you clarity in our business strategy and also
show you that this is entirely consistent with our investment thesis of cash flow plus
growth that we spoke about last year.
Second, I hope you will leave here thinking that the core underlying franchises of Aviva are
very strong and that we have differentiating strengths, including our growing digital
capability and our analytics. And we'll talk about some of those throughout the day and at
the lunch sessions. And third, I want to get new exposure to my management team. I
believe we have the best team in the industry. And last, I hope that you will agree with me

Page 2 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

that we have much more to do to achieve our potential, but a very good chance of
achieving it.
So on to the agenda. In this next session, I will cover the overall strategy and I'll talk about
some of the new targets. The second item today, for many of you it'll be the first
introduction to Tom Stoddard, our new CFO. I think Tom has made an extremely strong
start in the business and is already making an impact and he's a key partner for me in this
turnaround. Tom will cover the key financial issues as he sees them and also the key
potential financial solutions. Now, we've had many requests over quite some time for
people to talk to you on asset management. And today for the first time, he will cover the
strategy for Aviva investors, followed by David Barral on UK Life. Now these two sessions
of course go hand in hand, particularly with respect to the changes in the UK market on
annuities and other areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Maurice – Frank (00:05:12) will take you through the global GI strategy with a key focus on
the UK Life, yeah, it's our UK General Insurance business, which links in well with UK Life,
Maurice. Our new IT Head, Monique, will introduce you to a quite a range of
demonstrations that will act as proof points throughout the day for what we're saying,
particular on our digital strategy and hopefully some of those things will surprise you. The
afternoon moves from cash flow to turn around and growth with David McMillan and Khor
Hock Seng talking about some key markets in Europe and Asia.
After the afternoon break, we'll change the venue and the tone. This is an important
session. It's quite an interesting session. I won't spoil the fun now, but it will give you a
sense of how we manage our culture, how we're developing the culture, how we're
managing the people through this change and our HR Head Christine Deputy followed by
Nick Amin who will talk about productivity and introducing to a unique thing that we call
systems thinking, it's an Aviva version of systems thinking and it really is one of the gems
for change management in the group.
So we have a packed agenda. So, we are going to stick to our timing. You will have plenty
of opportunity to ask questions throughout the day in different sessions and I will also lead
the final Q&A session at the end of the day. But I apologize for advance for keeping us on
time as we certainly have a lot to get to.
Now one of our board meetings recently, one of my directors recently suggested to me
that I needed to balance my presentations and talk about some of the successes and not
just the issues. So here's I think the obligatory slide in progress for 2011. Yes, the results
are trending in the right direction on the metrics and we've certainly done more than what
we said we would. But the real question going forward is can we also deliver what we say
we will in the next couple of years? Can we make a large difference to the business and
the people and the culture and the cash flow and all those things in the next two years?
So, I want to take you through our group strategy. Now last year, we articulated the
investment pieces of cash flow and growth and we will stick to that. But I said, we'd come
back to you with our overarching business strategy once we looked at it in detail and
looked at the market and decided what direction we'll be going to (00:08:24). To

Page 3 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

determine that business strategy, we must first understand the involvement and this slide
focuses on key market developments and basically these are the key inputs we have into
our strategy. We believe there are six key influences on the market as shown on the slide
here. Now I will let you go through these at your leisure as some of these such as the
aging population and the shifting wealth demographic, I think, have been well
documented by other commentators. So, I will just focus on to that impact Aviva and
where we have competitive advantage.
First, winning through data. Now, data in my view is the new asset class. How we use data
was key. In our predictive analytics, we believe are market leading in a number of our key
markets, and particularly UK and Canada. But more on that later.
Second, something we call My Life, My Way. It is only customers who can control their
experience or they'll go somewhere else. We're witnessing currently the distant
mediation or the removal of middle men of our world in all industries. And in our industry,
customers are telling us they want simplicity, they want convenience, particularly in core
markets, and in our core markets, we are, I believe uniquely positioned to give it to them.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this leads us nicely into our business strategy or as we call it our strategic anchor. Now
our strategic anchor is really about what we do? How we do it? And where we do it of our
strategy? So, what makes us different? What's our competitive advantage? What is our
business strategy? And this of course works in tandem with our the investment thesis of
cash flow plus growth, they are aligned.
One is the strategy and the other is the outcome for investors and again more on that a
little bit later. First go to this, so first we have something we call true customer composite.
Now we are the only true composite of any scale in the UK and I guess I should define
composite, I think there's probably different definitions of them, but composite is where a
customer can buy life insurance, general insurance, health insurance and asset
management all together in one place. This is about a customer-focused proposition and
it is about simplicity, it is about convenience, it is about multi-products delivered through
multi-distribution.
The second part of the three legs of our strategic anchor is digital first. If it is a choice of
where we will invest, it will be in digital first across any channel, across any process, across
any part of the business. And the last leg of this is something we call not everywhere, this
is important. We will be focused. I'm not interested in planting flags or being in 100
countries, we will have a small number of core markets, where we can have scale and
where we can have profitability and only where we can have a distinctly definable
competitive advantage.
We are the British champion. This is our home base with no intention of changing that.
We've been here for 318 years. We are the largest player here in the UK and the safety
and stability that this provides works well across many of our target markets and in many
of our segments.

Page 4 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

So, let's look at this in just a little bit more detail first on slide 6; so, the true customer
composite. Now historically the benefits of being a composite were clear, certainly from a
financial perspective, there were capital benefits, risk and diversity benefits. However, the
operational benefits were at best elusive. So, the real question is what has changed. And
the answer I believe is the market has changed and in particular distribution trends.
So let's take the UK as a good example. Historically, when you distributed products
through intermediaries such as brokers and IFAs, they didn't want you to package
products at all. Why, that was their job. They would take a piece of a (00:13:00) and a
piece of LNG and a piece of partnership and a piece of (00:13:03) and so on and blend
them all together in a package for the customer and that's great.
However, distribution is changing, and these graphs on the UK market I think demonstrate
this point well. Entering the intermediated sales have declined as a number IFAs and
brokers in the market have declined. Now the IFA market is a very good model and we're
good at that model and we'll continue to be strong supporting intermediaries. And I might
add we're also very strong distributing through banks and other partners and we will not
step back from this especially at a time in the UK when banks are reinvigorating their
insurance sales which is very good for us, particularly on the risk side.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, there's also a very large and growing section of the market that wants to deal
with the well-known brand directly and a lot of them find digital, the best medium of
interaction. Now, my life my way before (00:14:04) looked at this. Now, to be clear, we
have a strong track record in dealing direct and then digital with our customers.
For example, it may surprise you to know that we sell about 60% of our UK motor
business through digital or direct. We have a strong digital and direct franchise that'll
probably surprise you, and we're going to take you through some of this, particularly at
the lunchtime sessions today we will show you some of the details associated with that.
My point here though is that being a composite has historically had no real operational
advantage as it was too difficult or almost impossible to cross-sell. And my hypothesis is
that in the digital world, a digital dis-intermediated world that has all changed and we can
now start to prove this.
And our advantage, I guess, in particularly our home market here in the UK is that we are
the only true customer composite company. Now the potential benefits for us are
obvious. Obviously, you have the risk diversity, which I think is well known and being shown
pretty clearly in the market with recent changes with the budget and economic changes
and things happening country-by-country or weather.
So, I think the diversity point is not lost on anyone in terms of our risk profile is lower. But
we have just under 13 million customers in the UK and we have no real cross-sell to those
customers, to be exact, 1.2 policies per customer. Now part of this is because of the way
we've historically structured our business, it's been (00:15:43) and there's been little
crossover between the two, that isn't that difficult to change. And you will see later today

Page 5 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

how we are addressing this in some of the early results we're getting. And this leads
nicely on to digital.

FINAL

So, what is my vision on digital? Well think for a moment like a client of a (00:16:07) and if
you aren't you should be. But our research shows us that our customers want one
statement, one premium, one log-in, one set of underwriting, one phone call number they
call and we can deliver it over time.
It's only recently we got a single view of the customer for, I might add, £11.5 million. We
were able to put all of our systems together to talk to each other. And just a few years
ago that would have cost us well over £150 million in three years. Technology has changed
to such an extent that the legacy systems aren't so much of a problem.
And the interesting thing is though that as simple as having one statement and one
premium those, sort of, things sound, it is not something that is done across the insurance
world. I guess partly because most insurers have become mono lines over these decades.
So, there's really I believe a competitive advantage in our core markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

But digital means doing digital first. Now last week we had Euan Munro launching the new
AIMS product Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy Funds, I might add, I'll put my pension
(00:17:22) so I'm your initial investor. And we had the Town Hall when Euan was launching
these and I asked a question in the Town Hall, if I could buy it online.
Not yet was the answer, to which my response was why not, to which I think there was
silence and if we're thinking digital first, of course that should have been the first thing we
thought about but it wasn't. Now our new IT head, Monique, who you'll hear from later
decided to do something about it.
And I got an email, I admit it was late that night, but I got an email late that night that said,
it was online by the end of the day. So, we could buy it by the end of the day and my point
is here, if you're thinking digital first that's what I mean and not everywhere. The data on
this slide, I think is compelling. It's compelling financially and compelling about focus.
The point is that despite selling off businesses and gaining more focus, we've been able
to broadly maintain the earnings therefore an increasing ROCE and ROE and isn't that
what our job is about. I think historically it composites lacked focus, so they become disintermediaries, scale really had problems, but I think with that closer focus as we have
now; hopefully (00:18:52). We have gone from 28 to 17 countries.
I've said before that Aviva is a profit making machine, the issue has been turning that into
cash and that remains entirely true today. So, we will be ruthless on allocating capital both
technically across business sales and strategically across countries. We will, when
necessary, sell one business to invest in another. So the, not everywhere is important. We
are not focused on regions – to be clear, we're not focused on regions or geographies
rather specific markets and specific (00:19:36), that in my view in this world is a far more
sophisticated way to allocate capital and head our strategy. Just to be clear, it's not about

Page 6 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

markets or regions. It's not about regions or geographies, it's about markets for sales
(00:19:50).

FINAL

So given our mix of markets, the question I'm often asked and I was asked this question
last night at the dinner, who are our peers. UK life companies, UK general insurers, UK
businesses with Asian operations or (00:20:07) market operations or indeed European
composites. And the answer is none of them.
We have a large business in Canada, yet it doesn't make us Canadian or indeed it doesn't
yet give us the multiples of Canadian general insurers. Our risk profile is also
fundamentally different. We have very little business and long-term guarantees that come
with operating places like Switzerland, or Germany, or Japan. We have no variable
annuities whatsoever. And most of our general insurance business is short tail that gives
you fundamentally different financial characteristics and behaves differently under
mechanisms such as Solvency II.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are however diversified and can't withstand shocks in any single market and I think this
was demonstrated well by the recent annuity changes in the UK or the floods in Canada.
We are not French, German, Italian or Swiss. And so, we have different cultural and
financial dynamics, although some may be celebrating being German this morning I guess,
but, we are fundamentally different in all these aspects.
What is clear, however, is that we are listed here in the UK and uphold the corporate
governance principles that are so well associated with this country. So, I would contend
that as such we don't have a comparable peer group. And as such, we are a peer group
of one. Now, I realize that doesn't make valuation that easy or fit into models that easy.
But I guess that is the art of being a good analyst or investor.
So on business strategies I only want to touch only briefly in the business unit strategies,
as this will be covered in the following presentations. And UK Life it's about cash flow. I
think, you've heard me say that before. We also have a strategy to react to the recent
regulatory changes, which frankly just expedites the work we started early last year.
I believe (00:22:20) investors needs to build its third-party offering. Obviously, it needs to
improve its cost income ratios and it needs to take a far bigger role in the Group in terms
of earnings. In UK, general insurance it's about using data and analytics and packaging
products together. Packaging increases your margins.
In Canada, we're expanding our product, geographic and distribution offering. So, we are
expanding product and distribution in Canada as well. In Europe and Asia, it is about focus.
We are not everywhere. You'll see evidence of our investment thesis in cash flow and
growth in the strategic anchor throughout all these presentations this morning.
And now onto key issues. Early in 2013, I laid out the key business issues. You know them
well, cash flow, the internal loan and expenses. And in keeping with why Aviva reloaded
the theme here, here is my current list. There are eight of them and I have grouped them

Page 7 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

under two bases (00:23:34), cash flow and growth. Consists in the game of our
investment (00:23:36) thesis.

FINAL

So the first one 2012, we set out plans is to cut £400 million of expenses out of our cost
base by the end of 2014, and it's clear we'll more than achieve this. But as I have said
before, I want to move to a cost/income ratio, so our business can balance volume before
earnings and expense to – which obviously optimizes (00:24:05) the margin.
Now, I have a very simple and clear mantra we use internally with our sale Heads and CEO
country Heads. Every business also must improve its cost/income ratio every year. Now,
today, we're setting out a new target of reducing the cost/income ratio to below 50% by
the end of 2016.
Now to put out cost target into a little bit of context here, I think we have demonstrated
quite adequately our ability to get hundreds of millions of pounds out of our cost base.
Cutting expenses is frankly not particularly difficult, if you do it well.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the question is going to be, can we take, say, £100 million of cost base out of our
company this year (00:24:56)? Maybe, but I want to give this organization the opportunity
to achieve our efficiency target through growth. I'm talking about growth, which includes
(00:25:07) margin, which is far more sustainable.
So, second, distributable cash flow. Yes. I accept (00:25:17), we have made some
progress in the cash flow of the Group, but the distributable cash flow after holding
company expenses is still not in my view inadequate, when you consider the earnings
power we have and the capital base we have. It's entirely inadequate.
Now we have a simple target here to double our holding company excess cash flow to
£800 million by the end of 2016. Now, Tom is going to cover that and a lot of detail in a
minute. Third, the Life back books. These are our cash machines, but they're like a
beautiful steam engine being run on dirty coal. With the right management, these things –
these engines can have much greater output.
Now, a few months ago, we separated the key back books off into their own selves
(00:26:13) and we will manage these with cash. Now, I'm not providing you any target
here today as frankly we haven't finished the work to quantify it. We do know the size of
the deposit is large, we do know we're inefficient at managing their back books and we
do know the output can be high, but we haven't got all the answers yet, because we're
just working through it.
And fourth, and this is not new and you know my view on our external leverage. Our
external leverage is too high, and the servicing of that debt decreases profits and it also
restricts our financial flexibility. But unlike the internal leverage, this is not a regulatory
issue, but we think is suboptimal.

Page 8 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Now, my position frankly hasn't changed, and we will reduce this over the medium-term as
opportunities arise. But with the arrival of Tom that allows us to look at this strategically to
find the optimum level of that debt. And, again, Tom will cover that.
Now, the second part of our investment thesis is growth. Cash flow first being growth
(00:27:23). I think point five highlights that we need growth to fuel future dividend growth
and that I will not compromise as long-term health of the company for short-term
expediency. But equally, the growth cannot compromise dividends and I'm very clear on
that. The solution of course is to reallocate capital to the higher growth businesses,
particularly those growth markets in Europe and Asia, where we have a definable
competitive advantage.
Now item 6. Moving on to item 6. This refers to UN's (00:28:05) fund management
operation. For us, for our substantial scale, the earnings from fund management are
entirely inadequate at less than 4%. And to drive earnings and asset management, we
need more external fund flows. And, again, Euan will take you through the strategy there.
If we have a strategy of a true customer composite, we also need to (00:28:32) cross-sell
in a substantive way and this is point 7. And the easiest way to do this is, products per
customer. And the quickest way to do this is through our digital channel.

Bloomberg Transcript

And last, it leads me on to last point. We need to grow our digital customer base. We plan
on having 2 million customers operating through the MyAviva platform over the next 12
months. MyAviva is the platform, where we have all of our products together.
And, finally, in my introductory remarks, I'd like to focus on my team, which to me is really
what today is all about. And when you do a turnaround, and I know a lot of you in the room
have been involved in turnarounds, you need to blend the top talent within the existing
organization and promote people as we're done with top talent from the market to see
that change, you need both.
Now, everyone says they have a good team and I'm very conscious that the delivery of
results for my team will be the only judge and that's fair enough. But, we do have key
leaders in each of the key business lines and you'll meet most of them today and we have
key new talent also in the functional areas.
Now some of our team you will know, and some of our team, you won't. And today, I'm
confident you will see the quality. For example, Christine, she's worked in consumer
multinationals such as Starbucks. Monique came to us from Capital One in the U.S. Euan,
as you know, has Standard Life and our newest hire is of course is Chris Wei, who's
currently tending his garden (00:30:10), the CEO of Great Eastern out of Singapore. But
we also have lots of depth and talent that was promoted from within this business, many
of whom you already know and we'll also hear from today.
So before I hand over to Tom, let me summarize the key messages for today. Our core
business strategy or our strategic anchor has three elements; True Customer Composite;
Digital First; and Not Everywhere. We have strong underlying franchises each with a clear
Page 9 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

strategy and we have identified a number of key issues to address, to deliver results to
our shareholders. And I believe we have the right team to get there. You will have to
make your own judgment.

FINAL

So far, we know we have made satisfactory progress over the last year or so and I think it
now is the time to reload.
So on that note, I'll hand over to our new CFO, Tom.

Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks Mark. Good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure actually to meet you all finally. Since
I'm new to most of you, I thought I'd start by telling you a little bit about who I am, why I'm
here and what I see as priorities for Aviva. I've come to Aviva from Blackstone where I
headed the Global Financial Institutions Advisory business. I spent over 20 years advising
on corporate finance transactions working with or opposite most of the major insurance
groups around the world. Professionally, I'm educated as a lawyer and I started my career
practicing at Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New York.
I first met Mark in 2008 when I was advising AIG on its rescue and recovery. I got to know
Mark quite well as AIG developed its plan to monetize AIA. These were obviously
pressure-packed times which tested my analytical skills and judgment under fire. Having
seen me under those conditions, Mark asked me to advise Aviva and its board last year
on capital and liquidity which ultimately led to the dividend cut and elimination of Scrip
Program. So while I'm not from the UK, I have spent plenty of time here advising Aviva and
others on strategic matters, which still begs the question, why would I want to give up
being a partner of Blackstone to come to Aviva as CFO. The industry environment is
challenging to say the least. In fact, I think it was only a couple of weeks after I accepted
the job that the government announced the changes to the budget. So regulatory
changes endemic, most notably Solvency II, but really coming at us from all angles.
Meanwhile, interest rates are too low which makes it hard for us or anyone else to make
money and balance sheets are still recovering. At the same time, big changes loan in
terms of capital and accounting standards and so our reporting systems and MI are all
influx. So no one said this would be easy, but if it were – were going to be easy, it wouldn't
be interesting to me. What interest me about Aviva is the choices we're making around
strategy with multiple product lines, multiple distribution channels and multiple countries.
For someone who considers himself a problem solver, there's plenty for me to do here.
The payoff will be in helping to transform Aviva into the British champion that it really
should be.
So before I dive into Aviva's issues which you're all very familiar with, let me start by giving
you a sense of some of my initial impressions after being here just two months now. So,
I've got three big observations. First, Aviva's people have been more excited about my
arrival than I had anticipated. And despite all the change that's already happened here,
I've been surprised by the number of people inviting me to sponsor continued
improvements. Second, many people here are not quite sure what to make of me and my

Page 10 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

style which is relatively direct, open and collaborative and certainly not hierarchical. And
third, I'm continually astonished by the number of things left to fix despite all the change
that's already happened. So, as a problem solver, I know I'm just going to love this job.
So I'll give you just a couple of quick examples. Although we have Aviva Investors, one of
the things I noticed is that we've not had a Chief Investment Officer for our Group
Insurance Operations. So, that's something I've addressed and I'll talk about a little bit
later. And secondly, as I've been studying our capital structure, I realized that on a cash
basis, our borrowings are not tax efficient. I'll address that too, but that will take longer.
So, as a group, let me just say, we're far from optimized. It's partly a result of history, but
we certainly can be more efficient going forward. My observation is that in addition to our
focus on pre-tax operating income, we need more focus on the bottom line, on EPS and
on after-tax cash flow. After, after, after is what I'm after. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, turning back to this slide, you all know what the issues are for Aviva. Consistent with
Mark's introductory comments to CFO, I need to find ways to invest and (00:34:59)
change to support the strategic anchor to improve profitability, reduce debt leverage, and
accelerate cash flow and growth. So, the rest of my slides will basically follow these four
things. As we go through them, please recognize that I've joined Aviva fully onboard with
the current strategy, vision and culture, so I'm not proposing any confusing new changes
in direction. However, I have been delighted and surprised by the number of people at
Aviva who are anxious to get on with it and continue to improve. So, together with my
team, my response has been to launch about a dozen internal initiatives.
I clearly don't have all the answers yet. I'm still learning and asking lots of questions, my
to-do list continues to grow. One of the questions I ask our people is, where do you think
we have competitive advantages today? That is where do we really create value? And the
responses I get are all over the map still there's no doubt that Aviva has made progress
over the last two years, and as you'll hear throughout today, it has pockets of exceptional
performance.
Yeah, there's also no doubt that Aviva remains inefficient and constrained. So my role is to
encourage the group to stay focused on where we can win, while we continue to build
muscle and capability. So with that background, let me dive into more of the specifics on
our financial strategy. But first, let me congratulate those who perceived me, two years
ago at Investor Day, our Chairman John McFarlane set forth Aviva's plan to focus,
strengthen and perform.
Since then the team has done a remarkable job repositioning the company despite a very
difficult M&A environment. We've exited or restructured most of the 16 non-core red cells
identified back in 2012. We've established individual business owners for each cell and put
those cell owners through their paces (00:36:36) quarterly in front of their peers and
senior management. Having witnesses the – this is the (00:36:40) sort of semi-public
internal inquiry is really quite intense.
And we've defined new cells and expanded the scope to include three legacy cells,
primarily underperforming blocks of business here in the UK. So where does that leave us

Page 11 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

now? Well, the picture is better, yes. But I'm still not very happy about it. As you can see
from this slide in 2013, we've had 22 cells with attractive IFRS and cash returns, but we
also had half our capital tied up in underperforming cells. Some of this is where you would
expect in our turnaround markets in Italy, Spain and Ireland or in legacy blocks of business
in the UK or France. A smaller amount is in growth markets where we're still sub-scale,
regardless we need to get better performance from our capital.
So as new CFO, I'm taking particularly hard look at our cash generators especially in the
UK. Furthermore, in addition to the IFRS and cash metric shown here, I'm focusing on
economic value added under our current models, as well as trying to anticipate how
Solvency II will affect all these comparisons.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm also looking at our cost allocations and budgeting with a critical eye. My view is that
Aviva's had a history of profligate spending and can improve its capital budgeting further.
So suffice to say, my initial read is that we're not getting enough cash from our cash
generators. This is not totally new news, as you'll hear later in the day that we have
initiatives underway to improve our back books. But I'm pushing for the kind of elevated
analytical rigor an investor would expect with higher demands for cash generation
especially from our home UK market.
The higher cash flows of team I'll (00:38:12) come back to in the end. Some of our cash
flow we will need to reinvest into the business as we focus on customers, automation,
and controls. Again, this should be most notable at first in the UK as we grow Aviva
Investors and deliver on the True Customer Composite and Digital First strategies. From
the financial perspective, I see this as a virtuous cycle where stronger customer ties
should help us improve persistency in our back books thereby generating more cash flow.
And it will strengthen the Aviva brand, which is an important source of competitive
advantage for us. At the same time, the benefits of automation and better customer
experiences should reduce risk and make the business easier to monitor and control. So
as an aside, while I'm talking about customers, you should note that we pay an enormous
amount in commissions, marketing and other customer acquisition costs. While we've
been managing these costs in our business units, we're only now just beginning to think
about them strategically within the context of our aspirations. Accordingly, what we've
achieved in the spend should improve over time as we realize the benefits of the True
Customer Composite and Digital First strategies. Whether we're working directly with the
customer or through agents, brokers or other intermediaries.
Let me come back to the point about being focused where we can win. In my view, we
must prioritize better. 00:39:30 To give an example, a couple of weeks ago, our strategic
envelope of planned00:39:34 spending initiatives landed on my desk with 350 separate
projects totaling several million pounds. I couldn't 00:39:42 believe it, 350 projects. So
I've called a time out (00:39:46). (00:39:48) and instead insisted that we focus on cash
flow and our 00:39:52 real priorities. Of course, we will continue to invest in
improvements, but not in everything and not everywhere.

Page 12 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

So turning now to profitability, by now, it should be pretty clear that we've achieved the
£400 million expense reduction plan for 2014 and not surprisingly, much of this comes
from lower head count and most of that has come from the UK and the 00:40:14 Group
Centre. The downside of these expense cuts was its impact on morale, which Christine
will discuss later today. What 00:40:21 I can say as a 00:40:21 newcomer to Aviva that the
actions taken in the second half of last year restored 00:40:25 morale, have had
00:40:25a positive impact as has the improved performance of the company.
Note that (00:40:31) not all the expense reductions have been people related. We've also
saved significant amounts by reducing spending on consultants, outsourcing and property.
Our IT spend, which is featured 00:40:41 heavily in a lot of your analysts' commentary is
now down to £640 million in 2013. This is better, but we've got more to do here and
Monique is leading new thinking 00:40:49 in this area.
So going forward, we're trying to drive improvements in productivity, so that our
operating expense ratio improves every year. We've already improved significantly
pushing the ratio down from 58% in 2011 to 54% in 2013. Our new target is to get below
50% in 2016. To do this, it will be important for us to grow revenues, so this is both an
efficiency and a growth exercise.

Bloomberg Transcript

You should note (00:41:19) that the benefits of our cost savings to-date have been partly
offset by the headwinds of declining volumes in UK GI and lower long-term investment
returns in our life businesses. This is something we really need to try to arrest. And as
Maurice will discuss later, we expect growth trends in UK GI to turn upward.
Otherwise, the slide speaks for itself. So in addition to group ratio, we're also going to
show metrics – traditional metrics relative to each sub-sector. This should help you follow
our efficiency as our business mix changes. And it should also help you understand what's
happening when short-term effects on operating income such as the weather in Canada
this year distort 00:41:55 our overall group ratio.
Okay. Now, this is big. Later today, you'll hear David Barral talk about our UK Life back
book project and you'll hear from and Nick on some of our process redesign efforts,
which we call Aviva Systems Thinking. The back book project is critical. We have size and
scale in the UK, but are simply not realizing the benefits you would expect from that scale.
And then if you layer on some overhead from the group center, the fully cost of results
(00:42:22) look even less exciting. 00:42:23
So we need to rethink our approach and get much more serious about performing to the
level of our best industry peers. This is one area where I'm trying to raise the sense of
urgency and asking that we go beyond mere incremental efforts. So, as David will
describe, we've already reorganized to 00:42:38 focus on our UK back book and we
expect to get better results. However, I'm still doing my own due diligence on this and I
remain open-minded about additional actions we might take.
A similar back book opportunity should exist in both France and Poland. Now, again, as you
hear later, we've been benefiting from Aviva Systems Thinking in our UK Life and other
Page 13 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

parts of our businesses. This has helped us eliminate waste while improving customer
experiences. And so, we prefer this kind of bottom-up approach over the blunt top-down
cost-cutting we did last year.
So, switching now (00:43:14) to take a look at our balance sheet, it should be clear that
Aviva has been on the defensive 00:43:18for several years now, and has not been able to
drive value creation effectively. We've been heavily focused on building economic capital
rather than on investing to earn a return. And the low interest rate environment has not
helped. So, one of the things I've done since joining Aviva is to try to bring more attention
to the interaction between Aviva Investors and our insurance businesses. Up until now,
we've had no Chief Investment Officer for the 00:43:41 group's insurance operations. So
to address this, we've taken a couple of steps.
Effective July 1, we split the role of Chief Risk and Capital Officer in two, with John Lister
as the CRO, reporting to Mark rather than me. This is the right risk and control framework
and will enable John to have the greatest impact on the company.

Bloomberg Transcript

More to the point, Jason Windsor has now taken on the new role of Chief Capital &
Investments Officer. I've asked Jason to oversee investments, ALM, treasury, reinsurance
and capital projects with a business focus that we've lacked in the past. Among other
things, I've asked Jason to make sure our insurance businesses benefit from the insights
and expertise available to Aviva Investors, getting a better balance to optimize our riskadjusted returns.
Euan Munro and Aviva Investors will still manage the actual investing process under the
relevant mandates, but Jason will make sure that they have a louder voice in our group
ALM 00:44:32 process.
To be clear, we're not so much re-risking 00:44:36 the balance sheet, as we're simply
trying to harvest more from what our investment professionals do best. I believe some of
our UK competitors are ahead of us in this regard and make more effective use of the
asset side of their balance sheet.
You can also see from the slide that we created and funded an internal reinsurance mixer
to improve our capital efficiency and we believe we can do more to optimize our
reinsurance strategies generally. Once again, I believe some of our European competitors
are ahead of us in this regard. So, there's room to optimize and improve further. So, this
really just sort of scratches the surface. All the items 00:45:10 listed on this page are
potential upsides that 00:45:12 should help us drive returns and cash flow positively.
This next slide shows how Aviva's economic capital position and centre has (00:45:22)
liquidity improved, while its debt leverage remains a work in progress. Economic capital
surplus of £7.8 billion at the end of the first quarter, having more than doubled since 2011.
So I'm comfortable with our current levels of capital on an economic basis and on an S&P
basis. As far as Solvency II goes, it remains too 00:45:39 early to be precise on exactly
where our capital ratios will land. And since we already manage 00:45:43 the group on an
economic capital basis, we expect to be okay.
Page 14 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Needless to say we have an extensive Solvency II program, entering into the homestretch,
but we still have quite a lot to do before we can go completely live at the end of next
year.
But meanwhile, the inter-company loan will be reduced according to the agreed plan with
the target still at £2.2 billion at the end of 2015. Liquidity of the Centre (00:46:07) stood at
£1.5 billion at the end of the first quarter and has benefited from divestiture activity,
primarily the closing of the sale of the U.S. business last year. We will use some of this
liquidity to help reduce the inter-company loan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meanwhile our external debt leverage remains high and this is an area of focus for me.
Back in the beginning of 2013, as an advisor, I helped formulate this (00:46:29) objective
of reducing debt leverage over a course of (00:46:31) the medium term, which sounds
suitably vague at the time and it (00:46:34) was. Now here I am a year-and-a-half later as
the new CFO and I'm by definition living in the medium term. So I know I'll be judged by
this measure. I know we need to reduce our debt leverage. I'd like to get it to a level
where as CFO I could turn the 00:46:49 incremental borrowing capacity as a useful
corporate finance tool. Right now, 00:46:53 we're constrained. But I want to be smart
about how and when we reduce debt.
So in a measured way, I'll seek opportunities to bring our external debt leverage down,
while also reducing our after 00:47:04 tax cost of capital. So this year, we've already paid
down £240 million of external leverage, which puts us ahead of our current plan. And two
weeks ago, we pre-financed 00:47:12 some of our upcoming redemptions by issuing
€700 million of a new 30-year non-call 10 tier 2 hybrid at a cost of 3.9%, which is much
better than we did last year and better than our internal plan. So, this did not reduce our
leverage, but it's a great example of what I think is a smart transaction, it (00:47:29) will
improve our cash flow and it adds to our financial flexibility.
As we go forward, I need to make sure we optimize our debt structure which is not
optimal today from a capital tax and cash flow perspective. It'll take you some time to
determine the optimal level of leverage, where it should sit in the organization and the
path to get there. So, if I can find smart ways to make quick progress in reducing debt
leverage ratios, I will, but as I will show in the next slide, I think reducing our after tax cost
of debt financing is perhaps more important at this moment. So, as you can see here, our
plan 00:48:04 remains to reduce tangible debt leverage below 40% in the medium term
until I come up with something better.
Now frankly, I prefer a different measure of 00:48:13 debt leverage, especially since this
one does not 00:48:14 give any credit to our liquidity, but I've resisted the temptation to
change it. You all can do your own math. Ultimately, I suspect we'll transition to a measure
of debt leverage relative to economic capital, but I'll leave that for the future. On this
(00:48:28), the slide indicates we still plan to get our debt ratios in a range consistent
with an S&P rating of AA over time.
Now turning finally to my favorite topic at Aviva, as my new colleagues will all test
(00:48:44), 00:48:44 I'm obsessed with Aviva's ability to generate excess cash flow

Page 15 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

available to service financing.

FINAL

So, having advised 00:48:50 on dividend policy last year, should be no surprise that I
focused first on cash flow and liquidity at the holding company. In the past, I sense there
has been confusion as to our dividend capacity. So I want to try to make this clear.
Debt is not new, but I want you to understand how I think about it. So this slide shows how
net cash remittances from the business units have grown with management's heightened
focus on cash flow. Note that these remittances are after investment in new business in
those units. But despite the growth in remittances over the last two years, it's really only
now that the turnaround is moving toward transformation, with cash from operations
sufficient to cover the cost of the dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the past, Aviva typically supported dividend payments by borrowing, issuing scrip or
selling businesses. So for comparison with other companies, this excess £400 million is
not a gross cash flow number. This is a net number representing net cash flow from
operations at the holding company level after investment in new business at the
subsidiaries, after borrowing costs, before shareholder dividends. So it's after, after, after,
but before shareholder dividends.
Anyway, stepping back, it should be clear what the recipe is from here. First, we need to
drive profitability and cash flow from the business units higher, north of the £1.3 billion of
remittances for 2013. Second, we need to reduce the spend at the Centre. Third, we'll
benefit from reducing the inter-company loan and the internal interest expense
associated with it. And fourth, we need to reduce our external leverage and the cost of
our external debt.
I want to point out that we've not come close to optimizing the current after tax cash cost
of our borrowings, which gets me quite worked up, but will be addressable.
So taking this all together, it should be clear that we can move our sustainable excess
cash flow at the holding company much higher than where it is today. Our plan is to
double our run rate to £800 million by the end of 2016.
Now the remaining (00:50:47) risk to hitting our plan, including business performance and
capital traps at the subsidiary level, but I'll be terribly disappointed if we cannot exceed
our 2016 ambition. Nevertheless, you should recognize that we've based this cash flow
plan on our economic capital model and we're assuming that there are no unexpected
curveballs from Solvency II or otherwise.
Now, I need to do a brief detour here on OCG. Since OCG is based largely on Solvency I
concepts and is generally not the binding (00:51:15) constraint for us on remittances, I
personally find it to be an imperfect guide to cash flow.
So, internally, we tend to focus more on the absolute level of cash remitted from our
business units largely based on our economic capital model. In any case, we remain
Page 16 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

focused on improving remittance ratios. So as we adapt to Solvency II, you can expect this
over time eventually to replace OCG with a new measure of operating value added on an
economic basis. But that won't be for some time.
So to tie all this together, here's a summary of where we are with our financial plan. It
should be obvious from the preceding slide that growing excess cash flow is key to our
ability to reduce leverage and pay a growing dividend. So over time, relative to operating
EPS, we should move from about a 3 to 1 dividend cover last year toward a more
normalized and balanced level of approximately 2 to 1. But this will depend on our
progress and growing cash flow and reducing the internal loan.
Our excess cash flow should increase more rapidly than operating income over the next
few years. So at this point, it's still too early for me to give you a dividend formula tied
either to earnings or cash flow. So in any event, coming back to one of my initial
observations, there is a lot of work for me to do here and I think I have a huge opportunity
to make an impact on Aviva. I'm excited to help restore this great company and
accelerate cash flow and growth. I'm also thrilled to be working with a great executive
team Mark has assembled to lead the way forward. Thank you.
So, I'll (00:52:48) be happy to take questions. And after that, we'll have a short break and
then, Euan Munro will pick it up to talk about the good things happening at Aviva Investors.
So questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Yes, let's just start here.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel with Deutsche Bank. Your excess cash flow target looks incredibly low, if I may
say so. I don't know if you want to talk through some of the individual numbers, but I'm
going to suspect even if we just take the internal loan – the reduction, I mean, if you're
going to increase the remittance ratio or if you're going to increase the amount remitted,
even the internal loan interest is going to drop away. You're talking about savings on the
external costs, you're talking about reducing the cost ratio. Do you think that cash flow
figure looks conservative or why should we not think it conservative (00:53:46)?

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Well, I think if you go back to history and look at where we've been, we still have to get
there. So, it's £400 million this year, it was £300 million or so last year, it was less than
that before that if you go back and look at the numbers. But I think you're exactly right,
you're starting at sort of the easiest place. If we get the internal loan down to £2.2 billion,
that internal interest burden gets cut in half or more. So that's sort of the easiest thing for
us to do. So, I sort of take that as a no brainer. Then there's some hard work around
actually, the operations in terms of reducing Centre costs and getting the businesses to
perform better. But we've gotten better cash remittances from the business units and I'd
Page 17 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

expect that to continue. And then, one of the other ones that's within my control is the
cash – after tax cost of the financing and that's something we're going to keep chipping
away at, it's going to take me some time. There're some things we'll do internally in terms
of how we manage capital that will help with that. I don't want to characterize that £800
million as being stretch or conservative. It is what it is, but as I said, I'd be terribly
disappointed if we didn't get there.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

I just had (00:54:52) one quick follow-up to that.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

To what extent does the £800 million include sort of releases of trapped capital as
opposed to just sort of everyday cash flow?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah, I'm looking at this as a run rate operating number. So there may be things that we
do along the way to release trapped capital. But as I've said to my colleagues on the
management team here, I'm not counting those towards sort of the run rate we're trying
to get to. We may use things like that to reduce debt leverage or otherwise, redeploy
that capital to get a better return. And as Mark said, capital allocation is becoming a much
more competitive sport here to be, and there will be places where we pull capital out of
businesses in order to reallocate elsewhere. But I'm thinking about this in the context of
our financing capacity and our ability to pay dividends. So if we simply get some one-offs
out of pulling capital out, that's not going to work. We really need sustainable operating
cash flow.
Yes. The second row back there. Yes.
I apologize, I don't yet know all your names, so I'm going to be reduced to pointing, so
please bear with me.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thanks very much. This is Farooq Hanif from Citigroup. Is your 2 to 1 now an official
dividend policy and how quickly do (00:56:07) you get there? That's question one. And
question two is, what are your thoughts on minimum levels of holding capital?

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. So let me take this in turn. First, in terms of dividend policy, to be clear on my
statements, we're not setting a dividend payout formula, because effectively, you can see
that we really need to do quite a lot of work here on improving our cash flow. So I can't
give you a formula yet tied to either earnings or cash flow. I'd also say that there's going
Page 18 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

to be some changes to IFRS over the next few years. And so, again, we ultimately will be
much more focused on economic capital and our economic capital value add. So again,
we're in a transitionary timeframe. I can't make that a specific policy, but I will also
reiterate that our cash flows, our operating cash flows should improve faster here than
our operating income does. So that means that our payout ratio will be moving up over
time.
And then, your second question is about holding company capital. Do you mean liquidity
or capital?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Liquidity.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Liquidity. We have an internal risk appetite around liquidity, which we monitor internally, I
don't know that we talk a whole lot about that publicly. That's something that we watch
very closely and I've got my eye on. And I think of them as joined-up in terms of our cash
flow and the amount of liquidity we need to hold.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

A question (00:57:33).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, right in front here.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Good morning. (00:57:39) Can I just follow up on Oliver's question on the cash target?
Could you just confirm that in terms of the original remittance ratio targets you had, it was
still over – in the 80s or over the 80s (00:57:52). And has anything changed on the OCG
from previously in terms of what's happened with the budget on annuities or (00:57:58)
to actually color your view on how much cash you're getting back by 2016? Thanks.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Nothing's happened on OCG that's affected my views here, and we're still focused on
getting our remittance ratios up above that, those kinds of levels as we've discussed in
the past, so that hasn't changed.
Yes, over here.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. I have a couple of questions if I could.
And the first one on slide 17, where you showed the improvement in the amount of
capital, which is in the very low segments where they've (00:58:32) gone from 75% to
Page 19 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

50%. I'm surprised it wasn't lot better than that given the sale of the U.S. So how much
actual improvement in organic businesses have gone out of the red zone or the gray
zone as it is now into the other segments? Is there any way of quantifying what's actually –
how much improvement there has been in those four (00:58:53) segments? And the
second question, I guess, was about the deleveraging, so does the deleveraging happen
from the build-up of trapped capital effectively rather than explicit paydown or reduction
in the amount of normal deaths and your plan is (00:59:05) obviously £800 million of cash
doesn't leave you a lot of spare room to delever the group? Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thanks. Those are both good questions. Again, I wasn't here two years ago when
we sort of started on the path with the red cells but we have exited 10 of the 16 red cells,
and that has created improvements. At the same time, the economic environment is
tough and so that has an impact on profitability as well. As we look at the sort of the
underperforming cells, I'd say those are not red cells equivalent to what we were looking
at two years ago where they were really destroying value, these are businesses that are
sort of not quite where they should be in terms of how we think they should be
performing. So if you take our UK back books, obviously we've got a project there, and
we're looking at that very, very closely. We need to get better returns out of that business.
I mean, it's just simple as that. It really doesn't have anything to do with what's happened
in the U.S. or elsewhere.
And then your second question in terms of capital ratios, look, I think there's several
different ways to get there, some of it can be from retaining earnings, some of it can be
paying down debt. I think job number one is to get the cash flow improved, and that will
give us much more flexibility in terms of how we attack debt. We're looking at it as a debt
leverage ratio, but I think part of that means that we've actually got to go out and attack
some of the debt itself and reduce the absolute level of debt.

A - ***<Q>
(01:00:39), basically the cash flow, well, it remains – this will depend on the economic
conditions, especially when the – if the balance sheet is going to be re-risk in terms of
ALM which is I think one of the things you may have been talking about in your speech. So,
when you set the £800 million target, were you thinking about a adverse economic
environment at that time, or is it as in line with today, so if the market conditions
deteriorate, you could miss your £800 million target?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Well, look, this is all subject to the economy. So, if we have severe events, obviously we
have to think about what we did in those specific time frames. I am thinking about this
more as an operating target relative to where we are and relative to where we should be
over the cycle. I think this is just good hygiene. We need to be more efficient, we need to
be more capital-efficient, we need to get that run rate of cash flow up.
In terms of how we're thinking about it, I'd also like to be clear that what I'm saying is
we're not trying to re-risk the balance sheet at this point. What we're trying to do is get

Page 20 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

sort of better interaction between the asset and liability sides of the business. If you look
as I'm looking at very critically at our ALM process, it's tended to be much more focused
on building up capital as we have over time. And so, it's very much driven by the liability
side of the balance sheet and the asset side is more of an afterthought. We're trying to
sort of change that balance so that we've got a better balance here and we're getting
better return per unit of risk as opposed to actually taking more risk.
Next question here.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. On the debt, can you
comment about how much of the debt at the moment you're getting tax deductibility on
please? Secondly you can you talk about interest cover, maybe if you could give us some
idea about where you are now in interest cover, what the aspiration will be in terms of
interest cover going forward?
And then just finally, (01:02:33) close blocks you've mentioned, and to what extent is that
just sharpening up the release of capital within the sort of normal ownership structure and
to what extent would you consider sales or reinsurance or securitization of those
portfolios? Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon, can you just quickly give me your questions again (01:02:48) all three of those.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Yeah. So, first one was how much of the debt interest is tax deductible at the moment,
and second one was interest cover, and the third one was some non-traditional solutions
to returning capital at (01:02:56) the back book.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. So, first on the tax deductibility, I don't want to comment on that too closely. What
I'd say is that we've got a good tax team that manages to preserve our tax attributes and
does quite a good job on that. In terms of the timing from a cash flow perspective, in
terms of how we can use that, that's something we've got to look at more closely. You
can sort of think about our overall amount of debt and our overall interest costs and look
at the cash burden here and sort of do some of that math yourself to get a good sense
of that. Second question?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

So, it was just life close blocks.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Life close blocks. There again, we're focused internally. This is a self-help project. So that's
sort of where we start. If we come up with better ideas, whether it's acquiring someone
Page 21 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

else's close block to create efficiencies or securitizing or doing something else around
ours, we'll consider all that. So, in my mind, I'm very open-minded about what the options
could be. But we're starting with self-help and what we can do on our own. And I think
your third question was about interest coverage ratios. So, I'd say right now that we're
sort of borderline getting them into on an S&P basis, and I'm looking at my new Treasurer,
Simon Rich, in the back sort of within AA-type ranges, we're sort of on the border there,
and we're trying to get them further into those ranges.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Just to follow up on the back books, are you talking about all the back books you have in
the UK or some of them you've designated as back books where you can try and start
capitalizing (01:04:28)?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah, why don't we hold that off ? David Barral will talk more about our UK back book
projects, and then he can give you sort of more the operational flavor for that.
Other questions? Great. Well, if there're no more questions – Colin?

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

We've got a short break right now. So, if you could be back in the room by 9:45 actually.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Good morning. For those that don't know me, my name is on the board there. I'm Euan
Munro, the new Chief Executive of Aviva Investors. So, I've been with the business now
since the 13th of January. So, in a few small days, I'll be here six months. So, I thought I'd
start with just giving you an introduction to Aviva Investors and what we do something of
the scale, something of the successes actually, and also something of the failures of the
business historically. So, in terms of Aviva Investors, it's a business, an asset management
business with some substantial scale. Clearly, it hasn't been growing very much over the
last few years, but it still is a business with over £240 billion under management. Large
volume of the business is in fixed income, although we cover a span of asset classes,
including illiquid asset classes such as infrastructure, so some interesting areas we delve
into.
The bottom chart I think will be the biggest surprise to maybe the people in the room. It
was a biggest surprise to me because when I looked at the commercial success of the
business, so lack of growth in assets under management, and the pure profitability, I
assume that the investment performance must be poor and that is not the case. So, like
most asset managers, we have some internal objectives for the value that we will add to
our clients, and we will try and achieve more than 66% of our funds being above their
target. So, obviously dumb lock, we have here with (01:06:32) 50% of your funds above
target, 50% below, we want to do better than dumb lock, (01:06:39) so we target 66%.
And we've actually got over one year and over three years almost 80% of our funds
above target, including the weighted one at the end shows one and three-year weighted
basis, 81% of our funds better than their objective.
Page 22 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

I would argue – that's across a wide range of capabilities that there is evidence of scale
and capability within Aviva Investors platform. So that's a good start if you're an asset
manager, you want to feel you've got investors under you thatunderstand their market,
they have deep areas of expertise, and they've got the ability to make winning
investment decisions, and we do have that.
I think part of the problem has been – we haven't been able to excite those (01:07:26) we
do. And sometimes that was failures – organizational failures, so the fact that we've had a
series of interim chief executives, including an interim chief – a group chief executive for
some time that kind of position doesn't encourage (01:07:40) come in and buy your
funds. When they're worried about the strategic importance of the business, that also can
act as a barrier as people (01:07:50) perhaps Aviva Investors is not (01:07:53) core to the
strategy of the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with everything that was going on at management level and also the fact of the very,
very small contribution of Aviva Investors made to the profitability ofAviva Group, it was a
natural question for people to ask how strategically important is the business. I'll just pick
up one number there that may again surprise people. Aviva Investors achieved £1.4 billion
of value for clients, that's value we recreated, a monetary amount, above benchmark for
our clients last year, and bearing in mind that 80% of the assets that Aviva Investors
manage is managed for other Aviva entities. We were contributing to the broader Aviva
Group. Now, some of that £1.4 billion would go through to end customers and
performance on unitized funds, but in some way that should appear (01:08:42) on the
balance sheet and its profitability and other lines of business.
So, when you're thinking about Aviva Investors, you can certainly think of a business that
perhaps lost its way from a management perspective, doesn't manage to excite
(01:08:58) investment propositions, but don't think of a business that doesn't have good
fund managers, it does. It has good investment capabilities. It's got a broad range of
asset classes (01:09:07), and it's – one of the reasons that I came actually was that
breadth of capability because in my view, the investment market is going to be moving to
be entrusted much more in outcomes, and we'll come on to that in a moment. And if
you're going to build solutions that span asset classes, it's good to have a broad
waterfront of capabilities, and it's obviously essential to have good skilled fund managers.
This slide just shows how the different areas that an asset manager can benefit a
composite insurance company, and the asset management being part of a bigger group.
So internally-driven value, these things in the gray area, these are the areas that we were
already operating in. So to some extent, margin from managing in-house assets. Although
Aviva Investors has under-delivered in terms of its profit contribution to the group, when
you're substantially managing captive assets, the amount you pay to your asset managers
to some extent discretionary, and the cost base on Aviva Investors, it did come down, and
needed to come down, but we are not a high-cost producer, but we're paid quite well
fees.
So we are living on quite – well, quite narrow margins, but those are margins that are not
going to someone else, they're going to Aviva Investors. So we do have some margin in-

Page 23 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

house. The other thing is, if you hire another asset manager, there would be an additional
£50 million or so of VAT that you have pay on top of the same level of fees (01:10:48).
This one became quite important around the time of the budget resilience in the industry.
When I was talking about the strategy of Aviva Investors to the board (01:11:01) up two
charts: One was the chart of a business that – just retirement that focuses solely on
annuities. And the share price of just (01:11:12) retirement as I'm sure management are
aware collapsed by about 40-or-so-percent and then never recovered because they
didn't have strategic options. The annuity market was obviously going to be substantially
smaller. But what were they going to replace it with?

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, the share price of Aviva like many other insurance companies went down on the day,
but then recovered quite smartly as the market went through the fact to actually we did of
(01:11:38) strategic options. And if people were going to perhaps not buy an annuity, but
going to draw down propositions or into funds, we had both a platform which David will
be talking about when he talks about the UK Life business, but we also had content
already. So we have a range of volatility in managed funds that could be appropriate for
draw-down as good as anyone else in the industry where they'll come on later, we were
also in the process of building even better funds for being on that kind of platform. So the
market pretty quickly worked though, that actually having an asset management business
as part of the composite, which actually is of important strategic value for Aviva as an
entity.
The final one that we'd always had an opportunity to try and extend the lives of Aviva
Investors and bring third party funds onto our platform, we hadn't executed it particularly
well, but 20% or so of our assets are for external clients. And we obviously need to make
that draw and excite those investor (01:12:41), but those were all things that were already,
if you like, going on.
I think in the pale blue section of the table where you've got the broad areas that we can
be making substantial improvements and which do require a more collaborative approach
across the overall Aviva business. So, powering up Aviva Life propositions, we do have the
opportunity and you'll be hearing in the session with myself and David this morning talking
about some of the things that we're planning to do to work together to bring really
interesting propositions perhaps to people that no longer want to buy annuities.
And so we can definitely help by putting interesting things on the platform. If we do that,
Aviva's share of the wallet will increase. What I mean by this? Well, Aviva does have a
rapidly growing front fund (01:13:37) platform business, a small element of what we do.
But Aviva Investors funds are only 13% of that platform. So we haven't been able even
within our joined-up Life business or joined business hasn't historically been joined up
enough to sell more than 13% of Aviva Investors propositions. And that's partly Aviva
Investors' fault because its propositions haven't been exciting enough. And we want to
get that up towards 25%, and there needs to be two elements of what – we need to
come up with better propositions, you'll hear about that in a moment, and obviously the
Aviva UK business needs to push those things harder. And I think it will benefit them
having high quality stuff on the platform.

Page 24 of 111



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

I think this is an area that we can do a lot more. You've heard today from Tom about the
new role that Jason has. And I think one of the things as an asset manager you are trying
to do is you're always trying to think about investment returns and how to maximize return
per unit risk. It's quite a different thing to try and maximize return per unit capital that
requires specialist skills to understand the consequences of Solvency II on investment
decision making. And so putting our expertise in terms of what is likely to bring a great
return over the next two to three years together with what's right for the business and
what are the capital consequences of those decisions, I think we can do better to drive
the asset side of the business.
And I think in terms of working with other parts of the group in customer engagement, I
think the work we're doing on digital is going to mean that some of our simple-to-explain
investment propositions, and I hope you'll see how simple they are to explain and
understand. Some of those things can be made available digitally. And I think that will be
really quite exciting and quite compelling to the end customers. One of the things again I
think is a real encouragement and something that I'm glad that I came to Aviva to benefit
from is Aviva is a very, very strong consumer brand. My challenge is to make an
investment brand, that certainly is not there yet, but I think with being able to access
direct with the digital platforms customers we might be able to build that trust, and again,
to think of Aviva not just as an insurance brand, but also an investment brand.
Okay. In terms of the positioning of our strategy, we are going to focus around outcomes.
The reason for this is when you look at the investment landscape, when you look at what
is actually facing the men, the women on the street at the moment is many of the props
that they've had have been gradually swept away. So someone like myself in my mid-40s,
I've got (01:16:31) plan somewhere in the background really think the salary I once had.
People 10 years older than me will have 20 to 30 years of defined benefit contributions
were linked to salary. They may also have money and smooth funds (01:16:44) like with
profit funds where some of the volatilities been taken out of the market.
People 10 years younger than me and coming through the system, they will typically have
no element of their pension retirement that is linked to a salary they've once had at some
stage in their career and the career average. So effectively they will have a fund and they
will have to make that fund to deal with all of the vagaries of the capital markets, and
they've got to deal with their own longevity. So the uncertainty facing people coming
through trying to save for a reasonably prosperous retirement is absolutely colossal.
And I think we're already seeing some changes in how people approach how they invest
their money. (01:17:31-01:17:41) not so much interested in throwing out all into the most
fantastic stock picking fund, we're actually trying to think about how can I safely grow this
asset to deliver specific outcomes. And I think one of the – the area we're looking at is the
value proposition and this really comes to some extent has been appropriately tested.
But I suppose it came from initially my bias having spoken to investors for about 20 years
customers of different types, and all kinds of institutional pension plans, wealth
customers, retail customers that they only had really (01:18:23) different outcomes that
were important to them. Most of them had multi-asset portfolios. Sometimes they were
advised by an IFA or by an investment consultant, but they were all hoping that those
multi-asset portfolio, something spread across many different fund managers with various
Page 25 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

advisors coming in, they're generally hoping they will achieve one of these four things. So,
rather hoping that fund was simply going to be bigger next year than it was this year and
bigger again the year after and so on, so they had an absolute return objective, or maybe
they were saying, I really want to grow my assets and beat inflation, because the whole
point of saving is the first gratification. The whole point of saving is to be able to afford
more in the future, because you've assorted a way in the past.
And sort of saying, let's raise target and inflation plus objective, increasingly and I think
this is a real blockbuster needs at the moment is income. So, people looking at their bank
accounts are getting absolutely nothing in terms of income from it. If they do want to go
into income propositions are currently offered often a single asset class.
So, if you want to generate a return of around 5% and a fixed income fund, you will be an
European high yield, European junk there in order to get that level of income. Then we
believe that spreading that income objective across a wide range of asset classes much
more high with diversified, we can provide good levels of income with much lower levels
of volatility to our customers. And so, income is a key need.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally, liability. So, for those who have perhaps, this is more an institution need
really, but for institutions that have historically written substantial liabilities, so defined
benefit plans, insurance companies, they have funding needs, which are very sensitive to
movements and long-term interest rate. And we can design and build investment
strategies that will exceed liabilities incrementally over time, but we'll move in sympathy
with those liabilities.
And so, quite simply, what we're going to do is given the background that we have and
given the skillsets that we have, because Aviva investors quietly has been busy investing
and driving value for its customers, as being a bit introverted and showing, how it can
actually help in these scenarios, so we're going to coming out, directly speaking to
customers and targeting these outcomes that are important to them.
And I think many of you will be aware that, in my previous role at Standard Life
Investments, we built and the designed an outcome-oriented fund, the target is LIBOR
plus 5, the GARS fund. And in the UK that grew to be – I think it was the biggest retail fund
in the UK. But around the world, in France, you had someone doing something very similar,
so as we were coming back in France, the hedge funds that was targeting a similar
outcome, in North America you had great value in Bridgewater and he was building his
outcome-oriented funds.
And I think when you look at the success in different geographies of funds, it targeted a
target return, many of those funds grew in the same environment and had the same
thought as me in the mid-2000s. The market was recovering from an environment, where
people have lost a lot of their wealth following the dot-com bust, and the principal
thought in people's mind was how can I grow my wealth, as I'm having these massive
drawdowns.

Page 26 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

And I think people addressed that and executed it well, built good businesses. I think the
principal thought at the minute is people have built wealth, many people that are
approaching retirement, and the principal thought is, how can I draw an income from this
without taking unacceptable levels of risk and we're going to be there with an answer to
help them. And I think it could well become the biggest thing that we do.
So, focus on outcome. We've got eight different objectives here that we're going to be
targeting. So, you can see re-orientating towards outcomes is the first one we've
successfully launched. The target return fund last week and that's up and running and
we've got some large money and I've got some of my money and I'm sure that we'll try it,
some might say interest at some stage, but we're under no illusions that it takes time. It
takes time people sit back, they want to see a track record develop and I understand that.
And I think the fortunate thing is that Mark understands it as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so, I don't expect them to be to be terribly patient and I was joking at the coffee
break, I've already my public slap on the wrist already by not thinking digital first and I'm
sure that the pressure will come to get those external assets. But we do understand that
there's going to be in the short-term, an awful lot of focus on short-term performance, or
will not reflect our long-term orientated investment strategies. And we're comfortable
with that, but a track record will need to be developed, but the media interest, the
consultant interest is all very encouraging.
And so, we'll see the next one we'll launch is the income fund and that should be later this
year in the fourth quarter. The inflation fund will follow next year and the liability plus is
already up and running and we have some large liability plus clients and we have some
interest indeed from big institutional clients to put in place liability plus proposition for
them. So outcome is going to be a major element of what we do.
You can't build outcomes without building on strong capabilities, underlying capabilities.
So it's not credible to say we've got a multi-asset strategy if we don't have debts in the
range of asset classes underneath. And thankfully, we do and we showed you the
performance numbers at the beginning. And one of the things though that we hadn't
done particularly well as Aviva investors was we had lots of people in different parts of the
world that were tended to be orientated and focused towards running and supporting a
geographically specific insurance company.
So, we would have a team in France that mainly looked after the French insurance
company and were feeding their ideas on the interest rate curves and Continental Europe
into a global investment process. Likewise, we had teams that were specialists in areas
like sterling credit. Nobody wants to buy sterling credit, they want to buy global credit and
we've got credit experts in sterling and euros.
In Asia, we've got – I mean, in North America and we had successfully built a global high
yield capability by getting these people to work together. And that's been a really strong
success for us. But we hadn't done the same in our investment group. So, what I've done
on the fixed income side is we've globalized that put under a single head. And actually in

Page 27 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

fact the team are massively energized about the opportunity to share ideas and
collaborate globally.
And again, from my experience in running global teams, that kind of collaboration across
the globe feeding ideas and that is – fundamentally, my view asset management is a
creative business. And creative businesses benefit from lots of different perspectives
from people with different cultures and different mind-sets approaching the same
problem. And we're already seeing the benefit of this that – the Strategic Investment
Group meetings that I Chair, which is important for feeding ideas and to the AIMS range
of funds.
So, globalizing the investment process concerned as – what's the benefit of that. But it will
be a major benefit and it will increase our value-add. We need to open up whenever
markets and proper fulfills, I'll talk a little bit more about this in the future, as we as we go
through slides, but we will have brand, strength in certain geographies, but there are
some big markets for example the North American market where we don't have brand
strength for Aviva's brand strengths not strong. But we do have the opportunity to partner
up and distribute through quite labeling arrangements.

Bloomberg Transcript

And again in my career, I've done that quite successfully in a number of different
geographies for example the U.S. and Japan and we're looking for the right partners to
distribute our propositions. We need to build our investment distribution capability, I'll talk
a little bit more about that when I come to the addressable markets for us.
We can – we talked about more and David and I we're talking about how we can help the
other elements of the business to Power Up. So, we've got ideas that we can increase the
return on our general insurance businesses by bringing some of our expertise there.
We've got ideas about how we can put better propositions on the platforms in Aviva
France and in Aviva UK for example. There is a lot of self-help stuff at the bottom.
The year before, I started Aviva Investors, 1,200 funds were closed down. We were
running far too many funds and we had made the business so complicated for ourselves
and it created an environment, where the control environment wasn't in the right place
and it was simply just massively inefficient. So, we've already had a bonfire of funds. We
will (01:28:56)continue to press down on that and make sure that we reduce the number
of funds under management, so that we have got a better controlled environment, a
simpler to run environment and that will make our ability to focus on the outcomeorientated (01:29:15) solutions all easier.
So the ambition is to have a simpler business that we're running for the rest of the Group,
and that was to actually to (01:29:24) get in the vanguard of a controlled environment,
having come from as many of you are aware well behind we're going to be moving right
into the vanguard there.
Here we've (01:29:38) talked a little bit more about the propositions and how we take
them to the market. So, in terms of working with the rest of Aviva, I do think being very
excited and we're going to see at lunch time the digital capability that we have. I actually
Page 28 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

do think that digital will give us a colossal opportunity. When people engaged digitally,
they are not wanting to see 1,000 funds. And when you look at the platforms that our
industry has tended to put in front of people that's exactly what we do.
We say here are 1,000 funds. We are going to be able to say one effect (01:30:15) and
we're going to Nick – David's (01:30:17) line here a red one or a blue one, a green one.
We're going to be saying you know do you want – are you chasing return (01:30:22)
inflation, are you looking for an income. There will be a lot of complexity behind that. We'll
have to explain that. We won't be doing black boxes before Bill (01:30:31) could go
through and see exactly where they are invested, and how they're invested. But
effectively that point of engagement, when they're on their phone or they're on their iPad,
we will have the opportunity to put (01:30:43) a very simple proposition in front of them.
And so, I think digital will be a real opportunity for us. And, of course, we are blessed with
Aviva with having great access to retail channels through our insurance – our line of
insurance businesses. And so again, touching on that point, hopefully getting a much
greater share on the platform of the UK Life business and of Aviva France, and in working
with the business as it expands into areas like Indonesia, and also working with partners
like DBS in Singapore, hopefully able to distribute (01:31:22) what we do there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So there is a great opportunity for us to leverage in quite short order. And I would hope
that with the partnership model, some of the established long tail track records that tends
to be a feature of my industry, we need to have a three-year track record before people
start looking at you et cetera. Hopefully, that will go away to some extent.
We obviously will continue to market directly to institutional investors. So, we'll be doing
what we always have done through the investment consultant community, taking our
propositions directly to wealth platforms and (01:32:03) the pension schemes. And so, to
some extent no change there. And by the way, we will sell both, our new propositions, our
new outcome-orientated funds, whether that's a LDI or the return inflation and income
propositions. But we will also sell our componentry, because the market isn't going to
change overnight. The consultants will still be coming looking for best-in-class real estate
managers – looking for a good high yield managers, looking for (01:32:31) credit managers
and we will be there competing for that.
And the early indicators I'm seeing is, enormous consultant interest and the changes
happening in Aviva Investors in terms of footfall through the business. So we've seen
more consultants or we saw a more consultants in the first quarter of the year than we've
seen in the whole of 2013.
We were looking for winnable new markets and the areas, where we can build strategic
alliances, where we don't necessarily have the brand strength. And of course with my
previous business with the (01:33:06) that was able to take that into North America
through John Hancock (01:33:11), we were able to take into Japan with Sumitomo Matsui
(01:33:14) and we've been looking for those kind of opportunities to take these simple
propositions globally.

Page 29 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

The great thing about these propositions is, they are so operationally leverageable, they
sit (01:33:27) on top of our business, they cost almost nothing additional to manage and
yet you can sell them globally and you can put them on the platforms. Those are a small
number of funds. If I'm not careful I'm going to be eating into David's time. I've got a
reputation for verbosity. I need to apologize for that. So I'll scamper through this. These
are some of the things that we've been doing so far.
One is that my Exec Committee has changed dramatically. In terms of the additions we've
made to the team just in the same way as Mark was taking some pride in the team he's
built together. I'm colossally proud of the teams that I've been pulling together, which is
substantially changed. So, we've brought in a new Head of HR, was (01:34:19) I brought in
Mark Versey, he was the CIO of Friends Life and he's facing Aviva as a client, so he's
(01:34:27) Global Solutions Directorate directly dealing with Aviva, making sure we've got
the right propositions, engaging with Jason (01:34:36) to make sure that we can get
better value on the balance sheet of the firm. So Mark is a huge addition to the team.

Bloomberg Transcript

I brought in a new COO, we're in the process of a search for a CRO having a role of CRO
(01:34:50) and there are some exciting candidates in the field there. So, we have
substantially changed the Exec Committee, and I do believe we're building one that is
compared with anyone globally in terms of moving forward. So effectively, we have done
a lot of talks about the funds have being closed down, and then driving value through
Mark Versey working with the rest of the business.
I'm going to skip this one. You've got it in your pack slide (01:35:19), I am already out of
time. So, if I can summarize, we are moving from being a captive insurance asset manager
with capabilities that were perhaps a bit siloed and a bit specialist, we didn't have the
breadth. We had underinvested in distribution and probably a good job, we've
underinvested in distribution because we didn't have very many really globally compelling
capabilities and we had this hard to scale operating model built around legacy issues and
there's no secret we had a controlled environment that went along with that.
We're going to be moving to a position where we've got a clear value proposition,
excellence in areas of componentry leading to our ability to drive solutions that have
meaningful significance for our customers. We understand on the simple, we'll be working
across borders, our investment professionals in Singapore and then Chicago, working with
the guys in London and Paris and Poland, and we will be able to develop propositions that
stretch across asset classes. And we're working with the rest of the Aviva Groups to tackle
customers both, in terms of the existing businesses and also an exciting new digital stuff
that we're doing. And we just have a better controlled environment, that's simpler and
easier to deal with and that's where we're going.
And I've not given any numbers to-date. I'm just going to throw one number here as I
close. And I said at the start the profitability of an asset manager that substantially captive
is to some extent discretionary, you would have seen that our cost of operating is around
12 basis points. We're not a high cost operating business, we still have some
improvements we can make, but we're not a high cost operating business. We have fees
coming in and are – what you would expect when you substantially look after your own
assets. And so, we've been operating on a narrow profitability margin.
Page 30 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

We don't need to double assets under management or anything like it to double
profitability £10 billion to £15 billion into one of these outcome funds will double the
profitability of Aviva Investors. And while I can't really here give targets and timelines,
because it's going to be a function of our early success and it's going to be a function of
how well we integrate as a Group, and all digital work we're doing. So our roots (01:37:52)
to the market are many and varied and they're successful to some extent be dependent
on execution and how quickly we persuade (01:38:00) people, but that we can execute
on the strategy. I think is reasonable to expect that these new outcome or impacted
(01:38:06) funds, which are high fee will be a major driver of profitability going forward,
and we'll move the needle certainly Aviva Investors level and I believe also at the Group
level.
And with that, I'll hand over to David

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Euan, and good morning, everyone. You'll see that the (01:38:39) and at group
we take the diversification very seriously. So, you see that we'll get representation from
both the West and the East Coasts. It's quite helpful as well that Euan and I are both keen
on unification rather than independence, which is a strategic comment rather than a
political one.
My name is David Barral. I'm the CEO of the UK Life business. I've been with Aviva for 15
years, and in financial services for 35 years this year. And obviously, during that time, I've
seen a lot of market cycles and a lot of change that with 18 months and after the retail
distribution review, two regulators getting into the (01:39:30) trade, the government's
pension agenda and the Chancellor's recent budget announcement, Solvency II as well as
changing customer expectations, certainly, the change is facing the industry that is radical
as ever I've experienced.
So, I'd like to share with you in my session how I see the opportunity to improve the
overall performance of the UK Life business in this environment, particularly the cash flow
from the bank book as well as a strategy to grow the future franchise, including of course,
a response to the post-budget retirement market.
First, a remainder (01:40:19) about the size, scale and position of the UK Life business
today. We've got the top largest bank book by assets under management, but a multiproduct provider with a number of leading market possessions. And more importantly in
my view, we're second overall in market share by value of new business. We're also multidistribution with clear strength in IFE and have strategic partnerships with some of the
largest and better known banks and retail brands in this country. Something that may be a
surprise to you is the size of our direct-to-consumer business which accounts for 19% of
our distribution, mainly made up of annuities and protection. So we have large bank book,
a large customer base, we're multi-product, multi-distribution, which I believe an
important assets and give us a solid platform to build on.
Let's look at how we're performing. (01:41:31) earlier rather grudgingly at showing how the
groups made some progress. I would describe UK Life as pretty similar. Our focus since
Page 31 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

2012 has been very much in line with the groups and best of thesis of cash flow plus
growth in that order. Since then we've increased the cash remittance by 50%. Profits been
fairly flat, but we've grown the value of new business as well as embedded value. We've
achieved that by rigorous capital management, disciplined pricing and significantly
reducing our expenses as you can see. So we've made some progress in improving the
performance of the business but clearly there's still much more to do particularly in
improving cash.
Going forward, the strategy of the UK Life business is to continue to focus on cash flow.
As Tom has already said, our bank book is a valuable asset that we can work much harder
to generate more cash. That is a primary role. At the same time though I believe we have
the future to grow the future franchise of the business and therefore future cash flows by
focusing on specific areas of the market specifically retirement, corporate benefits for
SMEs and protection.

Bloomberg Transcript

The main thing is a bit odd for the Life guy to be up here with GI on a slide, but as you'll
hear throughout the day, we believe we have a unique competitive advantage being the
only true customer composite. This means we're the only company that's able to offer
customers a complete one-stop-shop for all their insurance and savings needs, one can
deliver simplicity and convenience for customers and additional value for shareholders.
The protection is still an important area for us, but I'm not going to cover that in my
session today. Steve Treloar will touch on this later in his demonstration of MyAviva.
Instead I'd like to focus on retirement and corporate benefits for SMEs.
So let's start with the retirement market. I think it's fair to say that the changes announced
and by the Chancellor in the budget were far more reaching than anyone could have
expected. We were already working on reducing our reliance on annuities before the
budget, so these developments have meant accelerating our strategy. Now clearly they
have a material impact, but we do have a number of ways that we can respond to the
new reality.
First, let's look at the facts. Our sales of individual annuities based on the weekly average
before the budget compared to the average weekly sales over the last four weeks is
down 34%. Now I've taken last four weeks because I think it's more representative of the
budget impact beginning to work its way through. If you took the whole period since the
budget, the reduction would be slightly less. So the reason for the fall is because
customers are either taking small parts under £30,000 as cash or they're deferring their
retirement decision until the 2015 tax year when the new regime becomes fully effective.
Now within this 34% reduction, external sales are down by 50% whilst sales to our own
internal pension customers are down by only 14%, which makes sense bearing in mind the
higher income offered by the built-in Guaranteed Annuity rates on some of our existing
pensions. Interestingly I thing in both instances, there are lots of cases where
independent (01:46:21) has been given are actually the most resilient. And our average
case has size has actually gone up from £73,000 to £79,000 pounds after tax free cash.

Page 32 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

So sales are currently holding up better than many commentators I think predicted and
new business margins are broadly unchanged. So whilst it's difficult to accurately predict
the long-term trend at this stage, it's my view certainly that any notion that the budget
signaled to death of annuities is highly unlikely. Our best view at this point is that taking
into account drawdown and other potential alternatives, the market is likely to settle next
year at around 50% of pre-budget levels and that remains in line with the guidance of an
approximate reduction of £100 million of value of new business. So we're being realistic
and we're being prudent.
Now let me say a few words about bulk purchase annuities. In 2012, we made a decision
to operate within a strict capital budget. Now rather than peeling out of the BPA market
completely, which some people thought we did, we chose to focus on rating smaller
schemes up to about £50 million, because we offered higher returns similar to individual
annuities at that particular time. Since then (01:48:09) market for medium size schemes
has adopted a more rational approach to pricing on a Solvency II basis and therefore we
began to increase our appetite during 2013. This is a growing market. We've got a good
franchise and we won't be (01:48:28) using our longevity expertise, medical underwriting,
ability to source the right type of assets and of course it's a lot easier to put yourself in
front of trustees with the Aviva brand behind you.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've got 17 schemes into Q1 at good margins. We've now written a total of 30 schemes
this year with a volume of £260 million, which is more than double over the same period.
Demand from trustees continues to be strong as they look to lock in the value of current
strong market conditions.
We're confident in the strength of our pipeline, get into the second half of this year and
we'll consider writing slightly larger schemes where we can achieve our target returns. So,
I believe we're being realistic, balanced and prudent about the impact from the budget.
But maintaining a pricing discipline and a focus is very much on profit rather than volume.
So, let me now move on to a longer-term view of the retirement market. Even before the
budget, it was becoming clear that retirement is no longer a point in time, but a transition
for the vast majority of people. That said, the budget has created a new paradigm for UK
retirement savings and it will take some time for customers to come to terms with the
new choice and flexibility they'll have from April 2015.
I sat in a room recently with a group of customers coming up to retirement just in this
room actually. And we were talking about the changes from the budget and there were
two words that littered that conversation, fear and uncertainty. Fear of not having enough
money or it running out; uncertainty about the choices and the complexity of all and fear
about making the wrong decision.
So what the customers actually want? They want simplicity. They want certainty. They want
choice. And they want help in making sensible decisions. And as you know 70% of the
assets in this country are held by people aged 50 plus. And this is a growing part of the
population. We have 6 million customers in Aviva aged over the age of 50 and 2.3 million
in the Life business alone with a pension. So, we've got a large existing customer base,

Page 33 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

never mind the 23 million in the external market. So, what is it going to take to win in this
market going forward?
Well, the first thing is it's not going to be a one-size-fits-all. So, you do need a range of
components if you want to provide customers with a solution that can be tailored
specifically for them. And we're already pretty strong here with various annuity options
which we believe will still be attractive for many customers. An equity release of course
can act as a supplement for that income. We also have an excellent IFA platform with all
the necessary product (01:52:24), a wide choice of external funds, as well of course as
Aviva Investor Funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

We significantly enhanced the drawdown facility earlier this year. And as you've just heard
from Euan, we've now launched the first of three Aviva Investor Funds specifically
designed for the retirement market, which we feel very confident will attract a lot of
support. So, we've got all the components to provide a compelling set of retirement
solutions. We just need to work on the packaging. The one key ingredient we don't have
is a direct-to-consumer investment platform proposition, and that's something that we're
very keen to address.
So, given the increasing importance of investment platforms, let me update you on our
current performance. You might be surprised to learn that Aviva IFA platform is about to
pass the 4 billion mark, and it is growing very strongly, (01:53:32) inflows, about GBP 55
million per week compared to GBP 45 million before the budget. It's simple, it offers
essential functionality without unnecessary bells and whistles. So advisors find it efficient
and easy to use, and they love the convenience of accessing client information and
reports online, including valuations on the mobile.
Now Euan touched on earlier, currently Aviva Investor Funds account for only 13% of funds
under management on that platform, but a revitalized Aviva Investors under Euan's
leadership together with the launch of the AIMS fund range, we both see an opportunity
to increase this percentage over time to a best-in-class 25%, which gives us an enormous
opportunity.
Now from a distribution perspective, our (01:54:32) remain a vitally important distribution
channel for us. However, there are three factors I believe will accelerate the rapid take up
of direct. First, IFAs cannot afford to serve the mass market; second, customers are simply
unwilling to pay for full advice; and third, customers are increasingly going digital.
So, we're planning to launch a new direct-to-consumer platform early next year that will
provide a simple, engaging digital experience for customers with easy ready-made
packaged solutions or the ability to self-select depending on their level of confidence.
And from the research that we've done with customers, we know that they're supported
by help and guidance from a brand like Aviva will be a compelling customer proposition
that will at least take some of the fear out of retirement.
As I mentioned in the beginning, we already have a substantial direct business within UK
Life, so this is a natural step for us and it's also a way, I think for digital savvy IFAs to offer
Page 34 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

some of the clients a self-serve option alongside advice. So, in summary, the change to
individual annuities clearly has had a material impact. But looking across a full set of
retirement solutions, BPA and IFA, investment platform, drawdown, equity release, they're
all significantly up.
In addition having just launched the first of a range of new Aviva Investor funds and
looking forward to launching a new direct-to-consumer platform next year, I'm very
optimistic about building this business from a position of strength.
I'd now like to move on and talk to you about another specific area of the market where
we have an excellent franchise and are poised for further growth. As you know the UK
Government has introduced a new law, designed to help people save more. Between
now and Q1 2018, 1 million small businesses with up to 250 employees are legally the
client to auto-enrolled; eligible workers (01:57:11) into a workplace pension if they don't
already have one.
This places a huge burden on employers to set up the scheme and to demonstrate
compliance (01:57:28) pension regularly. To give you some sense of that burden; the
National Association of Pension Funds, somewhat ironically, under the title of New Rules
for Pension Saving Made Simple, have produced no less than six guides to help employers
to explain their duties; and the pension's regulator estimates that over 80% of those
employers do not have an existing pension scheme. So, we have segmented that data
further to identify those companies with above average salaries and a more stable
workforce and we estimate that 660,000 would fall into our target market. This
represents a significant opportunity for the Aviva for three reasons. One it's at heartland,
we look at strong franchise right across Health, Life and GI.
Secondly, IFEs can afford to service these small employers for Auto enrollment, provide
an opportunity to serve them directly. And thirdly, it's actually higher margin business,
typically 50 basis points on the pension compared to 20 basis points or less for a large
corporate scheme. And benefits of course, further from margin from using the Aviva
Investor as a default fund, which is lately it's again for 80% of the fund flow.
So, the strategy is clear. We've got one of the leading Auto-enrollment tools in the
market, which we're going to demonstrate for you a bit later. That makes it simple and
cost effective for the employer to set up and demonstrate compliance with the scheme.
This then gives us a great opportunity to leverage our true customer composite
advantage.
And the testing that we've already done, we know that small businesses are temporary
that get demands for other insurance across good life, good health as well as a range of
general insurance needs and we know that we welcome the convenience of managing
that through one relationship. So, our view is Aviva is uniquely placed to offer such a
complete one-stop shop for SMEs and own the space in the market.
So, talked about two areas of the market where I believe we can win and we can grow a
franchise to generate future profits. Now, I want to come back to how we unlock the value
Page 35 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

of the biggest asset, our back book. Now, this is a significant business in its own right and
picking up in John's question earlier, we choose to define this by essentially so
accumulation business, excluding the platforms such insourced and outsource, the
essentially accumulation excluding platform. It's got about £80 million under management.
It's got 3 million customers and it generates around £350 million in profit.
As I mentioned earlier, I think we've made some good progress in reducing some of the
costs. But when I look how we compare on external benchmarks, on unit costs and lapses,
we're worse than median which affined unacceptable, certainly as a skilled player. Given
that the back book costs are around £300 million and the on average were around 25%
of the top quartile, the opportunity to increase cash flow is substantial. So, if it gives us the
appropriate priority and focus, we're formed a back book business sale. We've also
recruited an experienced leader and strengthened the management team, who're
adopting what I would call a forensic and systematic approach across three key areas
costs, retention and capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

Firstly on costs. Two of the biggest areas we've got to go on is automation and digital. We
still have too many systems and labor-intensive processes. Technology advances and
redesigning our processes using systems thinking, which I'll leave Nick and Scott to explain
later, gives us the opportunity to automate between 40% and 50% of activity across 122
centers, completely eliminating many administrative tasks.
Similarly, with digital, today we still send over 40 million individual pieces of paper,
including statements and other documents to customers. And those same customers
spend an average of 20 minutes on the telephone, who have the biggest demand is for
simple information that could be more easily accessed directly and more quickly online
through MyAviva. So, the ability to radically improve the service for our customers, simplify
the business as well as significantly reduce the costs as absolutely enormous.
Turning to retention, we've made some improvements here as well, particularly in working
with IITs to avoid some of the excessive channeling and bonds a few years ago, as well as
recapturing some of the older pensions onto the Aviva platform. But when I look at the
benchmarking on lapses, we are at best median. Maybe we've got a single customer
database allowing customers to see all the holdings in the one place under MyAviva. This
is already driving a much higher level of engagement with 175,000 customers since
March, checking the pension and bond valuations for the very first time. We're also
investing in data analytics to enable us to predict customer behavior in new segments and
most likely to lapse and engage with them much earlier.
And of course our direct-to-consumer investment platform, I mentioned, when its
launched will give us a step change and been able to give the customers a much better
offer, med policy and maturity.
And finally, capital. We're looking strategically a number of areas, including greater use of
reinsurance and timely to leverage the group-wide diversification benefits, which of
course in turn reduces our capital requirements. We're also considering managing UK
legal entities and fund structures to simplify and optimize for Solvency II and we're looking

Page 36 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

tactically about what further opportunities we have to de-risk the balance sheet. So, I'm
pretty confident that with a ring-fenced management team and a forensic focus, we can
unlock substantially more cash from this back book sale.
So, in summary, we've made some good progress in the overall performance of the UK
Life business. We have a clear strategy based on growing the franchise by targeting
retirement solutions, SME corporate benefits and protection. It's the area of the markets
where we believe we can win, leveraging a composite advantage and creating a simpler,
more engaging digital experience for our customers.
So, there's no question that the budget changes have been disruptive. But from that
comes opportunity with a strategy to respond to these changes and use them as a
catalyst to grow our platform business, working together with Euan and Aviva Investors.
And although, I cannot predict exactly how the market will unfold, the one thing I am
absolutely certain of and it's in our own guest is unlocking the value and the cash flow
from what is our biggest asset, our back book.
So, thank you. Euan is going to join me up front, and we'll be happy to take your
questions.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. You want us to send (02:06:54). Okay. First question here. So, if you say your name
and where you're from, because I'm not familiar with everyone in the room yet.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Yeah. It's Jon Hocking for Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. One for you,
two for David. Euan, I know it's very early days, but could you give us some idea of the
split you expect between direct retail, retail through this more traditional channels and
institutions in terms of the new fund range you're developing? So, first question.
The second question on the UK. The UK direct investment platform you're going to launch
next year, is that going to be Investment products, Life products, but also including GI and
investment management, or are they going to be separate go-to-market direct solutions
for the business? And the third question is, to what extent are you constrained by
discretionary outsourcing deal in reducing the unit cost of the Life company? Thank you.

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Okay. Well, I can deal with the first one. I think the institutional market is the hardest to
predict. And that many of those assets effectively as Boards of Trustees that are in
control. So, you have to win the approval of people with deep fiduciary responsibility and
they simply can't decide to allocate money to an asset management business that
doesn't have a bit of a track record and a bit of process behind it. And so, I think that
might take a slightly longer.

Page 37 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

So, in terms of the ordering of the money coming in, I would expect, it would be coming in
initially on the wealth platforms and so on as some of these things switch on. We've had
some quite good encouraging news in terms of people intending to rate the fund. The
first of the funds we have launched right from the (02:08:43), so that's encouraging and
that can drive some flows from wealth platforms.
Obviously, I'd be hoping our own digital platform, which is now making it available. So, I
would say you can't buy the fund digitally at the moment, but you have to be quite
determined. You got to go through and find I think we can make improvements to that.
And once we have made those improvements and I would expect we can sell more in our
own digital platform.
So, it will start with traditional wealth channels, other people's platforms. Maybe some
people buying into as a diversification strategy away from funds that are similar in
orientation and then moving eventually into the institutional space. So, I can't give you the
break down, because it kind of depends on the timeframe.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Picking up on your question with direct-to-consumer (02:09:39). So, we will launch a
direct-to-consumer investment platform that Aviva customers will access that will be
through the one front door, which is MyAviva and you'll see the MyAviva a bit later. So, that
will be the orange and meets (02:09:52) under the one place.
In terms of costs, the vast majority of cost is within our own gift (02:09:59), and we've got
– (02:10:02) huge amount of opportunity both in terms of reducing our own costs as well
as Tom mentioned, Group Centre costs and our own shared service cost quite frankly
within our Life business. So the vast majority really as within our own gift (02:10:16). Okay.
Thank you.
This gentlemen here.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(02:10:20) So, Dave on the cost question, obviously, in the Life business has got pretty big
now outsize in the UK. So, £4 billion or £5 billion for the last few years and there is no
reason to think that's probably going down if you go to the wrap (02:10:36), but the stuff
that's coming in is coming in at a very low margin, because it is (02:10:41) online done,
there is no need for any administration.
So, how you are going to cut the costs and keep them low as the business runs off quite
quickly? I mean isn't – there are kind of this economy of scale thing going to make
problems worse, so you're going to be kind of whacking a mole (02:10:55) and cutting
costs for this – modest (02:10:58) economies coming through?
And I guess the second question which – here in terms of how much investment is
required to Aviva Investors, as we cut off (02:11:06) money into the business in the past.

Page 38 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

And as a Group, we'll have to inject money to Aviva Investors to achieve the turnaround
strategy going forward? Thank you.

FINAL

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

So, yeah, I'll go first. So, I mean the way we're looking at it is, we've got if you take the
non-profit fund flow, it's actually positive already and quite strongly positive. So, if you take
into account yield, what (02:11:33) profit stuff, sure there is still and – we're still in negative
territory. We actually expect for that to go total positive by 2016. And, if you – in terms of
how we are looking at the economics of it is very much about what I obviously (02:11:50)
described in there, which is kind of forensic (02:11:52) ruthless focus on our existing assets
and existing book and how we manage that and run it for cash flow, and then we're
looking at the new kind of, if you like, (02:12:01) platform stuff on it.
So, how do we grow that and get it to the right kind of level of scale, and but managing
that (02:12:08) cost, doing it in a much low cost environment. And, clearly, it's a capitallight. And so, once you kind of get it to the right place, it's actually kind of profitable
(02:12:18) business and (02:12:18) capital. So we're splitting those two – that's where we
think (02:12:21) the two things separate. But the reality is, going forward, those are lower
margin. But as I say better capital-light product.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah. The other thing (02:12:33) dealing with the margin if you forget for a moment about
the split between the Life business and Investment (02:12:37) business. If they are coming
onto the platform, and they're buying higher margin propositions from Aviva Investors,
you get the benefit of the either Group.
So, someone said, they come on and they buy a vanilla balanced fund, they might get
that, I don't know, for 30 basis points or something, certainly that would (02:12:54).
Whereas if they come on and they buy a target outcome fund, that's 75 basis point. So
there's a material difference, if we can excite people about the content we are
manufacturing going on to the platform.
In terms of – just dealing with the second questions in terms of the need for massive
expenditure. No. I think we can do a lot of this from a self-help point of view by simplifying
our business – the existing business at the same time as investing for growth. There was
substantial cost savings came out of Aviva investors, we simplified already. We can do a
little bit more, but at the same time focusing on growth. So there's no major investment
required.
Okay. This gentleman here. No, I'll come back to you.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions, please. First on your pensions
business, I mean, (02:13:56) and you mentioned just there that their non-profit influence
has been positive. What happens post-2016, when trail is turned off ? And when do you
expect those inflows to come off or maybe outflows?
Page 39 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

And secondly on, Tulloch (02:14:09), you talked about medical underwriting, just how does
it work in practice? Is it questionnaires or what do you ask? And just finally on individual
annuities you said the internal sales are down 14%, can you just split that between those
annuities – those GAOs and those, which are standard please?

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. So, perhaps I'll answer the first one and then we're fortunate we've got Clive Bolton
that runs the Retirement Solutions business can maybe pick up in the detail in the second.
As far as the – yes, we were one of the last commission payers, and actually we took, I
think what was a pretty bold step recently and announced to the market, which has been
welcomed, despite have been tough (02:14:52) , which is we're removing commission by
the end of this year, which is well ahead of when we're required to remove it from a
regulatory standpoint.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the reason we're doing that is because we think it's a better thing for customers and
actually it's a better thing for us long-term, because although we take – we do take a hit
from it. And then from a value and new business terms over the longer term it's actually
positive to us in terms of the capital reserves for us (02:15:20).
So I don't expect it to affect our business at all, quite frankly. Our (02:15:28) are looking
quite good. And I think the proposition we've got over there now is very strong. And it's
going to be quite difficult I think for employers to move some of the schemes and when
advisors on the basis of what they're getting charged (02:15:44) for. And we're already
operating in a very competitive way, the service is good, the online functionality is good.
So I'm reasonably, reasonably confident about our persistency there?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

You're quite (02:16:01)

A - Clive Bolton

{BIO 4720574 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks. This is Clive Bolton here. So, I run the Retirement Solutions business. On the
point around use of medical information. This is particularly relevant to the small schemes,
where perhaps up to 100 members, where the overall experience of the scheme and you
can't rely on, so you have to add additional information.
So I think, this works in two ways. On one level, we give a survey of all the members. So
we get the medical information through and we use or understanding and knowledge
around how that medical information impacts to (02:16:33 cover. But also interesting, we
increasingly see the option to apply that technique to perhaps a small and highly-valued
members and particularly for the small – for the very small schemes, where they might
dominate.
And we're feeling that. It gives us an advantage and I'll show you (02:16:55) some of the
tech that we have developed over the last couple of years. In that area of small VPAs
Page 40 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

(02:17:01). And just a point around the internal business, where we sell annuities to our
own customers, (02:17:10) the guaranteed annuities account (02:17:13) just under half of
our business.

FINAL

And if you like the non-guaranteed part (02:17:19) for internal book. The reduction is
around about 25%.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Clive. I promised to come back to this gentleman, here.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. (02:17:36). Just two questions. Firstly, how many statutory funds do you
have in the UK back book, and is there a target number that you want to merge down to?
The second question is for Euan. How much do you think Aviva Investors can contribute to
the group earnings in, say, three to four years' time. Do you have a target in mind?

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Okay. Do you want to...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

I mean on the specific number, I couldn't give you, no, but I mean, the biggest opportunity
we've got is around UK annuity and UK – what we call UK Life fund and that's where we
think there's the biggest opportunity basically to make it far more efficient probably just
from a capital perspective. I don't know if there's – Euan do you want to make couple of
(02:18:26), if you want to pick up in that?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I agree, David. I mean, they are the two major funds and Solvency II works best when you
have few funds as you know, so that's what we are focused on over the next few years.
You may have seen we've looked to bringing our Irish business into the UK. Having done
that in GI, we're looking to do that in the Life business transfer that across. So, these
things will take time. But if planned and executed around Solvency II, it will give this very
large capital benefits, but also simplify the organization considerably.

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Yeah. Just in terms of the contribution to profitability, we do have some numbers in mind
clearly. I mean, I think within three years, we could easily double the profitability of Aviva
Investors. And then I do think that we've publicly said, or Mark's publicly said, he has this
20/40/40 Vision by 2020?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Actually, I haven't publicly said.

Page 41 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry, I thought that was fun. So, in terms of – I've not got a plan. What I was going
to say is, I've got plan to get their organic, but we can make a good start, but if we're
successful with our proposition.

FINAL

A - Clive Bolton

{BIO 4720574 <GO>}

Sorry. This gentleman here.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Farooq Hanif from Citi. Quick question on the help in guidance that
you can give them, B2C, is that purely electronic with the chart, so can some people
speak to get technical advice? And going back to the kind of growth question in Aviva
Investors, it seems to me that – you've got a lot of consultants trust, you've got the track
record in the funds, just in terms of the external fund and growth, could you give us a bit
more of a comment on how quick do you think we'll start to get funds, do we have to wait
three years, for example? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Well, I'll do the Life question first. In terms of – I was hoping, we don't have to wait three
years. I mean, I think, what I would say is that unfortunately with these things, there's an
extraordinary amount of attention going to be paid to the first six months of performance.
I think anybody that run an investment process knows that great fund managers can have
a bad six months. We just need to hope it's not the first six months, because that's going
to push the traction and so, I mean, I'm absolutely confident we've got a great team, we'll
be able to build propositions that deliver on a two to three year time horizon. But we're
going to be watched very, very carefully over the next few quarters in terms of delivery.
If we do well, and might not be the right thing to do, in terms of people should actually be
assessing investment processes over the long-term, looking at process, looking at team,
but I think that – and we will see some flow, I think people will start switching, diversifying
away from their incumbent fund managers. And so, I'm optimistic we'll see some flow.
But, in terms of our planning, its backend loaded over a three-year window. So, I wouldn't
want to raise expectations too high, but I do hope that whatever our expectations are,
we'll be able to exceed them.

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

On the platform in terms of, I'd say it was (02:22:04) My view is, if customers, if they
come to us directly, I think 10% will probably buy complete self-serve without needing any
form of interaction. On the other hand, I think it's probably 10% and people will need
(02:22:24) advice. We're in the middle, so 80% of our customers and I'm not talking about
the market, I'm talking about our mid-market customers, I reckon will buy with some help
and guidance.
Now, I mean that is clearly non-advised and regulatory to speak. It's not advice, but I want
to get to a place where we can help them perhaps even (02:22:44) to take them through
Page 42 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

the process online, help them do it and make it as simple as possible. We'll give them the
tools and calculators, but ultimately over their decision. So, we will give them the technical
help. We'll effectively walk them through it. And no, we've got to agree that, you know
where the regulators making life difficult on this stuff, but I'm meeting with them
tomorrow to discuss this very subject. And basically they have to start shifting and help in
the market, because customers really need it and we want to help the customers.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(02:23:13)

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

Yes. Absolutely, people are there to help customers through that process. Absolutely.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

We go to the very back. This gentleman has been (02:23:26) again for a while.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Hi. It's Will Elderkin from Goldman. I have two questions, both for David I think. Firstly,
you've put up a slide showing I think over the last couple of years your expenses are
down 22%, I think operating profit up 1%. Can you just walk us through the big movements
on the revenue side and revenue margin? And then, how those are likely to develop over
the next couple of years? And then secondly, can you give us a sense of what the
minimum efficient scale or breakeven scale of the two platforms you have up and running
on?

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

So, on the first point, in terms of – sorry, just remind me the first one again?

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

You put up a slide showing, cost down 22%, profit up 1%.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Yeah. So, the costs were down, but profits only up 1%. So, I mean, the two biggest
movements on that is one, we lost an I-E tax advantage, also some of the cost savings
don't yet flow through, which we should do over the course of next year. And quite frankly,
we traded some profit to reduce volatility on the returns. So, we effectively hedged. And
those were the kind of the three key things that kept our profit roughly flat. The actual
underlying profit, so the underlying businesses were up.
Yeah. Okay. Okay, yeah, I just realized.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Page 43 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Thanks, guys. So, it's Andy again, Andy Hughes, Exane. Three questions if I could, quite
quick ones. I'm just trying to understand following up on the point, the point that you've
kind of made about ALM and working the assets differently going forward. What does this
mean for the UK business? Is it annuity assets or investment differently that's going to
drive higher returns, or is it reversing the decision to reduce volatility that you perhaps
made in the past?
I guess the second question is, why would someone buy an Aviva Wrap as opposed to
any of the wrap on the wrap market is it going to be cost or price or what do you see as
Aviva's role in this market given as already quite few companies out with very low cost
products. I think, they've gone in the retire ready or every school product. Okay.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay, yeah. Okay, that's great. Tom takes the ALM question in a moment, but I don't think
it's much on the UK Life.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I mean, as far as the platform concerned I mean, on the direct-to-consumer space.
Quite frankly, I would say to Harker, he is nobody is kind to share. So, as far as I'm
concerned it's all to play for, why would they choose us. They would choose us because
it's most simple, most engaging online experience and with a brand look that was – if we
can get some guidance we talked about, we know of certain rooms with those customers
to better hands off to help them through.
So, I'm very confident. And the another thing is that if we can package those solutions and
bring to make it easy for example I mean the funds that to start just launched, it's
particularly when we get to an inflation plus fund with low volatility that's what our
customers, we know that's what customers want. So it's making us wrapping up and
packaging it and making it easy for customers to buy that's why I think it will differentiate
us.

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

I think just the point I was going to make was, I made in passing when I was talking about
the fact that a lot of platform providers think they're having thousand funds is really
helpful, and it just doesn't. And I think that simplicity, but also having high-quality content.
So, I think a lot of people mistake simplicity as being cheap provider. I don't think, we want
to go there. We will be simple with fantastic content and that nobody has really cracked
that.
And do you want to deal with the capital question, Tom, in terms of ?

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Sure. In terms of ALM, I'd say that this is not limited to UK Life, this is really across the
board. So, if I had my Canadian CFO here, we could sort of give you examples of some of

Page 44 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

the things that he would like to do, I think just more broadly around additional asset
classes and strategy.
Again, this is not sort of an intent to just re-risk the balance sheet and it's not limited to
just annuities in the UK. This is something that's really broad based. So, it's our GI business
and what we're doing investing there to get more return. It's what we're doing in France,
Canada, everywhere. And UK Life is part of that. We'll look at new asset classes, et
cetera, but, as Euan was saying, this is about sweating the balance sheet harder, not so
much, it's just sort of increasing risk and things that we already do.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Let's turn it over here.

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin, Barclays. Couple of questions for David. First of all, on BPAs, you
mentioned BPA is a growth market, do you think your BPA market grew to more
(02:28:34) offset the decline in the individual market, given the macro trends in the
economy, given interest rates equity markets, et cetera? And would Aviva be willing to put
– reallocate the capital from individual market to the BPAs if margins were attractive?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then just secondly on the auto-enrolment, is the auto-enrolment business improbable
today? And how do you expect to acquire (02:28:55) 600,000 customers which will be
potentially direct consumers? How do you actually go about acquiring those customers?
Thanks.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Okay. So, on the first point in terms of annuities BPA, I mean the fact is we were only
going to go after the BPAs, our target returns and that's the first thing. So it's not where
we're trying to balance the volume. Clearly, we do have capacity, given that the individual
annuity market has come down. Whether we actually managed to close the gap
completely, I don't know, but that's where the market is growing. There's no question that
the economy has improved, companies are really keen to divest their own balance sheets
and we have seen a very active market for particularly in the small to medium size.
In terms of auto-enrollment, if you would just turn it simply for purely auto-enrollment
alone, that can level (02:29:54), you probably wouldn't bother. The fact is that when we
take the whole package over, so we've been able to do auto-enrollment, we have been
(02:30:03) able to get further increments on the back of it and then have been able to
leverage own advantage, because we're already beginning to sell group health, group
life, group income protection even to these people.
Never mind the GI saved (02:30:15), we think we've got something here that is very
profitable and we can do that right. How we're going to get them direct? Do you know
what? So far, we are inundated at the moment without even trying of people coming to us
asking us for them to help, them because the market has not got the supply of a base to
help them in it. So, they're coming to us and by the way, they have to work quite hard at
Page 45 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

the moment to our system to find us. So, we haven't even tried yet and we're getting a
huge number of inquiries. So, we're pretty confident we can get to them okay.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Okay. This gentleman, he has been trying to come for a while.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(02:30:55) Morgan Stanley. So a couple questions for David, please. Three more
response to the PRA voicing its concerns post-budget on a couple of aspects of the UK
Life market. So number one, the impact of increasing competition on the remaining
annuity flows that you will see post-budget. And then, secondly concerns around new
product design to sort of replace those retirement products where the insurance
companies will know the risks they're taking on. So, I was wondering if you could just
maybe respond to both of those points.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I mean if you saying it is the – what's our view on where FCA are in relation to how do
we feel about it, I mean we start from a point of view, what's the right answer for the
customer. What is it the customer is trying to achieve as it a way of being able to kind of
meet that need from a practical point of view? So, a good damn thing might be people
have said (02:31:51) annuities might be an answer. Well, I mean I know the experience that
certainly the first flush of those were far too complex, too expensive and didn't
necessarily justify the cost in terms of benefits to customer. We're looking at what – trying
to solve the underlying problem.
So, customers want a guaranteed income and they don't want to let their money. So we
think it may be cleaner for example to take an AIMS fund that may have been in inflation
plus (02:32:18) for example when outcome that is franchised and then looking at how can
we put on top of that our longevity guarantee, our longevity insurance. How do we
protect that customer from having to live (02:32:31). So, we're trying to make it clean,
simple and as I said I'll be discussing this as well tomorrow with the FCA, but I think to be
quite frank, they're looking to us. They don't advance us, they're looking to us to come up
with those kind of solutions and then, of course, (02:32:49) that's a good outcome for
customers and we're pretty used to doing that.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I think PRA was also talking about I think the effects of that moment.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

So, actually they made it more customer focused, but maybe the PRA specifically was
more worried I think for the regulatory for its control and solvency issues might be linked
to that.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Page 46 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Oh, yes, no question.

FINAL

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

We find both the PRA and the FCA and recently we've talked them through our strategy
and I think they are quite, quite comfortable, in fact quite impressed with some of the
thinking that we've done. I think the PRA shouldn't be surprised that in propositions of the
future or how (02:33:27) less guaranteed elements to them, because any industry that
has to hold enough capital to withstand the one in 200-year event is going to have to
charge quite a lot, for any promises it makes.
And I think that in the future, we will be investing, as if we had made such a commitment,
but we will not necessarily be underwriting every element of it. So, I think it would be a
much more selective underwriting of risks that people just simply can't afford to live with,
which interestingly some things, as you move it down to associated (02:34:02) economic
order, it becomes much more critical to have a guarantee for less affluent people than for
more affluent people.
So, in our target, where we would think (02:34:12) some elements in there, but we have
to – the regulatory needs to be aware of the consequences of all of the regulations and
they are.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I think, (02:34:30) the break. Okay.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Will do that one.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And we'll like to that. Okay. We'll have a break now for half an hour...

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

And back when – back when?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

15 minutes ago that round two (02:34:38).

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

If I could just ask everyone to get back in their seats. We'll stick to our on-schedule thus
far. I don't want to blow that. It's interesting, I was listening to my colleagues and listening
to my (02:34:58) colleagues talk about diversity. And some of them is born in Scotland, I
had to work on my accent, I wasn't never quite sure, I was East Coast or West Coast, but I
can tell you, I'm sure glad that with the arrival of Tom and Christine and Monique, I'm

Page 47 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

actually going to represent the East Coast of North America here today. It was great to
see everyone last night, see a lot of familiar faces and also meet some new folks.
For those that I haven't met, I'm Maurice Tulloch. I've been in Aviva for 22 years, most
recently as CEO of our Canadian business, prior to taking on the role as CEO of our UK
and Irish businesses last September. And I've had to alter my focus from frost quakes and
snow loads and earthquake risk to things such as tidal surges and subsidence and
groundwater and industrial deafness.
However, the principles of insurance remain the same, pricing, underwriting, claims
management and cost. They still remain key. And additionally, I've recently taken on the
responsibility as Chairman for Global General Insurance for Aviva. And when I see, it is
critical for our GI businesses that we have alignment and consistency across the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

And during these last few months, I made a number of notable similar (02:36:19)
appointments, including the appointment – Dave Lovely, Global Head of General
Insurance claims, Colm Holmes, who is here today as our new CFO, and Sharon Ludlow,
President of Aviva Insurance in Canada. And what struck me about those appointments is
the attractiveness of this terrific company and this terrific brand to these world-class
individuals.
If I turn to our business and look at our general insurance business at a glance, our
insurance operations are large business in their own rights with 15 million customers, £8.1
billion in gross written premiums and £17.5 billion in assets under management. We're a
profitable business, the combined operating ratio in 2013 of 97% and operating profits of
over £760 million. And as a collection of businesses, we delivered over 40% of the
group's cash flows in 2013 with dividends of nearly £540 million. We have a diverse range
of businesses from number one, here in home market, number three in the Irish market
and a number three position in the attractive Canadian market. The UK and Canada are
established scale cash generators and our global centers of excellence and things such as
predictive analytics, as Mark alluded to, underwriting and claims management.
Here, in France, we're a mid-sized player, but what gets me really excited is we're number
two in the direct market and have immense potential to grow in that market. Our
turnaround markets of Ireland, Italy are focused on improving profitability and cash flow
and both business units are making great progress in 2014. And we've increased the
important direct businesses in our growth markets of Poland. We're number three in the
direct market in Asia with our presence in Singapore.
Both these growth markets have shown that it's possible to leapfrog straight to the direct
model by injecting mature market technical skills and pricing in underwriting and coupled
out with great market-leading direct techniques that we have in the UK, which I'll speak to
later.
If I turn to our financial metrics across these six dimensions, certainly we've had some
decent performance, but I think the overwhelming message for me is there's still much,
much more we can do. And our focus in the last years has been on cash flow, reflected by
Page 48 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

increases of 42% to nearly £540 million and on our COR at 97% was satisfactory. It is
worth noting that these did include two major floods in Canada within a three-week
period, both of which are (02:39:10) events and that it impact overall of £130 million on
our results.
But even including these extreme events, the stability in our results is reflected in our
combined op ratio at 97% and it does reflect the balance and relatively low-risk, short-tail
business in both geographic and product diversification that we have across our markets.
Operating results reflect the low interest environment and particularly reduction in internal
loan interest in the UK General Insurance, which did provide an £84 million uplift to 2011
results.
Our expense base has been reduced by 11% over the last two years. I would turn to this
later, including very much the need for continuous improvement in our cost to income
ratios, most notably in our UK business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what am I going to focus on? I'm focused on the relentless drive to increase our cash
flows, grow our efficiency and further embed analytics, not just in our general insurance
businesses, but across Aviva. Let me take these in turn. Firstly, growth, in our GI
businesses, our volumes of overall contracted by 5% as you saw in the last slides over
three years, an entirely unsatisfactory result.
But let me be clear, this is a UK problem. Our other general insurance businesses continue
to grow and what I consider a very healthy margin of 5% to 7%. And our UK decline is
actually, not mean a three-year pattern, our UK business has declined over the past 10
years broadly, while it's had some ups, generally the business has gone from a high
watermark of about £6.2 billion down to the current level of about £4 billion. And when I
first got here last September and I looked at that and I looked at the attributes of our
business with the brand recognition that we have with a leading multi-distribution platform
with tremendous recognition from our distributors with effectively basically all of the major
financial institutions being partners of UK, I was certainly puzzled by that. And I made a
commitment to Mark that our UK business would start to grow within 12 months. That's a
commitment that remains and the commitment that I'm very confident in achieving.
So, where will this growth come from? We're going to grow our direct retail personalized
business in the UK, a business where we leverage our market-leading capabilities and
also the unique composite advantages at the store (02:41:55) Aviva. First of all, we
increase our attention to existing customers both through improved product offerings,
ease of doing business and by increasing our avid product holdings, which is an area we
have tremendous upside, given the breadth of our product offering and the strength of
our brand.
In commercial lines, we have particularly strong and profitable businesses both here in
Canada and the UK, both of which I believe also have growth potential. Secondly, we
need to improve our overall efficiency, which ultimately leads to cash generation. We'll
tackle that through our efficiency ratios and we'll also tackle that through automation. And

Page 49 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

one of the reasons that I brought Dave Lovely, who used to run claims at ACE, they've
done just that in terms of automating claims.
Finally, we'll focus on driving analytics across our business. We already have marketleading capabilities within our Canadian General Insurance business and areas of
significant strength here in the UK as well. Our strength has historically been in risk
analytics, which are capabilities that we're looking to exploit across all Aviva business units.
However, we're also now expanding our analytical capabilities beyond traditional risk into
both customer and behavioral analytics.
So, actually, this next slide, this is actually the first time we've shared some of this data.
So, I think that some of you might be quite interested. You've heard Mark talk about our
focus on digital first. And we also have Steve Treloar here, our Managing Director of UK
personal lines here today, who'd be walking you through demonstration at lunch.

Bloomberg Transcript

But you know what? This is not just about our direct business, it's about enhancing our
digital capabilities across our platforms, which will help us even better support our
customers, partners, brokers and ultimately grow our business. For instance, we write
approximately £1 billion of personal motor claims in the UK. And as was mentioned earlier,
60% of that is written through our direct business.
With respect to retail personal lines, lower operating costs are critical success factor.
We've seen markets is falling (02:44:06) changing consumer demands around the world,
most notably with the growth of aggregators in the UK accounting for nearly two-thirds of
all new business quotes. And the way I look at it low cost is not an option. This is a critical
business imperative in the highly commoditized world of retail personal lines. And this is
evidenced by our recent experience in UK, which has shown that our direct business
underpinned by digital capability analytics is providing a platform for growth and
exceptional customer experience.
And against what's been a rather down-market in the last few years, our direct business
has grown by 8.5% and our customer policies have grown by 15% over the past three
years. And perhaps the most encouraging sign is our combined operating ratio, which has
demonstrated a consistent result in the sub-90% (02:45:00) COR category. When I
arrived, everyone warned me about UK motor, well, are you sure you want to go to UK,
it's a vicious product line, no one makes money at it.
So, let me give you a few observations. Certainly it's the most competitive market I've
ever seen in the world. But if you actually have a business model that's strong in analytics,
is strong and cross-sell, you can actually drive up your retention and you don't constantly
get stuck in the trap of a new business strain, if you have a low-cost platform, actually you
can make money in UK motor. And I'd also say that as a leader, we continue to push for
stronger and tighter guidelines and things such as fraud and I was most pleased a few
weeks ago, Aviva didn't need to get any credits.
But when Chris Grayling came out and said that they would be sending directions to the
court about being tougher on fraud and also more importantly exaggerated claims, which
Page 50 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

by the way are fraud as well, we took a little bit of a slight pat at the back at Aviva. I think
it's also useful to talk a bit about, you know what, I could get a brand (02:46:10).
So, if I moved to Quote-me-Happy and GA building on the unsuccessful Aviva direct
platform we launched, Quote-me-Happy in 2011 and General Accident in 2013, these have
now grown to net written premiums of over £130 million. Both of these brands are run
from the same contact center just south of here across the river and we employ at this
(02:46:34) 30 people to handle over 340,000 customers.
The cost base is a correspondingly very low and our marketing is done online. Customers
are able to see all their products in the same place and can validate their customer
documents using a simple service app. It also means policyholders stay longer and buy
more on our direct platforms as shown by the relatively better retention rates and our
average product holdings compared to our broker business. One of the challenges
certainly for 2015 will be increase our average product holdings, because certainly looking
at those levels of two and our UK Direct business of 1.5 in our broker business while Direct
is demonstrably higher, I'd still strike me as those are missing opportunities given the
leverage of what we have in the composite here in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, perhaps turning to one of the tools that's going to enable that. And this being one of
our digital first proof points. The MyAviva portal was launched in February 2014 with the
app launched in May of this year. This gives us a significant advantage in the UK market
not just for our general insurance business but across all of our business lines. As the only
true composite player in the UK, this allows us to leverage the rich customer data that we
have here at Aviva.
It allows the customer to connect with us in a personalized way, their way, enabling them
to have a single view of all the products with us. It gives us the ability to prepopulate
quotes to enable us to save customers' time and ultimately retain them. It's simple, fit for
purpose, it allows customers interact to us in whatever manner they so choose.
Data from eight sources have been fed into one customer data base, and whilst it's early
in the first three months with over 1 million logins, 100% increase in our cross-sell and a 15fold increase in our travel insurance. Now those last two stats suffice to say they were
starting from low starting points. We anticipate the mobile tablet motor quotes will
overtake desktop over the next 12 months. And this has potentially significant exports
across our other business, such as France and Poland and especially Italy, which already
has a similar app in Porto.
So, moving on to our commercial business. So, what about our broker business? You've
must seen our recent UK and Canadian performance, and our need for mediation in parts
of this book. While our commercial business is profitable, I believe we have a number of
areas for improvement across the following dimensions.
Certainly taking our learnings from what we've done in personal lines, importing advanced
analytics into our small and medium commercial business has huge upside. We've already
started to see the results in our Canadian business. Enhancing our trading and our sales
Page 51 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

culture. One of the byproducts of all of the noise the last 18 months is, we actually, our
teams lost the will to trade and our distributors actually started taking Aviva off their
panels.
The recent survey results and I put some of them up, we're back now on top in the
Insurance Age, Insurance Sentiment. And Datamonitor, an independent organization which
recently did a survey with 250 brokers in the UK and looked at 10 different dimensions,
Aviva came first in nine of those dimensions. So, we certainly have some momentum
there.
It's also about stronger underwriting discipline, which is much about control as it is making
sure that our traders write to the full Aviva underwriting appetite, an investment in
technology. Commercial motor is being highly unsatisfactory, but action has been taken.
And as you saw Q1, we're beginning to see the benefits from these actions.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have taken our learning from embedding predictive analytics in personal lines and
deployed that to our small and mid-market commercial books in Canada and the UK. Our
journey in the UK started somewhat later, but we're starting to see the improving results
already. Commercial line is an area of focus for Aviva. Approximately 40% of our Canadian
and UK gross written premium is in commercial lines.
Let me also focus on another area of our business that we don't often talk about, that
being our large commercial. Large commercial, we started in the UK back in 2011, and
since then we've seen that book of business grow 20% to £525 million and at the same
time, we've seen the combined operating ratio improved to 94.5%. We continue to pick
our underwriting segments where we can demonstrate that we have the underwriting
capability, skills and knowledge to succeed.
Second area I wanted to talk about was that of cost efficiency. Total expenses in general
insurance were down 11% in the last two years to just over £1.2 billion. And while that may
seem like a good start, that's what I'd probably classify it as a good start, because I think if
you look at the relative efficiency of our GI businesses, expense ratios are still significantly
lower in our Canadian business at 11.9% than here in the UK at 15.2%.
And I know while we've previously quoted the Canadian business at 15.3%, it's absolutely
worth noting that that figure includes a government levy on proven taxes of 3.5%. So,
hence why, I look at two numbers of 11.9% and 15.2%.
So, in conclusion, we have much more to do in the UK and a critical success factor in
general insurance business is efficiency as it forms a direct import ultimately into your
pricing models.
Automation. Automation is also another way to improve your overall efficiency. And I think
there's exciting opportunities to leverage our analytics talent to revolutionize the claims
processes across our general insurance operations and improve efficiency. We currently
have 3,500 people working here in the UK in our claims operation. And IFA 1 was
incredibly proud of what they did when they had to respond to 60,000 claims this winter,
Page 52 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

which are phenomenal response and one that certainly put us at the top of most panels in
terms of that response.
If you look at the old process here and it's probably not that old, this is only about 12
months to go. And this is a simple physical damage claim. And on a simple physical
damage claim when someone's had a fender-bender with a car, there could be as many
as 52 touch points with Aviva. And I remember us walking through one. And at the end,
the claims analysts said, what do you think the customers score us on an NPS. And I
assume that's scored via two or three. They scored us a 10. And the reason they scored
us a 10 is because most of our competitors also have 52 or 53 steps in interactions.
We changed that. Our new processes, it's actually five steps. And that was, and you're
going to hear from Nick later. That was a result of systems thinking. That was a result of
letting our claims people to know the processes and systems best work in a manner
that's conducive to what our customers' expectations are of us, when they bought that
promise.

Bloomberg Transcript

But furthermore we've said, we're not going to rest there. We can use the analytics to
understand talking about the customer, the number of claims they had, the nature of the
claim, how long they've been a policyholder and perhaps some claims can be settled in
one contact, whether that be online, digital or whether that'd be a phone call. And we're
now settling 20% of our claims in that manner.
We continue to invest in new technology for underwriting, claims, policy administration and
billing. Our integrated platform we're moving to Guidewire. We have already deployed
capability for all of our Canadian personal lines claims in March of this year with
commercial lines administration and billing scheduled for early 2015. And the UK
commercialized administration and claims has been deployed with further commercial
lines rollout as planned.
Other markets, under review for rollout and the common solution include Poland, France
and Singapore. Guidewire will drive indemnity savings predominantly through claims,
underwriting leakage and efficiency gains. And most importantly, we're not going to have
multiple systems, Monique will absolutely keep me to that promise.
This is a little bit about our journey in terms of our analytics and what we've done. And as I
said, we've really have two centers of excellence in Canada and the UK. And what I've
tried to show is the correlation between making those sort of improvements and what
ultimately ends up happening to your combined operating ratio. So, you sort of see the
UK motor and the Canadian personal motor.
And I can certainly spend a lot of time going through all of these, but let me just make a
point. This is not just about backroom theoretical exercise around pricing and R&D, this
goes straight into live pricing. The advent of real-time pricing means that if our analysts
find something new on a Monday that can be live in impacting our prices on the Tuesday.
We're agile and responsive. We made 96,000 analytical and informed adjustments on a

Page 53 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

UK retail car loan in 2013. And this year, we've already made 74,000 adjustments to
unlock millions in the value.

FINAL

The opportunity of thinking this way and behaving differently isn't just restricted to our
general insurance operations, albeit I've got five that I'd like to see use more analytics,
but it's also something we need to roll out across all of our Aviva business units.
And sometimes the best thing is actually not just to talk about the analytics, but do
actually talk a bit about the proof points. So, if you look at these charts and what you've
got is the UK and Canada. So, in the top half of the screen we've got the Canadian
example. So, I've looked at personal motor and personal property.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the analytics journey started in around 2006-2007. And you can see during that time,
remember general insurance is a game of inches. People often get incredibly excited
about 100 basis points about performance. I think for those that were doubters in year
one and year two about analytics, they're no longer doubters when you're now in year six
and year seven, and you have consistent outperformance.
And I think if I talk about one of the big strengths in the UK certainly and it came out of
absolute quintessential need, the 2007 floods. It was just started during the flood
mapping. And we've been able to take the topography down to the point that we can get
sort of 15 centimeters of digression. We know the soil type in terms of sand or gravel or
clay or urban jungle. And historically in this particular illustration down at the bottom left,
we would have had that area in yellow, we wouldn't have insured anybody because
traditional data would have taken us down to a postal code. But actually, what we found is
by refining a refining, it's really only in the red area that we don't want to insure. And you
can actually see there's a number of green dots which actually represent Aviva policies
where we renewed those policies and we're more than happy to do so.
If I move to behavioral analytics, because I did say while we've done an awful lot in risk,
there's two areas that I think we still need to move forward in. So, the one part of
behavioral I'm going to talk about and I could have talked about propensity renew, we
could have talked about lifecycle in terms of from content to homeowners, to single car,
to second dwelling, to kids, to kids leaving school and making the next best offer in a
digital world intelligent, not just you've got these three and we'll lock in the fourth, but in
this case I'm going to focus behavioral on what I think is a bit of a problem here in the UK
and that's fraud.
Fraud, last year for us we repudiated 15,000 fraud claims. We reckon that saved us about
£110 million, and we believe that it costs each household an extra £50 a year through
increased premium. And whether it's organized fraud which stage accidents, which sell
seats in cars or whether it's the exaggerated claim which is why we're so pleased with
Chris Grayling's announcement. You're going to see a great demonstration at lunch.
We've got Gord Rasbach here from our Canadian business, and that little sort of spider
web was actually called a social network, where it connects everyone in a certain vicinity
and connects them based on everything from geo-mapping to cell number, to when they
bought the policy, to the physiotherapists, to the chiropractor, to why did they drive past

Page 54 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

100 chiropractors to go to a special one or perhaps that special one is billed us
inappropriately in the past, I'm not saying all chiropractors do that, but in general
insurance you do have to be somewhat a healthy skeptic.
It's also defending injury claims and being fair to our customers. Listen, I'd love to have
NPS scores the same as USA&A in the mid 80s. I tell you what, ours have been in the mid
40s, which are pretty darn good for a general insurance company. It's amazing that the
old adage of slip and falls in the bathtub, in our business they don't happen in the
bathtub. There's no witnesses in the bathtub. They generally happen in the produce soil.
They generally happen perhaps in the local pub.
And we need to make the right judgment to treat those customers that have legitimate
injury quickly and fairly. But those that aren't whether that be whiplash to slip and fall, we
will nil settle and we've nil settled approximately 40%. Listen, it's also about knowing your
customer when they join in verifying who they are and that's about sort of upfront of the
underwriting process.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, in conclusion, I want to leave you with three messages about our general insurance
operations. We have a terrific set of businesses. I think they're primed for growth. They've
been growing pretty consistently outside of the UK. As I said earlier, it would take me a
year to start growing this great franchise given all the wonderful resources and remain on
target for that. I still need to focus on efficiency that can be achieved in a number of ways.
We achieved by automating processes, can be achieved by growing the top line and will
also be achieved by reducing some costs, which I believe are redundant.
And the third area is analytics has been proven to show in two of our businesses that we
can lower our loss cost. And I fairly believe that we can continue to expand that not just in
the UK and Canada, but the broader Aviva and also our other general insurance
businesses.
So, thanks very much. At this time, I'm happy to take any questions. I just take a drink too
so. Yeah, Jon.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. Two questions please. Could you talk a little bit more detail
about the strategy to grow commercial lines, particularly in the UK? The raising
environment still seems quite tricky. Can talk about how you can execute that even given
we're righteous at the moment?
And then second question, you mentioned in the beginning of presentation about the
digital direct product is allowing you to sort of basically leap the lifecycle. Is that a hint that
you might look at going into new markets with the direct offerings? I think, previously the
group said that it want to be in markets where it's got big excel data repositories.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Page 55 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Yeah. So, two good questions. So the first one, commercial lines. Let me break it down to
sort of three segments. And actually the first segment, I'll actually get into your second
digital bit. So, I look at commercial lines, there's a micro segment, I think, is ignoring here
in the UK. So, first of all, commercial lines, if I exclude Lloyds is about a £10 billion market.
The micro markets 35%, or call it £3.5 billion that's kind of the high speed economy here
in the UK. I think that's incredibly underserved. Those premiums are £1,200, £1,300 and
under. So, frankly, distributors making 15 or 20 points don't make enough money. It's not
worth a while. So, I think that segment to crack it, we need to go completely digital.
Now, when I say that that doesn't preclude my distributors getting that tool. They may
certainly get that tool though at a lesser commission. If I move to the midmarket, this is
the strength of Aviva. Whilst we're about a 11% market share overall, midmarket
commercial, we're about 15%, 16%. We're very, very dominant. That market is absolutely
controlled by the brokers. And I think where we sort of lost some of our momentum was
really our underwriters stopped trading. So, to see three independent surveys put Aviva
right at the top of the heap gives me huge confidence around growing our commercial
business. And certainly, we've seen a couple our competitors in this space sort of
snubbed their toe.

Bloomberg Transcript

For me, in general insurance, I don't get too excited. If growth gets above 7%, I generally
put the brakes on. So, just I'll damp off the expectations. It'll be in the sort of 4% to 6%,
maybe 7% growth. Our Canadian business, which didn't have those same few challenges
is currently growing at 7%.
Lastly, if I take what I call large commercial, and let's define it. And it is probably easy to
define what it is. This is not AIG in Zurich territory. I'm not doing nuclear or hydroelectric or
aviation. And for us in large commercial, we stick very much to segments. So, we're the
first two would have been very much about analytics and technical pricing and
underwriting in the large commercial. This is about having underwriters that understand
property, who are terrific property writer here in the UK. In the Canadian market, we're
terrific in forestry. Actually, in our French business, we're terrific in agriculture and part of
the global GI operating model is to understand we have got those centers of excellence.
One of the things we're really strong in candidate surety and yet we do very little surety
here in the UK. Why would I try to build a surety team here in London? I just need to
expand the remit (03:06:06) of the Canadian team and vice versa for agriculture. So
that's probably the commercial view.
The second question on digital and expansion. Massive opportunity here in the UK.
David's got 6.5 million customers. We got 9 million customers. But another way to look at
it, we probably, and we don't know the exact number – we probably insured about 70% of
the UK at some point over the last 15 years. We actually have a good database just in
harnessing that. So, for me, in my sort of core UK retail personal lines and small
commercial, I've got a digital thing I can have just through better cross-selling.
I mean, right now, you look at the 1.5 APH in broker and 2 in our direct business that's very
low, but we're our own worst enemy. We don't even have common renewal dates. Get it

Page 56 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

with retention, we uplift our retention. This is North America's example about 10 points,
but it's almost worthless if you don't have common renewal date. So, simple things about
common renewal dates is tremendous, starting to take particularly in our direct business
where we have 2.6 million customers, starting to work into all of our touch points using
analytics to understand the next best offered intelligent manner. I think that's huge
opportunities, if I take your question even further about expansion outside of the 7% in a
digital manner, certainly part of our true composite, it's there, it's a possibility. If we were
to do it, we'd only do it where I thought we could make profits, where we could leverage
an existing partner and frankly look at lines that weren't very volatile so.
Great. Andy?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Hughes at Exane BMP Paribas. A couple of question, if I could. First one about
noise. Obviously, you got a slide there showing (03:07:55) claims there. 2014, one
company talking about a massive increase, claims management company after the last
big reforms in the volume if these things we're going to see in H2. Could you talk us
through basically the 85% decline rate and how you set your reserves for these things?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Sure.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

I mean are you reserving on the basis of 85%? What happens if there is a big uptick?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

And the second question was about the direct business. Are these numbers you've got
here the 90% combined ratio, they include the home business or is that just the motor?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

And if so, why have you not really grown it quite aggressively, it was 90% in 2011 and 90%
in 2013? What's limiting, are you struggling to grow the direct business? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Great to know. Thank you for the two questions. Actually industrial deafness, there
was a new problem when I actually came to the UK, which probably led me to be a
healthy skeptic when I first heard the term. I think I'll start with the important thing and I
Page 57 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

know you likely know this, probably (03:08:52) maybe not everyone else knows this. But
when we set up the claims portal, for claims to be reported into insurance companies,
part of Jackson/LASPO was the claims portal, restricted lawyers' fees and I don't know, if
it's £350 or £400, fees per lawyer, probably £350, £350. Industrial deafness claims
actually fell outside of that claims portal. And what we started doing our basic data and
analytics, we had 12 to 13 law firms that the vast, vast majority of these claims were
coming from which was also very suspicious.
Those claims outside the portal don't have a capping. So generally, how it happens, we've
actually run a couple of sting operations where we've had Aviva people pretend to be exemployees that I won't say, which manufacturing plant or manufacturing plants. And
generally the offer plays out, there is a bunch of questions did you have hearing
protection, were you educated? And even if they say yes, I was – I did have hearing
protection, (03:09:47) you educated, how often was it changed? It doesn't matter the
same – the conclusion at the very end is we can get you £4,000, signed this which
generally entitles the lawyers to £1,000 or £1,500.

Bloomberg Transcript

So knowing, how they originate, knowing them outside of the portal, knowing that they
come from 12 or 13 firms, I took the approach that the vast majority of these claims are
fraudulent. Now when I arrived, the team was already doing a great job, so I'd give them
full credit there. And we're probably repudiating in the high-60s, sort of similar to the
industry, I think the industry is sort of mid-60s. That's now up to 85%. I've got a team
that's full time focused on this. I'm also starting the lobby against shutting this down
because I think it's fundamentally wrong.
And what we have to do is always decipher, there are people who legitimately have lost
the hearing, working in a manufacturing plant and they should be treated fairly. But when
one comes to these 12 or 13 firms and there has been this sort of questionnaire and the
lawyers are already clipping the ticket for £1,500. I've got a problem with it. 85% is good.
I'm not going to set any guidance on what it should get to. But I would love a day where
the ones I got paid, the ones that legitimately had hearing loss. So, that's the first one.
Second question on the direct. It did include the home results. What I would say is the
motor results standalone are still incredibly good and perhaps I can get you the number
of last year. I want to say there's still 90%, 91%, 89% in that ballpark, but let me get you an
exact number. The growth has been good. You got to remember that growth is a revenue
growth, in a market where average premiums are down, depending on which one, but I
think the (03:11:32) one was 14%. So, that's with negative momentum in terms of the
average premium. And I'd also say that between last October and this march, on our
quote me happy, we thought that the market had overshot the benefits of the Jackson
and LASPO. And Steve Thor (03:11:51) and his team pulled this off the first page unless we
absolutely love the attributes of the customer. I think you can see moving forward,
particularly as we address further cost efficiencies, as we further refine, but at some point,
our desire, that will be our growth platform (03:12:09) in motor, largely because the cost
base. I know you're a customer on that platform. So, thank you for that.
I guess I shouldn't have Barrie (03:12:19) just disclose personal information, I'm sorry.

Page 58 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

It doesn't have still enough from page and very appreciate by the...

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

FINAL

All right, all right.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

On the reserving for these things, you've seen 85% in reserves?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oh, yes. So I missed any ones. As a – how would you view reserving at Aviva? So certainly
we've a reserving committee that moves every single quarter we meet. Last year, the
assumption was at 70%. I believe our point actually is going to look – it doesn't look at the
repudiation factor every quarter, but to look at that, but certainly given the repudiation has
gone up to 85%, we probably have some benefit, but we continue to reserve these as
they come in and as we put up reserves and we actually look at trends and I should say in
the trends we used to get about £200 a month, we're now getting £800 a month. That's
actually come off. It's sort of probably peaked last August, September at about £1,000 a
month. So actually we've seen our enforced kind of level off. I do know this claims
management firms out there that are generating a lot of these, but then they're looking
to make money. So Aviva is doing a better job of repudiating, they'll point their supply
elsewhere.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. So I just – tell me your input.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(03:13:37), Morgan Stanley. Just another number question actually because again this can
be confused on slide 58. You're quoting a UK personal motor combined ratio north of
96%.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

So just want to understand, so we've got the debate between what's the direct home
and direct motor, and then it's 96%, but you're talking maybe about 40% you booked,
must be doing than something probably about the...?

Page 59 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, look I can get to the exact reconciliation, but our broker personal motor book runs
around 99% that's about 42% and I'd have to strip out that 90% and take out the home,
but that's broadly it directs around 90% and the broker starts around 99%, 100%, so that
would be 95-ish and (03:14:23) 96%, that probably the home's impacting it. I don't think
we have those numbers in the pack, but we can reconcile it for you.
Okay, great. Well, thanks very much. I'm going to turn it over to Monique.

A - Monique Shivanandan

{BIO 18664579 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, good afternoon, everyone. I get to introduce one of the best parts of today, I think. It's
our chance – it's an opportunity for you all to touch and feel some of the great examples
that everybody has been talking about today. We have colleagues and associates from
around the world that are here today to present to you some of the great capabilities that
we've felt. But first let me give you a little background on me. I am part of the North
American contingent. So I think there's a bunch of us that are here, but I'm actually, to
Mark's term, on a reload. So I was here in 2006 when I was at British Telecom and really
just love the UK, so I actually came back for a little bit more of this, but some might qualify
as a little bit of madness.
But let me give you a little brief history, I've been in technology for about 25 years. I spent
the first part of my career doing consulting like probably many of the technologists from
the industry today. In about 2000, I got the itch to go to the other side. It took Tom a little
longer. So I came up – when I joined what is pretty consistent, I joined my customer which
was Bellsouth, which is really now AT&T which everybody knows is one of the large phone
companies in the U.S. I was a CIO for the Consumer Division there and I also was the
CISO when I was there.
In 2006, I got a great opportunity to come over to the UK and I brought my family and we
moved to British Telecom, and I was the CIO and Managing Director for the Retail
Division, excuse me, the Retail Division of BT, I shouldn't say (03:16:18) what I did right. So I
was the CIO and Managing Director of Retail Division where I was really responsible for
not only the IT but the product for our consumer customers. So some of you might enjoy
BT TV and BT Sport, yes, customers, a few. So I built the platform that that sits on, the
broadband numbers, the 75 I understand it's up to 75 megabyte speeds in your home. So
those kinds of products were where I was really focused.
Then in 2010, I got a great opportunity to move back to the States where I was the CTO
of Capital One. And many people know Capital One as the what's in your wallet is the
idiom that they use. But what most people don't know is they're the largest digital direct
bank in the U.S. by maybe 5x, 10x our next competitor. And so there was a real focus on
how do we really deliver the best digital proposition. And so as CTO, my responsibility
was really defining and implementing our strategy around data, digital and partnerships
with those companies like Google and Yahoo! and Twitter, and how do we create a
proposition for our customers that really delights them in working with us as a bank. And
as you know, in 2006, banking wasn't incredibly popular.

Page 60 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

So I joined here and it's quite exciting and I think what you can say with each industry I
joined, it was at the beginning of its digital disruption. So it was at the beginning of the
curve where digital was taking over the industry and I think it's the same here. Insurance in
generally – in general is not at the top of the digital curve and that to me is an awesome
opportunity. As you listen to my peers talk about what Aviva is focused on, there's really
three things, three themes really that I heard and maybe I'm a little bit – I hear what I want
to hear, but it was data, digital and automation, sorry automation. So when you think of
those three things, technology is right at the core. And so for me, that's just super exciting
because I get to roll up my fleece with all my business partners, and we're going to get to
really do a lot of fantastic things for our customers. So I'm really looking forward to that.
My first impressions – I've been here three months, and my first impressions are very
similar to Tom's. We have a team of people that are just so excited to get on with it and
get going. We had people talk about a fantastic digital foundation. MyAviva is the best
portal in the UK, it has a mobile app, it has a million customers in three months with no
advertising. Just think about that. That's absolutely incredible.

Bloomberg Transcript

We did data, we have a culture of data analytics that is immense. Maurice talked about it,
David talked about it. We did data before data was cool, right? And if you pick up a
magazine now, that doesn't talk about big data. We did it before it was cool, it's going to
be so easy for us to leverage the sea of data that's available to us to really provide better
analytics, better customer services, and in general better products. So we also have,
which is actually kind of surprising, I'm not a real UK geography, I'm not real
knowledgeable about the different cultural attributes of the UK geography.
But when I went to visit the team in Norwich, I had heard that maybe Norwich wasn't the
most advanced region. So anyway, so I went to visit and I had expectations, I'm a real –
there's two types of delivery in IT, there's a waterfall delivery and an agile delivery, there's
actually a lot of articles about that now too. And so when you – I'm a real agile bigot and I
believe that's the only way we can work, that's the only way we can reach digital speed
that everybody was talking about. So I went to Norwich and my team told me we have
some great agile teams there. A little bit skeptical, but very helpful. I went in the office and
I've toured agile teams, and I've seen some of the best agile teams in the planet and I
would put these guys up against them. It was pretty incredible. They have – are there any
technology folks? They do. They do some of the best delivery that you could possibly
imagine. So I'm super hopeful that we'll be able to deliver all these great products and
services that my colleagues have explained this morning and they're going to explain this
afternoon.
So with that, let me explain to you how this is going to work today. So we have colleagues
here from Canada, Poland and the UK. We have four rooms as you go along this floor that
really provide you with demonstrations and they are going to present a lot of the things
that my colleagues have already discussed. So if you go to the first room, which is the
(03:21:24) room and there'll be people to direct you, so I'm not going to even try. That's
where we have the Aviva Canada team. And there's actually, we set up a Fraud Command
Center where you can see how the team looks at social media, how they look at data that
they have to really look for those proactively look for where fraud might occur before they
actually happen.
Page 61 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Around the corner, we have our colleagues and associates from Poland and they're going
to show you how we do a virtual branch. And when you think about technology, it will help
you from being able to get consultative support at any time you want, but still avail
yourself with that face-to-face relationship. So we show a virtual branch which really shows
how a customer can communicate with a advisor, but not have to get in their car and drive
to the branch, but really at home in their (03:22:13) with their socks and really have a nice
conversation about the portfolio.
Around the – in this room, (03:22:24), you've heard a lot about MyAviva, so he's going to
present our MyAviva portal. And that's really UK, so it has life, it has AI, it has GI, so you'll
be able to see all the products and services and all those great things both the ecommerce application and the mobile device. And then finally around the corner in the
Dining Room 1, we have the AME platform that David introduced and it really is slick, how
easy it is for a commercial entity to really allow their employees to get insurance.
So, everybody has a number on their badge. Yes, there are people with signs around
there. And so find the person with the number on your badge and they will take you to
the place, they're about 20 minutes to each demo. They'll walk you through if you get
lost, they'll be loads of people around. Lunch is outside. Yes. Lunch is in the room, thank
you. Lunch is in the room, so you can grab your lunch in the room and really enjoy. Ask a lot
of questions, it's just a small sampling of the great things that we have. But it's a really
good description of the directions that we're really moving. So, thanks so much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Let's get started. It's great to see the Chief Executive doing (03:23:46) duties. They are
cost cutting for you. Well, good afternoon everyone and welcome back. I hope you
enjoyed the demonstrations over lunch. I must confess it was quite frightening to see the
city's finest minds failing the initiative test with the Lunchbox. But I hope what it did do for
you over lunch was give you a real flavor of how we are bringing big data and digital alive
in Aviva. So this afternoon, Khor Hock Seng and I would talk to you about Aviva's
international businesses starting with Europe.
Then many of you know me already, but for those of you who don't, I've been the CEO of
Aviva Europe for 18 months. I have been Chairman of Aviva Healthcare globally for about
two weeks, and altogether I've been with the group for just under 12 years. Now, if I go
back and think about Aviva Europe three or four years ago, it was a sprawling mass of
businesses with flags planted in too many markets. It had a topline culture where market
share was prioritized over shareholder returns and the dividend payments were also
extremely poor.
In 2011, our European businesses generated £160 million of dividends and used in the
process about £4 billion of capital. So, return of just 4%. Now, we've made some progress
since then. We've doubled the returns, but there's still a lot more to do. So today I'm
going to talk you about the journey we've been on and also more importantly the
opportunities that lie ahead.

Page 62 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

So as Aviva Europe, well in Aviva's definition of Europe, both England and Scotland are
out. Now that's definitely not a political comment, it's just the way that we choose to
organize the business. We also use the Eurovision definition as well in Turkey as in. So,
what that means is we're focused on five continental European markets, France, Italy,
Spain, Poland, and Turkey. All together, these markets have a population of about 300
million and an annual insurance premium of about £500 billion. Aviva Europe accounts for
about a third of the group's cash flow and also about a third of the VNB in 2013. We have
got 13 million customers and about £100 billion of assets under management. Strong
positions in all of our Life markets and we are a composite player in three of the markets,
France, Italy and Poland. And GI premiums account for about £1.6 billion of the total GI
business that Morris described earlier, so that's just of that business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the last few years, we've been pretty busy refocusing the portfolio. And if you look
at the gray coloring, if you can see it on the chart, you can see the businesses we've
exited. So we exited Holland, Russia, Hungary, Czech Republic, Romania, and most
recently, we announced the sale of a Turkish General Insurance business. Now we've
exited these markets because they've either been subscale or poorly performing or in
some cases, both. We've also strengthened the European management team over the
last few years. We've appointed new CEOs in France, Poland and Italy, and we've also
appointed a new company CEO in Turkey GI to manage the exit process.
And I'm very pleased that I've got a number of the CEOs with me today and we've also
got the CFO here from our French business. So let's take a look at the European portfolio
in a little bit more detail. I'm going to spend a little bit of time on these slides because I
think it's quite important for you to understand what we've actually got. So firstly France;
strong and consistent cash generator. It's the second largest market in the group after the
UK and it accounts for own 50% of Aviva Europe. Now, although it's a mid-sized player,
our French business is one of the most profitable insurers in the market and a key driver
of this is its distribution strength with over 50% of our profit coming from channels we
own or control. For example, we have 900 tied-agents and this is the fifth largest tiedagent sales force in the market.
We own a majority share in UFF, which is the largest IFA network in France. And of course,
we have a strong and long relationship with AFER, which is the largest savings association
in Europe with 750,000 customers. In short, France is a well-diversified and reliable
business, which offers good opportunities for organic growth. Now, moving to Italy and
Spain, our two turnaround businesses where we unashamedly place our focus on capital
efficiency and cash. In both markets, we're top 10 Life players and it's also fair to say that
we punch above our weight on protection. We're number four in both markets in 2013. We
are also a well-respected bancassurer in both markets and as most of you know
bancassurance is the dominant channel in Southern Europe. In Italy, we have relationships
with three of the top five Italian banks, UBI Banca, UniCredit and Banco Popolare.
And in Spain we have JVs with four of the regional Caja's. So turning briefly to the
financials, and I think it's fair to say in 2013 we've had a reasonable performance in terms
of the financials, with the progress – solid progress across all of the metrics. But let me be
clear, I don't think it's yet time for us to get out the flags and the bunting. We have rocky
(03:30:54) which is below expectation on a number of the sales, Tom pointed this out
Page 63 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

earlier. Our cash remittance is subpar. Our operating earnings growth is at best anemic.
And I believe we've only just started the journey in terms of operating expenses
reduction. So turning to strategic agenda, Aviva Europe is, was, and remains a turnaround
opportunity. Our priority is to deliver cash flow and growth for the group. We have a very
clear strategic agenda to achieve this, which you can see on this slide. These are the key
initiatives we're focused on. And what I'm going to do over the next few minutes is take
you through a number of these themes in a bit more detail.
So let's start with structural overhead. As many of you know we've adopted kill complexity
as one of our group values. Now I can assure you that Aviva of three years ago with a fat
group center, fat regions and cost heavy businesses was not a good recipe for simplicity.
So I think we've made some good progress since 2011 simplifying the business. So we've
eliminated the European Regional Office which had 400 people in 2010. We're now
running Europe with seven people. And as I said earlier, we've exited some of the smaller
markets as well as reducing costs within the markets. In total, the European expense
space have reduced by £180 million, but I think more importantly, we're created a
business with shorter lines of control, greater transparency to the group and faster
decision-making. However, in some respects all we've done is to pick the low hanging fruit
in Europe.
The real price for me on the expense side is in streamlining the individual businesses.
Now, I know a lot of you in here are very numerically focused, and I think it's fair to say that
our industry in general is obsessed with efficiency benchmarks. I know my CFO certainly is.
Personally I think you learn a lot more about the efficiency of a business from putting
yourself in the customer's shoes and actually walking the processes. And this is something
I do regularly. Most recently with our French business, our French Direct business last week
and what I see when I do this and it's consistent across all of our businesses with the
possible exception of Spain, which is a little bit more efficient. What I find is convoluted
processes, low levels of automation and fragmented systems.
Now on this slide you can see in yellow, the markets where we will target further efficiency
improvement, and that is pretty much in all of our countries and all of our business lines.
Now, we've started the journey of simplifying processes, we're rolling out systems
thinking, digital, and automation across Europe. And you'll hear a little bit more about this
from Nick Amin and some of his team a little bit later. In my view, Aviva Europe is a targetrich environment for efficiency improvement. Let me give you a little example. Let me
share some of the works what we've been up to in Italy over the last few months. And I'm
not going to be surprised if you can't read this slide. I think it probably gives you some of
the picture.
Our starting point in Italy can only be described as the Byzantine legal vehicle structure. As
one of the most complex structures I've certainly ever seen in my 20-odd years in the
industry. It's clearly inefficient and it's also one of the reasons why Italy hasn't been paying
its way in terms of dividends over the last few years. That the team, the Italian team under
its new CEO, Patrick Dixneuf have made an excellent job executing on these eight
transformation initiatives down the right hand side and this allowed Italy to start paying a
dividend in 2013, albeit a small one for the first time in many years. Remittance levels in

Page 64 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Italy are still unacceptably low, but the actions we have taken will start to end through and
be in the numbers shortly.
Turning now to our earnings growth agenda. Now culturally, we've been shifting the
European businesses away from a preoccupation with top line and market share towards
value and capital efficiency. I think the introduction of VNB to the group as a key metric has
been a big catalyst in refocusing the European businesses on what really matters. Last
year our VNB underlying was up 26% with good momentum across all of the businesses
apart from Spain, and this time our growth has come with a heavy focus on the quality of
the business we write, so every pound of new business we write, is very, very heavily
scrutinized. And you can see that coming through in the chart on the right hand side
where we look at VNB as a ratio over capital intensity – over our capital employed – capital
strain, and you can see this is 2010 that ratio has gone up by a 21 percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's look under the bonnet of this a little bit more so we can see the difference in
performance across the product lines. So we've made some good progress improving
the profitability of our savings businesses. We've been reducing with profits guarantees
across our businesses, but particularly in Italy and Spain. We've exited a number of value
destroying businesses and product lines, most notably the Eurovita business, which we
exited earlier on this year in Italy, and we've also been growing Unit Linked by
approximately 60%. With regard to Unit Linked, we've had a particularly strong
performance in Poland and even more so in France, where Unit Linked-VNB has doubled
year-on-year. However as you can see from the chart our protection performance has
been quite disappointing with year-on-year growth of only 2%.
There is a recent Swiss Re estimate or a study that was done recently by Swiss Re that
estimates the protection gap in Europe has reached €10 trillion. Now, I don't know if I
believe that number, but what I do know is there is going to be significant growth in the
protection market in Europe over the next three to five to 10 years. And I think overall, we
are well placed to benefit from this growth. We already have strong positions as you can
see on the bottom right in four of our markets, and in all of these markets we enjoy very
strong margins. Protection for me will be a major strategic focus in the years ahead,
particularly in France. Now, a number of the presenters have mentioned the composite
opportunity during the course of the presentations this morning.
And I just like to bring this to life a little bit more with an example from France. As you can
see on the slide in France, we have over 3 million customers served through multiple
channels and sub-businesses. As I said earlier, distribution is a key strength of Aviva
France. So, there is a real substantial opportunity for us to sell all of our products through
all of our channels to all of our customers. To give you a few examples of that, we have
900 tied agents in France; only 60 of them are currently selling protection. We have
750,000 are AFER customers, which are largely savings customers, very limited
penetration of GI and protection. Offering the full range of products digitally to all of our
customers can unlock real value for us in Europe. Finally turning to our emerging markets
of Poland and Turkey, which I skated over earlier; Poland and Turkey are two of the fastest
growing markets in Europe and they're both significantly under penetrated.

Page 65 of 111



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Life penetration in Turkey is only 0.2% of GDP and in Poland it's 1.9%. This is set against
penetration rates in the more mature markets in Spain of 2.6% and 9% in the UK. So I
hope you can start to see the scale of the opportunity we have. Now, we're seeing a
degree of headwind in both of these markets. But I think if you look to the long-term,
these markets represent significant growth opportunities for Aviva. In Poland we're the
second largest insurer in terms of profit after PZU and I think you saw in the Polish
demonstration some of the depth of capability we have. With the largest direct sales
force in Poland, and we have the only bancassurance JV in the market with the BZWBK,
which of course is owned by Santander.
In Turkey, we have a JV with Sabanci, one of the leading conglomerates in the country,
which gives us access to Akbank, third biggest bank in the country and again we have the
largest direct sales force by a distance in that country. So, I think we're well placed to grow
with the macro growth in these countries. And also as Mark says quite regularly to us,
capital allocation is a competitive sport. My expectation is that Poland and Turkey will both
be winners in the competitive sport of capital in the years ahead. So, let's bring it back to
cash. In 2012, Europe's remittance ratio was 60%. It was better than some of the other
parts of the group. But clearly quite low relative to some of our international peers. Last
year, we took it up to 70%. But there is clearly more to do particularly in Italy, growing
dividends to the group remains a key priority for myself and my management team.
So just to summarize so Aviva Europe is a large business. It's a significant part of Aviva
Group and it has some very good assets. We've been on a journey over the last 18
months and now it's time to really accelerate our transformation, or as Mark said, to
reload. I see no reason why we cannot significantly increase our remittances across our
markets. You'll start to see over 2014 and 2015 the truth being born from our
transformation activities in Spain and Italy. And I think we have some clear growth
opportunities. Poland and Turkey specifically, on protection, and GI more generally across
Europe.
I'm quite confident that we will deliver on our plan. But I think what really excites me is the
prospects we have over the next three to five years, the opportunity to become a true
composite insurer in these markets, our commitment to building out our digital
capabilities and I think that's how we're going to deliver long-term franchise value in
Europe. I think we're well positioned for a macro recovery in Europe, but as I hope you've
seen from the presentation, we're certainly not waiting on it and we're certainly not
dependent on it. I think Aviva Europe like the rest of Aviva is definitively a self-help story.
So thank you for listening. We're now – I'm now going to hand over to Khor Hock Seng
who will take you through our Asian businesses and then the two of us will get together
for Q&A.
Thank you.

A - Hock Seng Khor

{BIO 3993330 <GO>}

Thanks, David, and Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Khor Hock Seng, the CEO for Aviva
Asia and I've been in – just a bit of background. I've been in the insurance industry for
more than 30 years now and have worked with several multinational insurers before
Page 66 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

joining Aviva last year in March. It's my pleasure to be here to share with you the exciting
opportunities that we see ahead for Aviva Asia. My presentation today will cover three
main areas. First, I will talk to you about our current footprint in Asia and also our strength
and capabilities. Second, I will discuss with you our financial performance, recent financial
performance. And finally, I will highlight our strategic priorities in the region. Asia plays a
key role in Aviva Group's growth strategy.
While it is clear, if you could see from the chart, Aviva is not everywhere in Asia. But we
are strategically positioned in markets that offer immense potential that is Greater China
and Southeast Asia. While the businesses in Asia have yet to be – have yet to achieve the
desired scale in many markets we have built a strong multi-distribution foundation for
growth which I will share with you later. Additionally, our strong partnership in the region
provides us with an excellent platform to operate successfully in each of these markets.
I will now move on to share with you our partners, which some of you may be aware and
some may be not. Firstly, I think in Indonesia, what has surprised me, ladies and
gentlemen, when I joined Aviva is the fact that while we are not yet the premier player in
Asia, we have premier partners in all markets we operate in.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Indonesia, Astra is the most recognized brand, with over 10 million customers through
Asia – through the Astra's finance companies and AstraWorld online database. We also
have an exclusive agreement with ESOPs, with its banks subsidiary, Permata Bank, the
tenth largest bank in Indonesia. In China, our JV partner, COFCO is a well-established
brand. In fact, one in three Chinese have used a COFCO product. In addition, COFCO
Group has more than 10 million online customers through their online shopping platform.
In Singapore and Hong Kong, we have strong relationship with DBS, the leading bank in
Southeast Asia. Our partner in Taiwan is First Bank, the eighth largest bank, with over 5
million retail customers. In Vietnam, our partner, VietinBank is the top bank, with the
largest branch network in the country. While we made some progress with our partners
over the last 18 months, as you will see in the next slide, there is still significant potential
to be unleashed.
I would like now to move on to highlight our recent financial performance. As part of the
investment thesis, our primary focus in Asia is to maximize the value of new business. We
have gained momentum in 2013, with a 67% growth in value of new business. This
momentum continues into the first quarter of 2014, with a growth rate of 100%.
In addition, I'm also pleased to say that Asia's contribution to Aviva's Group total VONB
has increased from 6% in 2012 to 9% in 2013 and to 12% in Q1 2014. This achievement is
primarily driven by our relentless effort in growing our multi-distribution channels, with full
focus on product mix, emphasizing value growth over top line growth, and our continuous
engagement and alignment with our partners.
As you can see from the pie chart on the right, we have a well-diversified multi-discipline
platform in Asia. While we have achieved the initial momentum, there's still a lot of

Page 67 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

opportunities for further growth. I would now like to move on to share with you our key
strategic priorities going forward.
Our first priority, ladies and gentlemen, is to fully capitalize on the distribution strength
and customer reach of our partners. Currently, our partners large distribution network and
wide customer base still are still largely untapped. To tackle this opportunity, we will build
integrated distribution network to penetrate their customer base. An example will be the
building of an integrated online health and wellness platform to the 10 million customers
of COFCO. Second, we will optimize and expand our multi-distribution platform in all of
them markets.
Our distribution strategy is not a one-size-fit-all, but is tailored to each market. I will come
back to this point in more detail later when I share with you our strategic priorities in our
key markets.
Thirdly, we will further develop our multi-line and integrated product offering, in line with
our customer – through customer composite strategic anchor. A multi-pronged strategy is
key for Asia, as we aim to realize the potential in both protection and savings market, as
well as asset management. In addition, we will optimize our product mix to enhance our
profit margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

Delivering a superior customer experience is our fourth strategic priority. Aviva is focused
at putting customer at the center of its business, and it is true in Asia as well. We will
continue to enhance our tailored services and product solutions through better data
analytics and digital platform that leverages on our capabilities within the Aviva Group.
Fifth, drive digital into the DNA of our organization. This strategic priority is very much
aligned with the group's strategic anchor of digital first. We will embed digital technology
into both sales processes as well as customer service touch points. A great proof point is
the Aviva online portal that we developed in Singapore, which enables online inquiries and
policy maintenance services across all our business lines. By driving these key five
priorities effectively and across all of the opportunities available to us, we will be able to
deliver Aviva Asia's full growth potential.
Now I'll move onto to show you in a bit more detail the opportunities and strategic
initiatives in our key markets. That is Singapore, China and Indonesia. In Singapore, we are
the number four.
We are number four in the individual life and health business with 10% market share. We
are a market leader in group business, with a market share of 30%, and is number one
online GI business. As you can see from third pie chart, we have a diversified distribution
with strong positions in bancassurance and FA channels. Historically, as most of you may
be aware, tied-agency has been the dominant channel in this market.
However, its leading position is feeding the FA and bancassurance channels growing at a
much faster pace as shown in the other two pie charts. We are well placed in Singapore to

Page 68 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

capitalize on this trend, with our strategic priorities focusing on bancassurance and FA
channel.
First we will expand our bancassurance distribution with DBS, supporting DBS to achieve
their ambition to be the number one bancassurer. Our partnership has delivered a 52%
compound annual growth in new business (03:53:32), significantly higher than the industry.
To further enhance DBS' performance, we will continue to meet the recruitment and
training of quality insurance specialists and provide them with the best-in-class mobile
sales technology and a wide range of products.
Our second priority is to accelerate the growth of our FA channel. Not many of you say
that we own the largest FA firm in Singapore. We also own an online investment platform
called Navigator for FAs that administer clients account. Currently, Navigator has seen 2
billion funds under administration, which is 40% of the market. The growth of the FA
channel leveraging on PIAS and Navigator, as well as onboarding of tied-agents enhancing
our support and product range. (03:54:33) as I've mentioned earlier, we are the number
one online GI player.

Bloomberg Transcript

Although this market is relatively small at this stage, there's no doubt that the trend is
towards more online business. We will capitalize on this leading position and integrate
other products into this platform, so that our customers can do business with us in a
convenient and simple way.
In Singapore, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have great distribution platforms
in the right channels, that is the FA and bancassurance channels and as well – and is well
positioned in the digital space.
Now, let me turn to China. I have to say, our China operation was the most pleasant
surprise when I joined Aviva 16 months ago. We have an outstanding geographic footprint.
We are in 54 cities, in 12 provinces. This covers 800 million people and 65% of China's
GDP. Another point to note is that our brand awareness of 9% is exceptional, given the
size of the market.
Another point which I think will be interesting for all of you know is that, while our company
name in China is called Aviva-COFCO, when it's translated into Chinese is [Foreign
Language] (03:55:57), what it means is [Foreign Language] (03:56:00) is China, [Foreign
Language] (03:56:02) is like China. And [indiscernible] (03:56:03) is actually England.
So you can see how powerful the name is, it represents two countries, that's our JV, that's
the name of our company. So we can only be doing much better than where we are. But
we are doing well. And the other point I have to mention is that we, of course, have a
great partner in COFCO, and I think I'd mentioned that earlier. One in three Chinese have
consumed the COFCO product and they have an online customer base of 10 million,
that's huge.
The other hidden gem in our China operations is the fact that we are a very welldiversified distribution, as you could see from the pie chart. This does differentiate us
Page 69 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

from a lot of other insurer who tend to be more focused on very specific distribution. We
currently have an agency force of 4,400 agents. We have 1,800 telesales rep that does
direct marketing for us. We have relationship with 11 banks and five broker companies.
Now let me share with you our strategic focus in China. First, we all want to aggressively
grow our agency force in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities where we have strong local presence.
Second, we will further expand the telemarketing channel with the implementation of an
enhanced and integrated model. This channel is excellent for the marketing of protection
products and it complements our digital strategy.
Third, we want to build a digital platform to leverage COFCO's 10 million customer base.
I'm very enthusiastic about the growth potential in China for us, given our distribution
platform and unique geographical presence.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd like now to move on to tell you more about our new JV in Indonesia. Currently no
matter who you talk to in the industry, everyone is incredibly optimistic about Indonesia. It
has a population of over 250 million, a fast-growing, middle-class and a very low insurance
penetration (03:58:12). To be partner with such a strong brand as Astra allow us to
become a top-tier life insurer in the country within a short timeframe. How will we do this?
Our immediate priority is to build the bancassurance distribution with Permata Bank, the
number 10 bank in the country. Another core part of our strategy is to tap into Astra's
massive customer base and the wide network of the Astra finance companies. Astra has
10 million customers. On top of that, each year Astra brings in almost 5 million new
customers through the sales and financing of cars and motorcycles. We will, of course,
utilize Aviva Group's digital and analytics capabilities to provide tailored products and
services to this customer base.
As you can see, the potential for growth is significant and can be achieved in a relatively
shorter timeframe. You can see why we are all very enthusiastic and excited about Aviva's
opportunity in Indonesia.
And in summary, just let me summarize to give you my key messages today. Our portfolio
is strategically positioned in Greater China and Southeast Asian markets, where we can
deliver significant growth. We have strong partners with tremendous distribution
capabilities and customer basis. We have established a well-diversified, multi-channel
distribution platform to deliver tailored products and services to our customers. And we
have a strong leadership team in place, with clear and compelling strategies to take
advantage of the excellent growth opportunities in Asia.
With that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. And we will now have the Q&A session
together with David.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks very much. Question for David actually. This is Farooq Hanif from Citi. You talked
in a little bit of detail about Italy and how much cash could be freed up from relieving the
Page 70 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

legal structure, could you sort of help quantify that a little bit? And going forward, just
qualitatively, what's the biggest barrier now to cash? Is it Solvency II economic capital
regulation or is it structural? So where could you see the remittance ratio going in the
future? Thanks.

FINAL

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Thanks, Farooq. So clearly you want a guidance, which of course I can't give you. Just to
help you parameterize, so we have about $800 million of capital invested in Italy. Italy, we
have the expectation that Italy in a short period of time will deliver a good return, dividend
return on that capital.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

My question is also generally about the Europe, I mean 30% going to...

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So – and in terms of the barriers, we've done most of the heavy-lifting in terms of
restructuring the business. So we simplified the arrangements. (04:01:47) our general
insurance business. So, general insurance business (04:01:51) years ago had a combined
ratio of a 120%.
It's 94%, 95% combined ratio. The deal we did with the banks has reprioritized the
products into, on the guarantee side, we've taken the guarantees down to zero. And
we've also refocused the UniCredit relationship on protection. So all the pieces are now in
place. It just needs to earn through the system.
Yeah. So sorry, I mean just in terms of Mark just reminded me, Solvency II with regard to
the European businesses is likely to be positive for France and positive for Italy. And
clearly that's dependent on exactly how the water flows under the bridge over the next
year or so. And also how the regulators interpret things. But if you look at our product mix,
it's likely to be positive for us over and above our current plans.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Can I ask you a question about Indonesia and then
have another crack at the Italy question for me. So on Indonesia, you were up running
from May this year. Can you give us some idea about how you expect the ramp to work
with Astra and sort of (04:03:15) and what products you've got live?
And just secondly on Italy, given the what you said about the historic problem with
remittances from Italy, I can see that you'll fix the problem going forward. Is there an
element of catch-up here where some of the remittances you might have had in the past
are going to come out in the future, or has some of that being lost in the – as a price to

Page 71 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

reorganization in terms of the excess cash which is probably built up, but you didn't remit
the capital back to the center?

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

FINAL

(04:03:45)
yeah. I think for Indonesia, (04:03:47) Astra, our key focus for now is to build the
distribution to support the bancassurance which is Permata Bank,
And that's the first part. And then, following that would be the supporting the distribution,
in fact we're doing concurrently, we're supporting the distribution to penetrate into the
customer base of Astra, as I mentioned.
In terms of products, you will find that it would generally be more protection-based type
products because of credit related as well as – that's the way the market is, is very
protection based.

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So on Italy, clearly there's a – I think you're right in the sense, there is a degree of
potential catch-up on Italy. Our Italian business is actually relatively well-capitalized from a
Solvency I perspective, but equally we also expect on a go-forward basis, as I said earlier,
the Italian business will pay it's way in terms of an adequate return on capital.
As you can see from the chart I showed earlier, we are also growing the VNB of Italy
through a much more attractive mix of products. So there's a degree of – there should be
a degree of one-off in Italy, but there's also we should expect Italy to pay its way in the
way that everyone else pays its way.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks so much. Andy Hughes, couple of questions if I could. First on bancassurance
expiry, I think, DBS is pretty soon, but I think you talked about extending it. Is that going to
cost money? And I guess the same one with the in France, you've got a distribution there
which is expiring soon as well?
And then the second question was about I guess about Europe. (04:05:30) surprise me is
the amount of unit-linked business you're selling in Europe. Is this something you really can
do through banks or is it something you really needs your own distribution for? And is it
something that's related to the state of the economy? So if the economy turns down, the
people rush to traditional products again. Thank you.

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

The second question first and then we'll do the DBS and SocGen between us. As I said in
the presentation, a key strength and something I've been really pleasantly surprised with,
since I've taken over Europe is the strength of the distribution in France. And such a high

Page 72 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

proportion of that distribution is controlled or owned, so unlike other parts of the group,
we are not dependent on bankassurers. In 2012, our unit-linked mix of overall savings in
France was around 15%. We've driven that up in 2013 to 22% and in the first quarter of
2014 is 25%.
Now clearly, we've been helped by buoyant market. But a lot of that has been biased
(04:06:44) actually driving our distribution and getting our sales people and distribution
partners to actually distribute what we want them to distribute. So, I think we may not be
able to stay at that level in perpetuity, but I think we can – I think it's something that we can
outperform the market over the longer term and that's what's really capitalizing our VNB
in France.
So, on the French Bancassurance, to put it into perspective, this is a relationship we have
with Crédit du Nord, which is a subsidiary of SocGen. It accounts for 7% of the French
dividend to group. We have – we'll get into discussions over the next couple of years in
terms of the renewal of that business, contract those out to the end of 2016.

A - Hock Seng Khor

{BIO 3993330 <GO>}

Okay. I think on DBS, of course, we have very strong relationship with DBS, as you can see
from the business growth that we have been doing. So we are good partners and we're
of course working with them on the renewals and so on and we'll try (04:07:57) on the
best we can to ensure that the renewal is done.

Bloomberg Transcript

(04:08:04)
Yeah. It expires end of next year. Yeah. Over here.

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Just behind you.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Thanks. William Hawkins from KBW (04:08:18). To the extent that Aviva Europe and like
rest Asia contribute to the benefit of diversification at the group level, what happens to
that benefit of diversification? Is it back stream down to you, so that you're allowed to
grow more or is it kept in the center so effectively on a group basis your sort of high
return operations?

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

Well, I'll try to answer. I told might want to have a go at this. Diversification benefits within
country are held within country and that's the same for the UK businesses as well, but
group level diversification benefits are held at the group. Is there anything else you want
to (04:08:53)

A - Hock Seng Khor

{BIO 3993330 <GO>}
Page 73 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

That's very much a good summary.

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Anymore? No. Okay. We've got a...

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

15-minute break.

A - David McMillan

{BIO 17298829 <GO>}

15-minute break, everyone. Okay.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(04:09:10) We're not coming back into here after the break. We'll be going into another
room. But you'll be guided into that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christine F. Deputy

{BIO 16997902 <GO>}

Good afternoon. And welcome to the Agora. Before I explain this phase that you're in
which may feel a bit uncomfortable and different after recent spending our time in sort of
a very corporate environment across the hall. Let me introduce myself. My name is
Christine Deputy. I look after all things related to people here at Aviva. I've been with the
group since March of 2013, so a little over a year-and-a-half, almost a year-and-a-half.
Before joining Aviva, I was with a number of other companies. I worked for Thomas Cook,
I worked for Starbucks, I worked for Dunkin' Brands and I worked for Barclays, okay. A
number of (04:10:02-04:10:05) consumer driven and retail environments.
Primarily, what I do and what I have experience in, is working with organizations to create
high performance and values driven culture that help deliver to the business, often
turnaround and high growth, so all those experiences have been put to test in the last
year-and-a-half here. So let me tie a little bit about the Agora. Now some would describe
this as a bit of a mixture, some would say it's like a Quaker meeting room where you have
conversation and contemplation, some would say it's a bit more like the coliseum. And let
the lions come in. But this is a space that we've created in our organization to drive
conversation. There is no hierarchy in this room. So when we have conversation, it's not
just between you and I answering questions, but it's about you and you and you and you
talking to each other, discussing issues. We created this environment as we started to
engage with a very different dialogue with our employees and with our leaders, to start to
open up and understand both where we are today and how do we move the organization
towards a much higher performing environment. So let's talk a bit about the journey that
we've gone through at Aviva around people, okay. Let's see, oh, you guys, you have the
red button, you can go.
So, similar to our investors, our people were losing patience. If we look at our journey
from 2008 to 2013, 2014, we had a very different conversation with our employees during
this time. In 2008, we launched the Aviva brand and we started to speak about the fact
that no one recognizes you like Aviva. We saw a strong reaction from our employees in a
Page 74 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

very positive engagement at that time, but over time that started to slip. Over that period
of time, John McFarlane mentioned last night that we reduced the employee base
significantly, not just through divestures and selling companies, selling businesses, but
also through a lot of reduction programs, restructures, reorganizations. And through that
period we saw our employees start to question and raise concerns. A high level of
commitment to our customers, but yet unsure as to whether or not the organization was
really committed to them.
In 2012, 2013, the employee engagement still looked fairly positive, but underlying that
there were some significant messages that our employees were sending us. (04:12:5604:13:08) There was a big drop in trust and leadership. And our most senior leader's
engagement was starting to drop dramatically. In 2013, we saw the biggest drop of
engagement and our employees started to say to us this feels really – this feels really
difficult and I'm not sure that it's actually going to change. So, in that kind of environment,
we needed to do the kinds of things that we've done around reducing roles. We needed
to do the restructuring that we needed to do – that we did. But the question becomes
how you re-engage the organization and re-engage the employee base to drive
innovation, to drive collaboration and to deliver the kinds of results that we know we need
to deliver going forward. So we started to work on building out the future and many HR
folks in the financial services industry, my experience has been, they use primarily two
tools. One is restructuring and redundancies in order to cut costs and the other is pay.
Well if you can just pay people in the right way, then you can change the behavior of the
organization.
From my experiences is that it takes more than that to re-engage an organization.
30,000 employees both in company-owned and joint venture environments need to be
engaged in a way that is different and in a way that's sustainable for the long-term, so
that they start to drive a consistent customer experience and they start to deliver those
results. So we started on a journey last year as we were discussing the conversation
around purpose and values, because our employees were very much asking for we want
to know what the future – what lies in the future.
Yes I'm okay to make really tough decisions today but I want to know so what, so why am I
doing this. So the significant amount of work as a senior leadership team and senior
management team and actually frontline to talk about what the purpose and the values
needed to be in the future. And they couldn't be sort of airy-fairy, nice to – just nice words
to say. And I think if I can use the phrase motherhood and apple pie and come out with a
set of motherhood and apple pie values and they don't really mean anything. But they
needed to be something that was highly connected to the strategy that we needed to
deliver. So many of you may have heard these values we've shared them quite publicly
never rest, kill complexity, care more and create legacy. And we engage the organization
not just by rolling them out and putting big plugs on the walls, but we spent time with
3,500 of our management team members around the globe. And sessions in Agora is
just like that. To have a conversation over a three-month to four-month period about what
that meant, what the purpose meant, what the strategy meant, what the values meant to
them and what they were expected to do as a result of that it was a process of almost recontracting with our employees about, okay this is what – this is what the future holds. Do

Page 75 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

you want to be a part of that? How do you want to be a part of that? What do you think
we should be doing in order to deliver this?
And we really had a significant amount of reaction from our employees in the sense that
they started to feel like, oh I have a voice. I actually – you want to know what I think; you
want to engage me in this process. Now, we've also had to do a lot of other things; we've
had to redesign the operating model. You know, what do the functional teams do, how do
we look at cells. We talk a lot about cells, but how do we hold folks accountable who run a
cell, who deliver on those areas. So we did a lot of work around that and engaged the
organization there. We've had to invest in talent.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2013, we did – 70% of our senior management placements were internal promotions.
But in 2014, we've actually done 70% of our – of our senior management positions have
been filled with externals. So, we have identified the great talent that we can pull up into
the organization and highlighted those individuals and given them an opportunity to
contribute at a different level. But we've also identified that there are certain skill sets and
capabilities that we needed to bring in from the outside in order to deliver. We also had to
really drive a level of communication and management insight with our folks. So, instead
of doing a one-time big bang survey, we actually quarterly survey our employee. We've
had – actually we just finished our second Pulse survey getting feedback on how engaged
our folks are; how they feel about the strategy; whether or not they believe what the
senior management are telling them; whether or not they leaders, are doing what they
say they are going to do? And as we get that feedback, we take action and we start to
respond and come back to them with; you said this, we're going to do this. And we
contract again and build that trust and that engagement with that front line.
This is incredibly important that they are the ones that are driving out of innovation that
they're bringing that forward. Finally, we do look and have looked at rewards; how do we
pay? How do we encourage? How do we drive performance? So things such as our five
key metrics are the same key metrics globally. We start to think consistently that drives
that collaboration and that measurement and we start to compare and contrast. So every
quarter, we bring our cell leaders in and the senior management team has a conversation
with them about how they are performing in comparison with each other; they rank and
stack on every one of those five key metrics as well as people metrics as well as
customer metrics as well as audit metrics.
And we have a conversation with them about how well they are delivering compared to
their peers. So you could be at the top of the list; and that's a good place to be. Or you
could be at the bottom of the list. And you actually may be at the top of some list and the
bottom of other lists; but if you are, then we're going to ask you to talk about where you
are, why you're there and what you're going to do about it. And that routine has started
to drive that conversation and that accountability around the performance and the
opportunities that we have.
We've also introduced a measure around behavior around values. So the values care
more; what does that look like? How do you do that with your teams? And as a result of
360 feedback, we give you feedback around what your folks are saying about how well
you're delivering there. Kill complexity: are you really killing complexity or are you bringing
Page 76 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

in complexity? All right? So all of those things become part of the measures. We're just in
our first cycle with that. But we're seeing a very different conversations happen.
So these are a number of relentless and consistent messages that power through the
organization and start to drive a very different kinds of conversation. They are grounded in
our People thesis. Now, you guys are probably more interested in the Investor thesis, I can
imagine that. But the People thesis is critical because it starts to give the groundwork to
our folks as to why are we doing those things, why are we focused on what and how,
because the things that we're trying to deliver are achievement, potential and
collaboration. The component around achievement is about a transformation in this
organization that effort is valued; we're going to recognize effort. But we're going to
reward outcomes. It's not about how well you negotiate your budget, but it's about
whether or not you can demonstrate year-on-year improvement, no matter what role you
are in, whether you are a cell owner or you are sitting in a functional area, how are you
improving whether it'd be a cost or top-line or a customer measure. So, achievement is a
really critical component for us in helping refocus the organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

Potential is about both the organization's potential and how we work together as well as
the individual's potential. And we need it as I said to re-contract with our employees. We
commit to them that this is a place that you want to be; that you can achieve your own
personal goals by being an employee here at Aviva. And those personal goals, if you
achieve those, they will help the organization achieve our goals as well. So talking about
the fact that diversity is going to be critical for us going forward, that what and how are
just as important; leadership and technical expertise are equally valued. There's a very
different conversation than what we've had with our folks in the past.
And then, finally, collaboration. So, I think we heard a lot about as we – as we listen today
to all of the leaders do their presentations around the fact that we really are driving this
consistent message across the organization that through sharing best practices, we can
accelerate the improvement that we can deliver. So, it's not good enough to do
something really well in your market; it's not good enough to just do something really well
in your cell. It's actually even better if somebody duplicates it in other markets. It's better
that you can share it out there and get more folks doing that same thing, because then
we can accelerate the speed of improvement, whether it would be cost efficiencies, or
top-line.
So, how is the the organization responding to the behaviors and the activities that we've
outlined? Well, I won't say that it's all rosy and wonderful and everything's finished and
aren't we great and thought perfect. It's actually not at all. Our early results for our first –
our first Pulse survey, our folks are telling us, yes, you guys are on the right direction; I
believe the strategy; it makes me feel – like, I have a clear view of where we're going. I
want more detail, I want to understand how I'm going to deliver on it, but I now feel that
there is a future, I know what I'm fighting for.
We've seen a significant improvement and we're starting to feel proud to work for Aviva,
up 9 points. Now, 70% is a good thing. It's not something, I'm super proud of; I want that
much higher. But 9 point improvement over the fall is quite a good increase. We've also
seen that folks' trust in leadership has improved. So, I don't have that statistic on here, but
Page 77 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

we've seen a significant movement forward around trust in leaders and in our most recent
survey that we've just – we're just closing today or tomorrow, the early results show that
our folks are starting to feel comfortable that their leaders can be trusted to do exactly
what they say they are going to do.
Now, you may feel like, well gosh, you should absolutely have that. That should be a
normal baseline. But there was a sense of, I'm not sure what's going on here; I'm going to
turn around and you're going to restructure this business tomorrow; you're going to – you
know, I don't know, you're going to change the strategy tomorrow. But we're starting to
feel that the employees are starting to feel comfortable that we're going to stay the
course and continue to move forward. And that's very, very positive.
We do see a significant increase around increased openness and honesty with our senior
management. We still have a ways to go, but 10 points has been a nice positive
movement in that area. And probably the area that we significantly – has an opportunity
for improvement in the most significant way is recognition. And it's not reward. We're not
getting feedback that oh, my pay is not right, or I didn't get a bonus. It's more about, I'm
working really hard; I want to be acknowledged and recognized, and I want folks to
understand what I'm doing. So, these are all the areas that we're working on.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Agora is one of the mechanisms that we use. We – again, as I said, we bring it back to
this Agora, because it really does drive a different conversation, a more relationship with
the employees as opposed to this hierarchical experience. One of the things that we use
– actually if I can ask; you've got a yellow ball – a Nerf ball there, if you want to (04:24:46)
send it over to me. We also use these yellow balls. And what these are our microphones.
And so, I'm going to open it up just for quick questions if you happen to have any and I'm
going to throw the ball around and see if anybody wants to catch. So, I don't throw it like
this, like the rugby guys; I'll just toss it like the Americans. So if you have any questions for
me about the culture or the people, the journey that we're on.
Yeah. Absolutely. All right. I'm going to try and toss the ball. Oops, there you go. And you
could just hold it right there and you can...

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

I'm not just going to affect the (04:25:26) few boarded up, this is that so people can't get
distracted.
No, actually, it's about getting the benches to stand because if you don't put it back on
them they won't – you kind of can't create the environment. But we've also used the
backs of the environment to have – to put graffiti on and allow people to kind of track the
meetings (04:25:47). But it does keep everybody in and focused, and it really is a different
kind of environment – because you can't really hide, can you? I can see everybody here.
So if you're on your iPad, if you're doing something else, you're kind of quite visible aren't
you. All right? Exactly. I know you're all feeling a little bit uncomfortable. Yes, I did – my
very, very first job in my whole life was teaching school, but it does create – and what we
found is actually when we had the sessions, there were data house (04:26:16) sessions
Page 78 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

the first time we did this; the folks became engaged in the space; they took it over. There
were groups of people sitting on the floor, but it just took all of the formality out of the
conversation and actually – we could actually start to talk about what the real issues were,
and we brought a lot of issues forward. All right. Do you want to just pass over?

FINAL

(04:26:37)
Well, yeah I put an organization forward (04:26:44) more in investment banking where you
kind of have these programs, and the top managers will do them and that'll get signed
up, but everyone else, but overall (04:26:52) many of these, they are sitting there and
thinking, where can I kind of get a touchy-feely kind of my experience. So, how do you
deal with that? I mean (04:27:02).

Bloomberg Transcript

Actually, what we've done is, is that in our very first session, our CEO conference, when
we launched a lot of the values and the horizon's work, we actually had – we had 200
leaders from the organization and we had 50 frontline folks come to the session and they
participated in the session and they brought a very different conversation to the table
because actually the funniest part with one of our frontline leaders was standing there
and a group of 10 sort of senior leaders and everybody was debating, discussing a topic
and saying, oh I'm not sure if I like this and it should be this way. The values, they didn't
like. Oh never – never rest is bad, we shouldn't say that.
And this frontline person said, oh for goodness sakes, can't you look at the big picture?
And they just called us on it and it was fantastic because they brought the customer with
them into the room. And so what we did was – and we did launch the 3,500 leaders that
participated in that first day and a half session. We didn't – first, it was led by us. So we
had – this whole program has not been run by some big consulting firm; it's been run by
us and delivered by us and our leaders across the organization.
And then secondarily, all of those 3,500 then ran half-day sessions. And we've actually
had 26,000 employees participate in this experience. So we've taken everybody through
June and there's another part of the program that was a full day component and all
employees will participate in that between now and next year. So we are taking it all the
way through the organization; because there is often – we call it – people call it the
permafrost; I call it the mighty middle's. The middle of the organization where folks are
holding on to the way things used to be, because they fought so hard to get to that place
because they wanted those things that were part of that experience and they very often
can hold information from the rest of the organization. So we drive direct all the way to
the frontline. So whether it would be communications from Mark or from any one of us at
the senior level, we do senior calls on a regular basis, but also we've allowed everyone in
the organization to have firsthand experience with the content. Yeah.
[Question Inaudible] (04:29:09) we're doing around Investor day...
Oh actually...
...last week (04:29:13)
Page 79 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Yeah, so last week we had a senior call. All of our heads and – heads of and directors
participated in a call with Mark and the senior executive team, where we shared with them
that we were having this session. And actually today we have four of our front – not
frontline, but middle leaders in the organization, I don't know where they all are; maybe
they can raise their hands so we know where they are. Yeah, there is one. Yep, two. You
guys can raise your hands, it's okay. We've got four of our senior leaders in the room
today, and tomorrow we're going to have a call with all of our heads of and our directors.
And those four folks are going to help participate and share the story of what they
experienced during this Investor Day. So, really driving that transparency and having a very
adult-to-adult relationship with our frontline.
How about you think it takes for the culture of the company to change? And do you think
the culture of the company somehow replicates the psychology of the CEO with
(04:30:12)
Well, (04:30:16). It's a good question. That's a good question. I worked with founder-led
companies; I worked at Starbucks. I worked – when Howard was the CEO, and I worked
with three other CEOs, and then I worked with Howard again. So I've seen organizations
that are quite reflective of their CEO.
I think it takes 18 months. 18 months...

Bloomberg Transcript

You think it takes 18 months for an organization to...
Yeah, to reflect the CEO.
...to reflect the CEO?
Yeah.
What I would say is – what I would say is it takes three years. I would say it would take
three years for a culture to be fully transformed and embedded; that doesn't mean the
organization is done. But I think the first year you start to establish the structure, you start
to get some of the immediate reflection, whether it be of the CEO but also of the senior
team.
Yeah.
We did – actually the work on the values and the strategy and all of that was done by the
whole group executive. I think it's really important that we all own it at the same level that
Mark does – this isn't just Mark's strategy. One person can't proliferate to 30,000, right,
you've got to have an executive team that's going to do that. But what I would say is after
the first year you start to get some routines and disciplines into the organization, but it's
not until the third year that you get muscle memory. I know that will kind of proliferate
without the sort of, really manhandling it. All right? But you think 18 months?

Page 80 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Yeah.
All right.

FINAL

Thanks.
Good.
Thank you. Just wanted to have a staff feel about the changes taking place last year-anda-half. Maybe two years, three years ago, I guess staff were told that everything is great.
The company is going forward; it's a great place to work for. And now you have
management team, some new, some old, who are saying things were actually quite bad
two years or three years ago and being quite – not nice – a great place to be, but fairly
shit (04:32:08) generally. And that's a sort of message that we picked up. So...
You don't want to start any – I have to say, coming into the organization, the -

Bloomberg Transcript

(04:32:17)
Yeah. I mean we're going to have some – I told them I was going to put them on the – I
wasn't going to put them on the spot. So you guys can think about it if you want to talk
about it. What I would say is this that when – coming into the organization, one of the
challenges Mark said, we need a People thesis, we've got an investor thesis. And I did a
significant amount of work to understand what was going on underneath the surface of
this organization. And what I would say is that we had a very parent-child relationship with
this organization. We did not tell the frontline the level of transparent insight and
information about what was going on in the organization. They were told, everything's
fine, it's all doing really well, you are doing great.
And in many ways, many of the metrics gave those frontline folks that indication, because
our consistent strength has been around the customer relationship and engagement with
the customer and that has been – that is – and that's one of the things that pulls the
organization forward. But as we went through the Agora's and we talked about that with
them, there was a significant amount of pain that was shared in those conversations
around, you let me down. We've seen the engagement scores at the senior management
go to an all-time low in 2013 and then go low and then the rest of the organization the
next year. that's exactly – that's, I can't hold this any longer and the organization starts to
realize kind of what's been happening.
The only way I know as an organization to kind of heal from that is to deal with it very, very
directly and we've been very open and very transparent with the organization since then.
Sometimes messages that people don't want to hear; when we made the decision last
year to change the redundancy policy and actually to say, this is the number of jobs that
we expect we're going to eliminate over the next six months, We came out with that very
clearly and there was a lot of reaction from the employees. But in the end it was the right
thing to do because we had to tell them honestly; this is our intent. And as a result of that
Page 81 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

we changed – that was a real changing point for that conversation with our frontline and
they now know that we're going to tell them what we're going to do as soon as we've
made the decision to do it.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Okay.
David? (04:34:16) Yeah.
Just a couple of thoughts. I was reflecting on all that recent research about the
characteristics of chief executives, and how many of them are actually pathological
narcissists. So I was at it, but I'm not sure what you guys want as an organization to reflect
the character of a chief executive. I think we're looking for something that's really, really
enduring and that will go beyond the life of probably several. So, I mean the things
happening around Aviva for 12 years, historically I think you've had a very soft performance
culture. And I think our best people recognize the fact that we've got a soft performance
culture. So the people that's tended in the past to survive and thrive are maybe people
that are good at (04:35:13) or good at relationship management. What we've got now is
a much sharper focus and I think people really, really – the good people really appreciate
that. Other people actually start to vote with their feet.
I think the other thing, I mean the point that Christine made around a frontline staff
actually knowing what's happening and starting to call it. I mean, as soon as we are there,
we've been messing about with a composite for as long as you've been covering us as an
analyst. It's a good thing, it's a bad thing, it's an opportunity as said. Our frontline staff
have been – the ones that deal with customers, have been calling this forever, why don't
we have a single view of the customer, why don't we have the ability to sell all of our
products to all of our customers. And it's actually been senior leadership and middle
management that haven't been delivering it.

A - Christine F. Deputy

{BIO 16997902 <GO>}

Thanks, David. It's not that far away. Why do we get a medicine of all, when we got a bit
stronger, right. As Jason says, we've gotten thin, but now we need to get fit. All right. Just
to follow up on that comment around the personality though, I do want to highlight, the
organization did suffer from personality-driven culture.
So, if you are in Canada, you are reflective of that group, if you are in France, you look like
that group, if you are in UK, you look like that CEO or that senior leadership and that is not
a sustainable kind of environment that can really drive global performance over the longterm. And so, we really have been very, very focused on being much more consistent and
much more enduring. And we believe that and know that that will create a much more
sustainable performance culture over the long run.
I think to take off of what David said, and I know I'll be handing over to Nick, one of the big
opportunities that we have and I think many organizations have is to listen more and
speak less. And one of the things that we found in the organization was a program called
Systems Thinking. We've talked a lot about it as we went through today. And what I'd like

Page 82 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

to do is, hand over to Nick, and he's going to share a bit about Systems Thinking today
and we'll give you a bit of insight on that.

FINAL

A - Nitinbhai Babubhai Maganbhai Amin

{BIO 17263805 <GO>}

Thank you, Christine. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm Nick Amin, and I have the grand title
of Chief Operations and Transformational Officer for Aviva. I have been here about 18
months. So, about the time it takes to change a culture, it's going to take a little bit longer.
Before I do my role, I'm going to give you some background about myself. So, I've had
the opportunity to work around the world both on the East Coast and the West Coast in
the U.S., in Latin America from Guatemala all the way down to Chile, across Europe and
Asia. So, I've been around the block. I've seen all the tricks. I know how to call it out. So, my
roles across all those geographies have varied from functional roles, to general
management, profit and loss roles, across many industries. So, consumer banking at
Citigroup, private banking at Citigroup and insurance both AIG, AIA, CIGNA and a bunch of
PE work through those geographies.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I spent before coming here 11 years in Asia, working right across the region, and in the
last six years at AIA through the crisis driving execution around creating value and then
ultimately listing that entity. I'm sure those of you who follow that will see the value that
was created from the crisis to the listing.
So, I've been around the block as I've just said, seen a lot of things. What do I do here?
So, I drive strategic execution and my focus is creating value. Now what does that mean?
Well, I get involved with things that impact our results positively. So, I focus on operational
performance improvement.
My focus on the improvement part a lot as my colleagues have found out. I get into the
detail. The more detail, the better. And the reason is, I want to make sure there's no place
for anybody to hide. Because if you're hiding something then, then I could take that create
some value with it or change it to make it better. So, I'm a detail guy, getting to the detail
and follow it through.
I also like – can we go to next slide? I actually believe life begins at the end of your
comfort zone. You're probably finding this little set up a little uncomfortable, especially if
you're sitting down here versus up there, because you got back support up there. So, I
spent a lot of time pushing people as close to the end of their comfort zone. There's a
good reason for that. If you live within your comfort zone, your comfort zone actually gets
smaller and smaller over time, because you're comfortable.
Now why do I do that? Because I'm trying to get us to move forward with our execution,
our agenda, our strategies and plans. Pushing things to the end of the comfort zone
doesn't make me very popular. And it's not about being popular. It's about getting the
right outcomes, the right results and moving forward. And I challenge my colleagues a lot.
I challenge the status quo. I think it's very important to tell our employees what's going on
and the results and the facts. Clearly, you're right we didn't do that previously.

Page 83 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

So, my colleagues would say, since I've arrived, I've driven cuts across their businesses,
across the group both in head count and expenses. And it'd be absolutely right. It was the
right thing to do. We needed to do that. So, how do you sling down? We're going to get
fit.
Now, together, we've created a stronger business. We have stronger P&Ls and clearly we
still have a lot more to do. We focus on our customer, our people and our shareholders.
So, what's next? So, clearly, we're absolutely committed to achieving what's been
disclosed today in terms of the targets and the plans and the next set of issues. You've
heard that in all the presentations that have been delivered so far. We're also going to
transform our customer journey. You saw a little bit of that today in terms of the demos
during lunch. There's a lot more behind that. And clearly, we need to pick the right ones to
move forward and invest in. In some cases, we need to accelerate that investment and in
some cases we still need to innovate. So, our focus around digital, automation and
analytics is very, very clear.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look a little bit about automation. Mark talked about, my life my way and the true
customer composite. So, around this time last year, David Barral and Maurice and the
various teams under that and myself worked on delivering the digital pieces that you saw
and getting ready for the app that was launched. Collaboration was tough at that time.
Today, it's a lot more easier. So, I come from retail banking where you see your
relationship with that institution, they see the household, et cetera. We, as an insurance
company, could not see that relationship. So, I, as a customer, have lots of phone
numbers, lots of websites and lots of passwords for Aviva to do my transactions. Clearly
that's history now. And we're moving forward in a much better way.
The focus around digitization, we're going to have to, from front to back and end to end,
change the way we work. And that's clearly going to need some investment. The returns
are pretty significant. The other thing I'm going to continue to do is focusing on
simplification, simplifying our businesses still. We're not done, has a lot more to do. Not
going to get give up at all on the expense efficiency.
Clearly, as you see from all of the presentations, we've got some work to do. If you look
at the external benchmarks, we still have work to do. I think we put a goal out there of less
than 50% on the operating expense ratio. Clearly, we need to continue our focus. So,
what do I focus on personally? I think you've heard a lot about the back book. Clearly, the
execution around that is started, it's underway. So, driving that home is going to be pretty
important. The quality of our value view business and consistency of our core and delivery
around that, improve our cash flows and continue the rationalization of our cost base. And
with all of that, we need to have a customer focus start with a customer and work
backwards.
So, let's talk about declaring victory too early. A number of people, both internally and
externally, have told me that Aviva declares victory too early and moves backwards quickly
as well. Well, be rest assured we're not done and we will not call victory too early. It's
definitely not my style.

Page 84 of 111



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Transformation efforts normally fail because institutions call it too early. The issue around
change is that we need to institutionalize the change for transformations to be successful.
So, I think a number of you have kind of commented and certainly what I'd be reading
today in the newswires around the targets and so. You should not leave today with the
thing in your mind that we're not going to continue what we started on, right. So, we may
not have put an explicit expense target out there and efficiency target out there, but
we're very, very committed. And the gas pedal is still down and we're going to continue
the execution. There's a lot of opportunity that we're working through and our objective is
to continue that. So, we should walk out of here knowing that we're going to continue the
execution that we started.
Tom has given you a breakout of the £400 million in his slides. Now you will note from that
that 7% of the £400 million, roughly £35 million, was pure efficiency. Doesn't sound like a
big number, right? So, if you still look at our expense base, if you still look at our efficiency
and look at the benchmarks we clearly have more to do through automation, through
digitization. Now, clearly, we need to make some investments to realize that, but we're
absolutely focused on doing that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I'm going to quickly summarize before I move on to the next topic. We have more to
do. We're not done. The ship is turning. We will deliver as we have the execution focus.
We're on it. And we will not call victory too early.
So, on that note, I'm going to talk a little bit about something that impressed me. As you
probably gathered, I'm not someone who's easily impressed. A few weeks after I arrived
back in March 2013, I was invited to the board meeting and I had to provide an update.
And I was asked at that time what has impressed me about the company. It clearly wasn't
the financials.
What had really impressed me was something called Systems Thinking. Now, clearly, it's a
methodology that helps change. What was interesting about Systems Thinking was that it
has an impact on the customer in a positive way, it impacts satisfaction, it has an impact
on employees from a satisfaction perspective and ultimately it has an impact on the
financial performance, and productivity. Why was I impressed?
The reason I was impressed was it starts with the customer and it ends with the customer.
It's as simple as that and it works, right. So, we have Six Sigma, we have Lean, but this is
very simple, starts with the customer and ends with the customer.
So, on that note, I'm going to pass over to Scott. And Scott is going to walk you through
as to what Systems Thinking is and what we've achieved so far. Thank you.

A - Scott McFie
Right. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Scott McFie from the Systems Thinking
team. When Nick Amin's impressed with something you should probably tired of
(04:49:48) the proceeds and scarper, and crip for (04:49:50) your head. But actually I'm
not going anywhere because this is a great time to be at Aviva and this is a great role.

Page 85 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

So, I was asked to do this session given license for it to be unplugged. It's probably
verging towards unhinged somewhere in the middle, and thank you for the gentlemen for
swearing earlier on because we may stray into that territory as well. Okay. I guess, this is
Scottish, you can't take the boy out of Glasgow sort of thing. And I've just relocated back
there as well, which doesn't help. Okay.
So, System Thinking. Why? David Morris, the guys have very kindly touched on the kind of
economic benefits of what we do and why we do this. So, the bottom kind of right-hand
quadrant, this does drive genuine OpEx, underpins a lot of the achievements we're
seeing at the moment.
Now, if you go up to the top right-hand quadrant, predictably we see up to 60% waste in
an area, that sounds absolutely horrendous, but therein lies the opportunity. And we
shouldn't actually feel bad about it. A lot of the System Thinking method comes from
Toyota Production System, Taiichi Ohno and he'd been doing it for 40 years. And he was
asked towards the end of his life and no on his deathbed that would probably be unkind.
He was asked towards the end of his life, so how much waste is in your system given that
you've been doing this for 20, 30 years. And then the questioner was kind of expecting
the answer, 3.12%. And he said 75%, he just need to know how to look. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, clearly we need to look a bit harder, given that we're only 60%. So that's the kind of
commercial side of this, and the opportunity side of it. What makes this really interesting
for us is that it works for the customer, okay.
So, top left, Net Promoter Score, I think give it up a flavor of that is our customer
satisfaction measure. Typically, we see about plus 30-point movement in NPS that's kind
of supernormal territory. And then who makes it better still is actually this works for our
people as well.
So, to Christine's point, these have been tough years, but actually in those tough years,
the areas where we've been doing System Thinking, we've seen sustained improvement
in employee engagement. This really quite simple. There's the guy called Dan Pink who
brings together some research around why do people come to work. And they come to
work to align to purpose, System Thinking is very big in what the customer purpose is,
mastery to get better at what we're doing and self-determination. So, hopefully, I'll be
able to give you a flavor of why these things come together.
Einstein is always good for a quote. I suspect there's a quote that says, I didn't see half
the things that people said I did. But somebody asked a good question about things were
bad previously, what have you learned. So, System Thinking is not just about different
method, it's not just a move from kind of lean or sigma to this. It's actually about
understanding like how the hell did we get into this mess in the first place. It's called
double-loop learning. And if we pay attention to that, we'll do better because typically
when the pressure gets cranked up, we'd regret. We go back to what we know.
Okay. Now, you'd be forgiven for thinking that this is just an operations play and actually
it's not. And there's two reasons why it's not just an operations play. One, if it works so
Page 86 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

well, why wouldn't we do it in support functions as well? Okay, that's reasonable. But the
more important reason is as the operation gets slicker and faster, it places more demand
on the support function. So the support functions, I'm talking about IT and HR, finance. So,
you can imagine an IT scenario for, Monique's here as well, for the operation. He'll say,
look, we're landing a hell of a lot more out our business. We need to change with real
agility. And if the IT responses, please fill out in these forms and we'll see you next year
changed portfolio, we're stuffed. Okay?
So that's why customer will place demand in operations and operation places demand in
support and it needs to flow. You can't have a Ferrari engine in a Mini, it's going to end
badly, okay. Right, this is where things get a bit unhinged, and you need to indulge me a
bit. So, I don't imagine you'll see too many slides like this in an Analyst Day and you may
not see them again because the royalty fee my son is charging me for that photo is
exorbitant.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, first thing on here with this curious juxtaposition is, what's happening on the righthand side is a sport of human carling. So, if you look closely enough, those little fields and
my son's casings, so I've two sons, 12 and 14. My wife would argue that my mental age fits
neatly in the middle, never more so when we're on holiday. And we've developed this
sport of human carling. So, my son sits in this case and I presume down the airport to
predetermine sport. We think it's hilarious. We absolutely love it.
However, this photo was taken three minutes before a travel insurance claim. Okay? Now,
don't worry, it's not that bad and pushing down the flight stairs of entrant, but we'll come
back to it. And (04:55:09) know who the gentlemen in the left is, don't tell me his name,
he's up there. Any clues?

A - Unverified Participant
The guy who invented the bag that your son sits.

A - Scott McFie
That's actually probably a pretty decent guess, you maybe, I don't know. And – but
Taguchi is a Japanese statistician, who dealt with Toyota in the 1950s. And I'm going to
draw for you, why we're interested and note, I give you fair warning, these drawings are
unlikely to make it to the Tate Modern okay, okay. So, what Taguchi – okay. Hang on.
What's happened here? Wait a minute.
This is kind of one of the joys of the agoras, good for conversation, but not quite so great
for presenting. So, frankly a flip chart would have sufficed nicely here it's a shave actually,
because the story build up quite nicely, but let me take you through what's going on here.
So, the bottom part of this diagram, Taguchi only worked with Toyota. They did work on,
easily it became known as Taguchi curve. So, essentially what they're saying is that point in
the middle, they were studying and manufacturing. If you deviate from perfect quality in
any direction, is it true that costs go up in the end-to-end system. So, imagine I work in
Toyota and all of a sudden, I'm Head of bolt. I live bolt. I'm gifted, I'm brilliant at bolts. And
Page 87 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

I always hit my budget and my productivity is through the roof, but actually they're not that
great.
And what you see is a cost elsewhere in the engine, okay. So that sounds like very strange
things for us to be interested in. So, what we're interested in is, if we deviate from what
the customer actually wants, is it true that our end-to-end costs go up in the system. You
see the connection, okay? So, let's test that. So, back to Brodie McFie and the human
carling example.
For whatever reason, unbeknown to me, this drives my wife to distraction. She absolutely
hates it. And our flight was called and we're in one last kind of go at this. And she
absolutely stormed off in a complete hissy fit to the gate and she left behind her leather
jacket. So that's the basis of the travel insurance claim, I didn't push my downstairs.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, she's got this thing when she is really angry with me. She does this thing because she
says one word and points at the same time. So, we get back to the UK and she said, it
was your fault, you will make that claim. So, I wake up in the morning. Now, has anybody
made kind of a travel claim, a property claim?
Wow, okay. Look, let me tell you, you do not wake up in the morning, go, yeah, travel
insurance claim day, boy, oh boy, I'm looking forward to today. Now, I'd suggest if that is
you, you need to go a bit more. So, rather reluctantly, I hold the policy out the drawer,
Aviva policy, good corporate citizen. Okay, fair enough. I'll give that go. Let's see how this
gets on. So, I picked up the phone and the first unusual thing happened was, I got a
human being. I've to ask it, that's not normally what happens, I usually get some sort of
machine. And it quickly became evident that the chat was going to sort out my problem. It
wasn't going to pass me on to somebody else. Okay, fair enough.
Next interesting thing that happened is remarkably unscripted. It was a really good
conversation. The data protection was sensible, it wasn't – could you please tell me what
you had for breakfast in the morning you took out the policy and all that nonsense. So,
we're about 2.5 minutes into the phone call, and he says, look, I've brought up your policy.
I see you don't have a neutral policy. I need to ask you, what's your story. And that's how
he described it.
Now this has been tattooed indelibly into my forehead by my wife. It was – she was doing
the thing again. It was a Marks & Spencer jacket, it was 140-years-old. So, I told the chap
and then what happened next, blew me away. He said that shall we call £110? I said, I'm
sorry, I don't understand. Yeah, you've phoned up to make a claim and I'd like to settle
your claim here and now. And I thought that's super, but in mind I was going actually
you've ruined my day. Because I was kind of expecting a fight to the death and drizzly
stories for, its Scottish thing again, drizzly stories for the next two months.
And then, this was now Friday, so I've managed to procrastinate for four days, which is
pretty good, but the nagging was getting incessant since Friday. And he said, I see you
pay by direct debit. The money be in your account on Tuesday, how does that sound? And

Page 88 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

I kind of mumbled out, fine, but what I actually meant was like, absolutely smashed out the
park in terms of customer experience.
However, that's not the point of the story, okay. So, this bit in the middle of diagram, we
call that nominal value, but for that just we'd fought the customer really wants, okay. So,
when I picked up the phone, what did I want, answer the phone, have a sensible
conversation with me, be fair, pay me the money, no rocket science is it, okay. Again
seems through the day, that's not necessarily how it always works. So, could you just
indulge me and let's play, what's the deal process look like, okay.
So, I need you to chip in here guys. So, I picked up the phone, what did I get, I don't get
human being, IVRs. So, we all know what an IVR is, press 1, press 2. Do you know that in life
policyholder contact we establish the only one in three customers got to where they
needed to get to and there was about 1,200 possible permutations through the system.
So, guess, what we canned it, okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

So, you got get an IVR. Do you ever get passed on from department to department?
Yeah. Not always the best to handoff, sometimes the call gets dropped, yeah. That's
quite common. The data protection questions, talked about that almost Stephen Hawking
could answer the question, if it's not me, so, why would be. And it just goes on and on,
and then it just gets off the map out of hand. So, they're about to use the words that I'm
not going to do, I was going to get down on my knees. They'll literally bring me to my
knees. They use the words, you need to. No, no. Hang on. I mean, I'm the customer. I'm
placing a demand on you, do not tell me I need to.
And they're going to send me something now. So, what is it? What are they going to send
me? They're going to send me a piece of paper. How are they going to send me it? In the
mail, fantastic, absolutely bloody marvelous and drives you to distraction.
Now, I don't know about your household. But I run my household with military possession
and everything that comes into my household has failed and leave her arch in date order.
Now, as I bleeding lie, it's a miracle of my Labrador little dog doesn't eat the post, okay.
So, they're going to send me this thing. The chances of me actually getting on nibble to
slim to none.
I have to tell you also that I'm, in fact, a renowned expert in filling in insurance claim forms
without any missing information or without any error and with crystal clarity. So, I'll do that
brilliantly as well. So, what's interesting? Remember, how long was my first phone call,
how long was my boot process? It's minutes, wasn't it, minutes. I phoned up, they're
going to send me a form, I'm going to fill in, and what sort of timescales are we up to
now? Yeah, literally.
We're probably up, comfortably a couple of weeks, okay. Friends with form is going to
reach me, there's a curious language that they use, they're going to send me the form
and it will be with you, working days, is this completely different calendar that exists. All
this time, I've been looking at a calendar and there's this thing working days, astonishing.

Page 89 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Now if that doesn't happen, what am I lightly to do, okay. So, congratulations, Scotty boy.
You've just increased the demand into that system by 100%, okay.
Now, eventually if somebody kind of reviews my claim and I guess pass from department
to department, so to see what's happening, we're kind of moving away from the
customer's nominal value both in time and how the process is working. Eventually, they'll
write to me and you know there may be a step in between saying you've forgotten your
receipt and you know I'm not going to pretend I have a lever (05:05:06) receipts for
everything I've ever bought. And they eventually got a letter saying congratulations Mr.
(05:05:11) £62.14. Where the heck did that come from.
So what am I likely to do? Again touch again, congratulations we are now off at 200%,
300%, 400% demand into the system. So that's grizzly (05:05:26) enough and it might
surprise you or it may not surprise you to learn that generally this extends out to 40 plus
days. And what fascinates me about this is I'm one of the kind of senior middle manager
guys that Christine was talking about, you know, I can't imagine anybody going into
steering group or a group exec going, great idea guys, look at this fabulous process, it's
going to take 42 days and it's going to really piss off our customers. Out.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, how does that happen? How do we go from these kind of PowerPoint designs to this
bonkers way of working? There's another thing that goes on, and it's a wee bit less easy
to spot, okay. And it is management things. So not only this is a bizarre workflow that
extends out now and is really not very good for the customer, management things begin
to happen. Now in that protracted workflow, there are loads of people. So what do they
need?
True. They need managers. And there's lots of managers, so what do they need? Slightly
more senior managers, and they need slightly more senior – and bingo before you know it
you've got hierarchy, okay. So the good point earlier on what they also need is this is
going on for a long time, so we get worried and we get concerned. So what we need is
information and we need reports.
So, if we're choosing (05:06:51) information and reports, what do we have? We have
reporting teams. We have MI teams, we have SLAs; we have targets. These areas are
heavily functionalized and here's a bizarre one, if they get big enough they start creating
engagement functions at the start of their process and it goes on and on and on. Clearly,
this isn't working for the customers. So, they're going to do one of two things. What are
they?

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Believe?
(05:07:21) So, that puts a strain on your business, doesn't it? And from my old marketing
education, it's more expensive to attract a customer to keep one. So, we've now got a
bigger and new business function and if they are kind enough not to leave and it's not
working for them, what are they going to do?

Page 90 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

(05:07:38)

FINAL

Yeah, they're going to complain, aren't they? So, we now need a complaints team. This is
the bit I love in the drawing, because I get to get my pen out and scribble all over it. But
actually...
(05:07:50)
No, I won't do. I won't do. Actually it's all [Obscenity] (05:07:55). We have completely and
utterly missed the point in terms of how we've designed our work and the customer's
nominal value. Does that make sense? Okay. So, if we can learn to design our ways of
working to meet the customer's value, we have data coming out years' time and time and
time again that actually it works better for our people, because it's no fun working in that
environment. It works better for the customer and it is economically beneficial to us as
well. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ah, you've just paid a (05:08:34) £110 over the phone. He is going to phone you on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. I can say that from there. So, actually I got in
touch with one of my peers, one of the system thinking leaders from you know a massive
claims here, and I said okay, is that true? And he goes no, nothing like it. Actually what
we've seen is our claims cost going down and I can't explain the psychology of that to
you, but it happens time and time and time again. When you do the right thing, customers
do the right thing, that's extraordinary.
So okay, 5% you know, no big deal. However, even if that figure was neutral, look at the bit
at the bottom, so the customer size has gone from minus 3 to plus 53, and this area is
44% more efficient. So not only are we getting the claims dividend, we're getting the
efficiency dividend as well. If we have more time, there are some belting stories around
that sort of account and intuitive logic. So how does it work? That's a system thinking
room, so one of the things about the method is its very visible and by design because
you're trying to create irrefutable proof as to what's actually happening, so that that's the
next thing, you can't hide from it, okay.
So here's how we do this. Now, it looks a bit Janet and John, but there are dimensions of
this that are really important. So if I put that slide up and the internal Aviva audience you
know, and no one can assist in the funk area, apologies we can't think of a better past
tense for system thinking, so system funk. And we say, okay, so where do we normally
start? And usually it's somewhere between plan and do; sometimes it's do than plan. But
it's certainly not at the study stage. It's not in our culture to study. Whatever as we're been
doing has been rubbish for five years, six years, two years, four years, but yet we won't
take the time out to study it for weeks or months. So the check process is absolutely
fundamental. And not only do we study with the people who actually do the work but we
also study with their leaders.
Now, we have system thinking governance which kind of sounds like a bit of an oxymoron,
but it's not. So if the leader of the area isn't prepared to turn up full time and we're not
prepared to dedicate resources to it, we don't show up. It's that simple. Okay.
Page 91 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

The next bit is this kind of concept of redesign. And it's important in two senses; the first
sense is that we redesign to try and get to perfect. So if you think about the travel
insurance claims, we're not trying to make that car crash slightly better; we're trying to
establish what is the customer actually wants and nail it only then if we find aspects of that
difficult we will compromise back away okay. So that's fundamental as well.
The other thing that's really precious about this redesign work is it really helps with
moving corporate culture. So we've talked about the kind of mighty medal people stock,
how this helps us is we are not moving from the technical organizational state of – we
binary kind of do this thing and let's kind of move wholesale to doing something different.
If you honestly think in that travel claim, we would have moved the operation from one
method to the other overnight, of course, not. So this bit in the middle is about testing
and learning quickly in a really odd agile manner. And it gives us a lot of ability to say to
the functions, are you honestly saying that given the dysfunctionality that we can now see
that you're not up for an experiment. And really you know people don't like to stand on
you've got to move. Okay. So you know this doesn't – we figured it all out. Let's take it to
an Exec Committee and let's move the whole organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

So at this point, you're kind of feeling like a bit of a god and the operation are feeling
fantastic because what this essentially done is it identified massive opportunity, they've
identified a solution that will work for the customer, work for the team, it will be whole
scale better, but actually you've changed nothing. So this bit – it's kind of like we've had a
hit single and this is the tricky second album. And this is where we move the organization
to succeeding with this because of how the organization is designed not despite of.
Now, this method looks after us really, really well. If we just set up (05:13:07) business
here and get into this, it's extraordinary how well it looks after us. And there are some
quite complex models for each of these; it's not quite that simple. Otherwise, I might
have a problem justifying my salary. So that's how it works, and it creates a kind of moral
imperative to act, so that wall that you saw in the photo. Once that's up there, it's dead
easy. You're basically saying; look guys, that's how it is, unless we act profoundly, that's all
you deserve, that's all you get. So are we going to change or are we not?
So what system thinking does is it allows us to connect, influence with insight. So very
often you'll hear things like our people are empowered, our frontline people are
empowered. Yes, they are once we do a bit of this. But actually genuinely no. The massive
changes that we have to effect, so look at the travel claim example, we're going to let
frontline people use their judgment, we're going to pay claims over the phone, really;
frontline people are empowered to flip to that way of working, I don't think so. So what
we do is we connect the insight from the frontline people, the guys who do the work and
do it brilliantly. So they power in the organization to actually change it and that's really
powerful. And this is another slightly different version of that.
So the performance that we see with which we're generally dissatisfied, which is a good
thing because it drives our improvement as a derivation of the design of the work, okay.
So if you want to change performance, change how you've designed the work. However,
to go a step farther into the Einstein territory, how we designed the work is not a law of
physics or a law of nature. It's there because of people's and usually senior leader's
Page 92 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

assumptions as to how to design the work. So, if you're not going to change that thinking,
guess what, you're going to go backwards as well.
So, just to kind of mirror the bit in the left, what happens in system thinking is the analysis
is done bottom-up in the work and the change happens top-down. And boy oh boy, that's
a change for senior leaders. When I was doing this in my functional area and my junior
people were coming to me and saying, (05:15:23) stuff, we need you to do this. You're
kind of like, what, me, with my reputation. Actually effect some change.
So, this next slide kind of feels a little (05:15:35) in public. But I can't stand here in front of
you and say, look, we can spot 60% waste in the system and not kind of tell you some of
the starting points. So, there are a couple of areas here. So, left-hand side of the slide
before and after blue and green, right-hand side of the slide before and after up and
down. So, you can see the numbers for yourself. But – and actually I've just noticed that
the complaints numbers are monthly, not weekly, apologies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Two kind of different problems to be solved here. So, the life policyholder contact, if you
look at the top bit about demand, you learn things by studying demand. So, there's two
types of demand into our organization. There's value demand, which is what we're here
to do, and there's failure demand. Now, failure demand is caused by us not doing
something or not doing something right. A better expression of it from a customer's point
of view, something they'd rather not have to do with us. So, you've got it wrong, it hasn't
arrived, I don't understand the failure demands.
So, this whole area was dealing with 70% failure demand. Can you imagine? Now, the
organization learned progressively how to design that out by getting things right and
organizing in a different way. Once they were into the realms of positive (05:16:54)
demand that we do want, and guess what, that proportion went up. There was about
1,000 different demands that that area could receive into a system, 1,000 things our
customer could phone for.
What they understood was actually the top 32 demands accounted for 80% of the
volume. So, what's the answer? It's really very simple. You train up your front line people
to deal with those top 32 demands, you support them with the technology required, and
bingo, you get first point resolution for that, and that delights customers. So, the bottom
also – there was a hefty commercial dividend here as well. Situation in the right (05:17:36)
this is Clive's business. It's a slightly different type of problem. It's where we have
massively functionalized a piece of work. Basically, we've lost the plot. We've been
touching so many areas, and 5 and 15 touch points per claim, 0% first point resolution and
taking up to 45 days, but predictably anything up to 90 days.
Now, we talk about these things very transactionally. So, let me just ground us and what
this is actually talking about. This is a loved one phoning us to tell us a relative has died,
and that was our response. We're going to send you some forms. We're going to send
you some letters. You need to do this. So, can you imagine what we've managed to
achieve by dealing – that's now up over 70%. We now deal with 70% of those very
emotional and very, very difficult phone calls on the phone and you should hear the

Page 93 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

reaction. And it's very striking, because the person in that situation is not just dealing with
us, they are dealing with other providers.
And the juxtaposition between what we can do and what other providers can do is very
stark. And we're beginning to win as a result of this. I was quite emotional because
actually I went through this pre-Christmas, and it's breathtaking what it does for you. The
other interesting thing about this slide is we're getting better and better at this. So, on the
left, policyholder contact was one of the first things we did in our life operations. It was
about two, three-year journey. Piece of work in the right, if you look at the number down in
the bottom, 70% out of the cost base and it was done in four months.
And what we're building is a legacy of leaders that can actually do this. That piece of work
in the right had no involvement whatsoever from my team. People in Clive's area, they just
know how to do this (05:19:42). So, the other fabulous thing about this is how many
processes globally do you think we have. I don't have the answer actually. But how many
processes (05:19:52) globally do you think we have that looked like the one in the righthand side. We call that comparative capability.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, why it might take us 42 days to do something in France, yet we can do it over the
phone in another market. Just think of the opportunity. That is one process and one sale.
So, to conclude, I hope you got a sense that the system thinking works very much at the
heart of digitization. I'm doing some work at the moment in one of our sales, where we
are up-streaming our automation effort. So, actually system thinking is the gateway to
funding, why would we not redesign our business to be more efficient and then automate
what's left, it's a much better way of doing it.
System thinking is very much at the heart of our thesis that works, investor, people,
customer, distributor. The other thing that's superb is it aligns perfectly with our values. So,
what I've talked about in the last 20 minutes or so, what is that if it's not killing complexity,
what is it if it's not caring like crazy for the customer. You notice as well that our method is
a circle, so it never rests. We go round and round and round again (05:21:07) 75%. You just
need to know where to look.
And our role is to create legacy by creating system thinking leaders. Ideally, do ourselves
out of our job, not too soon, but do ourselves out of our job. So, I rather hope this will be
a relaxing session for you after a hefty day. I have to tell you this has been quite relaxing
for me. I moved house over the weekend. So, frankly, anything is relaxing after that. My
wife thinks I've started off to London as an elaborate ruse to get out of the unpacking. So,
I should probably get my iPhone and get a photo of you guys.
But I did want to say thank you. I probably owe you a gin and tonic each. It's got to be
worth at least that to get out of the carnage of a house move. So, thank you very much.
I've enjoyed it. Last serious thought, so when we say that we can transform the customer
experience and be more efficient, please be assured that we can, we have and we will.
Thanks very much.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}
Page 94 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Is my mic on? Yeah, good. Welcome back. Well, this is the last session. We'll try and finish
on time. So, we'll let it go hopefully as long as you need. Now, we've had a full day.
Everyone is looking a little bit tired. We've had everything from Taguchi curves, which was
the systems thinking, to the work on the strategies. You have seen fraud. You have seen a
lot of different speakers on the team talking about the areas. So, the objective of today of
course, as I said at the start, was a few things.
First, it was to talk about the strategy of the overall group, the composite, the true
customers composite, digital first and the fact we're not going to be everywhere, we're
going to be a focused composite. And I think that clearly does differentiate us. You have
seen the strategies of the businesses in the life and our response to the annuity changes
in the market. You've also seen the new strategy for the – who was he, for Euan, down the
side in Aviva Investors, and remains to be seen whether we'll deliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

You have seen – I guess I had a lot of questions in the break on Euan's new target they
announced in the 40, 40, 20 (05:23:39). But thank you, Euan. I should just put that in a
little bit of context. Think of that like a internal challenge, a 2020 internal challenge. If
we're going to be a true customer composite, then we want the diversity associated with
that. And we think we can do a lot to increase both Euan's business and the other
businesses and develop general insurance throughout the other markets where we
haven't got it and balance up that portfolio. Don't take that as a target, take that as more
of an aspiration (05:24:18). Yeah.
If you wanted the new (05:24:24) targets for next year, I can probably (05:24:26) easily.
But – and we talked about that. You saw some of the examples of the digital, hopefully. I
think it's clear that if we lead – we certainly lead in terms of a composite digital and what
we're doing in this part of the world, but there's a long way to go in that sort of journey,
particularly with the cross-sell. This afternoon, you've seen Asia and you've seen Europe
both in the turnaround markets and the growth market, the Poland and Turkey and
Indonesia, et cetera, and China. So you've seen those too. I mean the objective today was
to give you a long-term picture. Today was not designed for the sales desks. As I said at
the start, the objective I think among this team too is to create legacy in the business, and
we are thinking long-term. That's what you've seen today, and I make no excuses for that
whatsoever.
You've also hopefully seen the depth of the talent we have in our management team.
We've got internal promotions and new hires, and someone asked me over lunch, well,
they're all different. I mean I see that's good. So we've got different personalities,
different cultures, different styles, the only thing you see consists across this group is only
a few things is a value set, the values that we talk about, our business values, I think are all
consistent. They're all a capable team intellectually, and they're all very driven. And those
are the three elements I want in the team. And I think we're starting to blend that
together as a team.
But rather me talk, what I'd like to do is open up for questions you can cover any question
you wish from the day. And I have all my colleagues here with me. And so on that basis,
open up.

Page 95 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Two questions. The first is, we've had quite a lot on the digital investment
you're putting through, automation, the anti-fraud thing. What I don't quite get sense of is
where you are, because as it became obvious as we went through the systems (05:26:37)
for instance, as some of this had already been done. So I wonder if you could just take us
through the three types, I suppose of, sort of, IT investment, just literally speaking, where
you are in each market. I'll stop that on that question.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

And then, slightly a techy question. How do we calculate the group expense ratio?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. Techy question, not for me, but probably you. So where we are, just to be clear as
well, the expense ratios includes all of that as well. So, what are the expense we're talking
about, we reinvest from other things. So, we will divert expenditure saved from a broker
channel or a bank or just part of the business, and we will reallocate the expenses, just to
be clear on the expenses, it's not additional expenditure. It's all in. Okay. Just to be clear
on that. Now, where we are difference by country, so on systems thinking, for example,
the first country that did it effectively on systems thinking that you just saw here was the
life business. And it was a life business and the claims. So some of those examples we
were talking about was the claims area or parts of life business and claims.
Businesses life – I don't know whether Patrick Dixneuf is still here. Oh, yes, in front of me.
So, Patrick, when I was in Italy last week, we were talking about the rollout of systems
thinking in Italy now. So that's only just beginning. It's the same if you're talking about the
predictive analytics. So, Canada started, the UK is behind Canada, well, quite away, and
most of the other countries frankly haven't started. So, this is – if you think all countries – if
we're giving the impression all countries are at the same level, we certainly don't intend
that. What we have is pockets of excellence that we're rolling out and each month, we get
a bit more.
Scott, for example, is one of the people – as you just saw, he's one of the people that's
rolling out systems thinking in the different countries. In France, I was there, what are the
core systems thinking in France?

A - Scott McFie
(05:28:41)

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

So, which is bringing customer very close to systems thinking. So your second question on
expense ratio.

Page 96 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(05:28:52-05:29:14)

FINAL

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

The last page of the result pack in March have the calculation in it. But we try to put
together a ratio that, we're a diversified group. So we went through the life, the non-life
and the asset management group. And that's how we manage each cell. They got their
own ratio that is relevant to their business, but then to compile it for the group, we said
actually we need one metric not a formula, because you can't add life, non-life and asset
management to get some sort of formula type. So, we say, okay, total operating
expenses is what we've disclosed. And you've seen – that's the 400, it's the same basis
and the denominator, the income is effectively profit before expenses, and before
interest cost. So, it's what we'd call IFRS income across the board and that says expenses
divided by IFRS income for the group.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah, if you look at the individual units, you will find that, for obvious reasons, what
necessarily makes the group, because we look at the group as a whole in the cost to
income. If you're looking at Euan's business versus Maurice's business, obviously they
have a different dynamic. The only problem with that of course is the ratio could go up
and down, if you have a weather event. We got up or down (05:30:20) marginally. But I
think Euan will understand that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

On the cost point, you mentioned I think in quite a few of the presentations that you're
above benchmark...

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

...of cost. I just wonder whether a lot of the things you seem to be doing on the digital
side are trying to leapfrog what the industry is doing. Is that – it's not benchmark, probably
it's not the benchmark, because the benchmark is a different cost structure and target.
Can we talk a little bit about where you are, (05:30:48) industry benchmark or where you
see the real benchmark is?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. If you're looking at benchmark and I'll just take you a couple of minutes on cost,
because it would have been quite easy today for us to just come out with a big cost
figure, frankly. And I don't know the (05:31:05) that would have got us to the industry
benchmark, and particularly areas I'm talking about that I would say on the UK, general
Page 97 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

insurance business. And we've shown that I think the last annual result – or the last quarter
results, we've showed the chart actually that one of our competitors put up and we said
we chose which one we work and it didn't make us look too good.
The other big area of costs frankly is on the back books. The back books we are highly
inefficient, and look, there is reasons for that historically, and the reasons but the reasons
are no longer are an excuse. So, the reason historically was that, systems couldn't talk to
each other and you had all these big lump of legacy systems. Now, what's changed? It's
the same reason why we couldn't have a single view of the customer, because the way
the old systems work, the way I had to build the databases, it was just too complex. So
when I said we build a single view of the customer for £11.5 million, that same thing just a
few years ago would have costs us £150 million and all that changes the technology to fix
it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And probably what I think we have done is, we have looked the sort of the stuff years ago
and we never realty addressed it, so the back books are a big source of savings to us that
we can do a lot of that automation, and what we do with the systems and other things.
There is a whole lot of it other things, including (05:32:26) buildings, and all those sort of
things as well, so on an individual level. Tom also outlined earlier today, there's also some
corporate finance stuff. Now, for example, refinancing that £700 million of debt that we
did a couple of weeks ago had a tangible benefit to us of actual savings on debt of about
some between £10 million and £15 million, but relative to our plans.
Now, you can see that that's also meaningful and at the moment obviously, our cost of
debt has declined. So, there's other elements you can do there. So, next leading
initiatives at the moment is about like what is that next phase. And if you underwhelmed
by the expenses, that's okay, because people are going to have to make a judgment
what they think we're going to get. But, I'm saying very clearly, we're going to focus on
cost to income ratio, because it would be easy again to just do some very short-term cuts
and give a boost, but I need something that's replicable year after year after year,
because if we want a dividend that's going up, well, year after year to year, we need to
make that work. The £800 million, I'll talk about the £800 million as well as to the bright
side, a lot of questions on the £800 million what was in and what was out. I think Tom
described it best. He said after, after, after. So, that's after growing the business, right.
On the debt side, I think Tom – all our words that have been chosen very, very carefully,
okay. Tom's words and my words were, we will be opportunistic. That £800 million does
not include one-offs, just to be absolutely clear. We spoke about (05:34:22) before being
able to perhaps release some capital at some stage, and Tom, we haven't given any
indication what that may be and we need to see if we can deliver that of course. So for
example, that's not included in there.
So we're trying to give you a realistic, but a very balanced view about what's included and
what isn't. We take a lot of time today to highlight our issues. We did the same thing last
year and we've done that deliberately because then you, all of you that's why you're here,
can make a judgment on whether we can deliver exactly what we can deliver. And that is
the joy of having one of these sessions, I guess.

Page 98 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

FINAL

I think the benchmark sort of expense ratio is kind of lies down wise in statistics. You look
at Italy for example, we've got 8%, 9% GI expense ratio, which actually benchmarks
relatively well across the group. Not in Italy, across the Italian market. The top guys in the
market, the guys – the three or four biggest players are delivering a 6%, 7% expense
ratio. So that's kind of one data point. I think the other data point is interesting, if you look
at the UK and (05:35:42) the UK.
But if you compare the digital expense ratios, so our business like (05:35:50) 5%, 6%
expense ratio versus tops versus what...
(05:36:00)
...a mature business. So that's where the world is going.
I mean, there's no doubt that digital stuff is got out (05:36:11) and it's one of the reasons
why you're going to see us focusing a lot on that channel. What else?

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, can I ask the question another way above £800 million, right? So it just so makes
clear. You may not want to answer but just so...okay. Are you talking about £800 million
unencumbered, whether you choose to use it for that or not unencumbered for dividend
purposes? That's the question I think people are asking.
And my channel is eloquent as always; and the answer of course is yes. So we've talked
about distributable cash flow, okay. You can do the math or perhaps not trying to be that
open. But yeah, that distributable cash flow, yeah.
Using 75% raw, how much capital do you think will be reallocated for Aviva say over the
next five years? I mean, how much capital – less capital do you think will be required to run
the UK business and perhaps even capital taken out of the European business? And what
are the selected markets that you are possibly going to select in the future?

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, that's a nice question. Our clients are sick and tired of it, not the first part
because the answer to the first part is, we don't know yet.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Except – because this is moving target quarterly and yearly and it depends on everything
from regulation to economies to governments to frankly how good our teams are. So we
allocate capital we look at, does it fit the strategy.? Is it going to deliver the investment

Page 99 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

thesis, cash flow, how quick's the cash flow payback? Can the team execute? Have they
got their history? And what's the economics that that business looking at?

FINAL

And Jason's in his new role, in particular, is focused on that in developing that. As to
where it's going to go, you can assume it is going to go to where we have the higher
returns in equity and we have teams that can deliver. So, I've mentioned a few of these
today, so Poland extremely high return on capital. Is Adam still here?

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

He's gone.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

He's gone. Adam and his team are a first class team and have proven they can deliver. So
we do want to reallocate capital there. Turkey, Turkey is like Asia was 15 years ago and
someone said to me before what about Asia and I said it's not about Asia, what I said at
the start is about selective markets whatever region are in. And frankly, Turkey is like Asia
was 15 years ago. It's got lower penetration than China has, I've just put it in perspective
we like China.

Bloomberg Transcript

What Khor said before, and I'll just clarify what he said. In China, we have 9% spontaneous
awareness, not brand awareness, that's much higher. This is 9% spontaneous awareness.
Tell me an insurance company. Now, I'm not aware of any foreign player that is even
remotely close to that in China. Now, I expect the long as to do with our partners name
frankly, but we don't mind doing.
So it's the market that can give us the returns. We look at business cases. We will never
have enough capital for everything we want to do, at least I hope we don't, because then
we can choose the best. So it has to how much, I don't know, but I've been very clear for
the past answers, beginning of last year, certain markets are cash cows, we need to grow
those cash cows, we need to keep them healthy, but they will allow us to provide cash up
and we reallocate that cash around the group, or between themselves. There is question
behind you.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Thanks, Tom. Again just following up on the cost to income ratio.

A - Thomas Dawson Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

I know you don't want to be drawn on the specifics of other financial targets, but can you
just talk a little bit about how your vision of value creation and the other metrics may
evolve over time? And specifically, the checks and balances that you've got in place next
to the cost to income ratio, because at the back of my mind was I think I understand the

Page 100 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

philosophy behind that ratio. In practice if you've got that ratio and nothing else, it can
dangerous unintended consequences in what is – it seems that we non-growth
commoditized markets.
I will answer that and then I will give either Tom or Jason to add something on that. So the
danger, of course, you're talking about is when people chase top line not interested in
top line. Now we need it we need a metric that balances off. You've got an optimum level
and you do that basically by bonuses. So for example, the waiting on cash flow in the UK is
just cash flow by itself is four times what the weighting would be on a cost to income ratio.
The waiting on operating profit, this is (05:41:05) after all restructuring costs, not before
restructuring costs, to be absolutely clear. It's four times what it is on the cost to income
ratio. So you can do it by that. Then you have profitability measures and payback
measures. So what's the cash flow payback for XYZ product and you do it to the pricing of
those products as well.
You will never see in this organization me paying anyone for volume. I'm not saying
volume or scow was important and you need scows to get your costs down, so you can
make decent margin on it, but you won't see us paying for volume. Not one of the team
members table has paid for volume at all and (05:41:46) volume which of course is a
profit metrics.

Bloomberg Transcript

So do you want to add anything to that?
I mean, I think you gave a good flavor here that we're not mechanical about (05:41:5705:42:22)
Sure. So, let me start again. Are we saying that, again we don't apply the KPIs
mechanically, they are weighted. We have a sense as to where our growth businesses
are, where our cash generators are, where the turnaround businesses are. But I think as
we sort of go into the next phase, as David McMillan was referring to, sort of the
competition for capital in the group, the strategic overlay and what we're looking for the
different businesses to achieve, is this something that's going to be under review and you
know we may adjust some of the KPIs of the weightings to reflect that.
Come down here and then we come back to it. Okay
You could please talk a little bit more about the reinsurance mix and strategy because you
see that that's potentially quite a significant change in the way of even manages its capital
and diversification benefit. So how significant in terms of capital release or how would you
show the numbers well to reflect as you get the benefit?
It's actually – and on top of that, it's also important for the internal line. So the reinsurance
mix is actually a key part. Now, the (05:43:31) mix is sitting up here. So John, I'm going to
pass to you, but it's – and just to be clear, it's also something that's had an extraordinary

Page 101 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

amount of discussion with the regulator to get their support on this as has been pretty
robust process.
Thank you. And yeah, I mean essentially what we are doing is trying to pull risks from
across the group. We've started with the two UK businesses. So we've taken 10% of the
annuity business and 5% of the general insurance business, moved them into a common
legal entity. That enabled us to release capital, release actual capital through
diversification of those risks within the reinsurance mixer and improved the capital position
of the UK Life business and the General Insurance business, and that enables us to
dividend capital up to the group. And our intention is to expand that clearly to other areas
and we've been talking to other parts of the business including French business, the Polish
business, the Italian business et cetera. And I think what we are looking to achieve is
something that other European companies have done such as Allianz and Zurich through
different means. And it gives us more flexibility about how we manage the capital of the
group and how we manage the capital of the different businesses.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

The other thing I would say, and that it's also Solvency II efficient, if I can put it that way.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Absolutely, Solvency II efficient.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And sourced and lot of the actions have seen us take over the last two years because we
probably understand that Solvency II better than most because we've been operating
under making (05:45:23).

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

So, if I may just add one point, just build on last point that Solvency II. Solvency II requires
you to demonstrate both fungibility of capital and transferability and having a reinsurance
mixer enables us to do that.
I just wanted to amplify a couple of points there. We've just gotten started with this and
achieved the benefits that John is talking about it. I think over time, more like some of our
peers are potential against some other benefits here in terms of, you talked about
moving capital around the group. This is another way for us effectively to shift capital and
investment and risk around the group to get those benefits. There probably also are
some other benefits in terms of how we optimize along the lines of some of the things I
was talking about earlier today. And then as we think about investing, there's probably
some opportunities here to invest the assets from the reinsurance mix or manage our
investments and liquidity a little bit different than we've done in the past. So it's still early
days there, but I think there's a lot of opportunity for us over time to effectively turn the
reinsurance mixer into a business line for us and staff it up with people and report it that
way.

Page 102 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

And you know on the – obviously the way, what I was trying to look at it was 50% of capital
still in the underperforming businesses.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Just get a feel about what that might be in a few years' time, because something about
the cost target, it doesn't feel like cost targets can certainly turn all these businesses from
the low ROE into a high ROE on their own. So I was wondering how you get the ROE of
these businesses up and how much capital will be allocated in there, maybe it takes time.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That's the right question and I realized this morning after the session that I've deleted a
slide that may have had explained this. The previous slide and the previous ones you had,
the underperforming red cells as they were called were not on that graph for the simple
reason that they've gone. Right, so underperforming to us means, it's not reaching the
targets that we want. And so it's – there were several buyers (05:47:32) taken off the
bottom buyer because we've sold them all or moved them or whatever. Just for absolute
clarity, because I think there's a lot of confusion on that, today. Look, the part of the
question that we've got, so if you look at say the turnaround sales of or take some
examples might be lead this way, if you look at the turnaround sales of say Italy and Spain,
clearly they are in that range.
So they've got two choices, haven't they? Either they give us capital back or they get the
capital – they return on the capital there to an acceptable level. And to do that, they've
got to be cutting costs dramatically whatever now in a lot of those ways giving us capital
back can also solve that problem. And that's about we saw Patrick talked before, as you
heard him talking some people, he is talking about last night it was about what it'd done
with the product range so you reduce the capital intensive products. We've sold off the
bets too so that we can control that business now. And therefore, you can release capital
up to the group. You release capital up to the group and you're still meeting your
Solvency II requirements. And in this case, Solvency II actually helps the Italian business. So
Solvency II helps to lease capital up, what do you? Return on capital employed improves,
doesn't it of course.
So, I mean, I wouldn't assume that all this is purely a cost play that would be a wrong
assumption. I would suggest to you that the answer to your question was different if we
sell we have. And to be really blunt, the sale can't get there and there's no prospect to
getting there (05:49:12). Right just to be really blunt on it, if there is no prospect of getting
there through whatever means, we'll exit then, we reemploy the capital somewhere else.
And I think we've shown them in the last 12 months. I mean, it's absolutely the right
question because we're asking that question all the time and that's part of the Jason's
new role. And frankly, also, say, it is a key part of my job. My job is to allocate capital
between businesses and between countries. And I said earlier on, I will exit countries if

Page 103 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

necessary to invest in others that are going to give us a bit of a tune. And again, I think,
that's what the great businesses do. What else?

FINAL

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Sorry to get back to the £800 million, but how much of the – the quite positive experience
you had in 2013 you assume to recur in that £800 million. And then just on the PRA
subject, I mean, you obviously have an awful lot of discussions with your being regulated.
But some of your peer companies since becoming away with recent discussion with a
negative surprise particularly on the Solvency II, can you just sort of confirm that you are...

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

...rock solid confident?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

All right. Lance (05:50:33) always ask me the easy ones, so welcome back. I can confirm
that our discussions with both the PRA and the FCA a very positive discussions. I can
confirm that so far we've had no nasty surprises in Solvency II, but we've got to remember
where we are on Solvency II. So we don't have (05:50:58), we don't have high
guarantees. We sold our U.S. business. We've done all the problematic areas that we have
made some real good progress on and frankly I think that's one of the areas that people
before me really looked at and looked at well and what we've done is we've shown to
that, a lot of us being led by John Lister here. And I'm not saying there couldn't be any
surprises. Please don't take that message because we haven't seen all the Tier 2 takes,
what I can say is so far as coming out where we thought it would.
And I know there has been some people who will say they've got all these issues. Well,
we're not trying to say earlier today, some people have different financial dynamics with
us than, in different countries they have different product ranges and so they're impacted
fundamentally different (05:51:49) players. It's not a one size fits all. I do suggest to you
that Solvency II is a big competitive issue in the market. I can tell you in places like Spain
and Italy, this will help our competitive position because we've been measuring these
guys are now basis here, now everyone's going to be measured on Solvency II which is
much closer to our basis here.
So you can see the – you see the – I think the variance – the positive variances point, you
always and I'll ask Jason on the executive assumption behind, I'm not sure what we've
said and what we haven't said publicly. But you would always – we try on most things,
particularly things like investment variance and things like that, we model as though
there's no improvement. So, we're just modeling, we're not modeling and assuming there
is a big tailwind or anything like that. We aren't taking everything through in terms of
variances now just because we might see this year mortality experience and stuff, but you
do visit those over time. I would expect if you run a business well, you would get positive
variance. You would need to get positive variance, I'd expect in a well-run business.
Page 104 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

(05:53:04) what would FCA model through that or either we, the answer is not much. Any
variances to ICG.

FINAL

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

So. Well, the ICG is effectively for non-life (05:53:21) and that's modeled with a long-term
investment assumption, which is agreed every year. On the life side, it's really the release
of MCV surplus that comes through each year and that's based on assumptions and we
take through the changes, but it's the operating figure and it's clearly in the variances
above and below the line like any MCV type analysis, asset management is even easier.
That's just a straightforward profit that comes through. So each year and as we go
through it, the experiences just checks in the easier way on the embedded value analysis.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I think from my understanding your question I think about and the £800 million will be the
same, what's the – what have you modeled for (05:53:59), okay. So you're not assuming
positive variance, if you're assuming that, then you're assuming it's not variance, you're
assuming new models. Does that make sense?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

So when we set plans, we're assuming...

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Is that your question?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

That is my question.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

That is your question. Yeah, okay.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Yeah. We're assuming it's pretty been a steady state economic assumptions, and in fact
we're not assuming a variance versus the assumptions in planning with respect to those
we're announcing.
Because you know off the £1,772 million OCG, last year £350 was positive variance, which
you can't assume that spend to continue with your expense rate.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I think you can assume with type of (05:54:41). Just a word an OCG as well because I had
a lot of questions about that in the breaks as well. So OCG is an important metric, just to
be clear. So I think Tom's key point is that OCG will have to be redefined going forward
under Solvency II. That's really the main point so whether you call it OCG or something
Page 105 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

else is bit a relevant I think, but we'll have to be defined as with everyone one else
because OCG is a (05:55:10) really put a one metric. So you need to update that for
Solvency II once we have over take some Solvency 2. So you can assume some stage this
year, we will give you an updated metric for Solvency 2 obviously during next year just not
at the end of 2015, but we'll give you something on this that will help you. Is that helpful?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Helpful.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

What else?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Can I?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

You can take them please.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Yeah. Just on the OCG point.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

So, I mean, I appreciate there are positive operating variances.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

There's almost £300 million or so in 2013. You would expect a normal run rate of positive
operational variances going forward because you would expect your business to be
running off positively. So when we look at 2014, 2015 and 2016, are you modeling anything
for operational variances?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

What's your definition of operational variances?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Page 106 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Well, it's the release of free surplus. Everything that's included in the release of free
surface does not relate to investment gains or investment variances.

FINAL

Yes. We would be expecting the release of free surplus. If the question is, are there sort
of unusual investment variances or something sort of changes in the market? We're not
assuming anything there. We're sort of assuming a straightforward market, but otherwise
sort of the unwind of what's embedded in the actuarial MCB (05:56:46) assumptions.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah. But that's not variance as such.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

We expect that to release.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

So, we don't see that as a variance. So, releasing surplus example of the debt book, it's
not a variance, that's just there. In fact, if you have a look at some of the data we provided
last year, we actually showed that too, just in the slides, we showed it up I think 10 years.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we put it, probably think about it another way then if we were modeling for €300
million going forward included in that €800, should we – on our own model, should we
model zero or should we model a normal run rate?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

A normal run rate. You'd not – a normal run rate. I wouldn't assume I think variances as
one-off, should assume normal release from that business. And I think we have provided
pretty sure, we have provided that before. So I'd assume – I would put that normal
release in your model and then make the assumptions on whatever else we can do on
that cost we have and the stuff on top of that, so do it that way, that might help you get to
the number I expect.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

(05:57:51).

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah. See that's the problem with these (05:57:55).

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

I was just wondering about, you got below 50%...

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}
Page 107 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

FINAL

...operating expense ratio target.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

We can work out from our own view about expenses and what you're expecting, but what
so kind of normal run rate one might expect for the operating revenues to grow?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

You have to form your own view on that as well and that's why I'd say – I mean, look, we
even considered you know do we give more guidance on that. And I know all of you guys
will always want more guidance. So, I could have just also gone out and said, here's a cost
saving target of X hundred million and here's a revenue growth target of Y. And then
frankly, I'll begin myself zero room to move between the two. And I didn't want to do that.
I mean (05:58:45), we didn't want to do that. And part of the reason is because people in
our businesses say these two gentlemen are going to have to make that choice every
day. And one thing was certain, so Morris just told you all today that he's going to grow on
the second half of this year. If Morris doesn't grow in the second half of this year, he's
going to have to be more aggressive on cost, all right. Because the metric that I want him
to focus on is say his cost income ratio must improve so that he will get his earnings
target. And I'm not going to give any guidance on the earnings targets today because –
and I'll never give any guidance on the earnings targets just to be clear, because I think
that will just read short-term business and I'm not going to do that, I really don't want to
do that. Okay. So I may not help with the modeling, I get that, I understand that, but I think
I would help with that results.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Can I just a quick question for completeness? In terms of your central liquidity of the
holding company...

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Are you comfortable with that level or you'd be looking to build that with operational cash
resources?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Page 108 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

FINAL

Again, I'll hand over to Tom. Just a bit of a (06:00:01) first. So what we've said previously
is, as you'll recall, we've said that our central liquidity, we expect that to be around about
the £1 billion level. Obviously, in our last releases, it's hard than that, so you've got a bit of
central liquidity there. And we haven't – we're not going to be changing any of that
guidance to you today. Do you want to add anything – any flavor?

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

No, I think that's it. I think that's exactly right. I mean, it's sort of a £1 billion, this is what
we're looking at is kind of the target. Day-to-day we may be above or below that, just as
we manage the business and look at the pace of dividends coming up from subsidiaries
and expenditures elsewhere. We've got liquidity lines and other things to manage as well
around that, but that's sort of the number that we're comfortable with. We look at it from
a couple of different perspectives. We've got a number of different scenario tests and
stress testing that we do. And then also just operationally, we look at sort of the interest
expense, center costs and dividend budget for the year and think about it that way.
Yeah, helpful.
Yeah. Just on – I'm asking question, this one about commission.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

And you said that on trail, you're stopping paying commission at the end of this year. Now,
I mean, now it's just off the top of my head, I'm going to guess about a third of your UK
cost base in the UK life business is commission, and that'd be acquisition and trail. So –
and some of that's going to be protection where that's going to continue. But just on the
basis of obviously the acquisition, initial commission has gone, and the trail commission is
going to end this year. I mean, what's the absolute saving, what's the absolute
improvement in OCG purely from commission dropping off on everything which is nonprotection?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes, and I'll now hand over to Dave, but these pluses and minuses on this as well by the
way. So you had too lots of regulation that have impacted the behavior of advice say it
idea and then you had all the pension stuff and they all really go hand-in-hand. The
interesting thing is, so when people talk about the drop-off of the book and the retention
and our negative flows, so negative flows as we showed just last quarter results or last
time we gave you the figures have improved. Now frankly, this was probably an
unexpected outcome of ideas. So if people can't take commissions for twisting stuff to
other companies, it actually helps your retention. And that's why I think we have probably
underestimated that. Then you see charging caps and that sort of thing of a negative
impact. And that's really been offset I guess by the commission. Where is Dave
(06:02:43)?

Page 109 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, no. I mean, I haven't got the total commission in my head, I mean it's pretty
significant for particularly for the – I mean the bond stuff is kind of pretty much finished. So
you're really talking about TPP (06:03:02). And I don't – I can't remember the precise
number, but it's obviously in tens of millions.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean the balance is out there. There were some downsides as well you and I
cover. So I mean as it stands, there's two sides related.

A - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

I mean it's the flip side of the coin, I mean the charge kept coming, it was intended to
come in. And that was clearly depressed income. And as part of the regulatory
environment indicates to reduction in commissions or elimination commissions which is
helpful. It's not something the industry can do in its own. And the balance of that leaves
the product profitability roughly neutral, which is a good thing. It improves the profile from
our perspective. And the challenge for...
It should improve persistence and that's something ...

Bloomberg Transcript

...indeed.
... and straight in the line. So we will – I think that's one – I think what we were indicating
earlier is, we will – we'll take – we'll benefit from actions or commissions in respect to
regulatory change, but also look at opportunities to reduce commissions on orphan
customers and the like, where it's appropriate. And clearly, the shifting nature of our
product mix will move the way of expenses and commissions over time, and that's how
we think about it. So you shouldn't expect a pop in OCG at some point in the near future
in respect to that particular matter.
There is another element of this turn. (06:04:33) orphan – so-called orphan customer
base, the ones that don't have an advisor has also jumped a lot and a lot saying across
the UK, it's whether the – what's the figure, what's UK. Yes.
(06:04:46)
The ones that we can market to.
And (06:04:49)

A - Unverified Participant
Okay. So, that's jumped as well. So it is now advisor text. What else. That's it. Well, if you
do have any other questions, please you have my IR team to follow up. I think it's been a
long day. Thank you for your time for your patience. Welcome to the (06:05:15). I know it's
Page 110 of 111



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-09

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

uncomfortable, but as you can see, it's actually pretty fruitful for a discussion and this is
where we have a lot of our key sell review meetings and management meetings exactly
in this form. We'll back on this floor. So, thank you everyone, and your feedback would be
very welcome.

Page 111 of 111

