Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

S1 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Rose, CEO, comparenow.com
David Stevens, COO
Geraint Jones, CFO
Henry Engelhardt, CEO
Kevin Chidwick, CEO, Elephant Auto
Lorna Connelly, Head of UK Claims
Unidentiﬁed Speaker, Analyst

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst
Marcus Rivaldi, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ravi Tanna, Analyst

Presentation
Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Good morning. And thank you for joining us for Admiral Group's results announcement
for the ﬁrst half 2014. I'm Henry Engelhardt, Chief Executive of Admiral Group. And I'm
joined today for the presentation by our newly promoted CFO, Geraint Jones.
Some of you might be wondering what happened to what's his name, the old CFO? Well
he's here too. Kevin Chidwick stepped into the role as CEO of our US insurance business,
Elephant Auto, a couple of years ago, while simultaneously doing the CFO job. But with
the growth in potential of Elephant, he took the decision that it was time to relinquish the
CFO position and concentrate solely on Elephant.
I'm very pleased to say that Geraint, who has been with us since 2002, has cleared all the
internal and external hurdles and, as of today, is the Group CFO.
In addition to Geraint and Kevin, you'll also hear from David Stevens, our COO and CEO
of the UK insurance business. He'll be joined by Lorna Connelly, who runs UK claims. And

Page 1 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

they'll go into some details on the vagaries of the UK car insurance market and what state
it is in today.

FINAL

Following David and Lorna, Kevin will talk about Elephant and will be joined by the CEO
of comparenow.com, our US price-comparison business, Andrew Rose.
Let me just start by summarizing our results. There are a lot of positives to take from our
H1 2014 results but, equally, no shortage of challenges ahead.
The positives are the results themselves; a record ﬁrst half of the year proﬁt and dividend,
in particular. And continued progress on the non-UK businesses and UK household.
The big challenge is the UK car insurance market. In the UK car insurance business, it's
very simple. We have more customers and less income now, compared to last year. And
so, unless there is a noticeable change in claims frequency and/or severity, there will be
pressure on margins.
Now let's look at some of the speciﬁcs. It was a good half year for proﬁts; in fact, the best
ﬁrst half of the year in Admiral's history.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It was also a good ﬁrst half for earnings per share, which increased by 5% to 52.7p; the
higher rate of increase there due to a lower rate of corporation tax in the UK.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The dividend will be 49.4p per share; slightly higher than H1 2013 and higher than any
other ﬁrst-half dividend we've ever paid.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

And there was good solid growth in customer numbers, up 9% to just under 4 million;
130,000 additional vehicles in the UK year on year; decent growth in international; and
good growth in UK household and Gladiator.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Turnover is down, which is due to falling rate levels in the UK business.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

And ﬁnally, on this slide, the Group's return on equity, which is still running in the mid50s%. A very good result and we think pretty much unmatched elsewhere.

Page 2 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

Here's a closer look at the turnover in customer numbers. It's a bit hard to see. But there
has been growth in Gladiator and UK household and, compared to H1 last year, non-UK
insurance.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

This slide shows the proportion that each of our business segments contributes to the
total customer numbers and it shows a similar pattern to Henry's slide on turnover.
You see continued growth in the total. And the mix continues to change. Today, 14% of the
4 million or so customers come from our international insurance operations and 6% come
from Gladiator and household.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a slide that's very familiar to you, showing the proﬁtability of the Group. And as you
can see, it continues to be led by UK car insurance. The reason for the reduction in proﬁt
from price comparison is partly Confused and partly the investment we're making in
comparenow.com, which Andrew will talk more to in just a few minutes.
This slide is important because it reconciles our statutory results with reality. In this case,
reality is represented by the fact that we don't own 100% of all the entities in the Group
but we are obliged to report 100% of their proﬁts and losses. In particular, the reality is
that we only own 68% of comparenow.com, even though our statutory results will show
100% of any proﬁt or loss.
Now, there's not a big diﬀerence between the two results in H1 2014. But the plan is to
move compare now’s marketing spend up by some GBP15 million to GBP20 million in H2
2014 and possibly spend in excess of GBP60 million next year.
Previous experience says that if the market is very receptive to price comparison, we
might be in proﬁt in 2016. But more likely it will be 2017. And this means we'll be carrying
losses for several years.
The compare now losses in H2 2014 are likely to be around GBP10 million for our share
and somewhere between GBP10 million and GBP30 million in 2015.
We think the US is right for price comparison and all our consumer research supports this.
And so we do this investment.
So if we're so bullish, you might ask, why did we sell oﬀ 32%? That we have sold 32% of
this venture is testimony to the risk averse nature of the Group. We believe that compare
now has great upside potential as it's an Internet disruptor in a very large market. But we

Page 3 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

know it will sustain losses in its early years and we are happy to sacriﬁce some of the
upside potential this business has for risk mitigation today.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

I'm going to talk a bit about the bond, a bit about capital and then I'm going to ﬁnish up
talking about the interim dividend.
Firstly, to recap the bond issue. As you know, at the end of July we issued GBP200 million
of 10-year subordinated notes, which qualify as lower Tier 2 under the current capital
regime and we expect to qualify as Tier 2 under the Solvency II capital regime.
Why do we do it? Well you see the key rationale on the left-hand side of the slide here
and there are a number of reasons.
It was, in our view, a good time to strengthen and diversify the capital base. We believe
that holding a much larger buﬀer above capital requirements as we head into Solvency II
is a prudent and appropriate thing to do. And more on capital requirements coming up in
just a second. And importantly, additional capital now sets us up well for growth we
expect in the future from across our operations around the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

And it isn't on the slide. But just to reiterate, we haven't raised the debt to do M&A and
we haven't raised the debt because we see any immediate or fundamental change in our
reinsurance business model.
Just how favorable the conditions were in the market you'll, of course, judge for
yourselves but, as you see on the right-hand side of this slide, the net annual costs of the
GBP200 million is about GBP4 million a year, or about 2%.
Moving on, let's take a look at the capital position at the end of June. And these charts
here show the coverage against our current capital requirements; on the left excluding
and on the right including the debt. And you see very strong coverage against the
Solvency I requirement; 440% after deducting the interim 2014 dividend.
Now there are a couple of important points to note here.
During 2015 the Group's capital requirement will be based on a Group individual capital
assessment, with individual capital guidance applied by the PRA. If that requirement were
enforced today, then, after deducting the 2014 interim dividend, we would show a surplus
above that requirement in excess of GBP300 million.
And of course, there's Solvency II. As you know, the capital regime in Europe
fundamentally changes from January 1, 2016. Our regulatory capital requirements from
that date will be set by a standard formula, though the actual capital requirement will be
higher and will be derived via our own risk and solvency assessment, or ORSA, process.

Page 4 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Based on what we know now, we expect to hold a substantial surplus above the standard
formula capital requirement and a signiﬁcant surplus above the actual ORSA capital
requirement. But to caveat, the capital requirement numbers are to be agreed and so
there is uncertainty, hence one of the key reasons for issuing the debt to make sure the
Group is well placed to deal with that uncertainty.

FINAL

On to the dividend and here you see the usual slide that sets out the calculation of it.
Before we get into the numbers here, just to reiterate; our philosophy as regards to
dividend is unchanged.
We believe in distributing to shareholders surplus capital we don't need to keep in the
company for solvency capital, plus any appropriate margin we feel that's appropriate to
withhold. We pay a normal dividend of 45% post-tax proﬁts and then a special dividend,
which is based on any remaining surplus at the measurement point.
On to the numbers. Calculations start, as usual, with the capital in the Company, which
this time includes the bond; that's GBP674 million. We deduct the solvency capital
requirement, which is based on our current capital requirements from around the Group;
that's GBP287 million. Then we determine the level of buﬀer to withhold.

Bloomberg Transcript

And usually here, of course, you'd see a small margin; GBP30 million it's been recently.
This time the margin is materially bigger, at GBP250 million; much of which, of course, is
made up of the new capital in the Group.
And that gets us to a dividend of GBP137 million, or 49.4p per share.
Now the speciﬁcs of this calculation will, of course, change as the Group ICA
requirements come into eﬀect in 2015. But we'd expect to continue holding a signiﬁcant
margin above those requirements, somewhere in the order of what it is today, as we make
the prudent transition to Solvency II that we've talked about.
And on dividends, for the near term we'd expect payout ratios to be pretty similar to the
current levels, maybe slightly above, maybe slightly below. But somewhere in the current
ballpark.
And just to ﬁnish on dividends, this slide shows the payout ratios and a little bit of the
history. And you can see the current period payout ratio. And it hasn't changed too
radically in recent years. Just for a little bit of context, the 2014 interim dividend isn't too
far away from being twice as big as it was ﬁve years ago.
And the normal/special that you see on the top right-hand side, 23.7p is 45% of post-tax
proﬁts, that's the normal element. And the special is 25.7p. And if you've got some shares
you'll get paid on October 10.

Page 5 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Henry, back to you.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

Sounds good, Geraint. Thank you. The next couple of slides go into some detail on the
non-UK operations. We continue to invest in and grow our operations outside the UK.
There is a slightly bigger loss in H1 2014 than before, which is due to a few items that we
don't expect to be repeated in the second half of the year.
These are primarily an advertising campaign in Spain for our Qualitas Auto brand, where
the expenditure has been weighted to the ﬁrst six months of the year; and the
implications of some reinsurance caps, where we're taking a conservative view. And there
will be more clarity at the end of the full year.
What isn't in these numbers is that we are seeing good loss ratio numbers from the Italian
business. But caution investors that this is, like the UK, a long tail market and there is still a
large amount of uncertainty in the back years.
The US operation continues to grow. And Kevin will talk more about this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meanwhile in France we are busy in-sourcing operations to our new oﬃce in Lille, as well
as developing a computer system from which to run the business.
We don't expect any growth in this market until sometime in 2015. However, we are
keenly waiting for the enactment of a new law in France which will take changing car
insurer from a complicated process to a simple free process. The law, which has already
been passed, is expected to go into eﬀect later this year.
The price comparison businesses results in sum are pretty good. However, Confused is
ﬁnding it very tough going and proﬁts are slightly down year on year. It's just the opposite
story for Rastreator in Spain and LeLynx in France, where proﬁts are rising.
And now over to David and Lorna for a closer look at the UK.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Henry and Geraint. So Lorna and I are going to talk about the UK market and
we'll start with obviously a key number; the proﬁtability up 8% in the ﬁrst half versus the
previous year, essentially driven by increased reserve releases oﬀsetting the negative
impact of reduced current-year proﬁtability.
The size of the business in terms of cars insured has risen slightly. New business volumes
actually have been ﬂat in the ﬁrst half of 2014 versus 2013. But we have seen a very

Page 6 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

positive evolution on retention ratios and mid-term cancelation ratios. So the persistency
level has increased. And that's essentially what's driven the 4% increase in cars on cover.

FINAL

Turnover down 9%, as obviously the average written premium has fallen substantially.
A little bit of that is because our new business mix has taken us a bit away from the
youngest drivers. A little bit of that is because there's more renewal in the mix than new
business than there was in the ﬁrst half of 2013. But most of it is price reductions in the
nine months from Quarter One 2013 and in the ﬁrst three months of 2014.
We started increasing rates in May. And the increases that we put through in the Second
Quarter equal the reductions that went through in the First Quarter, such that our rates at
the end of the ﬁrst half were in line with our rates at the end of the full year. And we've
subsequently put in some further price increases.
Our view is that there will be price increases in the market in the second half. We're going
up. A couple of other major players have announced that they're going up. It's unclear
how substantial those increases will be. But we would expect the prices in December to
be higher than the prices at the end of June.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look at the key performance measures for the UK car insurance business, starting
with the expense ratio.
The earned expense ratio here is shown and it's gone up from 15% to 16.4%; a reﬂection
of the falling average premiums.
Now a little note here. The reported number is actually slightly down. And that's a one-oﬀ
impact of a change in accountancy convention on levies and fees, which was worth about
GBP4.5 million to the proﬁts in the ﬁrst half, GBP6.5 million in the whole year and won't
be repeated in subsequent years.
Another important measure, obviously; other revenue per vehicle. Flat in the ﬁrst half at
GBP67 versus the whole of 2013. Slightly up when you net out expenses that are directly
attributable to other revenue, at GBP58 versus GBP57.
But there is continuing regulatory pressure on these revenue sources and obviously we're
responding to that. The most obvious pressure that might result in a material impact on
the 2015 line is the work that the Competition and Markets Authority is doing on credit
hire, which may lead to the end of credit hire referral fee income, or at least a signiﬁcant
reduction. It may not, it's still being consulted on. But it's important to be aware that
there's GBP5 a vehicle at risk in 2015.
The claims ratio. Down from 68% to 66%. That's the function of a 3percentage point
deterioration in the claims ratio on a current-year basis and a 5percentage point increase
in reserve releases.

Page 7 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

So let's look at those reserve releases.

FINAL

In the ﬁrst half of 2013 we released 14%. This ﬁrst half we're releasing 19%. That is partly
the result of some positive evolution, some surprisingly positive evolution, on the
2011/2012 years, which are demonstrating increasing proﬁtability. And that has allowed us
to increase our reserve releases in this manner without actually eating into our buﬀer over
expected ultimate claims.
Obviously in that situation, unless claims develop in some unexpected manner, we would
anticipate further material releases going forward.
However, if current-year margins continue to deteriorate, the scope for compensating for
deteriorating margins is not inﬁnite and, at some point, we have to see some
improvements on current-year margins if we're going to maintain our proﬁtability.
Current-year margins are a function of claims inﬂation and premium inﬂation. Lorna will
talk about the claims environment.

Lorna Connelly

{BIO 19791125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, David. Good morning, everybody. I am delighted to be here today to talk to you
in a little detail about what I think are the claims trends in the UK that you'd be more
interested in learning about.
And before I start, because it's my ﬁrst time presenting the results, I thought I'd just give
you a little bit background on myself.
My whole career to date has been in the claims environment. So I clearly enjoy the claims
environment, previously working at Aviva and AXA before joining Admiral some 20 years
ago now. Roles I've held at Admiral have included Head of Diamond claims with Diamond
brand, Deputy Head of UK claims and, for the last 18 months, Head of Claims of the UK.
So today I'm going to talk to you about claims frequency and some bodily injury costs as
well, which I may refer to at times as BI costs. And you may recall that, in March, we gave
you what we outlined at the time to be mildly optimistic and mildly pessimistic views of
how claims frequency could develop. So what's happened since then?
So if I start with small BI. If we take a look at the graph on the left and what it shows you is
the volume of the small BI claims that are notiﬁed through the Ministry of Justice portal.
Now the Ministry of Justice portal, you may remember, is the method that a lawyer uses to
submit a small bodily injury claim to an insurer.
And what you can see from here on the red trend line is that, post LASPO, the market did
experience some drop in volume but that beneﬁt has now started to erode. And in fact, in
June the volume of claims received through the portal was the highest June on record
since the portal launched in 2010. So some caution here on small bodily injury claims.
Page 8 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

And if you move on to the second graph on the right, what this shows you is the average
damages for claims settled through the portal and you can see here there are some
inﬂationary pressures. What's driving that? Well the portal limit was moved from
GBP10,000 to GBP25,000 in July last year. But I do think it's still a little early for that to
have any signiﬁcant eﬀect.
The main drivers here are the Simmons case, which eﬀectively added on 10% to damages
post LASPO. And also increases in the guides that we use in the industry to value personal
injury claims, known as the JCG, the Judicial College Guidelines.
You must remember, of course, that these increased costs are on a backdrop of fall in
lawyers' costs from small bodily injury. So the fall in small bodily injury may have been
short lived and there are some pressures on costs here.
But it's important to remember that small bodily injury is only part of the picture, although
it seems to hog all the headlines.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we take a look next at the mix between BI and non-BI claims, you can see that over the
last seven years it's been increasing all the time. And a department like ours has had to
adapt quickly and eﬀectively to be able to handle this well. And I think the ABI have
reported a 60% increase in whiplash claims between 2006 and 2012.
But again, I draw your attention to the red graph. It's not all about bodily injury. You can
see from this chart, which compares overall claims frequency in the market reported by
the ABI, the reduction, which we and the market enjoyed in previous years, has reversed
through now since 2013.
In addition, although very small in number compared to the small bodily injury claims,
you can see from the ﬁnal chart on this slide that it is large BI claims that account for the
lion's share of total costs. And it's these costs that have and continue to be increasing.
Now when any of you visit us I'm frequently asked: What are the drivers of large bodily
inﬂation? So I thought today would be an ideal opportunity for us to delve into that in a
little more detail. So to aid that, what we've done is create for you an illustration, albeit
quite a stark one. But an illustration of the increased costs in large BI claims.
So we've taken a claim that was settled in 2007 for a young person with a severe head
injury and, given our experience since, we've tried to take a view on what parts of that
schedule could look like if we were going to settle that claim today.
And while you digest some of that, I think it's a good time to point out that, at the end of
the day, this is what we're here for. This is our role to make sure that claimants receive the
right level of compensation. But the ﬁgures here are quite striking. So I'm going delve into
some of them in a little more detail.

Page 9 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

So the drivers, there are many. But for the purposes of today I would put them into three
main categories. So the ﬁrst one is the obvious one, inﬂation; inﬂation on the cost of care.
That has a signiﬁcant impact here. So we've moved from a world where there are one or
two carers to a world where three are needed to cover all of the hours and that
increasingly those three need to be medical specialists as well.
And the drivers of care cost rising are things like working time directive, manhandling
regulations, compulsory training for carers, pension primers [ph]; all these types of things
have added up into the inﬂation that we're experiencing.
Next we've got what I would term sophistication. So again there's been a shift; a shift from
claims being presented to us by varying lawyers, some of them just high street ones, to a
handful of key specialists, experts.
And schedules have become far more sophisticated. So transport costs for wheelchairs
and vehicles has moved on somewhat. New technology has become a big thing. So
voice-activated televisions, lights and curtains. Prosthetics have advanced considerably. I
think new technology is great news for claimants. But, of course, it costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally we have the lawyer's costs and quite a diﬀerence here as well, because in this
intervening period success fees have come into play. So in many cases a lawyer can earn
a considerable markup on his fees, sometimes 100%; so eﬀectively doubling the fees that
he earns.
We need specialist lawyers because of the sophistication I just mentioned and because of
their desire to do the best for their client. While they become involved much earlier than
before, they use more experts, obtain more medical reports, they do more investigations,
they seek more' counsels opinion. And all this additional time adds up. And they add up
quite a lot, to some signiﬁcant ﬁgure like this.
So what we're left with is a claim that's presented to us using far greater care,
sophistication and expertise than before.
So we've talked through what's happening with frequency. And we've talked in a little
detail about some of the pressures on the costs. I wanted to end by reminding you of
some of Admiral's key strengths in claims handling. But I talked to Louise and there's not
much on the technical front I think I'm able to disclose today. So I'm going to keep it quite
general.
For those of you that have visited us and spent time with us, I think you know it's our
people that make the big diﬀerence, I think. Our people. We've said it before. And it
remains true, it's the people that we recruit and nurture and develop into these key
specialist roles within our department that make the diﬀerence.
Then, of course, it's the culture, the culture that you hear so much about, that's deeply
embedded into our organization; the proactive approach to reserving and claims
Page 10 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

handling, the empowerment and accountability that that culture and staﬀ ownership of
the business actually brings on a day-to-day basis.
And you may be surprised at this one. I's not just an expense ratio issue. But I truly believe
that having our oﬃces still only 60 miles apart makes a big diﬀerence. So despite our size,
we don't have the 10, 15, 20 oﬃces that many of our competitors have. Our staﬀ still get to
regularly meet people at diﬀerent oﬃces and to communicate with them to discuss things
and to update each other all of the time.
And I think it's factors like this that enable us to maintain that strong culture, strong
communication and, I guess this is the toughest one, consistency across all that we do in
the organization. And I think that's such a strong advantage.
I ﬁnally wanted to show you again my favorite chart, which I think is at the heart of all that
we do in claims and underpins our strengths, is what our customers think at the end of the
day after their claims experience. And of course, it's my job to make sure that next year
there's a tick on there for 2014.
That's all from me. So I'll hand you back to David.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Lorna. So what we've been hearing then is we're running towards the end of
the windfall on frequency that came about through the recession and the erosion of the
value of the regulatory reform and continuing structural inﬂation on large BI.
And that all adds up, in a sense, to a reversion to the situation which we've been familiar
with for most of our 20 years of existence of claims inﬂation running at 3, 4 points above
the underlying level of inﬂation in the economy.
And I think that's something that we'll probably be looking to live with over the next few
years as well.
So I mentioned at the beginning that an erosion of margins is about claims inﬂation and
it's about premiums. So let's talk a bit about premiums.
This is a sort of hybrid exhibit that shows, in red, the average earned premium in the
market from PRA returns and, in blue, the average written premiums from the ABI Index.
And what you're seeing is written premiums down roughly 5% in the ﬁrst half of 2014 and
you're seeing, interestingly enough, the average premium in the market now at GBP360;
below the average premium in 2009. So all the value of the price increases of 2010, 2011
has been eroded.

Page 11 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

The change in premiums doesn't just aﬀect the loss ratio, of course. It aﬀects the expense
ratio. And what we have seen is an increase in the expense ratio in the market in 2013.

FINAL

We're showing here market earned expense ratio. The blue line is the Admiral expense
ratio on a written basis. Market earned at 29%. Some of you may be more familiar with the
31% number from the returns. The UKI returns tend to be very volatile on expenses and
we've taken them out.
But what you're seeing is the impact on the market expense ratio of falling premiums,
some impact on our own expense ratio. We're happy to see less of an impact and,
therefore, our expense ratio advantage, which has been a constant source of competitive
advantage, being slightly widened in 2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now some people look at this exhibit and say it's a little bit unfair that we're choosing
ratios because we're a higher average premium company. So we've also shown the
number in absolute on the right-hand side there; GBP73 versus GBP113, 35% lower. That
doesn't tell the full picture because actually higher premium business is more expensive
to manage. They call more, they cancel more, their direct debits bounce more, they claim
more.
And to try and quantify that impact, what we're showing here on the bottom is two
cohorts of business: a cohort of business GBP350 to GBP400, roughly market average
premium; a cohort of business GBP475 to GBP525, roughly our average premium. And
we've indexed the cancelation volumes and the claims volumes and you can see that the
impact is roughly in the order of just under 20% in terms of the requirement to administer
and handle and service the customer.
The last exhibit I'm going to do is on telematics. This is an exhibit that's a reﬂection of
interest from analysts and investors who want to hear more from us on telematics. We've
been doing telematics materially for the last two years. We did actually do a test in 2007
and 2008 that led us to believe that it was premature to invest further. But from 2012
we've been testing all the technologies on oﬀer; hard install, self-install and apps.
On the left-hand side at the bottom we've done a schematic of the market. We think that
telematics sales represent roughly 2.5% of new business sales at the moment by volume.
But that's nearer 6% or 7% by value, because it's a product that is still essentially a highpremium niche product at the moment.
Very, very hard to get hard ﬁgures on market share. So the colorful column is indicative.
And what it's trying to indicate is A, there are a lot of people doing telematics. Almost all
the signiﬁcant car insurers have some sort of telematic test in the progress. There's also a
tail of smaller players and there's some dedicated telematics brands, like Karas [ph] and
ingenie and Marmalade, which are players in the market.
And one player which is a dedicated telematics brand, of course, insurethebox, which is
represented by the green chunk at the bottom and we believe they probably have
somewhere in the order of 125,000 vehicles on cover.
Page 12 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

There's then probably a universe of three or four players who have between 40,000 and
60,000 vehicles on cover with a telematics product and we're towards the top end of that
range and, therefore, think we're probably. But it's a management guesstimate, second in
the market.
Why haven't we made more of a fuss about telematics historically? Well what we did say
six months ago is it's a challenge in terms of relative proﬁtability. Yes. We make money on
telematics policies but we make more money on non-telematic policies.
And I wouldn't say that's changed in the last six months. It's still work in progress. We are
making the investments that's implied by that size of policies in force. But we still need to
get better on customer-friendly options, lot of customer resistance still, lower technology
costs, squeezing extra value from the data.
It's not clear that risk selection alone will fund the costs. We've got to ﬁnd a maximum
number of uses for the data to oﬀset the costs themselves and the discounting that's
required to persuade the customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

And some of the commentary in this area can be somewhat simplistic. And one of the
ones that winds me up is: Oh well, this is going to become a mass market product with
apps, because apps are free. Well apps aren't free. If you put an app on an app store, the
world does not beat a path to your door. You have to tell the world about it. You have to
market that app. And there are a number of ways of doing it. But none of them particularly
cheap.
Then you have an interesting funnel. So what I've taken here is actually quite an ambitious
cost of GBP5 per person persuaded to take your app. They say they'll take your app; you
send them a link to the app store. Some of those never actually activate that link. Some of
them don't download your app, therefore. Some of them that download your app, they
never register. Some of them register, never actually use it for a single journey.
Some that use it for a single journey only use it for a single journey. And the number that
use it for more than a single journey don't use it for enough journeys for you to be able to
score. Then, at the end of that process, you oﬀer them a price and the majority of them
say no.
And when you've done that, if you're clever enough. And that is clever to do GBP5, you've
spent GBP235 to put a policy on cover. That is not free.
So that's where we are on telematics. I have to say, though, I am very excited by the
technology and it's one of the most enjoyable things that we're doing and one day it will
come good.
Summary then. Competitive market, of course. Encouraging, I think, that premium rates
seem to have stopped falling and that we think they will potentially rise in the second half,
although the violence or softness of that rise is very hard to assess.
Page 13 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Our margin expectations for the business we're currently writing are lower than our
experience on the business we wrote one or two years ago, due to rising claims cost and
falling premium.

FINAL

The nature of the way we book proﬁts; the proﬁts you're seeing today is a lot about the
business we wrote in 2011, 2012. The pressure on margins, therefore, that we see currently
potentially reﬂects on our proﬁts in the future.
Oﬀsetting that, we are in a very conservative situation on reserve release and reserves and
we do see reserve releases being a continuing material part of our proﬁt. But as I've said
before, if current-year margins continue to erode, you cannot defend proﬁtability ad
inﬁnitum using reserve releases.
Thank you. I'll now hand over to Kevin and Andrew to talk about the States.

Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Thank you, Lorna. Thank you, David. Well I guess if you do these presentations long
enough eventually you get to see David being excited. That's fantastic. Never thought I'd
see the day.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start, though, by adding my congratulations to Geraint. I'm really very pleased that
we've been able to promote Geraint on to CFO. He's an excellent addition to the Board
and, in my opinion, a big step up in quality from the last guy.
But I'm going to talk about the US market. Particularly I'm going to talk about Elephant.
Andrew's going to talk about compare now.
A bit of a reminder really, the US market's a very big market. It's $180 billion of premium.
It's over 200 million vehicles. It's a market that shops a bit less than the UK. In the UK
about two-thirds of customers will re-shop every year. In the US it's about one-half that
number. About one-third will re-shop their car insurance and about one-third of those
people will switch; so about 10% or so switching rate.
It's a market that is moving more direct. It's about one-quarter direct right now. But about
40% of all new business is currently being bought direct. So the direct players are
growing their share.
It's quite well known for being a high acquisition cost market. It is a high acquisition cost
market. GEICO's reported spend of more than $1 billion on marketing each year is
probably well known, quite well advertised.
But perhaps less well known is that other players also spend a huge amount as well. Last
year Allstate spent $900 million, of which about $200 million was on their Esurance
brand. State Farm spent $800 million. Progressive spent $600 million. So there's some

Page 14 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

very big numbers being spent out there, in what is obviously a very big market, chasing
new customers.

FINAL

But if you look at the movers in the market you can see that it's only really, with one or two
exceptions, it's only really the direct players that are growing their market share. And
that's happening year on year. And that really tells you the nature of the market.
The US market also has an unusual feature, or unusual compared to what we see over
here in Europe, which is that it's segmented not by risk, as you might think of things over
here. So obviously over here we think about high-risk young drivers likely to be very
expensive claims versus low risk drivers. In the US the market is segmented more by
retention class.
So it breaks into standard and non-standard, as they call it over there. Standard being
customers who will continue with you and stick through renewal typically and pay their
premiums regularly. And non-standard, who tend to be much more promiscuous
shoppers, often canceling their policies and falling in and out of payments over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that means that the insurers over there have typically ended up focusing on one of
those two segments in the market.
And for Elephant, that's meant that we've focused our business very much on being a
standard player. We do write the whole market. But we look to build a standard book of
business over time, which means building a book of quality customers who will retain a
longer period, much more like you would imagine a business over here.
And to that end, that means that we need to build a brand that customers will obviously
remember. But also importantly customers will trust.
As I've already said, the acquisition costs in the US are high; very high compared to the
European standards. This graph on the left-hand side here plots the average acquisition
costs of some of the players; the players are the dots. The vertical axes shows the
acquisition costs that range between about $500 and $1,000 per policy; the average
being somewhere in the middle of that range.
It also shows the diﬀerent colors. The blue colors are the direct players; that's actually
GEICO, Progressive and USAA. And the green and the purple dots are the traditional
players, the incumbent players that have been around for a long time with their captive
agents and their independent agents. And there's a clear diﬀerence between the two, as
you can see.
And there's also a signiﬁcant diﬀerence on the growth rates of the two companies, which
is plotted on the horizontal axis at the bottom.
So the direct players are acquiring business much more cheaply and they're also growing
faster.
Page 15 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

And I'm pleased to say that's true of Elephant. As you can see, the Elephant logo there on
the right-hand side of that graph, we are already being able to achieve acquisition costs
roughly in line with our direct competitors and signiﬁcantly lower than the incumbent
players. And obviously, growing from a small base, we're growing very fast.
So that's very pleasing and that augers particularly well as we're at this stage only in four
states and so our brand is signiﬁcantly smaller and less well known than the others. So to
already be at the same level is, I think, very encouraging.
On the right-hand side is a graph showing loss ratios against growth; the horizontal axis
being the same, the vertical axis being the loss ratio. And here you can see Elephant
compares less well. There's a similar correlation going on here with the slightly higher loss
ratios correlating with higher growth, which is perhaps fairly obvious. And the direct
players in the blue there obviously, on average, getting higher loss ratios than the
traditional players.
There's a couple of obvious reasons for that. And there's a clear reason why Elephant
would be out there a little bit higher as well. All of these older players have got very large
books of renewal customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And it's true in the US, just like it is here in the UK, even though there's price regulation in
the US, which controls your pricing between renewal and new business very much, they
can't be diﬀerent. But even in the US it's very similar to here in the UK. The renewal book
will run a loss ratio typically 10 points or 15 points better than the new business book will.
So if you're very much new business biased, which, of course, we are, you're going to be
running at a higher loss ratio.
But it's also true in the US that the businesses that focus on trying to build a quality
standard book will end up running high loss ratios in the early years, because those
customers are more aggressively competed for and, therefore, by nature, you'll end up
running a higher loss ratio in the early years when you acquire them.
Somewhat perversely those non-standard risks, the ones that cancel regularly, actually run
very good, very low, loss ratios. They just don't stick around very long.
Let me show you a little bit about Elephant's progress so far. We launched it the
beginning of 2010 on TV. And that's the story of our growth since then.
We're now in four states, as you can see from that picture. The bars represent our
turnover. The line is our customer numbers. And you can see from this graph that we're
growing pretty fast. We've gained 50% in the last year. And we're now four times the size
we were when I joined the business at the beginning of 2012.
Of course, the right speed to grow at is a tricky one. Clearly, we want to grow as fast as we
can to build a big book of business and, therefore, get the business to a point where
Page 16 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

we've got enough scale to produce proﬁts for our shareholders, assuming, of course, that
we can maintain good acquisition economics as we go.

FINAL

But on the other hand, we don't want to grow too fast that we are not learning from our
mistakes as we go along. And we'll make plenty of mistakes and so we want to make sure
we don't write too much bad business, particularly in new territories.
So the speed of growth is an important one to try and calibrate correctly. And this is
probably about as fast as I want to be growing the business right now. Although, of
course, we will take opportunities to grow in diﬀerent pockets of the territory depending
on how things are progressing. But it's unlikely to be much faster than this.
Having said that, I'm absolutely delighted with the success we're making so far. We've
grown the business fast and we're also seeing very good economic results, particularly
from that core motor book.
But we are, in addition to that, adding additional products. We've added quite a number
of additional ancillary products in the last couple of years. And we're now at a point where
we think we've got a good competitive range of products for our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that's an important point in the US context because even, for direct writers, US
consumers expect their car insurance company to be able to provide them with other
products alongside car insurance; much more so than here in the UK.
In terms of those results, what you can see here is an improving combined ratio on the
back of an improving expense ratio. The loss ratio is, as I described earlier, much better
on renewals. But with our high growth we've been seeing recently we've got a slightly
higher loss ratio.
The expense ratio is coming down, primarily because of the increased scale of the book.
Obviously, the ﬁxed costs are now spread over more premium. But the speed of its
reduction is somewhat oﬀset by the growth where we're obviously we're spending more
money on marketing to grow more quickly.
And that's been particularly the case in Texas, where we've seen our acquisition
economics improve quite signiﬁcantly over the last couple of years. We started in Texas
about two years later than we started in Virginia. But it's now pretty close to Virginia in
terms of its acquisition economics.
And that's very pleasing, very pleasing, both in terms of the kind of improvement you'd
expect to see from any new area you market into, any new space where you start again
from zero. But particularly pleasing in the context of Texas which, itself, is a very large
state. It's the second largest state for car insurance in the US. It's got 19 million customers.
Still plenty of scope for Elephant to grow its business.

Page 17 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

We had a combined ratio of about 150%, 152% last year. And I'd expect us to come in this
year with a somewhat lower ratio than that. And the result in terms of absolute pound
terms is going to look quite similar, I think. We'll have better ratios but obviously on a
bigger book.
So the strategy for Elephant is a very simple one. We'll keep trying to oﬀer our customers
good prices. And we'll keep growing our business as long as our customers are attracted
to our business. So far. So good.
But we keep focused on building a good quality business, which is as Admiral-like as we
can make it. And by that I mean keeping our costs low, running a good, eﬃcient,
business, focusing on good quality underwriting, focusing on good quality pricing and
being prepared to keep testing and learning and changing the business as we grow.
In time we will expand some more states. We're currently in the fourth. But we are, as you
can see from the graphic on the right-hand side here, still pretty small in the ones that
we're in. Our market share has now grown to the dizzy heights of 0.8% in Virginia. But
we're still only 0.2% of Texas, which, as I've said already, is a huge state with about $14
billion of premium just in that one state.

Bloomberg Transcript

One factor that might inﬂuence our decision to want to grow, to move more quickly into
other states, would be our belief in the strong future of a UK-style price comparison in the
US. If we see that model taking oﬀ strongly in states that we're not yet in, then we may
well be tempted to get there sooner rather than later.
But let me hand you over now to Andrew Rose, Chief Executive of comparenow.com, who
can give you a much better feel for how that business is getting on. Andrew?

Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. Pleasure to be here. As Kevin said, my name
is Andrew Rose and I've been with Admiral for six very wonderful years; ﬁrst as CEO of
Elephant Insurance. And now as CEO of comparenow.com. Prior to Admiral I was running
Country Life's auto insurance business and got my start in the insurance business with
Progressive, one of the big four carriers in the US.
So why am I here? I'm here to talk about the US. I'm excited about it. $50 billion to $60
billion of premium is shopped each year. And before we talk about the US market and
comparenow.com, it probably makes sense to talk a bit about Admiral's other comparison
businesses, all three proﬁt-making enterprises.
It all started more than a decade ago with Confused.com. And I think we would all agree
that business has been quite successful, transforming the UK shopping experience. Now
between two-thirds and three-quarters of all new business in the UK is shopped on a
comparison website.

Page 18 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

As great as that sounds, the UK may not be the best proxy for US price comparison. Spain
and France, with their stronger tied agent and lower shopping intensity markets, are
probably better proxies. Well you can see that each has grown nicely in their early years.
And that is a great proxy, we think, for the potential of comparison in the US and,
hopefully, comparenow.com.
Why? Well the US consumer is already conditioned to shop online and comparison shop
for many products and services. Now our job is to give them the same thing for auto
insurance. Consumers are only half the equation however. We need the insurers to
embrace this change as well.
Luckily, many insurers are looking for a new way to compete, a new way in the face of the
$6 billion of auto insurance advertising that is spent each year, predominantly by those
top four carriers that Kevin mentioned earlier.
For carriers ﬁve through 200 plus, not being on TV often means out of sight, out of mind.
They just don't get considered. That's where comparenow.com can come in and,
hopefully, transform the market, giving them the opportunity to compete.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's go a bit deeper on the customer side. The US didn't evolve like the other markets for
a variety of reasons. As a result, consumers were left with less eﬃcient, less satisfying
models that limited choice.
Consumers could quote each insurer one by one re-entering their information over and
over again, hoping that they're getting an apples-to-apples comparison along the way.
Most consumers tired of that process after two or three quotes, barely scratching the
surface of the available carriers.
Lead generators developed a proxy. They often look like European-style comparisons on
the surface but those consumers that were duped into entering their information into
those platforms typically ﬁnd 50-plus calls and emails greeting them in the coming days
and weeks; rarely the process they were looking for.
Comparenow.com is diﬀerent and follows the model that you're most familiar here with in
Europe. Enter your information once, get lots of quotes back, no unrequested contact
from the carriers. The customer's in control.
Why do we think this just might work? Well the consumer is ultimately undefeated in their
pursuit of simplicity and transparency and we bring both with our site.
Let's talk more about the carriers. As mentioned earlier, insurers face a market of
signiﬁcant spend. This spend, along with the commission structure for agents, results in a
very high acquisition cost for insurers.
The ﬁrst thing that comparenow.com can do is oﬀer them lower acquisition costs. How do
we do it? By achieving higher response rates to our ads, a simpler process for consumers
Page 19 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

and delivering a higher overall conversion on our site. Allow me to explain.

FINAL

As I said, compare now should have higher response rates to your ads. Think about it, for
an average consumer, which sounds like a better value proposition? An ad from British
Airways on TV or from one of those travel sites? The travel site oﬀers single entry and
many airlines, including British Airways. So more people choose them. The same logic
should apply to auto insurance.
The beneﬁts should not stop there, however. Again, as time goes by, the conversion on
the comparison site becomes somewhat of an aggregate of the individual insurers'
conversions, resulting in a higher overall conversion. Higher response rates of higher
conversion yields a lower acquisition cost; something that we can share the beneﬁt of with
the carriers.
Beyond just having lower costs, we bring some other beneﬁts. Certainty of acquisition
costs; they pay when they make a sale. They only have to quote the risk segments they
want. They get to compete on a fair, level playing ﬁeld, winning on their merits; a
combination of price, value proposition and brand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lastly, compare now gives access to competitive intelligence in the market that they can
get almost nowhere else. They get real data in real time they can react to with rate
changes or footprint expansions or contractions.
So with that as background, you might be asking so how's it going? Well we need to start
oﬀ with a giant caveat. It's still very early. We've only been advertising for seven months
but we've been quite pleased by the consumer and carrier response.
We're able to oﬀer our service in 49 of the 51 US markets. But sticking true to our Admiral
roots, we're starting small and testing and learning; using the data that we have at our
disposal to make good decisions along the way.
First, we have a fully integrated marketing campaign; TV, Internet, etc. We began the year
by advertising in six smaller California cities. As those looked good, we expanded into
larger California cities, eventually into Virginia and Illinois. And in July we added four
large cities in Texas to our portfolio.
We focus our advertising eﬀorts where we have the largest panel, where we can oﬀer the
most compelling value propositions to consumers. In some states, we can only oﬀer a
couple of carriers and will hold oﬀ advertising in those states until the brand proposition
can match our expectations.
Naturally, carriers have responded. Six of the top 20 now work with compare now and
even more are in discussions. With an oﬀering like ours, we need carriers that cover the
entire risk spectrum; from the standard all the way down to the non-standard. As you can
see from the graphic, we have been able to attract many of those; names many
consumers know in the US.
Page 20 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Will there be competition? Sure. But we feel like we have some advantages entering this
market.

FINAL

First, we've got knowledgeable partners that have the required capital to make this
investment.
Second, we've got experience building these businesses, with the technology and
processes that already have and can continue to be leveraged. And last but not least,
we've got a group of people that have deep insurance knowledge and connections with
the carriers; something key to the overall success of the enterprise.
Like I said, it's oﬀ to a good start but it's still quite early. I look forward to telling you more
about the business as it continues to grow and expand and, hopefully, match the results
of our more mature UK siblings.
Now back to Henry to complete today's presentation.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Andrew. Thank you, Kevin. In conclusion, we are bullish on our long-term
outlook, largely because we continue to have a fundamental economic advantage over
the competition in the UK market.
The growth and development of our non-UK businesses are proceeding nicely. And the
growth of price comparison and, correspondingly, the Internet, conﬁrms our belief that
we are in the infancy of a dramatic change in distribution of car insurance globally for
which Admiral Group is well positioned.
However, there are no shortage of challenges, particularly on margins in the UK market
for the near term.
Thank you very much for your attention here this morning. And I'll now be joined by David
and, obviously, any of the other members of the panel for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions)

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. Can I just make a suggestion? You give a lot of little bits of guidance
all the way through your presentation. And you present quite quickly. Could you maybe
on the slides in the future, actually on the right-hand side, where you are giving guidance

Page 21 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

actually put it down so we can concentrate on what you're actually saying, as opposed to
trying to think did I get that statement right or wrong?

FINAL

And in that regard, could you just reiterate what you said about the timing and size of the
advertising costs in the US and also the proﬁt guidance? That was question one.
The second one is you boosted your Group combined ratio with this reinsurance cap
story, the reinsurance cap accrual. Could you just explain what's going on there?
And the third thing is a little bit of something that's puzzling me. You've got about
GBP280 million of required capital currently. My understanding from speaking to your IR
is that that's on a ICA plus regime, which is fully comprehensive not far from Solvency II
type regime, even in terms of internal models we eventually get. Yet you're raising
GBP200 million of capital? It seems like using a big hammer to crack a nut and raises a
whole bunch of questions and thoughts on what are the true motivations for the debt
raise.
So you just want to talk about (multiple speakers) --?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Andrew, do you want to take the ﬁrst one, on your spend?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

We'll spend as it makes sense. Very much Admiral is test and learn. We'll continue to
expand in the market as our value proposition warrants. And as our acquisitions costs
demonstrate, it makes sense for us to continue doing so.
It's deliberate. We want to go about this process and make sure that it's a successful,
proﬁtable, sustainable business, like Admiral's other startups. And so you'll see us expand
as it makes sense.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

But speciﬁcally with GBP10 million to GBP30 million in the second half of this year and
potentially GBP60 million or more in next year.

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Correct.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Inaudible-audience question)

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

That's the marketing spend.
Page 22 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Q - Greig Paterson
Yes. Then you said something about proﬁt [ph].

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

And it will be GBP5 million to GBP10 million for Admiral's bottom line in the second half
and GBP10 million to GBP30 million, somewhere in that range, for 2015.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Inaudible-audience question)

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Correct. Sorry, we got two more questions of Greig's.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think another element of the speciﬁc guidance relates to ancillaries, where we were
referring to the car-hire referral income of GBP5 per policy, which we see at risk in 2015.
And on top of that, I'd say generally the regulatory context means that there may be
pressure on other items of other revenues. So there's a little bit of guidance there.
Then there is guidance in the context of the UK market, which cannot be more speciﬁc
than just saying if current-year margins continue to deteriorate due to claim inﬂation and
premium reductions, if there isn't a turn, in a sense, then there will be pressure on
reported proﬁtability, which cannot be fully compensated by reserve releases ad
inﬁnitum.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Geraint, I think the last two questions were for you.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So the question was about the Group combined ratio, which I think actually improved to
85% from 87% in the ﬁrst half of last year.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Inaudible-audience question)

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The question was about the caps on the international insurance businesses. It is right to
say that some of our contracts internationally have caps. Actually some of the UK contracts
have caps too.
And in the ﬁrst half of 2014 we took additional costs of a couple of million pounds
compared to the ﬁrst half of last year, because the accounted combined ratio in those
Page 23 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

businesses is higher than those caps, as you might expect. And as those international
operations move towards underwriting proﬁt and combined ratios where we'd expect
them to get to ultimately, obviously those cap issues go away.

FINAL

It's an issue in the ﬁrst half of this year because of the things that Henry referred to: bigger
ad spend in Spain; slightly bigger loss ratio in Spain as well. We don't expect those to
repeat in the second half of the year is also important to remember.
Then the third question was about (multiple speakers) --

Q - Greig Paterson
So those caps will fall away in the second half?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The impact will be lower in the second half for sure. And we'd expect it gradually to
dissipate over time, as you'd expect.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the ﬁnal question, I think, was about capital requirements and the bond. So as we
saw on the slide earlier, on slide 8, the key rationale for the bond was it was a good time
to do it, to build a prudent buﬀer as we move into Solvency II, to be able to deal with
uncertainty in the ﬁnal level of capital requirements in the Solvency II.
And the risk-based regime under ICAS and the risk-based regime under Solvency II are
very similar in principle. But there are valuation diﬀerences in capital and there are
diﬀerences in the calculations of capital requirements, which is a very detailed
conversation.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Inaudible-audience question)

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

No, no. (multiple speakers) We're not saying with the GBP200 million that we're going to
need all that to fulﬁll our capital requirements. We're saying that's there to deal with any
uncertainty that might arise in the ﬁnal level of capital requirements. So we don't expect
to fully use all that for our capital requirement. We want it to sit there as a buﬀer.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Inaudible-audience question)

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

It's all the investments in our other businesses, Greig. And for the future investments that
we don't even have yet planned out. It was an opportune time to raise money. We felt it
was a good moment, because these markets open and close and get expensive and get
Page 24 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

cheap and you never know. So you take advantage of what you can. We thought this was
an appropriate amount at an appropriate time.

FINAL

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. First question, following on from the reinsurance cap
on the international. What's the gross of reinsurance losses on the international business?
Because presumably the reinsurers are saying: We don't want to take any more of your
international business on the new business side just yet until you've paid back some of
the losses in some markets.
So can you tell us which ones are capped and what the beneﬁt has been historically?
The second question is on slide 50, which you don't talk about, which I think is the key
thing in your results. I don't really care what your book loss ratio is. I just care what the
best ultimate [ph] loss ratio is and how the reserve buﬀer moves. And the surprise for me
was, really, you're showing an unchanged reserve buﬀer, despite releasing GBP73 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

So could you talk a bit about how those ultimate loss ratios have moved over the half
year? Because it looks like a one-oﬀ minus 1% over all the historic years that they've
reduced, perhaps the PPO propensity, or something?
But I see that as being -- that top-left slide as being the key numbers in the whole
presentation, really. And you haven't said -- perhaps you could break out the GBP73
million and tell me how much of that is been added from H1 2014 underwriting and how
much is from this movement in this chart we see here?
And the third question is you've talked a lot about UK motor market, how it's changed, all
the bad things that have gone on. But clearly large bodily injury claims is a large
component of your business and obviously young drivers is also a large component of
your business.
So since 2009 there's been a big drop in serious bodily injury claims involving younger
drivers. And that has contributed to the increased competition, presumably, in your key
segments and also a large amount of the proﬁt commission we can see coming through
now, which, in my mind, is exceptional because you've beneﬁted from this post-2009
drop-oﬀ.
So could you talk a bit about that frequency as well, please? Thank you.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

What was the ﬁrst one again? .

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The ﬁrst one was the development (inaudible).

Page 25 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Sorry?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

Development of the ultimate loss ratios in the ﬁrst half.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
The ﬁrst one was caps (inaudible).

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Caps, sorry. For caps, the ratios we present in the international insurance commentary in
the pack give the result of the underlying -- give the combined ratios of the underlying
business, excluding the impact of the caps. Then you can see in the notes underneath
those KPIs what impacts the cap had. And so you can get back to the total loss that those
businesses are making.
We're obviously not going to say which contracts have caps and we're not going to say
what levels they're at because they're conﬁdential. So we can't give that information. But I
think we give enough information in the segment for you to work out what the underlying
performance of the business is.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And on the exhibit top-left, I think it's reasonably straightforward to work out what the
earned premiums are for each of the accident years and to use the percentage changes
that we're showing there to work out, in a sense, the value of the movement in the loss
ratios.
Big picture, what we're saying is that in the ﬁrst half of 2014. And these changes relate to
the ﬁrst half of 2014. So versus the end of December 2013, whereas the market is
December 2013 versus 2012. But in the ﬁrst half of 2014 we saw some releases across the
years, which is gratifying. And a particularly strong outcome on 2012 accident year, which
is a mixture of 2011 and 2012 underwriting year.
And because we had that gratifying improvement in the projected best estimates, that let
us release more, while maintaining the size of the buﬀer.
Is there another?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

What was the driver of the change in those charts? What was the drive for the change of
those --?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}
Page 26 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

The driver of the change (multiple speaker) would be more positive development of
claims than had been anticipated by Ernst & Young, by our advisors, when they last did
the work, which was at the end of December.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

FINAL

And the ﬁnal question about large bodily injury claims for young drivers?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

There has been a clear reduction in frequency overall. The number of crashes between
2009 and now has fallen and fell substantially during the recession. There is some
reversal of that overall level of crashes.
That doesn't necessarily translate into a lower frequency across the market of big bodily
injury claims for two reasons.
One reason is, as Lorna's pointing out, you get a structural level of high inﬂation on big
bodily injury. So claims that might have been smaller are becoming bigger and bigger all
the time.

Bloomberg Transcript

And another reason is there are fewer deaths on the road. But that's partly because
medical interventions are more eﬀective and more people survive and that is your very
biggest bodily injury claim.
So I don't think it's necessarily true to extrapolate from the overall frequency to say that
big bodily injury frequency isn't particularly -- young driver frequencies are down
materially.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Sorry, I was referring to the younger driver KSI stats from the O&S, which shows a 40%
drop in younger driver killed and seriously injured and reported to police. And if you
knock oﬀ -- obviously, there's fewer younger drivers on the road, which wasn't in your
2009 to 2013 comparison of premiums. But if you knock that oﬀ, then -- so you don't think
that's necessarily a reasonable comparison to make, that there are -- there has been a big
windfall from less large bodily injury claims frequency since 2010 for Admiral?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No. I wouldn't say there has been a large windfall from that. I would say that the prognosis
is that bigger bodily injury claims. And you saw in the exhibit that our share of costs from
bigger bodily injury claims has increased over time, bigger bodily injury claims will
increase materially going forward, as they have over the past few years and as they have
over the past 20 years; it's a structural factor.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Page 27 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions also. Firstly, could you say on your Spanish
and Italian business, do you have a sense as to when they will approach breakeven?
They've been going for some period of time.
Secondly, the comment about ad inﬁnitum, that you can't carry on ad inﬁnitum, obviously
begs the question of where inﬁnitum is. During the last soft cycle, you did reduce the
conservatism with which you set up current-year reserves during the soft market, which
extended that period. Is that something that you will be considering doing this time
round?
Then thirdly, the spend on the compare now business could hit the earnings to the
degree that the earnings could fall and, mechanically, that would then need the dividend
to fall. Is that something which you are prepared to countenance? Or could you use some
of the capital? You've already admitted that you've raised excess over your Solvency II
requirements to fund that so the dividend remains -- in normal circumstances will remains
stable.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me take Spain and Italy. We've been consistent in saying that these operations
should become proﬁtable within six years to 10 years. The Spanish operation hits eight on
Halloween and I fully expect it to be proﬁtable within 10 years. The clock is ticking; 2.5
years to go.
The Italian operation is younger. It's, what, six years. So the clock is ticking. But they've got
a few years yet and I fully expect it to be proﬁtable as well within the 10-year time frame
that we set out.
Inﬁnitum, where is it?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes, I know it must be frustrating in a sense that I'm using a vague term such as ad
inﬁnitum. But there are a number of moving parts.
One moving part is how these ultimates evolve. Another moving part is how claims trends
and premiums move in the next 12 months to 18 months, two years.
And another one that you mentioned speciﬁcally is the size of the buﬀer versus ultimate
and there are a number of factors that we take into account when we're deciding what the
appropriate buﬀer is versus ultimate and there may, at some point, be potential for us.
There may be an argument for us at some point to consider that the buﬀer is excessively
conservative. But that would have to be because of some change in the environment.
And one of the things that's particularly impacting the environment at the moment is
actually these quite substantial moves in the ultimates which is implying a degree of
Page 28 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

uncertainty. So we're responding to this uncertainty because volatility is up and down; it's
not just up. This implies a degree of uncertainty, which we feel is appropriate to respond
to with a big buﬀer.

FINAL

Maybe if these settle down, if they do, that would create a context which is more stable
and we might feel it would be appropriate in that context to reduce the size of the buﬀer.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The dividend question. The dividend is formulaic and, therefore, if earnings are impacted,
we don't leave cash sloshing about in the Company and we follow the formula for the
dividend. And if there is less cash in the Company, then there's less dividend. And if
there's more cash in the Company, there's more dividend.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Marcus Rivaldi, Morgan Stanley. A couple of questions, please. So you mentioned about
the reserve release was driven by an E&Y piece of work. Is that a timing issue? So the sort
of level of release we saw in 1H, would that be something that you could extrapolate
through into the second half of the year?

Bloomberg Transcript

Just to come back on the point that Andrew made, would you use some of the capital
you've raised? You've got more cash on the balance sheet now than you had. Would you
use some of that cash to support the dividend going forward, rather than -- or. And,
therefore, countenance the payout ratio above 100% on the business?
Then thirdly, just maybe some -- get some feel for what bang you're getting for your buck
in the US from compare now. If you'd give a sense of -- and I'm trying to think of the best
KPIs for this. But number of visits to the website, how that's improving and maybe then
the conversion rate through to actually booking a policy. Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Shall I do the ﬁrst one? So I felt there may be a slight misapprehension. We hadn't done
an extra special review of the reserves at the end of the half year. Every half year for the
last 20 years we've used actuarial advice to take a position on what the right ultimates are.
And those of you who've followed us for a long while will know that those numbers do
move around and it's not in a predictable and projectable way where you say: Well that
happened in H1. So that's going to happen in H2.
Slight tendency for actuaries to be conservative. So if you do the history of our ultimate
projections, there's more of a tendency for them to get better than get worse. But you
cannot extrapolate from historical trends to the future to say: This is deﬁnitely what's
going to happen with the ultimate.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 29 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

The dividend, it's not something we've really discussed at this point. Like I say, our
dividend, to this point is formulaic and it pops out the back end. So I'd say we'll have to
see when we get there.

FINAL

Compare now.

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

If we talk about the speciﬁc reserves conversion rate, etc., we don't want to share the
details there yet but, as you can imagine with the expansion into States, the growing
carrier footprint etc., we've experienced very rapid growth, seeing visitors, in some cases,
pass some of the number of visitors that are panel members, see [ph] smaller ones. But
we're still miles away from the GEICOs and the Progressives of the world.
But that's the opportunity that's out there. $50 billion of insurance is shopped every year.
So the opportunity for us to have millions of visitors as time goes by is certainly there.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

And just (inaudible), you've given quite a wide range on potential impact for next year
and you also made the point that it would just depend on how successful you've been. So
(inaudible) why the nub of that question is really how we're going to judge --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

It's not how you're going to judge, it's how we're going to judge. But we're going to
judge it based on the metrics coming through of cost to quote and sales per hit and then
click through and so forth, which we look at every day.
And we're seeing very nice steady upward trend in that obviously when we go into a new
area we immediately get pickup and the cost per quote slides down the chute. Texas is
moving rather quickly, for example.
Not surprising, when we went out to California we went out with seven ad campaigns. We
didn't know which one would do well and which wouldn't. We go into Texas and now
we've got, what, three ad campaigns and, of course, we've taken the better ones, you'll
be pleased to know, from California.
So it's all a matter of continuous learning and continuous reﬁnement. Meanwhile, the
campaigns in California are also coming down. As we get more brand awareness and
we're out there more frequently, our cost per quote comes down in California.
The key for us now in the next six to 10, 12 months is adding the insurers. We've got a lot
more insurers signed up than are on boarded. On boarded is the process between our IT
department and their IT department.
In the smaller companies we deal with, one month, two months, three months, we can do
this. Some of the bigger ones, I think our record is slightly over one year it took us to
Page 30 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

onboard and, believe me, it's not us. We can do it very quickly.

FINAL

So the bigger carriers take a long time to get into their IT departments and get this
onboard in process.
And why is that important? Because the consumer -- the real beneﬁt to the consumer is he
goes in, he spends his 15 minutes or whatever it is, 10 minutes. And he gets a bunch of
quotes rather than one or two. And we've gone from this one or two now up to three or
four and we need to get it to ﬁve or six and seven or eight. Because when he does get
eight quotes, he's going to go: Wow, that was a valuable use of 10 minutes. Whereas
when he gets two quotes he says: That wasn't so great.
And when he says that's a valuable use of 10 minutes he's going to tell his friends about it,
because he's also probably going to save some money. Because the more quotes he gets
the more likelihood you're going to save some money.
So it all works forward in that way and we're watching it on a day-to-day basis.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

And just to be clear, that (inaudible) 30% [ph] is that on boarded or signed up?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Those are live on the platform. There are more signed than that. Those are the live
carriers.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. One, could you quantify what the one-oﬀ was for the international
operations in the BB US [ph]? You said out of the GBP15 million there were a few one-oﬀs,
which you will not get repeated.
Secondly, in terms of Confused.com, I think the revenues have been fairly ﬂat and margins
have come down. Do you expect much change in the second half of this year?
And thirdly, in terms of compare now, how has the response been of the bigger players or
just still on that [ph] on the bigger names in the market? Do you think those guys will be
there in the next 12 months' time?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

We'll take the latter ﬁrst. I'll give a little answer and then let Andrew go into detail. He's
the one talking to them. To me, it doesn't make sense for them to come on. But Andrew
has more detail.

A - Andrew Rose

{BIO 18735195 <GO>}

Page 31 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

We've talked to everybody. I think we are being watched very, very closely. If you are
willing to spend $0.5 billion or more of your own money to advertise you are not the ﬁrst
one to fall.
If you look at how Confused.com started, Rastreator, LeLynx, etc., none of them got the
largest players ﬁrst. But as the opportunity starts to grow, as you start seeing tens of
thousands and then hundreds of thousands of quotes per month, it becomes harder and
harder to ignore. And when one domino falls, the opportunity for the next one to fall gets
greater.
We've got six of the top 20 already on board and there are more in the wings. We think
that bodes well for the future.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

There was a third question. I was going to work my way backwards.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

One was on Confused.com.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Confused.com. It's tough going at the moment and it's very tough out there. It's a lot of
money being spent and Confuse is ﬁghting perhaps the best UK ad campaign of the
decade and it's not easy going.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

The last one was one-oﬀs.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The international insurance, the one-oﬀs in the ﬁrst half of this year. It's tough to be
speciﬁc because obviously there are lots of moving parts in that number. But I think the
ﬁrst-half loss was about 8% of Group's pre-tax proﬁts and it's usually about 5%, 6%. So
you can probably take from that, it's about that eﬀect.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Marcus Barnard, Oriel Securities. I've got two questions relating to the quota share
reinsurance treaties you've got in AIGL [ph]. And the ﬁrst question is, I think at the
moment you get a 50% reduction in your capital for having quota share reinsurance in
AIGL.
Do you anticipate this continuing under Solvency II, or something similar, from having
quota share proportional reinsurance, particularly as the way you share the premiums
claims and proﬁts doesn't look particularly proportional or sharing to me?

Page 32 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

And secondly, also on those treaties, your attritional loss ratio you've reported today,
excluding reserve releases, were 85.3% and when I add your expense ratio in at about
15% it looks like your underlying proﬁtability is running towards 100%.

FINAL

Does it still make sense to use those treaties if your attritionals are rising to that sort of
level? And should we expect to see a lower level of quota share reinsurance going
forward when you renew?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So going back to the rationale for using quota shares, there are a couple of reasons we
use it. Partly from a capital release, it's partly about loss protection and it's partly about
the size that the reinsurance grows with the rate of growth of the business. So there are a
couple of good reasons why we've used reinsurance in the past and I think we'll continue
to use it in the future.
In terms of our Solvency II quota share reinsurance we believe that Solvency II gives
appropriate capital relief for quota share reinsurance and co-insurance where that
reinsurance provides protection against loss in extreme events. We don't think that
changes from the current ICAS regime.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the actual level of capital relief you get for individual contracts, obviously we
won't go into those numbers.
I'll refer you to the comment we made in the presentation on the surplus we show now if
the Group ICAS requirement was in eﬀect today that would be in excess of GBP300
million.
And what was the ﬁnal bit?

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Will you continue using your (inaudible) and your attritional loss ratio (inaudible)?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So the attritional loss ratio, as you recall, is 85% excluding releases. But don't forget that
that includes a buﬀer above the projected ultimates. So it's not quite fair to say that the
underlying level of proﬁtability has hit 100% because obviously we would expect to bring
that down over time.
As to whether we will continue to use reinsurance into the future, we think as long as the
reinsurance brings the beneﬁts it's brought in the past, capital relief, loss protection,
ﬂexibility, then I don't see any fundamental or immediate change in that business model.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Page 33 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

FINAL

Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. Three questions, please. So the ﬁrst one is on the UK claims
environment. I'm just curious to know what the impacts from the Ministry of Justice's
whiplash report cost cap is likely to be on claims costs and, in particular, whether that
might spell a recurrence of what we saw last year in the market following the legal
reforms. And if that has any bearing, or if it's suﬃciently material to impact UK pricing and
the scenario that you've laid out there.
The second one was on administration fees. And there has been some discussion in the
press around the level of fees being charged by motor insurers. Just wondering what your
level is and whether that's changed materially over time.
And the third one was a question on the investment allocation and the changes that
you've made there. Perhaps you could give us a little bit more color as to the likely
materiality of the impact on earnings from that. And whether that's -- you make a
comment in there about investment risk not being materially greater. Is that something
that's within your appetite going forward to increase investment risk further?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So in terms of the materiality of the changes on the likely yield, I would say not very at all. I
think what we have done eﬀectively is move some money out of money market funds and
into ﬁxed income. And that doesn't really result in any material change in the level of
market risk capital allocated to investment and so you've got to move out of AAA into
single A.
So in theory, there is more risk in the portfolio. But not much and so you don't generate
that much additional yield.
As to whether we'll go further, we'll keep on looking at it and if there are opportunities to
take additional yield without fundamentally changing the risk, the volatility and so on,
then we'll look at them. But I don't see us moving very materially at that risk spectrum.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'll do admin charges and Lorna can do medical costs.
On admin charges, I think some of the coverage on it may have shown in our numbers
actually, which showed us very middle of the road, certainly not an outlier; actually lower
on some of the charges than some of our major competitors. And we're always very
careful to be able to set our charges in a way that's justiﬁable by reference to the costs
that underlie the process.
So we don't feel that that's a source of competitive disadvantage at the moment that
we're particularly vulnerable on that front.

A - Lorna Connelly

{BIO 19791125 <GO>}

On the fees, I think ﬁxing [ph] fees is good news. But on its own it's not material.
Page 34 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

I think what really needs to happen is the report in itself to change going forward. So
having reports that have got more evidential value and that can be (inaudible) ending
cases where you think there's low velocity, that kind of thing. That's the thing that really
needs to change.

FINAL

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

A couple of additional questions, if I could. The ﬁrst one, what is the H1 E&Y loss ratio to
compare to the 85%?
The second one is, I guess, on -- a high level question on the debt raising and the
dividend. So you don't retain any unnecessary cash at the -- in the business. But you've
raised more than the GBP200 million you needed.
More than the -- the GBP200 million is more than you needed. So without the GBP200
million, would you still have been able to pay the dividend? And it sounds like you
probably raised GBP100 million more than you actually thought you needed. Is that fair
comment?
And the press comment yesterday that you might be interested in buying a telematics
provider for GBP150 million, given your commentary about how much excess capital you
have, presumably if you were to do that, although it sounds unlikely from your comments,
presumably you'd have to raise more capital somewhere else? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'll do H1 ﬁrst. Your favorite exhibit on page 50 is an exhibit that's been debated as to
whether we give excess disclosure and, on balance, the investors and the analysts like it.
But we have decided not. And this is true in 2013, not to give disclosure of best estimates
at the half-year level because it is so early in the evolution of the year that it can be just
very misleading.
So we've compromised on a disclosure that gives full-year ultimates and so we will be
adding that to the projection, to the exhibit, at the full-year results.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

But can I just work it out from the comment for the reserve buﬀer's the same, take oﬀ the
earned movement here and then the rest must be the current year, because you said the
reserve buﬀer is the same. So I can work it out, can't I?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well then that's something you can go away and do if you feel that's possible.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The question on the debt. So I'd go back to the comment earlier, appropriate amount at
the appropriate time, I think.
Page 35 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

It's there to deal with uncertainties that come in Solvency II. When Solvency II is in eﬀect
and we're live in that environment we've got certainty over the level of capital
requirement. We'll have certainty over the level of surplus.

FINAL

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

In addition, we don't want to starve our businesses. As you can see we've got a lot of
businesses that are getting up to speed, Kevin's business growing very quickly, money
needed for Andrew's business. We haven't talked much about Spain, Italy or France but
they're all moving forward.
So there's a lot of places to soak up capital other than the ones you've mentioned.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

So a clariﬁcation question on the guidance about the reserve margin that came out at the
time of the trading update. So does it mean -- is your statement really saying that, absent
any increase in prices or any surprise positive development (inaudible) loss ratios, that
ultimately earnings will be coming down next year as a result of you wanting to keep this
buﬀer the same? Because the natural evolution of this buﬀer should be that it reduces as
you get the impact weighing through of these large reserve releases, unless we have
further positive development in that E&Y number, as we've had in this period.

Bloomberg Transcript

So are you guiding that we shouldn't expect more E&Y positive developments we've had
this half year and the earnings are going to be lower in future as a result? Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No. We're not taking a position on how the ultimate loss ratios will evolve because we
don't know. And nor are we saying that we have a desired level of buﬀer and that that's
ﬁxed over time.
The level of buﬀer is a reﬂection of the level of volatility that we're facing and the
uncertainties that we're facing and it can vary upwards or downwards. But we're not
sitting here today saying there's a long-term aspiration in terms of that buﬀer that we ﬁx.
All we're saying is, in a sense, an almost obvious point, that if, in a sense, claims inﬂation
has reemerged and premiums don't start to rise, at some stage -- well, progressively the
current loss ratio will get worse. And at some stage, it will be impossible to compensate
for that through reserve releases.
That's almost mathematically obvious. But I just think it's important that people should be
aware of the claims pressures that are out there and the carry-through impact of written
premium reduction on earned results and bear that in mind when they think about the
future.
You have to take a position on what you think claims inﬂation and premium patterns are
going to be over the next 18 months or two years. We're just, in eﬀect, making a
Page 36 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

potentially obvious point that, if we see more of what we've seen in the last 18 months in
terms of margins, then there is an issue in the medium term.

FINAL

What we've also said is typically our proﬁts tend -- what we deliver on proﬁts tend to lag
two years to roughly the actual experience.
So the big area of uncertainty is two years out rather than necessarily the second half of
this year or early 2015.

Q - Greig Paterson
Three questions. One quickly is, when you talk about the buﬀer, I assume you're talking
about 2014. Are you talking relative to earned or written? Because one of them you jump
around and one -- I've always struggled. Sometimes one jumps around. And sometimes
the other. I think it's earned, if I'm not mistaken. I think you set a stable relative to earned.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Do you want to do that one, Geraint, as the new ﬁnance oﬃcer?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

When we're assessing the size of the buﬀer that we want to hold, it's based on the amount
of premium that a business has been earned at that point in time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig Paterson
All right. So it was 13 or 10 [ph] ﬁrst half of last year -- 13 announced -- 10 or 13? Are you
talking about it to the end of last year, or relative to the beginning of the year? When you
said stable, is it a year-on-year comparison or over the half year?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So the stability comparison is against the end of last year. And we're valuing the buﬀer on
the size of the business that's been cumulatively earned to the end of June 2014.

Q - Greig Paterson
All right. So it's a sterling amount that you're keeping stable.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

That's relative.

Q - Greig Paterson
Sterling relative to --?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The margin as a percentage of the best estimate.
Page 37 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

Q - Greig Paterson
Is it across the whole book? Or are you talking about --?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

Across the whole book.

Q - Greig Paterson
So whole book on an earned basis. All right, cool.
Second question is just on this advertising campaign, are you talking about relative to
Direct Line or relative to one of the price comparison websites, that's Confused.com? You
said Confused.com is facing serious --

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The meerkat is the reference.

Q - Greig Paterson

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Then the third thing is you talk about -- I don't understand why it doesn't come
into thinking. But we've got an election coming up next year. The Tories have invested a
lot of time and money in getting premium rates down. They've still got some levers to pull
on the portal and various other areas that they've put on hold for the time being.
Isn't it fair to say that if we saw premium rates starting to rise. And they're still pretty
unaﬀordable for young drivers, we're going to see the politicians starting to pull the
levers again and then we'll see the whole cycle that we saw in the last 12 months?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think what has already happened will result in most of the electorate receiving lower
renewal rates than they did 12 months ago, because the impact of these changes takes,
on average, six months for the customer to experience them because the average policy
length is 12 months. So I'm not sure necessarily if it will get up the political agenda quite
as fast as that.
I think also time is very tight now to pull a lever and impact claims experience between
now and May 2015.

Q - Greig Paterson
But they're going to make headlines. They can stand up and make a huge headline about
it.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Page 38 of 39



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-13

They can, indeed. But often when politicians make headlines it's not necessarily material
to the actual outcome at the coal face. (multiple speakers) Having said that, what the
Government has done. And the reforms that took place (inaudible) were valuable reforms
and are to be applauded.

FINAL

Q - Greig Paterson
What is the -- if you remember what happened last time, the Government was speaking -made some announcements and there were six months before they were even coming in
to play and hadn't even been clariﬁed and we saw rates starting to drop.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think unless they make some very dramatic announcements that are not currently on
their agenda, as far as we're aware, there's no likelihood of people dropping rates in
anticipation of reform.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Are there any questions from outside the room? No questions. Thank you very much for
your attendance today and we'll see you again in March. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's call, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 39 of 39

