Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

S1 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Croft, Chief Financial Officer
David Bellamy, Chief Executive Officer
David Lamb, Managing Director
Ian Gascoigne , Managing Director

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
David Mccann, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Paul De'ath, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ravi Tanna, Analyst

Presentation
David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and thank you all for coming to this rather unique venue, the
venue of the City of London, poiscaille [ph] for about 100 years, up until 1967 of the
events; and a good setting, great setting for today.
I'm very conscious, one of the nice things amid these old buildings is they are authentic -authenticity. One of the bad things about them is they have no air conditioning. So those
you who haven't taken your jacks off, feel free. It's a relaxed way to run these meetings.
Ladies, you are on your own, okay.
So, welcome to everybody. You've heard me say before that there's a reassuring
consistency and predictability about our business. And I think the strength of our results
today reinforce that message.
I'll run through the first part of the results, focusing on the performance of the business
for the first six months of this year. Andy will then give you his usual in-depth review of our
financial performance; covering profits, cash flows and dividends. And finally, I'll spend a
bit of time on the moving parts and why we think we're well positioned for the future.

Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

So, let me start with the business performance. I'm going to show you a series of charts
now, which highlight our performance thus far this year, but also puts the results in context
with our performance over the last few years. So first, our new single investments. That's
essentially all the new money that's been invested in our investment bond, unit trust, and
pension wrappers, that's up 21% year to date and just shy of GBP4 billion, that equates to
the St. James's Place partnership, attracting new investments from clients at the rate of
GBP150 million each and every week.
And if our second half performance is in line with the first, which we expect it to be, we
maintained our 20% compound growth in this measure over the last 10 years. Not
surprisingly, given our consistent retention records, our net inflows had a similar story, in
particular net inflows up 23% in the first six months of 2014, that in turn contributes to the
growth in our funds under management of 3.3 billion, up 7.4% to 47.6% -- 47.6 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to growth in partner numbers. Recruitment, as we said towards the end of
last year, is now back to what we would regard as normal levels. And having achieved
2.5% growth in partner numbers in the first six months, we're on track to achieve 5% to
6% growth for the full year. Having been beneficiaries of two years of disruption in the
adviser marketplace with banks withdrawing from face-to-face provision to the mass
affluent; and the IFA sector contracting, we can expect partner recruitment levels to be
more normal going forward.
Having said that though, we are increasingly attracting businesses that consist of more
than one qualified adviser. And whilst we only count each business as one partner, the
reality is that in terms of adviser capacity, our qualified advisr community is growing more
quickly. And that's been the case in the last few years.
This chart shows that growth, and in particular, you will see that the growth in the first six
months in qualified adviser numbers is 4.6%, up to 2,688. Given the changing shape and
structure of the businesses we're recruiting today, as I indicated in our meeting last year,
we plan to include adviser numbers as a matter of course in our figures going forward.
As most of you will know, our growth model is based on two key levers; capacity i.e. the
number of qualified advisers, and productivity. So turning now to productivity, these next
two charts show the growth in that measure.
Firstly, productivity per partner, which as you'll see, shows productivity up 13% in the first
half of the year. The next, productivity per advisr, where the growth in the first six months
is 9% compared to the first six months of 2013.
Clearly, productivity per adviser was a lower absolute number, but the key point is the
trend, both showing a similar shape and growth in line with our objectives. So, that brings
me to the end of part one. Strong growth once again in new business, new single
investments and net inflows, coupled with strong growth in the number of qualified
advisers and their productivity, that I've said on previous occasions, bodes really well for
the future.

Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

So let me pause there, hand over to Andy to talk you through the financials and I'll come
back a little latter. Thank you. Andy?

FINAL

Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report a strong financial performance in the
underlying cash and EV result. There are a number of vagaries around the IFRS, which I will
cover later, but these do not reflect the operating performance of the business. Now, as
you are aware that 2013 reported numbers included number of significant changes and
one-off items. Whilst I'm pleased to say that the 2014 numbers are not so messy, I will
need to refer back to the 2013 items that help explain the underlying performance of the
business.
There are also a few points of clarity to help you with your models. There is, however, one
change in an accounting requirements that has impacted the 2014 half-year result. In line
with the rest of the industry, we have adopted IFRS IC Interpretation 21 - Levies. Now, for
those of you who don't know what that means, it means that we are required as far as the
Financial Services Compensation Scheme Levy is concern, recognize this amount in full
immediately rather than being phased evenly over the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Consequently, the 2014 half-year result reflects the expected full-year levy of 6.9 million,
whereas the 2013 result reflected just a six months charge of 2.4 million. Clearly, this is a
timing point and there should be no further cost in the second half of the year, unless
there is an additional FSCS levy. And this change is reflected in all the profit measures,
which you will note as we go through the numbers.
So, let's start looking at results, with the embedded value numbers. And the current slide
shows the usual breakdown. The new business contribution for the six months that are
181.3 million was up 19%, in line with the new business growth David covered earlier. The
expected or unwind for the period was 91.6 million compared with 56.5 million, the
increase reflecting the higher opening value of in-force and discount rate.
I'm pleased to say that, once again, there was a positive experience variance during the
period, which as I've previously said, could provide investors with confidence on our
reported embedded value. In both years, there was a positive variance from the
continued strong retention, particularly in respect of pensions business. And you will recall
that the 2013 figure also reflected a GBP32 million value based on capital losses.
Investment income for the period was 3.4 million, compared with 1.7 million last year,
whilst distribution contributed a loss of 8.8 million for the six months.
And included within this distribution result is the additional FSCS levy, I touched on at the
start, with the balance of the difference between the two periods, reflecting higher
expenditure in 2014. Other contributed a loss of 15.8 million, which is at the same level as
last year. And included in this figure is the cost of expensing share options, the investment
in the back-office infrastructure and last year the cost of the share pricing, with the
balance being made up of number of miscellaneous items.

Page 3 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

I'm taking all this into account, the operating profit for the six months was 260.7 million, up
12%. The current slide provides an alternative presentation that better illustrates a like-forlike operating performance. Eliminating the one-off and non-operating items, it's a likefor-like growth in the EV operating profit of 30%. In the current year, there was a small
positive contribution of 9.9 million from the combined investments variance in economic
assumption change, compared with a far bigger 211 million impact in the prior year, given
the stronger investment markets during that period. The net asset value per share at the
30th of June was 604.9 p, up 15% over the 12 months.
Turning now to the post-tax cash result, with the current slide, showing the breakdown of
the total position. Before looking at the underlying result, let's quickly deal with the other
items. Firstly, there is no repeat of the one-off 18.3 million from a reinsurance in the first
half of 2013. Secondly, the back office investment was 3.7 million post-tax in the first six
months and there will be a similar cost in the second half of year and in each half of 2015.
It's worth noting that we are very pleased with the progress of this development and are
currently in extensive use of testing. The prior year number included the post-tax expense
in respect to the share pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

And thirdly, there was a negative 14.7 million, compared with a positive 2 million in the first
half of last year. These amounts mainly reflect timing variances in the settlement of tax
related liabilities between the unit linked funds, the shareholder and HMRC. And hence,
that's why we don't include them in the underlying result. The current year negative mainly
reflects the reversal of the 2013 full-year positive variance.
Returning now to the underlying cash result, which as you can see, was up 17% to 78.5
million. This is worth noting, like the EV result, the current year includes the change in
accounting for the FSCS levy I touched on at the start. At this levy being calculated on a
consistent basis to 2013, then the cash result would have been some 82 million and the
growth would have been 23%.
Now, as you are aware, we see the cash result as a combination of the cash emerging
from the business in force at start of the year, less the cash flows associated with the new
business activity during the period.
And looking at the breakdown between the two reporting periods, you see that the cash
arising from the in-force has increased by 25%, due to higher net income from funds
under management.
We've always spoken up broadly earning 1% pre-tax of funds under management.
However, given the slightly different earnings profile across various lines of business,
together with different tax regimes applying, we have also provided a blended post tax
rate 0.77%. It would be more accurate for you to use this 0.77% figure in your models.
The investment in new business was 36.4 million in the current year, higher than the 25
million for the corresponding six months 2013. This increase is partly explained by the
FSCS levy point and partly explained by higher expenses. Looking forward, funds under
Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

management have been maturing; and as they continue to develop, due to net income,
could also increase correspondingly. At the 30th of June, from 14.2 billion of original client
investments are currently within their first six years and not contributing to the cash result.
If all this business reached the end of the early withdrawal charge period, then the annual
post-tax cash result would be some 109 million higher.
Moving now on to the IFRS result. And I know from conversations with many of you, this is
where the modeling gets difficult. We are, therefore, provided a few enhancements to
the post-tax analysis to assist you, which I will cover later.
The headline IFRS profit for shareholder tax for the period was 82.4 million, lower than the
90.1 million for the same period last year. However, to better understand the underlying
performance during the period, it is worthwhile stripping out a number of factors. Though,
removing the reinsurance treaty, the FSCS levy and the back office investment together
with the 2013 one-off share placing cost, the underlying comparison would be 94 million in
the current year compared with 89.6 million, growth of some 5%.
Even so, this still leaves the question of why the IFRS performance is so different to the
growth in new business, the growth in funds under management, the growth in the
underlying cash result and the growth in the EV result.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said at the start, this is also due with the vagaries of IFRS rather than the operating
performance. And to understand this better, let's look at the breakdown of the
adjustments required the post-tax cash result. And to help you with your models, I will also
comment on how you can expect each constituent part to develop going forwards.
Now, this can be a touch complex, but please try and stay awake. Now, starting with the
underlying cash result; the first series of adjustments required relates to the purchase
value of in-force, the PV; the deferred income recognition, the DER; and the deferred
acquisition cost, the DAC. And looking at these, I'm starting with the amortization of the
PV asset which reduces profit by 1.2 million to 1.3 million in each half year. This is a trend
that will continue in each reporting period.
The second adjustment to consider is the movement in the DER. Now essentially, this
adjustment requires any initial margin, we deferred an outset and spread. Consequently,
the result is reduced by differing the initial margin for the current year, but increased by
the amortization of prior year initial margins that had previously been deferred.
Looking at the two reporting periods, you will note that the deferral on new business is
more or less the same in each year. And you should not expect significant movements in
this number going forward. The amortization of the existing DER, however, is some 5
million low in the current half year and this is a trend that will continue as the DER held on
the balance sheet reduces.
The next adjustment to consider is the DAC, which is essentially the opposite side of the
DER, in at any cause are required to be deferred and spread. Again, looking at the two
reporting periods, you will note that the deferral on new business is more or less the
Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

same in each period. And again, you should not expect significant movements in this
number going forward. The amortization of the existing DAC, however, is some 3 million
low in the current year. And this is also a trend that will continue as the DAC on the
balance sheet reduces.
Now, as SJP is a growing business, historically, the DER and DAC established in respect to
the new business in the particular year had exceeded the amortization of the prior year's
DER and DAC. In other words, they had historically been a benefit due to the IFRS result
from these adjustments. However, following the introduction of the adviser charging rules
at the start of 2013, the initial margin on the partner remuneration are no longer a cash
flow of the company. Therefore, the company's initial margin and acquisition costs are
significantly lower.

Bloomberg Transcript

Consequently, the associated DER and DAC on new business is also significantly lower
and are now more than offset by the amortization charge from the prior year's DAC and
DER. In other words, there is now a drag on the IFRS result. And this is as the historic DER
and DAC held on the balance sheet unwinds.
Next, a proportion of business actually issued at the start (Technical Difficulty) therefore,
the initial margin and costs were still income and expense of the company. And therefore,
still deferred by an additional DER and DAC adjustment, which increased 2013 result by 2.1
million. And the combination of all these adjustments resulted in an increase in the 2013
result by 7.2 million, but only 3 million in the 2014 result, a difference of 4.2 million or some
5 million pre-tax. The 2013 result also included a one-off profit, sorry, one-off post-tax
benefit of 7.1 million from the reassurance treaty. There are also a number of adjustments
required for share options and other miscellaneous items. These two you should model in
line with current year experience.
The next slide relates is deferred tax assets of 38.4 million established in the 2013 IFRS
result. But a future expected benefit of capital losses. And there has been a further small
addition of 0.8 million in the current year. Now, as these capital losses are actually utilized
and the benefit flows through the cash result, then the deferred tax asset has to be
amortized by an equal and opposite amount. And the amortization charge in the 2014
result was 4.2 million.
Going forward, we anticipate utilizing these capital losses over the next 6 years to 7 years,
but you should assume an amortization charge of some 5 million to 6 million per annum
going forward. And finally, the UK life tax regime gives tax relief with the costs associated
with the acquisition of new business evenly over a period of 7 years. Therefore, in any
year, it is necessary to make two deferred tax adjustments in the IFRS result. Firstly, a
deferred tax asset established for the acquisition costs in a particular year that will receive
tax relief in future years i.e. six-sevenths of that year's cost. Now, the deferred tax asset
established in both years was 6.1 million. And I suggest that you model a similar amount
going forward for each six months period.
Secondly, the existing deferred tax asset established in previous years needs to be
amortized as the tax relief is obtained i.e. one-seventh of each of the previous six years'

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

acquisition costs. And the amortization charge in both costs of the year was about 10.2
million. Similar to the DER and DAC, as a growing company, historically, the deferred tax
assets established in respect of new business costs each year had exceeded the
amortization of prior year's deferred tax assets. In other words, there had been a benefit
to the IFRS result.
However, again, following the introduction of the adviser charging rules, the partner
remuneration is no longer a cost of the company. And therefore, the level of acquisition
costs and consequently the benefit from associated deferred tax asset is smaller, and
now more than offset by the amortization from the prior year's deferred tax amount. In
other words, there is now also a drag on the IFRS result, as the historic deferred tax asset
unwinds.
This will be the case albeit by a declining amount into the existing deferred tax assets in
respect of adviser charges is fully amortized. We've guided to a full-year 2014
amortization charge of 20 million. And going forward this amortization charge could
decline by some 3 million to 4 million in each of the next five years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And taking into account all these adjustments, the post-tax cash result for the six months
was 66.1 million compared with 108.2 million. Grossing up for tax, we get back to the IFRS
pre-tax profit.
Now, I appreciate there were lot of moving parts here, but hopefully you will find this new
analysis helpful for you models. I'm also very happy to go through these adjustments on a
one-to-one basis. And if you would like a copy of this script, then let Tony or I know. And to
finish the IFRS, the net asset value per share at the end of June was a 178.8 p, some 8%
higher than last year.
So, back to more exciting things and moving on to the dividend. The current slide shows a
dividend growth over this period, which represents compound growth per annum of
23.5%. In setting the dividend, the Board considers the operating performance of the
business, the outlook together with the payout ratio. And the key financial performance
measure that Board considers is the underlying cash result, not the IFRS result. And given
the growth in this measure, the Board has resolved to increase the interim dividend by
40% at the top end of our guidance. And we anticipate an increase into the full-year
dividend of a similar amount.
Now, a brief look at the historical development of the dividend. In 2006 and '07, we grew
the dividend within a range of 15% to 20%, giving a payout ratio in the high 70s. During
2008 and '09, the underlying cash was held back by the markets. However, we still
increased the dividend albeit at 2% to 3%, whilst the payout ratio climbed to around 90%.
As the market started to recover and our business became more mature, we were able
to significantly increase the dividend with three successive increases of 33% in 2010, '11
and '12, with a payout ratio in the 60% to 70% range. And last year, we increased the
dividend by 50%, providing a payout ratio of 59%.

Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

As noted earlier, we have increased the interim dividend by 40% and anticipate the fullyear dividend increase by a similar amount. This will provide a payout ratio somewhere
around the 65% rate depending upon the full-year cash result. And that is not a forecast.

FINAL

As you know, we are currently establishing a cash reserve on the balance sheet equal to
one year's dividend cost and fully expect to return to a payout ratio at the 70% level once
this reserve has been reached.
And a few points on the capital position of the group. The solvency position of the
regulated entities remained strong and resilient. The group balance sheet is not exposed
to options, guarantees or longevity risk. And we continue to have a low appetite for
market, credits and liquidity risk. It's probably also worth a comment or two on Solvency II.
As you know, new regime will be implemented at the start of 2016. Whilst we do not yet
have all the final rules and guidance. Given the unit linked nature of our business, with no
options, guarantees or longevity risk, the group will not be adversely impacted by the new
requirements. And indeed, we expect to see a reduction in the capital currently required
for solvency purposes. Consequently, we do not see Solvency II impacting our current
dividend policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

And to conclude, a strong financial performance for the year with the underlying cash
result up 17%. The interim dividend increased by 40% at the top end of our guidance and
we anticipate an increase in the full-year dividend by a similar amount. This will be the fifth
successive year of significant dividend growth. And finally, the capital position remains
strong and we have no concerns in respect to Solvency II.
Now, it's me done. Thank you for your attention. And I'll now hand you back to David.

David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Thank you for the jacket being removed. And that was a real teaching on IFRS, now you
know why he choose a school for the presentation. So thank you, Andy.
And let me move on to part two. As for the overall business results I covered earlier, I
hope you create a set of financial results that provide further evidence of a strong,
growing and sustainable business, delivering value to all of its stakeholders. At our
meeting in February when we released our 2013 results, I've spent quite a bit of time
talking about our clients. I covered the demographics of our client base, their age profile,
their holdings and the latest round of feedback from them. I won't repeat that today, it's
safe to say that we attracted a further 27,300 new clients in the first six months of this
year. Growth consistent with the other numbers that we've spoken about today. They will
have come to us as existing clients of advisers who joined us, new clients of existing
partners and from referrals. And that brings the total number of new clients to over
200,000 in the last five and half years.
Despite that growth, there were still a relatively small part of the wealth management
sector; Data Monitor estimates that there are over 9 million people who have over
Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

GBP50,000 on investable assets, liquid assets, who between them have over 2 trillion of
investable wealth. And I'm reckoning we are looking after a tiny percentage of that
wealth, but a terribly scientific piece of analysis I know, but you get my point. The two
extreme ends of the market and by that I mean the ultra high net worth individuals or selfdirected investors are not typically our market. The former who currently tend to deal with
the global investment banking organizations and the latter tend to invest smaller sums
and pick a fund directly.
Our core market is seen as the mass affluent for high net worth clients, that's those who
have liquid assets of between 50,000 and 5 million. And according to Data Monitor who
have between them around 1.7 trillion of investable wealth. And from our experience, the
majority of this market wants someone they can talk to, someone they can trust to take
care of some or all of their wealth and importantly someone that will keep them on track.

Bloomberg Transcript

Most UK banks have withdrawn from providing this market with a face-to-face service. And
in the wider IFA sector, we see continued contraction. Some believe that this largely driven
by the regulatory burden has created a clear advice gap, the people are being denied
advice as it can't be provided in a viable way.
It is an undeniable factor that there are fewer advisers in the marketplace today than they
are ever been and it's also an undeniable fact that more people than ever need or seek
help with their finances. However, was this may be interpreted as leading to an advice
gap. I don't think clients see it that way. In our experience, most people want is simply to
do business with someone they can trust. And to trust someone, you have to get to know
them. And that means forming some sort of long-term relationship and that's where the
gap this.
The financial services industry is potentially feigning its clients by failing to provide
something the majority of them want, a relationship-based personal service. These
quotes come from a report published just last week from the Competition of Markets
Authority from their recent review into banking services for the SME market. Whether it's
in banking, insurance or wealth management, we believe that most clients whether
individuals or small businesses, crave such a service. They want to deal with the same
person, they want to be treated as an individual properly and fairly, and they want advice
they can trust. The fact that the industry and regulation is failing to respond to this basic
need is the reason you people will say for retirement, you people will maximize the
incentives the government give them to invest and fewer people will protect themselves,
their families or their wealth.
In other words, fewer people will fail [ph] and will act. And some industry commentators
all that's required to deal with this challenge is the provision of low cost online services,
that people can access for themselves, or centralized call center. And for some, that's
perceived to be innovation. For St. James's Place, innovation is about making our products
and services more relevant and more bespoke, adding new asset classes and manages
to already broad range of investment propositions. Developing technology to make it
easier for our partners to serve their clients well, is where we see innovation best applied
in our business.

Page 9 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

We're committed to the face-to-face market to building long-term relationships with
partners and clients and like. And that's why we invest substantial sums of our resources,
making that better bit by bit every year. Our clients like what we do for them, they
evaluate it and they recommend us to their friends and acquaintances, hence their
feedback and their consistent growth in our business. Whilst our overall share of the
market is still relatively small, as I said earlier, there is one area where it's not small and
that's in the ISA market, a more better illustration of our ability to get clients to act and in
the right way.
Here is the latest table of top 10 providers, provides the fund sourced by the IMA. This is
an update from their website just a couple of months ago. St. James's Place stands in the
number one position today with GBP1 billion more in ISA funds from the nearest
competitor.
Our strength in that market is why we were particularly pleased to hear the Chancellor
increase the ISA limits from 11,700 to 15,000 per annum per person. That's a 28%
increase, with effect from this month, and the maximum amount people can put into the
ISA's each year. Not everyone can afford to maximum fund that arises, but a significant
percentage of our clients do, and this is an encouraging step for us for the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

That was also the case with the recent announcement on pension reforms, giving clients
more choice and more flexibility has to be in their best interest, albeit such freedom is not
without risk. Another reason why we believe our relationship-based model is so well
placed for the future, providing ongoing advice before, at, and post-retirement.
Turning now to our core investment proposition for clients. The first six months of this year
has been particularly busy period for the Investment Committee and our asset
management teams. Last time we met, I explained that we were close to confirming how
we were responding to Neil Woodford has moved. In the event, we decided to leave the
majority of the funds he had previously managed for our clients with him. So we simply
replaced INVESCO with Woodford Investment Management. And that was in respect of
our UK high income, UK equity and income distribution funds.
The key point here though is that it was a seamless transfer for our clients. They don't
have to do anything, and their sales or repurchases, and their tax implications and no
paper work, a really seamless transfer. At the same time we took the opportunity to bring
back some further changes to our range of fund and fund managers with the
appointment of three new managers. Richard, Steven and Jim at Threadneedle
Investments will now manage our Strategic Managed Fund, our Global Equity Income Fund
will be managed by Paul Boyne and Doug McGraw at Manulife Asset Management and
they're based in Boston.
And we've established a new emerging markets fund to be managed by Wasatch
advisers based in Salt Lake City, Utah, led by A.J. Chrisman. Whilst such advisers join the
other 12 fund managers, St. James's Place clients have exclusive access to in the UK retail
market, for further strengthening the proposition for clients. We've also strengthen our
investments committee by introducing two new independent advisers, Steven Daniels

Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

and Davina Curling have between them over 50 years of investment management
experience and that experience will be invaluable to our investment Committee as they
oversee our growth aspirations in the future.
And finally, to the partnership. I said earlier that despite our commitment to the face-toface relationship-based market, there are fewer advisers in that market today than there
have even been. That fact coupled with our desire to continue to grow the partnership is
the motivation behind our academy. Since it was re-launched in 2012, it's gone from
strength-to- strength. And we're now are seeing students from that 2012 cuve [ph]
beginning to graduate as further -- as fully qualified advisers and that trend will continue
from here on in.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of new intakes, our makeover [ph] attracted 22 new students, but in some track
to achieve our target for 2014. And the third of this intake like the previous intake were
women, an encouraging sign in itself.
In addition to the London Academy, we are just about to begin our Regional Academy
Program. The first being in Manchester in September of this year where we will see close
to 20 students to join us. And that will be followed in the spring with the focus in the
Midlands where we expect to set up an academy in the early part of 2015. And just by a
way reminder, the average age of our academy students is 38 and prior to joining the
academy this year's intakes previous 12 months earning was on average GBP90,000 per
annum, as well as bringing new blood into the industry, we're committed to supporting
the partnership every way we can and more so in their further professional development.
Continual professional development is an essential and non-negotiable ingredient of our
world and we want to do all we can to help, support and encourage our advisers and
technical support teams in this area. That's why we were delighted to announce yesterday
that we are launching a Masters degree in wealth management in conjunction with the
London School of Business and Economics. This qualification and Masters in wealth
management will be available exclusively for SJP employees and advisers, first in the UK I
believe.
We're also delighted with the progress we are making following our acquisition of the
Henley Group. As you may remember. the group consists of some 50 advisers who we
haven't yet included in our numbers and who operate out of three locations in Singapore,
Hong Kong and Shanghai. We completed the transaction in June and have made good
progress with the transition in all three locations. Two of our senior management teams
have relocated to the Far East and many more are working on the integration such that
everything is on schedule for the marketing of our range of investments and services later
this year.
We also seem to have generated lot of interest in the adviser market in the Far East, so
there is already some encouraging signs for further recruitment in those jurisdictions. I
know there's a lot of interest in this room too, but it's a little bit premature to go into the
detail at this stage. So we will cover in much more detail at our next presentation.

Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

For now, let me leave you with a summary of today's results. The business is in great
shape and I hope you agree, continues to deliver great outcomes for all of these stake
holders.

FINAL

We're determined to maintain that strong momentum and the momentum on the
business generally. I'm remain committed to continual improvement in all aspects bit by
bit, inch by inch, year by year.
Thank you for listening. I'd now like to try ask Andy, Ian Gascoigne and then David Lamb to
join me upon the platform, where we'll be happy to take any questions.

Questions And Answers
A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

I think you will know these guys. But if there are any new faces, David is at the end and Ian
is the good looking one in the middle. He wants to be first. Okay. We look forward. We
have two mikes going here. So -- for some reason, we've lost the lights.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just couple of questions. First of all, can you give us some
color on what sort of size of partnership are you trying to acquire, I mean, in terms of
number of advisers because there is clearly a disconnect between the growth in the
partnership and growth in advisers. So how should we think about growth in the adviser
base going forward? And is it a good measure to look at productivity?
And secondly, will dividend have any relationship to the IFRS net profit or will it's only be
based on the cash profits? Thank you.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay, Andy, if you want to take IFRS and then Ian can pick up the advisers.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. If I do the dividend first. As I say, the Board looks at the underlying cash result. We
can't actually pay dividends out of the IFRS profits, because not all the bits was
intangibles. Having said that though, you do need distributable reserves to pay a dividend,
though the IFRS result becomes important there, but there is lots of headrooms. So it's
not going to cause a problem.

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

And in terms of growth of the -- whether its partner numbers or adviser numbers, I think
our commitment is to grow the distribution bringing 5% and 6% per annum. That's the
target range. Additionally, we've accounted the individual partner business as the number,
while that the heights is the fact that the current recruitment trends is less-and-less one
man bands or traders and more on more small groupings of business of two or three,
Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

basically one business could contain three advisers, so that's why we started to report the
total number of advisers, and we will be looking in that target range between 5% and 6%
going forward.

FINAL

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yes, a pretty similar shape in both. As Ian said, the 5% to 6% goal is consistent across total
advisers and partner numbers. And the reality is that the recruitment of the new advisers
or new businesses there has changed type a bit. What I was trying to say that, we're
recruiting people today that we wouldn't recruit it five years ago. But just the strength of
the business and the marketplace today, and St. James's Place reputation I guess. Alright.
One more at the back here and then we'll bring the mike forward.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Good morning, Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. Couple of questions. First of all, on your - on the issue with ISA [ph], really those are very strong in the first half. I'm just curious to
know and what the implications from the budget changes will be in terms of flexibility
between stock and cash ISAs, are you intending to offer the cash ISA, and then do you
think this will have implications for margins going forward?
And second question was just around the academy and I think similar task has exposed,
but just trying to get a sense of whether that 5% to 6% is gross if your academy
graduates. I can get this, but I just wanted to check. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yeah, let me deal with the last one first. The academy, the reason for the academy being
in place was to deal with contraction of the market. So we expect the academy when it's
in a steady state to be contributing around 25% of our 5% to 6% year, so it's inclusive on
growth figures.
In terms of the ISA business, David, do you want to --

A - David Lamb

{BIO 15016583 <GO>}

Yeah. We don't plan to offer a cash ISA, however, from July 1 this year we had a cash fund
available within our stock market ISA. Now, we can't take cash into the stock market ISA
and vice versa. There is no doubt or no impact on our margin, we've always said to
investors you should keep short-term cash in the bank, invest medium term, but we have
13 now of our people to, they want to move their cash ISAs across in the stages, for
example, coming to the cash fund inside the stock exchange ISAs, stock market ISA, and
go into our stock market ISAs.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

That's fair today. And it's coming.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

Hi. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I have got three questions, please. Couple of
numbers questions. Andy, you very helpfully went through the sort of relative DAC and
DER amortization and capitalization. Can we stipulate what you said the point where we
can work out where the fact neutralizes and then flips around to be post if you can, is out
guidance or reversal after taking ISA four, five years, I guess, when the flip over point
happens, first question.
Second question, the FSCS Levy on slide 20, you said some of it is allocated against new
business, though it's a small number, but can you tell us how much is against new business
and how much is against in-force?
And then just finally on the Blue Door platform. I think Andy mentioned in his presentation
again that your user acceptance testing that platform. I just wanted whether you've made
a decision yet about how much functionality you're going to give the investment client
versus the power-door adviser in terms of whether they're going to check balances, et
cetera, online or how much is going to be door if that was a gateway? Thank you.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. Let Andy take the first two questions and then we'll come back to the Blue Door
point in a minute.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I recommend you do the third one, so I'll just find the right page.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

But let me just talk about Blue Door for a minute in term of what it is. It is a back office
infrastructure. When I spoke in February, I talked about the unification of our back office
Phase 1 of that has happened already. And that was the coming together of the two major
administration centers. One in Basildon, one via FTS and 450 odd people in Craigforth
were previously managed and were employed by Prudential. IFTS have take over the
entire team, so they now employ the 400 odd people that are in Craigforth, and we have
unified the back office. What's significant for me about that is that we did that, but they
moved to new building on the Craigforth compound, the management teams have
changed slightly and been become more integrated and we didn't skip a beat. I mean,
the whole thing just was handled exceptionally well. We're now into the Blue Door
process, the technology itself, which again is about the back office, so it's about those
two administration centers sharing the same technology. It won't impact hugely on
partners and clients in the short term in terms of delivering facilities to them, but it will
improve the service and then improve the outputs, it will improve the flexibility of what our
partners will be able to do.
Then we look at a different sorts of mechanism, a different front office, which I think David
and David will touch on this, is called open door, I think so.

A - David Lamb

{BIO 15016583 <GO>}

Page 14 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

Few quick points. I think first one is in terms of your question study about balances
information online, clients can do that today on our current system and that will continue
with Blue Door, and David says goes in behind the scenes and takes over the back office
mechanism, that's still -- that access online for example current balances every day,
running a wealth account online, updates every night, all that's available and will be
available once Blue Door goes live. What we're looking at as the second stage to help the
partnership is whether or not we want to make an easier deposit, to communicate in
mobile way using mobile technology to send information to that clients, switches and
things like that, via mobile apps rather than e-mail.
So that will come later, but the absolute in terms of accessing information available online
that exists and will continue to exist post Blue Door.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Well, that would have bought you enough time?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Good.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I mean, firstly on your first question, yes, I think you can model where the two flip over
from what I'd this morning. I wasn't anticipating that question or I might have gone a bit
more exclusive there? On the FSCS Levy, firstly, FSCS Levy is driven by the number of
advisers and sort of new business. So therefore, these classified as a new business cost.
So, in the cash where we are fetching it from info's and from new business, all in the new
business column.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. Right over the front here and then we'll -- down the front here, with the pink shirt.
Good morning.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. And two questions about the margins you are generating
new (Technical Difficulty) EV business margin where, yes, there's been a benefit in any
case from lower interest rates. But if we look at cash result, the margin on new business is
actually lower. I was wondering if you could explain why that is the case, and whether we
should extrapolate from that?
And then secondly on 77 bps guidance that you've given. I can understand that if there's a
23% tax rate, tax rates meant to be coming down to I think 21%, so why should we not be
building in more than 77 bps going forward?
Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

FINAL

I'll do the first one first. I think it's probably worth saying, we are not seeing margin
pressure and we have not changed the pricing of the offering to clients nor at this point in
time do we see the need to do so. What we are seeing in the first six months of this year
is a run rate of production cost is marginally higher, more sort of slight step up that was in
the trend.
And the final point relates to where -- if a new adviser joins us and one of his existing
clients to use an example wants to come into the SJP proposition, had that clients recently
purchased an other investments and had a upfront cost associated with that. We think it's
inappropriate for the clients suffer a second upfront cost in such a short period of time.
So therefore, neither the adviser or the company will take any upfront costs on that
business. Now it is a small proportion of the business and the reason why it's probably
coming through the numbers a little bit is because the numbers of advisers that we've
recruited over the last sort of 12 to 18 months.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the 77 bps, I mean, we've always had that 77, 78 bps type thing. We've got 46 billion of
funds under management that's been accumulated over the last 22 years, some of that's
going to be very large cases which will be done on a discounted basis.
And there are different tax regimes flying around in here and they have over the 20 years
being different pricing changes from time to time. If you remember leading up to where
they are, we reduced the initial adviser margin to partners but we increased the ongoing
adviser charge on unit trust and ISAs, as you start proceeding further when post RDR
business, that's why you find you don't get the 80 basis points. But the 77 basis points
(Technical Difficulty). We're not seeing margin pressure now. I don't know whether these
guys want to add anything.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

No, there's no evidence of that all (Technical Difficulty) answer from Andy and that's
exactly where we are. And what's interesting is when you look at analysis, David, and the
audience did some really comprehensive analysis on adviser charges and total costs in
terms of reduction in yields and well that's said was exactly what we believed that in the
medium to long term, especially from three to six years out, we are very competitive
amongst the cheapest in that space. And I think clients are increasingly recognizing that
fact. And we give (Technical Difficulty) extremely good value. But I would that would not, I
just want to hear that.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Andrew Sinclair from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Just following up from Oliver's
question. If the recruitment rates is slightly slower than it has been for the last two
exceptional years, and you are on having less perhaps having this deeper entry into
certain products, does that mean that the new business margins could actually drift off
over the next couple of years, if there is also yield, no margin pressure?

Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

Secondly, just think if this has been a better chart in the press, recently about reducing tax
relief on pension contributions, just wondering if essentially what your thoughts are on -for the follow-up, would that be or for St. James's, would that be an opportunity or a
threat?

FINAL

And also just finishing up on ISA sales again, wondered if you are seeing a similar
proportion of customers still marching over ISA 11's post the July 1st increase? Thanks.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

The adviser growth I think, Andy, correct me if I am wrong, the reason why we are
showing number of partners and number and number of advisers now is because that
there has been similar growth and we are pointing more towards similar growth in the first
six months of this year to our previous two years. So there has not been any discernible
change in that in the first six months of this year. If you look at advisers, as the capacity of
the business has gone up, still at that sort of top end, exceeding that top end of our
normal range.
And so, we're not quite sure whether that we're going to see any significant shifts in the
short term in that particular measure, ISA sales, David?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Lamb

{BIO 15016583 <GO>}

I mean, it's -- ISA matching opposition, again this tax here, so it's very early days. But we
are not expecting any fallback in terms of people maxing out. I look at the ones that do
regular monthly ISAs, the ones with Fortune maxing out there and fortune maxing are now
pretty much exactly the same. But it's too early to say what's going to happen in the
single pay-losses, though I need to start off a new tax year.
Going to your point about pensions, what's interesting, post data, it was GBP235,000 in
the pension, the higher rate tax rate meant a lot, that's coming right down to the
contribution of its and you can't do anything like that GBP40,000 maximum contribution
of its.
I think level tax rate would be quite interesting, I think will expanded market, intentions
alongside the changes in the last budget in terms of the utilization. But I think you might
find a lot more interest in the pensions market. But in terms of content effect, that's isn't a
big impact for SJP because you got that full off in the maximum contribution level. I think it
would be positive market generally and that's a positive for us, alongside the annuity
impact very positive in terms of outlook, in terms of pensions going forward, just because
of the shape of the market.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

If I could just add an EV point there. The amount you can contribute again fairly in April
from --

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

50 to 40.

FINAL

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yeah. That was a bit of -- And so therefore, we have seen in our in-force local regular
training and pension some people are happening to reduce their contribution 50 down to
40. The slight negative impact of that is included in the embedded value, that's already in
there.
David, and then Barrie.

Q - David Mccann

{BIO 15885639 <GO>}

Good morning. It's David Mccann from Numis. And you actually just touched on part of my
question just then and out, pension contribution that may come in down. Obviously, you
talked about the ISA limit going up around 3,000 this year. We do not think overall for
your business, the pension contribution limit coming down by 10,000 mostly offset that
ISA change or -- and if not may be give us more color as to why you think overall -- I mean,
you think it's a positive.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then second one on Henley, you mentioned at the end, David, 50 or so adviser coming
into the business in this half, and moving the numbers. And now is that 50 partners or is
that 50 advisers or is it therefore one partner coming in and also does this get included
within your fund under management?

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay, let's just take the first one and Ian can talk about the adviser numbers. I mean, one
of the things that Andy said when we do our investor road show, when we talk about
those pension contributions coming down and the limits coming down it's that people
who will find -- will invest the money for the future because that's what they do, and that's
why we've seen unit trust sales and ISA sales in the last two or three years being the
fastest growing of our wrappers. But we've seen pension contributions coming down but
that doesn't stop clients from investing. So I don't believe you will see any significant
change for the 50 down to 40 in terms of people wishing to invest money.
They have got money to invest from invested, the rapo has changed, unfortunately ISAs
will be the place where people go first, as we've seen on that leap table. But I don't think
we are going to see any net impact on the business that's anything other than positive. I
think in terms of the adviser numbers --

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Yeah with regard to Henley that is very some much 50 sole trader businesses that we've
acquired as part of that group. So there will be an appointed as individuals representing
the Henley Group, which is part of St. James's Place, but for the round numbers it will be
50 sole trader (Technical Difficulty) partners, yeah.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

Barrie, just pass -- David, can you pass the mike along? Thank you.

FINAL

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Good morning. Barrie Cornes from Panmure Gordon. I've got three questions. following
ON from David's question about the Henley group, it took a long time to complete
(Technical Difficulty). Secondly, growth (Technical Difficulty) will you report that (Technical
Difficulty). The last question I had was you impose pretty strict standards or restrictions if
you like on your partners, that's what they can and can't do outside of the -- will that apply
to the --

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Will that apply to?

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

To the -- from the associates --

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Advisers?

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, the advisers.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. Well, the last one is easy to deal with. Yes; they are the subordinate players to our
partners. So they work for partners and the partner -- the whole business carries the same
responsibility. We've got more pressures today than we've ever been. So there is no
weakening or loosening of the soundness in that area. And can talk about Henley a bit
more in terms of why it took you so long David to get it authorized and approved?

A - David Lamb

{BIO 15016583 <GO>}

The choice of dealing with three regulators in three different countries and all of them
deal in different way, in different time scale, so that's the reality and what it takes longer
because it takes longer, we're working through the regulatory process, a lot of detailed
paperwork and stuff going back and forth, it's more exciting than that (Technical Difficulty).

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

And growth in terms of advisers and business generally -- yeah, the final question.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, we are going into these jurisdictions, because we see great opportunity
there and we see great opportunity for our brand, the way we do business and we see
large numbers of international experts wanting to deal with the company like St. James's

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

Place and in the Far East, this is a part of the world that's not best served by this business,
in terms of the nature of business and the product's available. The way are offering a new
way of doing business so those jurisdictions and we're very optimistic about it.

FINAL

And as David said, we've already been in contact and people have made contact with
those of advisers and businesses in those parts of the world who want to meet out,
where we are fairly optimistic.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

It's early days for us, which is why I didn't cover any detail in this but we went into this on
the basis that this would be three locations that almost a region, like the 10 regions we've
got, of 200 people in each region in the UK. So you can see this as sort of 5% to 10% of
our business when we get this up and running, in the fullness of time, assuming we can
get to that sort of core of somewhere between 100 and 200 advisers operating at those
three jurisdictions. It will become like another regional locations that we got in the UK,
that's the sort of aspiration.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Will you report that separately that line then? The Henley Group, the whole industry in the
--

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think we will bring it inside, but you'll get the details of it. (Technical Difficulty)

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Yeah, sorry. Tudor here. Thanks, Allison.

Q - Paul De'ath
Hi. Paul De'ath from RBC. Just couple questions please on guidance. Firstly, the
government's guidance guarantee thing they are bringing into people who are retiring.
Do you see that having any impact on your business at all or essentially how is that going
to impact your customers?
And second point is on guidance on defined benefit to defined contribution transfers,
now the government has come out and said that there is some still be around. Do you
have a kind of company-wide policy on what your bonus can advice on those and do you
see as any kind of opportunity to shift the money across?

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

I'll let David talk about the second question. Can you hear, David, by the way clearly out
there, because up here it's running -- this mike is on a little (inaudible). You can hear it
clear? Okay.

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

FINAL

On the first point, the -- I guess the MAS service, Money Advice Service, if that takes on
the guidance role at which time in and on that transaction, then so be it. I think there's
been quite a bid of feedback from the industry. This is looked, which should you see this
work in progress right now and trying to help the treasury, the regulators get to the right
place with the Money Advice Service, that is going to be for a section of society that I
don't think is going to typically be our clients, which is why I was making the point that our
job is to build long-term relationships that's what we aspire to do and that's what we do.
And that's about the accumulation phase, the preservation phase and the deaccumulation phase as distinct from seeing this as a transaction, for us that's risky and
probably inappropriate and I think we need to work with Treasury and regulators to try
and get that point across.
So no real impact on the business. And there is interestingly some statistics coming out
from I think Watson Wire yesterday, talking about the growth in the pension market over
the next 10 years and they talk about tripling to GBP50 billion pounds worth of funds
effectively being taken out of the accumulation stage and invested, which sounds positive
frankly. It does sound like it's a big job for the guidance regime, set that aside, it also feels
like the rest of the market growth is going to grow quite positively as well. Going to pick
up on the point --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

On the final side point final set of it to DT type pension schemes. We don't think that
there will be a major changes because we are not looking to take money from final side
point pension schemes into DT schemes today, pre the announcement. It's very rare that
someone would do it, that kind of a chance. And you can certainly construct some
sensible slides and it is advisable not probably revolves around the credit worthiness of
the scheme sponsor and the company and things like that. So, I don't think it's going to be
a major catalytic change for us at all, it's an area that we look at from time to time, but it's
a small part of our overall business, the bigger opportunities David just alluded to, is the
time in market place and the growth in funds coming through over the next 10 years, as
that cohort comes into being which is -- we've not seen before. And the GBP50 billion
market, it looks some light number, but it's not surprising. It's a big market.
If we did take a DV to DC sort of transfer, that is where we could for instance have no
initial margin, because the partner may well give up renovation, we may now give up the
initial margin as well. So that could be another category of business, for instance.

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. One last question and then we'll call it around. So --

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Alan Devlin from Barclays. A couple numbers questions. First of all, can you just remind us
what your interest rate leverage is, as short-term interest rate move up year-on-year and
what your cash and short-term investments are on the balance sheet?

Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2014-07-29

And then just second on the dividend reserve, if you could -- and what's the rationale for
holding the dividend reserve, even the prior market (inaudible) 100% of the cash, would
you pay it more than 100% of cash if it was a semi-urban market and your cash is under
pressure if you said that was temporary? Thanks.

FINAL

A - David Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

If I do the interest rate first. And again it's all in the financial review. We're predominantly
holding our surplus capital in AAA rated money market funds and short-term cash
deposits.
So, essentially we're earning base rate. It may be slight above base rate in different
places. So, as the interest rates go up, that will feed through into the cash result.
In terms of the dividend reserve, I think we have to recognize that our cash flows are very,
very dependent upon the market, which is something obviously we can't control.
So, at this stage, we believe it is prudent to have that dividend reserve to prevent us
hopefully ever having to cut the dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

But it's a good point for the future (Technical Difficulty) we can smooth, should we need
to. But there is still a fundamental question in terms of the long-term dividend policy, does
it take 70, do we -- we get up once we've got the reserve, those are things that the
Board will address and is, as I say, a very tropical subject for us right now.
Let's call it there. And more coffee and tine if anybody wants to hang around, and the four
of us (inaudible) at the back as well. Chairman, I just feel uncomfortable saying that.
Anyway, Chairman is here as well. So, any questions, we'll have there. I'm happy to talk.
Thank you very much and thanks, guys.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

