Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

Investor Conference
Company Participants
FINAL

Brian W. MacLean
Gabriella Nawi
Gregory C. Toczydlowski
Jay S. Fishman
Marc E. Schmittlein
Vincent Armentano

Other Participants
Amit Kumar
Brian R. Meredith
Ian J. Gutterman
Jay H. Gelb
Jeffrey Cho
Josh Clayton Stirling
Meyer Shields

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinay Misquith
William Wilt

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Good morning. I'm Gabriella Nawi, Head of Investor Relations, and I would very much like
to welcome you to Travelers 2014 Investor Day. I am very pleased with the agenda we
have for you today. We have presenters you don't ordinarily get to hear from speaking on
important topics to our business that you don't ordinarily get to hear about.
Before we get started, I have to do the obligatory legal disclosures. The materials we will
use today can now be found on our website, www.travelers.com, under the Investors
section, and I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included in the
annex to these presentation materials.
Our presentations today include forward-looking statements. The company cautions
investors that any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainty and is not a
guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those
projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors are
described in the annex to the presentation materials as well as in our most recent 10-K
Page 1 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

and 10-Q filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forwardlooking statements.

FINAL

Also in our remarks or responses to questions, we may mention some non-GAAP financial
measures. Reconciliations are included in the annex to the presentation materials as well
as our most recent earnings press release, both of which are available in the Investors
section on our website.
Again, so we would like to welcome you. You have the agenda in front of you. We will
have two presentations then a short break, then two more presenters followed by the
Q&A period. So now it is very much my privilege to introduce our Chairman and CEO, Jay
Fishman. I know after hearing him speak today you will walk away with a better
understanding of who we are and how we run our business.
Jay Fishman.

Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Gabby. Good morning, everyone. It is nice to have you all join us.
When Gabby told me that we were planning our Investor Day on a Friday in the unofficial
part of summer, I said "Gabby, we've got to pray for rain because we will have one-onone and no one will be there." I am always surprised in the world where you can sit at your
computer and engage with us and listen that some of you to be here today. Thank you for
making that effort. It would be a little bit lonely here talking to an empty room. It is nice to
see so many folks here.
I am hopeful that the day will be productive. It is interesting, there is nothing more
disappointing to us. We do this every other year really. Every other year we have done this
and we visit with you four times a year and we get very granular.
Everybody wants to know what happened yesterday and what is going to happen
tomorrow. Those are sort of the questions that we get. And we are happy to take any of
those questions here today, no issue. But this is an opportunity for us to expose the
company and what we believe differentiates us.
There is a tendency, I think, in the industry to perceive that every competitor is the same.
We all operate in the same arena, the same dynamics, the same performance, the same
outcomes, and if I can simply understand the overall dynamics of the segment, an
industry, a business, I have got the game analyzed. We don't think anything could be
further from the truth. So I'm going to share a few things with you this morning.
It would be disappointing to me – that doesn't mean it's going to be recorded this way.
There is nothing more crushing after spending all the time and energy pulling this
together to open up a report and someone says we learned nothing new. I hope that is
not the case. If it is, you're not listening carefully enough. That's what I can tell you. We
Page 2 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

think we are going to give you an insight into who we are and why we do the things we do
and as a consequence, why the results are different. Why the results are different. So this
really will be in that arena.
This is a slide that I put up all the time internally, externally. It actually is the first slide of
every earnings webcast that we do, and it is not gratuitous. It is not empty. It is actually
very, very substantive. It originated from a group of the management convening after the
St. Paul/Travelers merger in 2004 and challenging ourselves as to a very simple question.
Why should someone buy our stock?
And of course, you get to the next question, because we're going to create value for
them and then you end up in a serious discussion, given all the experiences that we have
at Travelers, all the different companies, all the near-death experiences, all the successes,
how is it that we believe that we could create value?
And we landed on this and it has been remarkably consistent. I can trace its original
presentation actually to 2006, our meeting with analysts where we put this forth that our –
and the word growth, interestingly enough, barely shows up in here.

Bloomberg Transcript

We think about returns. We're a return-oriented company and we start off with a series of
meaningful, differentiating competitive advantages. Constantly investing in pursuit of
those and we're going to talk about a fair number of those today, actually.
That those competitive advantages should produce top-tier profitability and that just
means amongst the best. I'm not promising it will be the best all the time; amongst the
best. But it was clear to us as a GDP industry that if we were successful, one, in the
generation of those competitive advantages; and, two, actually producing the earnings
that we believe we could, that we would produce more capital than we would need to
support our business.
That simply the growth opportunities would not keep pace. And then we would use the
excess capital to send it back, to send it back. We think of our business as if it were a
private equity organization. That the capital that we generate that we don't need, we
send back to our owners. We send it back in dividends and in share repurchases.
As have been asked over time, "Gee, why don't you keep some?" And I would say, "But
for what?" We certainly have the ability to invest in any internal opportunity that exists,
make the investments that are required.
And our philosophy has been if there is ever a transaction to do, it will trade on its merits.
That if the transaction makes sense, we will raise the right capital, and the right form of
capital at the time to finance the transaction instead of sit on cash that might otherwise
be put to work by our owners in more substantive ways just to invest to be more prudent.
And we were hopeful that by pursuing that strategy – hopeful of course then – that we
would be able to create shareholder value by producing and we defined it as mid-teens
Page 3 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

return over time.

FINAL

Less precise in that mid-teens; people say 15%, even 16% mid-teens, because 13% is the
first teen and 19% is the last teen. You can over analyze this. What we are really talking
about are superior returns for our industry, superior returns that I will share with you for a
financial service company, and that, as a consequence, we would be able to create more
value.
Now, we didn't know at the time if it would be successful. Anytime you lay out a strategy,
no matter how thoughtful it is, you're hopeful it works. And we have been fortunate that,
in many cases, the strategies that we have laid out have been quite successful. Not all of
them; some have not been.
And the goal always is to have the thought – have the process be thoughtful. If the
process is thoughtful, if it's analytical, if it's data-driven, if it's not anecdotal, if it's
collaborative, if it comes from within the organization, it's a thoughtful conclusion.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will end up seeing on all the decisions we make if they turn out to be good ones or
not good ones, but you'll look back and you will say it was the right decision based upon
the process and engagement and this was certainly, for us, the right decision.
So today, we're going to focus on that first box. We talk a lot about earnings every
quarter. When we convene we answer questions all the time about our capital
management strategy. There's nothing particularly new about that. I'm going to share
some numbers with you about that, but nothing new as it relates to a change or focus.
Inevitably someone will ask the question: at today's stock price, do you still believe in
buying back shares? The answer is yes. There is no issue with respect to that.
The breakeven point between the dilution of book value per share and the increase in
earnings per share accretion that comes from buying back shares still makes a lot of
sense to us, so we will continue to engage in buying back shares. So that's a disposition of
a question and really gets to the philosophy that we – by which we manage the company.
So, I'm going to cover three topics and then introduce our speakers. First, just to reinforce
the issue, we're very much a return-focused company. This is an analysis of our return on
equity going back to 2005. We picked that period because it is the first full year following
the St. Paul/Travelers merger.
And I really put it up for a couple of reasons. First, I think it's useful to see the – I'll say
sustainability. I'm never quite sure I fully understand the word, but the sustainability of the
portion of return that comes from our investment portfolio. We're a $72 billion investment
portfolio; $68 billion – these are round numbers – 68 billion in bonds.
But you can see, even in the first quarter of 2014, the investment portfolio created 8.8
points of return on equity. So these are sums, obviously. For the quarter, it was 17.8% with
the bracket at the top. It was 9% coming from underwriting and it was 8.8% coming from
Page 4 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

the investment portfolio, of which 7.1 points come from the bond portfolio and 1.7 comes
from the alternative portfolio.
So first thing, I think it is important that there is a sustainable level of return here that we
start with. Now, obviously, as the bond portfolio continues to mature and at these lower
interest rates, that return has dropped. You can see the red at bar as that has come down
somewhat. But we are beginning to get to the point now where the reinvestment dynamic
is not concluded, but it is certainly at the latter stage of bonds maturing and being
reinvested at lower rates.
The other point I would make is the improvement that you see from 2011 up into 2013 in
underwriting. 2011 very adversely affected by the storms in Joplin and in Tuscaloosa, and
then late in 2011, Irene obviously affecting the underwriting performance. Weather in 2012
bad, but better, and 2013 better yet. Although, on a historical basis, it's still higher than
one would have contemplated.

Bloomberg Transcript

But the improvement driven by, one, the improvement in weather, and two, I think most
importantly, I would have to do the arithmetic in my head to verify that, but from an
improving rate, improving the rate across the portfolio. It doesn't mean every product, it
doesn't mean every account, it doesn't mean every line, but it all does average out to a
number. And the improvement in the underwriting performance in these last three years
driven in large measure by improvement in price. So that is the starting point about
returns.
Secondly, and I thought interesting, is to simply go back and compare our operating return
on equity to our estimated cost of capital. And this is a simple enough analysis and really
shows on other-than-two-year basis fairly consistent that we have consistently out earned
our cost of capital by meaningful measures, including 2013 by 700 basis points. So,
substantial margin builder on our cost of capital.
The only two years where we were not able to do that was in 2005. That was Rita,
Katrina, and Wilma for those who don't remember that. And, of course, that was before
we began the process of buying back our shares in the middle of 2006 and then again in
2011, the storms in Joplin and Tuscaloosa and Hurricane Irene, but other than that,
consistent performance beyond our cost of capital.
Something that is going to become, I suspect, a topic of some interest, as the regulatory
environment for lots of financial services continues to change, what are the returns that
are available broadly in the financial services sector? So this simply – this next slide simply
compares Travelers return with the average 2005 to 2013. And we are talking now about
net income – net return on equity, because it is impossible to get operating return for the
other segments. So we simply went to published reported return on equity.
You can see that in addition to outperforming the Property and Casualty segment in the
S&P, substantial outperformance of all these other financial sectors now. A skeptic would
say, yeah, but that included the financial crisis, and obviously, the impact of the losses in
those years. So just for comparison's sake, this next slide does it for 2013 on its own.
Page 5 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Travelers at 14.6% of net return on equity. And you can see the other components, the
Standard & Poor's Property and Casualty index as well as the other segments, had a good
increase.
But investors are going to begin to contemplate in this new arena of regulation is – have
the relative returns in the financial sector changed? I am not coming to any conclusions
here. I am just sharing data with you, but I do think it is going to be an increasingly relevant
question. We are particularly pleased with this, because we are largely an unlevered
organization, reasonably low levels of leverage, relative to our capital or assets, and so
returns are significant relative to the capital employed here.
Second, I – this is actually an old gift repackaged. We think of ourselves all the time as
seeking opportunities to grow. Many of you in the audience here think about it in terms of
commitment to capital. It is really the same point. And so I thought I would try at least to
describe this in a way that perhaps resonates with the way that many of you think about it,
which is that we are very thoughtful capital allocators. Now we start off with that the
opportunity to earn a return, good or bad, is premised on competitive advantages or
disadvantages. Less about the rate of the moment, the rate of the moment in that
particular line or that segment or that account or in workers' comp in that state and more
about the advantages that we bring relative to other competitors in the industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that our decisions to grow or not grow, or in your parlance, commit capital or take
capital out is driven by a strategic analysis of those competitive advantages and the
projected returns that come from them.
Now, it doesn't mean we'll always be right, but it's not accidental if we – it may be
accidental, but it's not intended to be accidental. A decision to commit capital to grow a
business, to shrink a business is based upon a strategy of the projected returns.
I'm going to take you through that, but it's important concept because many observers in
our business think it's all about whether rate is going up a point or down a point. But that's
really not relevant, it is how do your competitive advantages position you to earn a return
relative to everyone else.
And that we manage the business to where – it's more like a football pass to where the
competitive advantages are going to be and what they are and manage our business and
our commitment of capital around the development of those competitive advantages. We
think of it all the time as volume being a result not a goal but many of you think about it in
terms of commitment of capital, that's fine. I have no objection to that, so I am going to
try and translate this a little bit into those terms that many of you seem to feel more
comfortable.
The conventional wisdom in our business is that the only way to achieve organic growth is
lower price and accept lower returns. Lower than you otherwise would have or lower than
the competitors. And we've simply, particularly in the commercial side or you can argue
that it's a tad different in the auto business now, but particularly in the Business Insurance

Page 6 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

side, we just fundamentally disagree with that and don't subscribe to it. And, therefore,
don't pursue it as a strategy.
Our view is that growth and superior returns are driven by risk selection premised on
competitive advantages that allow one to outselect or outprice competitors. You have to
start with, can I do something better than someone else and that better can be product
and I would – you are going to see some of that today about workers' compensation. It
can be technology. You are going to hear some of that in small commercial, our Select
Express platform and the opportunity that it presents or other attributes that can be
processed.
Select Express is about getting business to agent's office quickly with efficiency that allows
an agent to make a profit on the business. A challenge in that segment – the challenge is
more about the agent profitability than it is the company profitability and it takes real
expertise to overcome that hurdle in our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the nature of that competitive advantage can be really quite broad. It can run all the
way from a particular product – being in the oil and gas industry, for example, requires the
expertise, having the product but having the expertise to be able to do control of
wellhead risk all the way to the technology that you deploy.
But that's where the business begins and that outselecting is really what differentiates
one company to another. And if you push an underwriter, what you will do – many of you
perceive that what you will do is change their expectation of price. What you will actually
do is change their expectation of risk. You will push them and they will take on the next –
obviously, it's never this granular but in a philosophical perspective, you push them to
expand their risk profile instinctively beyond which that which they would otherwise be
comfortable with and that really is a big difference.
So with competitive advantages that we are investing in, how will that translate into ability
to outselect and outprice and outperform in the future? Now, this really shows itself in the
numbers, but I began to realize that it's easy to – take a look, this is our premium volume
over the last eight years and it actually looks relatively flat. And of course as I began to –
as we understand it and began to try and understand how you see our business, we
began to pursue this as, sort of, the duck in a lake.
Everything looks quite calm from the water up and underneath the feet are paddling like
crazy. And so there are stories underneath this that are relevant for the commitment of
capital, the opportunity to pursue growth or not, you can't pursue both. But the stories are
significant. So these are a series of – the three frames are each different but designed to
demonstrate real growth in businesses underneath that summary line where we've made
a decision to commit capital, your words, but the opportunity, the competitive advantage
to outselect and outperform existed and we pursued that. So our Commercial Accounts
business grows in the period of 2005 to 2013 from $2.3 billion to $3.2 billion, significant
growth in that business over time.

Page 7 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Select Express driven by the introduction of the technology from 2008 to 2012 from $1.3
billion to $1.7 billion. Our Surety business reflecting real expertise 20% plus market share
driven by expertise not pricing accommodation, driven by expertise from just under $700
million to $900 million.
And I put the two personal lines businesses here because each of them has a bit of a
different story. Personal Automobile where the period before the broad-based
acceptance of comparative raters in agents' office led to a different level of opportunity
from $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion. The policies in-force from 2.2 million to almost 2.5 million
and change.
Again significant growth there in units and in Homeowners we are I think the best national
– I think the data supports this by the way; it is not just an internal observation – the best
national homeowners writer in the business from 3.1 million to 3.8 million in policies inforce and $2.3 billion to $3.3 billion in the period of 2005 to 2011 so lots of individual
stories, lots of individual opportunities, each one different.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we could slice this differently and we could say workers' compensation. We typically
don't think of it that way because comp in small commercial is different from comp in
middle market, which is different from comp in national accounts and comp in New York is
different from comp in California. So it gets exceptionally granular. We get asked a lot
about the lines.
The line questions we can answer but it really isn't how we think about the business. We
think about opportunities on that much more granular basis. Now here is – the other side
of that coin is where we either – we have made a conscious decision or in a couple of
these cases not necessarily conscious.
But where we decided that the competitive – we didn't have – either we didn't have
competitive advantages to produce acceptable returns or alternatively, the dynamics
around a particular market segment were such you couldn't produce them. And these are
all pretty good examples of one of those.
The Plus, the larger portion of Select, we've talked about this many times before. Smaller
and regional companies perceive that segment as middle market and they don't bring the
expertise we think that's required to produce a return. There is plenty of capacity in that
market and so we concluded that the kinds of returns that we seek in that business were
not with it and we would pull back.
Now it doesn't mean we're going to pull out of the business entirely because we are a
very, very broad-based agent provider and there is a big gap between small commercial
and middle market.
So there is a point at which their franchise is sold by being in that Plus segment even if the
returns by themselves are not at a level that one would justify if you were only in that
segment. So a significant reduction in commitment to the business but nonetheless the
commitment to stay in it.
Page 8 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

National accounts from 2005 to 2011 an example of areas where as – of the price. This is
largely a fee-for-service casualty-based business. As you got – as the price for the product
went down in those years from 2005 to 2011, larger accounts had the opportunity to
convert from loss sensitive business to guaranteed cost and so that business shrank in
response to the changing competitive environment.
In Surety business from $896 million to $721 million from 2008 to 2013 very conscious
decision, post Great Recession billing in post Great Recession to focus on credit exposure
in that business. It was unclear to us what the credit environment would look like and so
we positioned that business somewhat differently than we had in the previous four or five
years. Again, the environment changed; we changed with it.
The attention to the last two here Homeowners and Personal Auto, two very different
stories. In Homeowners you can see 3.8 million to 3.2 million policies in force; a very
conscious decision to respond to changing weather patterns. Whether those patterns
were short term, changing weather patterns were short or long, different issue. I will let
other people debate that.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we clearly saw more in wind and the risk/reward dynamic in Homeowners changed
and so we changed our underwriting profile meaningfully simultaneously raising rates, part
of the solution there also. That led to a reduction in units and a modest reduction in
premiums, so a well-executed strategy there.
Personal Auto is a strategy that didn't work as we had hoped. We began in 2011 in
response to the same circumstances, in response to changing weather patterns and
changing interest rates, tried to raise prices in Personal Auto.
It worked fine in the renewal book as more and more of the business began to complete
comparative raters. As a new business strategy it did not work, it was not sustainable. We
reacted very quickly to that. Developed Quantum 2.0, Greg is going to speak about
Quantum 2.0 and give you an update.
But a very fundamental change in marketplace required changing approach on our part
with a product driven by significant expense savings. $140 million in expense savings and a
2 point reduction in commission fundamentally changed the profile of our personal auto
product on comparative rater technology in agents' offices, and Greg will talk about that.
So I hope I have left you with at least the understanding that underneath that top line that
looks flat are lots of individual stories, stories to perceiving opportunity and growing the
business and perceiving of requirement to shrink the business because of various
competitive factors or the absence of competitive advantages to compete in that
segment. An important part of the way we think about it. It is the granular analysis that we
do rolled up to an individual business line.
Lastly, we have committed to returning excess capital to shareholders. This is our capital
that has been returned through the first quarter of 2014. In the highlight box, we are
giving you an update. This is second quarter to date. We have repurchased an additional
Page 9 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

$500 million, maybe $700 million worth of shares through the second quarter to date and
continue to be committed to buying back shares. Easy question, easy answer.
At this point in time, we have actually repurchased 58% of the original outstanding shares
and between repurchase of shares and dividends in the period of time, we have returned
about what the market cap of the company was in the middle of 2006 when we started
that program. I think we are perhaps $1 billion away from actually hitting the market cap,
something like that. And so we've returned the market cap of the company, and at least
as of last night, market cap of the company remained at $33 billion.
We have taken the opportunity to increase dividends per share at a compound growth
rate of just over 10%, $1.05 per share through the first half, book value per share a 10.5%
growth on an unadjusted basis, including the bond portfolio mark-to-market. $73 in 2006,
the market March 31, 2014, book value per share mark that is and at just under 10%
compound growth rate in unadjusted, excluding the bond portfolio and mark-to-market.
And that sort of takes us to our speakers. You are going to hear from three people today.
Vinny Armentano is the Senior Vice President in our Business Insurance Claim area and
works on workers' compensation claim handling.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is, I think, really important for a bunch of reasons. First, it seems to be a line of
business that many of you have a real interest in and, obviously, recent events in our
industry do point out the differences in performance between those that perform well
and those that don't.
Two, it's an area where differentiation is critical, critical to success and the investment in
competitive advantages really matters. We go back in this business a very long way. Our
business started with a national accounts business of handling large U.S. companies
workers' comp claims on a fee-for-service basis, not substantial risk taking fee-for-service.
Their ability to determine their money, it is their money, because our national accounts
business in this regard is still very big. They get very focused on who can produce the
best outcomes. Best outcomes are, quality and management of medical cost, getting the
injured worker back to work. Can I manage the injury cost effectively, as effectively as a
medical insurer would, and do we have the programs in place to get the injured worker
back to work?
Vinny is going to take you through what we are working on right now in contemplation of
the possibility that the healthcare delivery market could be different under the Affordable
Care Act than it has been in the past and what those changes might look like and how we
would respond to it.
This is not new innovation. Our history of innovation in this business is significant and goes
back a long way. 15, 20 years ago the development of TravComp as an initial workers'
comp claim model. Two years ago we held an outing up at Claim University in Hartford,
lots of you were at that event where we tried to give you real insight into the
differentiation that exists and why that business is successful.
Page 10 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

So, Vinny is going to take you through that. I think it is going to be interesting and it will
give you a sense of how we contemplate the long-term nature of the business and how
we respond to it. Let me – again, trying to stay in the long-term, let me just make two
comments about workers' compensation.
First, we don't look at it this way, but all of you want to ask the question. So I will answer it.
The profitability of our workers' compensation business across our entire enterprise is
good and I am – it's good. The usual word is we are pleased with it. It's good.
The profitability of the workers' compensation business in our small commercial business,
where we have been employing a strategy of taking all that expertise that we have in the
national accounts business and pushing it down into the smallest of commercial business
is really good.
And, obviously, we're not going to disclose numbers to you, although Vinny is going to
speak a little bit to some of them. But that is a response to how is the workers'
compensation business going.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, at the granular level, it is all about individual accounts, individual states. There is
nothing homogenous about workers' compensation. It is, in many respects, the most
granular business that we do. What are the applications of safety practices in an individual
account, in their factory in their workplace? How much do they embrace the whole notion
of safety?
It is all quite different. It trades on the expertise of 3,700 claim and risk professionals. And
that's why we produce some of the best results in the industry and we are really pleased
with it. So, Vinny is going to speak – is going to speak – the other interesting thing about
comp and I should mention this too.
It is actually – at least my experience has been – it is the only line of business where the
customer actually always perceives it as their money. It's so interesting in the large
account arena everybody understands it is their money. There is no question about it. We
are handling the claims for a fee, but if we mishandle it, if we spend more, if we don't get
the employee back to work, we haven't done our job.
So we are very focused on how we perform because it is their money. But even at the
smallest level it's fascinating to speak with issuants because we do understand that bad
workers' comp experience produces higher premiums over time. Experience mods play a
big role and they approach it differently than they do many lines of business where they
sort of think of it as it's the insurance company's money.
In the guaranteed cost business, it obviously is our money, but we have an engaged
insured. And finding those engaged insured and getting them to work together to
produce better outcomes is a critical part of the success of the business.

Page 11 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

We'll have Marc Schmittlein come up and speak about – Marc runs our small commercial
business – and give you an update on our small commercial – I usually say business, but it's
really business units because there are at least two or more.
There is Select Express, which is the smallest of our small commercial business. Marc will
give you the statistics and take you through it. And then there is the segment that is larger
than that which is – we refer to as Plus. Select Express trades on speed of execution in the
agent's office and most importantly a service channel to provide the agent with the ability
to offload the service requirements.
These are small accounts with modest commissions attached to them. The service
requirements of managing them can eat the profit up quickly. 20 years ago we began the
process of instituting service centers to offer that service to agents. I think about a third of
our business at this point in Express is in the service center. So those smaller agents who
can't afford to build their structure to do it rely on us, another critical competitive
advantage.
There is a handful of people who can compete at this level in small commercial business
in the U.S. If we are not the leader, we are certainly one of the leaders. We have been real
pleased with that business and Marc will take you through that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then lastly, but not least, of course, is – we're going to have Greg Toczydlowski – that
was a senior moment, sorry. We're going to have Greg Toczydlowski come up and talk
about Quantum 2.0. We are very transparent about this.
The development of Quantum 1.0 was critical for our long-term sustainability in the auto
business, as comparative raters in independent agents' office became more and more
prevalent as the way business was done. The price of the product, which was always
important, became even more so. And as a consequence, our strategy beginning in 2011
of trying to raise price to improve profitability was not sustainable.
We were shrinking our business, by round numbers, about 10% a year. Not because of the
renewal book, but because of a falloff in new business and that, of course, would not be
sustainable. I couldn't be more pleased with how the organization responded to that. We
don't do everything perfectly; some things we don't do so perfectly. And while they – by
the way, I am part owner of that strategy; I am not blaming anybody. I participated and we
thought given the fact that the challenges that faced the industry were systemic, they
were not unique to us; we believed that more carriers would embrace that same strategy.
It did not happen.
It may be happening now, I am not for sure, but there is more lift of price, more pressure
going on than there was even a year ago. It is possible that some of the loss trends that
we were seeing were early – saw them earlier than other people. Not sure yet. There is
still a lot of movement in that data. But the introduction of Quantum 2.0 has been, at least
so far, from a marketing and marketplace acceptance perspective, a real success. And
Greg will take you through that and give you an insight to it.

Page 12 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

We will, of course, take any questions that anybody would like – strategic, competitively
driven, of the moment of otherwise. But we couldn't be more pleased to have you with us
today and hope you find it – if you learn nothing new, at least let it be interesting please,
and we will do our best to do that.

FINAL

So with that, let me introduce Vinny Armentano to come up and talk about our workers'
compensation business. Thank you.

Vincent Armentano
Good morning, everyone. Thanks, Jay. I am pleased to be here to be able to share our
workers' compensation story; how two decades of investments in workers' compensation
has come together and brought some fantastic results to Travelers.

Bloomberg Transcript

More importantly, though, the environment continues to change in workers'
compensation, so we want to share with you a little bit about what we think those
challenges coming to us will be and how we are prepared to deal with them. What you will
hear is about Travelers Medical Advantage, and, no, we are not getting into the
healthcare business. It is about how Travelers has recently invested to transform its
medical capability to anticipate the future and make sure that we sustain our competitive
advantage into the future.
Taking you back, in 1998 Travelers was a pioneer in workers' comp. We transformed the
delivery of claims by segmenting our product. We matched the professionalism of our
adjusters, the skill of our adjusters with the complexity on each claim. This compared to an
industry that, for decades, basically treated all claims the same with the same level of
expertise.
When we broke from that tradition, our specialists focused on compensability
determinations, what claims should properly be in the work comp system; managing an
injured worker back to work; resolving those major catastrophic claims; and for unique
states, setting up a state specialty desk to deal with those unique jurisdictional issues. The
other thing that was unique is we handled all of our claims across both national accounts
and guaranteed customers with the same claim handling process and the same focus on
outcomes.
TravComp was designed to lower the total cost of risk. When we implemented TravComp
and compared our book of business on the old way we handled claims and then on the
new way we handled claims, our internal results were 8% to 10% better. We saw an 8% to
10% reduction in losses on our own claims based on just changing how we manage those
claims.
That made us feel that we had something special and our national account customers
agreed. As Jay said, national account customers watch the money like it's their own
because most of it is. With high deductibles, they will pay the first $100,000 to $500,000
on the claim out of their own pocket. So by lowering the cost of workers' compensation
claims, those benefits went directly to our national account customers.
Page 13 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

And over the years, this helped our national account customer base grow. And it allowed
us not only to grow in size but we added expertise, skills, and further investments. As you
can see here, we have a team of close to 4,000 folks in claim and risk control in Travelers
dedicated to servicing only workers' compensation with those who handle the claims out
in our field offices including 12,000 claim professionals and 500 nurse case managers.
This is the largest assemblage of medical staff in any workers' compensation claim
organization. Now these are supported by specialists in risk control, fraud, litigation,
medical bill payments, business analytics and general product support.
So, as I mentioned, we had a strong market share in national accounts. We also had a
strong market share in small and middle, but leveraged the expertise that we got with our
national account customers in workers' comp to really build out our growth in the middle
market and small businesses. And this is in line with the growth that Jay was mentioning in
Commercial Accounts, Construction, and Select Express.
From those efforts across all of our markets, we're really pleased to announce that in
2013 Travelers captured the leading share of the workers' compensation marketplace.
Here we show you our market share based on net written premiums. Over the last seven
years – the premiums over the last seven years and, as you can see, in the last three we
moved from number three to number one in market share.

Bloomberg Transcript

Again, our goal was not just to be number one. We want to do it the right way. And we
think we did it the right way by leveraging deep expertise, data analytics, and a strong
execution focus to achieve this position.
Another way to think about size and scale is to look at our volume of losses under
management. The red on the chart here aligns with the prior slide. The losses under
management align with the premium that we gained from our business that is slightly
north of $2 billion. Now, if we add in the claims we manage, now these are paid for by our
customers under their deductible, you can see the volumes of claims under management
almost doubled. This helps with our scale, allowing us to invest in additional expertise, and
also grows the amount of data we have in workers' compensation.
The other thing we believe is workers' compensation is a local business and it really
requires deep jurisdictional knowledge. As we grew, we didn't centralize our operations,
but really used our scale to be as local as economically feasible. Workers' comp is
administered differently by each state as a different program.
There's different benefits, administrative processes, and compensability determinations.
They result in wide variations among the states in how they cover medical payments and
wage replacement. So we handle our claims locally. This also allows us to have a volume
of claims managed locally with those insights and collectively gives us a lot of valuable
information about what's going on in that state.
We think our scale, local insight, and specialized expertise work together to bring superior
outcomes. It's a combination of all those factors, not any one of those factors, that leads
to what we think is a sustainable advantage.
Page 14 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

The graph on the left is one that we shared with some of you previously. It shows
Travelers and the industry's statutory combined ratio from 2007 to 2011. It shows a nine
point advantage when you compare Travelers to the industry results over those same
periods.
Now the chart on the right is that same combined ratio calculation updated for 2009 to
2013. As you can see, our workers' compensation combined ratio result grew from a nine
point to a 13 point advantage over the market. This was at the same time we moved from
the number three carrier to the number one carrier in market share in workers'
compensation. Jim mentioned earlier we wanted to grow the right way and that's by
maintaining our profitability.
Now the capabilities that we provide have also benefited our customers. As you can see,
many of the measures here are the measures that our customers care about, and a lot of
them involve managing medical inflation. Now most of our benefits benefit directly from
these results in national accounts and through experience mods in some of our small and
middle markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's hear some of our TravComp results which we think are industry-leading in these
categories. Two-thirds of our customers' injured workers are back to work within 30 days,
back to work so that they can service their clients. Medical savings show the results of our
specialized medical payment group, really managing these claims to a lower payment
amount from the charge amount. So during 2013 we reviewed almost 4 million medical
bills. We – like everybody, we apply fee schedules to eliminate duplicate bills and apply
network discounts.
We also do some unique things, one of which is the SMART program where we take
these bills, apply a manual review team to actually get additional savings. And in 2013 that
was ever $100 million. Overall, about $3.5 billion in medical charges enter and after
extensive review we end up paying the appropriate amount, which is closer to about $1.4
billion. This saves $0.60 on the dollar of billed medical charges and we feel that is a
leading result in the industry for our customers.
The key strategy to achieving these savings is to use volume-based discounts. Our
network penetration is over 80% in both pharmaceutical networks and in physician
networks. And it goes beyond medical. Our specialization of several experts seek out
recoveries that return to our customers to offset their losses and we outperform industry
averages by 20%. Again, all of these outcomes are valued by our customers and they
benefit directly from those savings.
I've talked a lot about cost, but it is not all about cost. I am proud to share that in 2013
Travelers was awarded the Workers' Compensation Buyer's Choice award by Business
Insurance. This voting is done by customers who feel that – they vote for the carrier they
think who is the best in the work comp service and has the best work comp expertise.
And we are humbled by getting that honor.

Page 15 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Putting it all together, over time our innovation in investments, medical capabilities, and
our execution has led to superior results and across all markets in all areas, from
combined ratio to market share, customer recognition, and customer results. The benefit
of this is it supports continued investments and investments as we go into the future.
There is challenges out there that are ahead of us and we're looking to approach them as
opportunities, and that's going to be in the healthcare arena. As a multi-line carrier, we
have a benefit in our GL and auto lines that we can leverage our work comp medical
capabilities across those lines to help us deal with the medical environment. And based
on our strong understanding of medical and what we have built, it will give us a bouncing
off board for continued investments in leading workers' comp practices in the future.
So I want to talk about some of those opportunities for a minute and then go into some
of those investments that Travelers has made to deal with the future. So a key factor
impacting our future is the healthcare environment.
Currently, the US spends about $3 trillion on healthcare. As we look out over the next few
years, it's going to continue to grow; projected to reach 20% of GDP by 2021. The
casualty spend is only 5% of total healthcare spend. This has led to a view by some that,
since P&C is such a small part of the healthcare spend, many changes in the healthcare
arena aren't material to P&C carriers. And while others think it is important, they feel that
since P&C industry is so small we can't possibly make an impact on the healthcare spend.

Bloomberg Transcript

At Travelers, we think because it is not – we are not the driver of healthcare and it is such
a small piece of the spend, it is actually more important for us to manage this than less.
We collect a large amount of data in our managed care data base. The top three pies
demonstrate the compound impact that medical inflation has had on our workers'
compensation losses. Medical inflation historically makes up or inflates at 2 to 3 times that
of normal inflation. The compound impact of that inflation has medical growing from less
than half the total loss costs in workers' comp in 1989 to about 60% today and then the
NCCI projects it will grow to about 70% of work comp loss costs by the end of the
decade. This is supported by our own internal data.
With medical at 70% of losses, it really requires us who wish to be successful in work
comp to have a strong medical management capability. And I know while I am talking
about workers' comp I also want to touch on general liability and auto, because while
there is very little industry information on medical costs in those lines, Travelers has a
large amount of medical data and we have learned something. The bottom of the slide
shows that our medical data represents just about a third of our auto losses and just over
a third of our general liability claim losses. While those coverages are different, the
medical portion – causation, treatment and pricing – are the same.
So when I talk to agents they say, "Why are we spending so much time talking about
healthcare?" It really starts with this data right here. If you add an amount of our losses
across general liability, workers' compensation and auto, as a single loss cost driver,
medical is the largest loss cost driver for our casualty lines. And as that we felt that
Page 16 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

medical demanded our attention as we managed our customer's losses across those
lines.
Now we know the medical loss component in casualty is a little difficult to manage
because we are a small part of the healthcare spend and it is becoming further
complicated by a few things going on in our environment. One change you may have
heard of, and it is getting a lot of attention, is the Affordable Care Act. This legislation is
driving a number of changes. When passed, the Congressional Budget Office projected
an additional 32 million Americans, or an additional 15% demand on the healthcare
system, all to be added in a relatively short period of time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now even with some delays in the program, we are seeing a wide range of effects on
hospital operations, including some merger activities, adjustment to overhead and the
composition of their staffing. Employers are reevaluating their own benefit plans, use of
part-time staff, and use of wellness programs, and all of those impact the environment
that P&C carriers operate in. And the demand on physicians will be further exacerbated by
the baby boomers. Over 10,000 folks a day will be turning 65 for the next 19 years. Now
older folks consume more healthcare services on average, so as the population ages, it
further impacts demand.
And the nature of the workforce will change, too. It is projected that the workforce that is
over 55 years of age will grow by 20% in the next few years, from 21% to 25% of the
workforce. The mix of claims will change, too, with over 50% of those claims in that age
group involving more severe slips, trips and falls, so it calls for different risk mitigation
techniques and different claim efforts. We thought this was a big problem for American
businesses, so to validate it, we went out and Travelers commissioned a study of
American business leaders across the country looking at different sized businesses in
various industries across the country.
We wanted to understand what was on business leader's minds and what they were
thinking. The results showed that medical cost inflation was business leaders' top concern
and about one-third of them were not only concerned about it, but it was the number one
area that they worried most about. And while they worried the most about medical costs,
they also felt least prepared to deal with them. From our discussions, we heard that
customers aren't looking for us to just pass medical inflation through to them, they are
looking for solutions, solutions to help mitigate these costs.
And, again, it is not only about costs. It is about access to care, access to care for their
injured workers. Lack of care may have a direct impact on business operation as they are
not getting folks back to work, and this is a particular concern for small businesses who
have fewer workers to start with and are less able to have someone fill in when
somebody is out. So as we stand here today, we know that, while P&C is only 5% of the
healthcare spend, medical makes up 50% of our customer's losses and is growing at a
higher rate of inflation than other losses.
We have seen a number of major changes in the healthcare arena and it's driving some
uncertainty around the cost and availability of healthcare. Now business leaders, it's the

Page 17 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

number one issue on their minds. They are worried about it and they know they have to
prepare for it. And while this all shakes out, we have seen that much of the industry is
waiting to see what happens. We have learned over the last two decades that workers'
comp is a dynamic business and you can't relax. At Travelers, we've been planning for this
date – or this issue for the last seven years. It started with some of the data I showed you
earlier.
When we started a few years ago, we knew that the small percent of the healthcare's
medical spend that was driven by our industry required us to do more as it became the
leading loss cost driver for our customers.
So as we identified this as an issue we began investing to dramatically enhance our
medical management capability. We wanted to grow our expertise in workers – in not only
workers' comp, but general liability and auto/medical as well.
Leveraging our expertise in work comp, we have spent some time improving our GL and
auto/medical workflows. We have invested in some new talent, adding registered nurses
and experts in GL and auto in our field offices.

Bloomberg Transcript

In workers' comp, we have added support for our medical team, adding chiropractors and
pharmaceutical positions. And across all the lines, we have expanded our medical skills
and our claim professionals, not only just our nurses.
We have expanded medical training and in just two weeks we will have the grand opening
of our new medical lab at our Claim University. As we expanded our risk control focus, we
focused more on wellness and behavioral risk control techniques to improve outcomes as
well.
Now as we assembled all of those investments across the organization and looked at the
breadth and capabilities that we built, we realized it came together and it was somewhat
revolutionary. And so we titled it Travelers Medical Advantage because we really think it is
an advantage in how we handle our customer's claims.
So it is not a new product, but it is transformational. We feel it is unique to Travelers and
not easily replicated. So I would like to share with you just a few examples of some of our
more recent innovations and how we're using them in the marketplace.
I talked a lot about volume of data. A lot of our investments start with information. We
have over 0.25 billion lines of medical data in our managed care database. We also have
invested in a business analytics department to mine that data and bring insights from it.
We think it provides an advantage, not only from the data, but the expertise that can
analyze and focus on the execution from that data. On the left side, what we have here is
an internal healthcare dashboard that we share with our management.

Page 18 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

It provides a sophisticated set of metrics that is really tracking the impact of changes in
the healthcare environment, both nationally and locally, and it is providing us real-time
feedback on what is happening in the healthcare market. By speeding up that feedback
loop, we can understand if, in this uncertain time, some things are happening that we are
not expecting and that we can react to more quickly.
On the right, to address our customers concerns, we have just rolled out medical reports
for our customers own use. These reports will help our customers prepare for managing
their own medical losses and make sure they feel more prepared and less concerned
about the medical trends.
This is one I am really excited to talk about with you today. With our scale we have a
number of occupational clinics that treat a large number of our workers. Because of our
volume, we were able to locate 30 of our registered nurses in those clinics.
Our nurses partner with the clinics to facilitate treatment for our injured workers, and over
the last 12 months we have rolled out this patented Concierge Claim Nurse program. It is
an innovative approach to an age-old problem of returning an injured worker to work.

Bloomberg Transcript

So picture this. A worker gets hurt and goes to the local occupational clinic, comes in and
is directed over to our nurse case manager for face-to-face consultation. Our nurse talks
to the injured worker about their concerns, their injuries, answers any questions they may
have about workers' compensation and what to expect next.
Following the medical exam, the nurse talks to the injured worker, facilitates any referrals
for treatments, in some cases approving treatments right then, and helping answer
questions from the injured worker and the physician about what to expect.
The injured worker leaves knowing that we care and they are on the road to recovery.
Concierge Claim Nurse program is a win for the physician, the employee, and the
employer. Doctors get more familiar with the work comp program and they are happy to
see more of our patients.
Employees are more satisfied, seeing less of a need for outside help and assistance.
Employers are happy to get their employees back to work 24% sooner. And after a full
year of operation, the Concierge Claim Nurse programs have shown an overall reduction
in loss cost on claims they managed.
We hope to get the volume of these claims up to about 5% of our clients as we leverage
this more widely and roll out our virtual concierge process as well. I mentioned the
increase in demand on physicians with the potential delay in getting doctor appointments
for timely return to work. The other benefit of Nurse Concierge is to help build a
relationship with physicians so that we have the needed physician capacity to deal with
our injured workers so they can get timely appointments.

Page 19 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

Shifting gears, let's talk about how we leverage work comp medical expertise in the thirdparty world. Here what we – it shows is how we have leveraged our knowledge in workers'
compensation to deal with medical losses in GL and auto.

FINAL

Plaintiffs' attorneys take medical charges and, if those are the damages, they will apply
some multiplier to that and come up with a claim demand. So assuming it is $100,000 in
medical their settlement demand would be about $300,000.
In the past, the demand package comes in; our claim professionals would begin to
negotiate a settlement based on their experience and the claim facts. And we did a good
job at it. But today our auto and GL teams are leveraging new technology to right-size the
medical portion of the claim.
Today we digitize the demand package. We electronically review the medical bills to
exclude unrelated charges and duplicate billing like we do on workers' comp. We apply
additional edits to identify the usual and customary reimbursement schedule for
treatments.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we overlay jurisdictional tort laws to identify a reasonable amount to pay. Here the
medical – if only reduced by 20% would be $80,000 and the demand package would be
reduced to $240,000, and that is before we start serious negotiations.
We shared this with our agents and they have informed us that this is unique. We are the
only carrier to implement this type of technology and the only carrier to have nurses in our
field offices looking at medical causality and relatedness.
Another common area of focus is medical fraud. It is the largest single fraud activity in the
United States, costing over $80 billion a year in losses. So to reduce medical costs we are
also looking at reducing the amount of fraud in the system. So we have invested in both
talent and analytical capabilities.
We have over 300 investigators of which 90% are deployed locally. We have developed
the most sophisticated medical management programs in the industry and what I have
here on the screen is an effort between our big data folks and our investigators.
We have partnered together to integrate link analysis software with enterprise geospatial
capabilities to reveal hidden patterns, to reveal hotspots or suspicious groupings of
claimants, attorneys, and medical providers to prioritize how we deploy our investigations.
Now we can't discuss medical without discussing pharmacy and drugs. In the past decade,
the cost of prescription drugs has gone up 50% and drug abuse of prescription drugs has
become in many respects, a larger issue than the use of illegal drugs.
According to the NCCI in 2011, prescription drugs now account for 14% of medical
payments for the work comp industry. At Travelers, it is 10% of our medical payout. At 10%

Page 20 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

versus 14% for the industry, our payout is 28% lower than the industry for pharmaceutical
costs.

FINAL

Another way to decrease losses and demand on doctors is simply to have less accidents.
We are going beyond some traditional risk control methods. We are leveraging insights
from employee wellness programs and the latest behavioral modifications as a way to
mitigate injuries.
The bottom picture is from our recent pilot demonstration at the RIMS Insurance Industry
in Denver. We have the injured worker put on a virtual reality mask and in a virtual setting
they can make a number of choices and they see the consequences of those choices.
It virtually demonstrates the impact that their actions have on their safety and by doing so,
we believe will impact in a safer set of behaviors. Another research pilot we are taking is
to learn about the correlation between wellness and the impact on losses in the
transportation industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2009, Travelers was the sole insurance sponsor for the Virginia Tech Transportation
Institute and one effort was to incorporate employee health and wellness best practices.
So this goes outside of some of our traditional research and why I wanted to share it.
It looked at the eating habits of truckers and how it contributes to their overall health and
their reaction time as a driver. It discovered that an improved diet led to a safer driver.
And so we also looked at the environment they live in and we are working to make
healthy eating alternatives available for those truckers by giving them website locations
and ways to get a better meal. And it's a good reminder that there is not one investment
that drives our results, but it is across a variety of areas.
Over the years we have built a strong medical management foundation in TravComp. It
was important when medical was 50% of losses and it will be a lot more important in the
future when it is closer to 70% of losses. And it will be important to all lines of business as
medical is 50% of our customers' losses in casualty and they continue to grow. Our
agents are telling us that our medical capabilities in GL, auto, and work comp are a
differentiator in the marketplace for Travelers and we agree.
So we have been sharing our capabilities and insights as a big part of our 2014 marketing
platform. So far this year we have been out in front of 4,000, 4,500 of our agents to
inform them of our capabilities and strategy around medical management. And we are
working with them to identify prospects who would be interested in these capabilities.
We have not seen others make this sort of investment and, as our survey identified,
businesses are worried about medical. We are bringing them solutions to help them deal
with the uncertainty ahead of them and investing in new and creative ways to manage
medical.

Page 21 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

So over the years, Travelers has been in the forefront of innovation in work comp. We've
stratified claims 16 years ago, along the way had numerous claim patents, models, and
capabilities we feel are unmatched by anyone. We have made investments in deep
expertise. And so while folks are talking about what they are doing to deal with today's
changes, we have built our medical capabilities over the last seven years not for today,
but what we see as the risks in the future and to better service our customers.
So thank you. Gabby?

Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Great! Thank you. We will take about a 10 minute break and then come back for the last
two presentations and Q&A. Thank you.
[BREAK]
Great! Well, let's get on with the second half of the morning. It is very much my pleasure
to introduce Mark Schmittlein, Executive Vice President of Select Accounts and
Agribusiness. I would like to thank him for working on this today. It is always a pleasure
doing these things with him. I always learn a lot and I am sure you will as well. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning. It's great to be here. I am always depressed, not because
of Vinny's message, because I'm going to play off of his message, but he always puts me
in a different category of old up there, 55 or over, or 65 or over, so I keep gaining on that.
I'm going to open up the presentation back a little bit with where Jay started because it's
very pertinent to what I'm going to be going through today. We consistently invest in the
development of competitive advantages, and Jay spoke about it. But that is the three
examples that you'll see in the presentation today are we take a lot of thoughtful time. As
he said, we make our strategic decisions around where we put capital based on creating
or having existing competitive advantages like in workers' compensation.
What's most pertinent from a business perspective in the business that I run is we will
grow where we believe we can outselect and outperform the competition. I am involved
in a flow business, so some of the other businesses inside of BI, and we'll talk about that
in just a second, are very much at the individual transaction level with an AE or an
underwriter. Our – a big chunk of our portfolio comes through the technology. And so,
we're very dependent on data and analytics to think that we're going to be in a
competitive advantage to outselect and outperform.
Another example I'm going to give you today, which might not be the typical example that
Jay mentioned, was when we don't have the proper returns – and we are a returnfocused company – we will take action, disciplined action in order to reduce that. And so,
one of the examples I'll walk you through will have that.

Page 22 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

So, let's get started. Business Insurance, so Select Accounts is part of Business Insurance.
It's $12.2 billion, so it's certainly a significant segment for the Travelers. But the pie chart to
me not only is Select a major part or a big part of that, as well as Commercial accounts
making up half the pie, more importantly to me is the other side of the pie.
I have spent over 20 years in the field and the advantage that I think we have, simply
because we have 14 distinct businesses. All the product lines and the breadth that we
bring into the marketplace; when I would walk inside of an agent or a broker, knowing that
not only the business that I represented, but having 12, 13 other businesses that a number
of those businesses would be doing fine and exceptional things for that agent or broker,
meaning that we had a different step, a different advantage when we walked in that we
have still today with that kind of product breadth.
And you can see in the chart or the survey here how that plays out. So this is a Goldman
Sachs survey. It's a pricing survey, but one of the key questions that they do, and this is
done every six months, are how do your top five commercial carriers fare? And you can
see here in the red that Travelers over an extended period of time fares quite well. We
think again we have a huge distinct advantage with our agency partners, and again some
of that's going to play out in a couple of the themes that I have to talk about today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So where does Select Accounts fit in to Business Insurance? Well, Jay talked about the
two segments, but we are roughly 22% of the net written premium. But the big part of the
slide here is that Jay gave a pretty interesting analogy with the duck I will come back to,
but our net written premiums, which I know many of you focus on, have been flat for a
relatively long period of time.
Underneath the flat, though, is really the story. You look at the duck on the pond, as Jay
expressed, and the feet are moving fast while the duck appears to be motoring along on
the pond. That's very, very true of our business. We have had significant business
changes. All those were dealt with with a purpose, but we want to walk you through what
those are and what the result has been.
So, let's talk for just a second about the two segments Jay referred to. First is Express;
and you can think about Express as the segment that we have that is the very low end of
small commercial. And what do I mean by that? This is business that is pretty benign. The
risk exposure is low. We feel that this does not have to come through an underwriter but it
needs efficiency, and it represents $1.7 billion of our $2.7 billion. It's a flow business, so it
has 680,000 policies. The average account size is $3,000.
So if you think about that from an external perspective for us, which is the agent or broker,
they are not receiving much commission on the transaction. So we average about 15
points of commission, so you are looking at an account here that is less than $500 in
commission. So their challenges are like ours. How can you be quick, efficient, and move
that business through so that you can improve on your cost structure.
Excuse me, let me go back there. Plus, on the other hand, is our business that actually
does refer to an underwriter. Again, it is the upper end of small commercial. It is a part of
Page 23 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

a flow business. You can see here that we have $1 billion and it is very meaningful. It has
125,000 policies in-force. So again, if you compare that to the other businesses I had on
the pie chart in BI, you would still see that this is one of the larger populations of policies
in-force across BI and yet the average account size here is $13,000. So compared to
Express, it's still larger, but from an agent or broker's perspective, it's still a small
commercial account transaction.
Our regard for Plus is that the complexity associated – the risk complexity, the exposure,
sales receipts, values on the property are large enough where we do want to have the
underwriter take a look at it for the risk selection and pricing. Again, the context is still all a
flow business.
I'm going to take you a step deeper. And we often refer to our business as complex to
manage, and I think it is often misunderstood because at the bottom I also note that we
also don't think this business is a commodity business. Why do I think that? Well, when you
think about the complexity that we manage across, we have over 14 industry segments,
so an industry segment would be restaurant, our building pack, our technology segment,
creates 750 classes of business.

Bloomberg Transcript

We operate four lines of business, so we have our CMP or BOP product, we have
workers' compensation, Commercial Auto, and umbrella. When you couple that with the
fact that we write in over 50 states, we create over 700 risk selection territories.
So the example I am going to give you to explain that complexity is think about a familystyle restaurant on one side of town. So let's look at the restaurant industry. That is one
class within restaurant. The family-style restaurant on that side of town is a family-style
restaurant that seats 20, no alcohol served, no entertainment. They don't own the
building, so it is contents only; pretty benign, pretty straightforward.
The restaurant on the other side of the town, again, a family-style restaurant, but seats
120 people. It does sell alcohol and it has karaoke three nights a week. Now, we are good.
We aren't good enough to figure out whether it is bad or good karaoke but, again, it
really represents the differential that on the surface could look very, very similar. Right?
Two restaurants, family-style. It is our ability as a company to dig deep into the
segmentation which is represented in the queue.
So our ability to dig deep in a state, so we go down to a state level, at that particular risk
in that particular industry we think is a distinct competitive advantage and really does belie
the fact that we don't consider this business a commodity.
Let's talk about competitive advantages, really a theme that you are hearing throughout
the day. I won't walk through these in a whole lot of depth, but we do think that there are
key competitive advantages to be successful in this space; first and foremost, scale and
efficiency.
Scale: If you've got a big enough block of business, you are going to be able to create the
data and analytics to run a flow business.
Page 24 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Efficiency: So if you are going to have 680,000 policies coming through, for instance, in
Express, you have got to build the back room to handle the endorsements, the billing, the
audit activity after the new business account has been written.
Technology platforms: Every company that gets up in front of you and talks about being in
the small commercial space is going to talk about technology being table stakes. I agree.
But who has the best technology? Who is willing to make the investments to continue to
make it the best technology to differentiate it from my perspective.
And Service; so, as Jay spoke about, we have not only created service efficiencies for
ourselves, but for our agents. In our operations staff we have put together a place that
does over a third of the transactions direct with the customer at the back-end service for
the agent. We have done that since 1998.
Data and analytics; again, overused term, but to have the data and analytics and make it
actionable. Again, flow business, being able to create the data that I just spoke about. We
have now invested heavily in dashboards, at first for the executive and management level
to run our business. Now we can take that flow of business down to a state level, an
underwriter and a salesperson in that state. So again, be able to make the data actionable
is key for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then last, but not least, before I get to talent, leading distribution. I will bring it up again
because I didn't make the point. The point is that in small commercial we probably
represent more of the agencies than any other business inside Business Insurance.
We have 10,000 agents that we deal with. They are not all created equal. They don't all
perform equally, so investing in agency segmentation to weed out those that aren't
performing at all or those that are unprofitable or where we can leverage more growth
opportunity are all investments that we continue to make.
And I end with talent before I dive a little bit deeper because I don't think we talk enough
about it. It's a platform that we create, not just in Select but across all of the BI's dynamic.
The investments that we make – make it an attractive place to come and work and that
leads to execution capability.
I am going to give a shout out here to my partner in crime, Greg Toczydlowski, because
six years ago when we looked at our flow business we didn't have a product
management bench.
To run a flow business, something that is very common inside of personal lines, I
consulted with Greg and Greg was willing to actually give up talent to us and seven years
later I think we are probably leading in the industry in terms of product management and
commercial lines in what we do with the granularity of our data.
So before I leave this slide I would like to just talk for a second about how that discipline
and competitive advantages have been built. You could look at the chevrons I've put up
Page 25 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

and say that's great, Marc, but anybody can come in the space and replicate that process.
And I would say, sure, they can, but I think as a leader in the industry, we have been
building that since 1996.
So I am not going to walk you through, don't worry, all those points on the slide, but 1996
was when Aetna and Travelers came together, two carriers that did small commercial,
neither one with significant scale. By putting them together, to me, really started our
journey. And the significant investments that we have made and the innovation that we've
put in since then have enabled us to be an industry leader.
We were one of the first companies to come up with service centers back in 1998. IENet
was our first foray into really decent technology and it happened to be web based at the
time, which was really leading.
You fast-forward to the technology I'll talk about in just a second, so second-generation
technology that we think was cutting edge at the time that we put it out with Express and
allowing that model to roll out put us into the world of predictive modeling, multivariate
rating, was able to expand distribution as a result of that technology, which then led to
inside sales.

Bloomberg Transcript

Inside sales and what does that mean? Well, we cover 40 states. We cover 10,000
agents, so think about that for a minute. Our outside sales reps cover about 30 agencies.
Our inside sales reps now cover three times that amount. So to get the coverage and to
get the communication, get the scale, it was a critical innovation and a critical area that we
invested in.
And finally, we're now in the second generation of our predictive models, again, making
the steps, making the investments to stay ahead of the game. So again, we think that this
is actually a barrier to success for some of our competitors that we have had the tenacity
to stay with it and the learning's that we've had and the willingness to invest over a long
period of time.
So let's kind of switch gears here and start to talk about the examples. Today we are
going to start with a growth example and this is where we actually created that
competitive advantage back in 2006. So what was the setup for that advantage? And it's
something that Jay talked about, it is our Express platform.
At the time, agencies were really challenged. There was nobody in the industry that was
really making their life easy relative to rating, quoting and issuing business at the very
small end of small, that $3,000 account that I spoke up. We, on the other hand, had
strong retention and solid returns at that end of our space, but we lacked the streamlined
rate quote and issuance platform as did the agency plans.
We were under-penetrated. We had great success in it, but we had quote volume that
was actually stagnant over a couple year period of time. So we made the investments we
needed to. We invested in our platform. We invested in sophisticated pricing and scale

Page 26 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

data and analytics that we could make actionable. We broadened our appetite so in 2006
we didn't go over that many industry segments; didn't have 750 classes of business.
We improved our execution pools by adding dashboards. Policy servicing, so when we
entered into the Express world, we knew that the volume was going to kick-up. We knew
that we had a good thing and we had to be able to actually service the policies in the
backend and scale up for that in our operations division. It actually led to refining our
business model.
So what did that model look like in 2006? And again, this was at the low end of small
commercial. Pretty clunky, right? So the 83% of the business that came through that
platform or lack of a platform had to come through an underwriter. Didn't matter whether
it was a minimum premium $500 BOP or was a larger account. All of it had to refer before
the agent could issue the policy or the account would be declined.
Only 17% of those transactions were able to be straight-through processed by the agent
with agent authority. So where are we today in 2013? A huge paradigm shift, right, so just
the opposite. 80% of our transactions today come through with agent authority straight to
an issue, rate quote and issuing the policy or actually having the transaction denied, if you
will, or declined in the technology.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, that's not always going to be the most optimum situation for the agency, but the
reason I bring it up is because it is done in the technology. It's done with the speed and
efficiency that if the agent had to enter the account, they want a quick yes or no.
And now only 20% of our volume refers into the underwriter before it can be declined or
issued, and that 20% is handled within hours, if not within a 24-hour period of time. If I
took you back to the prior page, that still occurred within a one to three-day period of
time. Again, not efficient for the agent.
So what was the payout or what has the payoff been? It has been remarkable. Since
2006, new business quotes are up 80% through 2013 and our policies in-force since
2006 are up 40%. So again, an investment in a competitive advantage, one where we
were actually able to grow as a result of that.
I'll switch gears to a line of business as a second example and the line of business is CMP.
You could refer to it as BOP in the industry. Our CMP book is a very relevant part of our
portfolio. It's over 50% of the volume.
Here in 2006, I have given you the split between our Plus book of business, the upperend of CMP, and our Express book. And for relative terms, they are just about equal. I am
not going to give you the answer, because it's pertinent to the next couple of slides in
terms of where we've ended up and this goes back to Jay talking about disciplined
execution when returns aren't where we would like them to be.

Page 27 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

We have shrunk the Plus book of business to 32%, while growing the Express CMP to
68%. Both lines or both areas, Express and Plus, over time became challenged or had
become challenged from a return standpoint for different reasons and I'm going to walk
you through there. So the overall CMP piece as a percentage of our premium is also
reduced, but again, a much more meaningful reduction in Plus.
So why did that occur? Well, if you go back to 2005, we actually built the Plus product. We
launched it and we grew from 2006 through 2008. But as I put the number one up there,
something interesting happened from a competitor dynamic.
And we can theorize; I actually think it is pretty accurate, but we launched our Express
platform into the industry in 2006, which was very, very new with the straight-through
processing. But the smaller players that compete with us on small commercial were not
willing or not capable of making the capital outlay for that type of a technology platform
and build, so it pushed them up, if you will, into the competitive arena of the upper end of
small commercial. As Jay referred to, it could be their middle markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

We saw that through our data and analytics and we have been very public with this group
that we actually at that point in time took down our new business writings pretty
significantly. The return on the renewal book of business was fine in 2008, but over a
period of time external forces also impacted the entire portfolio, including the renewal
book, some things that you are all too aware of.
The weather that we talk about and we just had an incident with weather that we all – that
was pretty public in the industry at the end of May. It is here with us. It seems like it has
kicked up in volatility and we have it certainly in our property book of business.
Then there was a cumulative effect of rate change not covering trend that actually goes
back before the number two on the example, but it is that cumulative effect that led to
our returns being challenged. It wasn't that there was significant rate reduction but the
length of time in that reduction was not covering loss trends.
So by the time we got to 2011, coupled with the fact that interest rates were low, net
investment income also being challenged, even in a shorter-term line like this, we took
action, okay. So we learned from that execution that we needed to continue to shrink the
overall portfolio. So again, here is an example of disciplined execution when the returns
were not where they were expected to be or we wanted them to be.
Before I leave this slide, though, and it is a point that Jay made, we can look at this
example and this is one line in the portfolio for Plus. We write workers' comp, we write
automobile, we write umbrella. As a whole, coming into 2014, including CMP, we are
encouraged. We have been improving the CMP line, and I will talk about that in just a
second and where we are with the rate that we have been putting in the platform.
But also the other lines vary in terms of where they are from a return perspective and we
feel like we are making progress in the industry with the rate that the industry has taken
on the last two or three years. We probably feel better about the Plus segment today,
Page 28 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

CMP, work comp, auto, and umbrella than we have for quite some time, particularly in the
area of new business. It's not robust, but pricing seems certainly to be in a more rational
place.
Why is that important? It is important because I talked about the breadth upfront. Jay
talked about it with the fact that we probably have more like two business units in one in
small commercial. I think about it from Express being at the small end, Plus being really
that gap between us and middle markets, and then getting into our middle markets
accounts group.
Again, I think of that as being important because, if we didn't have it, the gap between
our small end and Express we feel we have distinct competitive advantage in the middle
markets would be significant. That would allow for competitors to come into the space
and make it very, very difficult and tougher, certainly, on the Express end. And I would
argue in the lower end in middle markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let's talk about the other end of CMP, our Express product, and what has happened
there. Certainly we feel good about the growth that we have put into the product. You
can see here that we have grown the product 21% because of the technology and the
platform we spoke about in this particular line. But a couple other factors, including the
ones that I talked about in Plus in terms of the weather, the investment yield, and the
cumulative effect of rate not covering trend. The biggest thing that I can talk to you here
about are learnings.
As a company, we are going to do things and we are going to learn from them. They
don't always turn out the way you want them to turn out and you are a better company for
it if you come back from those learnings and you put it into play in the marketplace. We
built a product here in 2006 to go along with the platform. We put the first series of
predictive models in place in 2006 when we launched CMP.
We added distribution because the platform enabled us to do that. We added classes of
business I spoke to you before about, and we went into geographies that we had
business but certainly not the scale that we were hoping to have. All of that created a
healthy environment to learn from, and we have. And when we got to 2011, combined with
the external factors of rate, weather, and interest rates, the book became challenged
from a return perspective.
So as we put rate in, we changed some of the underwriting characteristics, we have
moved to second generation – are moving to second-generation of predictive modeling.
We've taken the book down starting in 2011 as well. That journey is not complete yet and I
am going to walk you through the execution in terms of what our returns look like and the
progress we are making, but again, two ends of the spectrum on CMP as a line. It is a very
important line for us and we are making significant progress on the return part.
So the how; how did we do that disciplined execution I think is critical. And I think it's critical
because, again, I lean on my field experience. If we had done it with a 2x4, if we had gone

Page 29 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

in and looked at the challenges of return in the line of CMP and just taken brute force with
rate, we would have put our distribution force in a distinct disadvantage.

FINAL

My guess was that they would have returned. And we get to where retention sits in the
book today, and we will view that in the slide, I think that would have been much more
difficult. But instead of that, we have an extreme amount of granularity in terms of how we
put our pricing back into the marketplace.
We do that through something we call quintiling. It's not a – it's nothing significant in terms
of how we put it together. It's taking our business and putting it in five distinct buckets,
most profitable to least profitable, which you can see here on the colorful slide.
We do that through a series of segmentation factors, though, and the first one I have up
there is propensity for loss. And it is an important one. So in this business, unlike middle
markets, a lot of our accounts don't have a loss in a calendar year. Almost 80% of our
accounts don't. So we are searching for those risk characteristics that are going to point
us toward the likelihood that that account will have a loss.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second would be the risk characteristics, the example of the restaurant that I gave you on
the surface looking the same, but beneath that, quite different on the same class of
business. Our accounts do have losses, so obviously the actual losses play in. And we drill
that down to a state level. So not only do we look at a line like CMP on a national basis,
but we also do that at a state basis.
And the reason that becomes important, you could have three classes or three
segments, you could have restaurant, garage, and store performing in one state. Go to
the neighboring state and they are not performing in that state, and so you can't make
universal decisions based on just looking at the data at a national average.
And finally, last two are financial score. We actually do in our technology, look at the
financial score through D&B real-time and industry segment. Obviously, the 14 segments I
spoke about before are critically important in looking and managing the business.
So what are the results of us going into quintiling and the complexity, or if you will, the
granularity? So in the fourth quarter of 2011 the important line here to look at would be the
red line, this is our renewal price change, rate, and exposure. And here you can see that
we had no real differentiation in the first three or even four quintiles. We didn't really get
to raising price, if you will, or raising our RPC until the worst-performing quintile, quintile
five.
Now you fast forward and there's been many, many iterations of this, but fast forward to
2014 in the first quarter. The line has significantly sloped in an upward direction to reflect
the best-performing business getting the least amount of RPC and the worst-performing
business getting the most.

Page 30 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Most importantly as well are those blue lines. The blue lines in total are higher than they
were from a retention perspective back in 2011 because we are improving the portfolio.
Retention we moved up four points because of that improvement in the portfolio in the
first quarter and the loss ratio has improved five full points. So really, really feeling good
about the progress that we are making, but we are not still at target returns. We are close
and so we still have work to do on this line.
Now let's look at our third example and this one again is a growth example at a line level.
Jay talked about it and Vinny actually stood up here and did a great job of talking about
our advantages in workers' compensation, so I am not going to walk you through those
details again. But we looked at workers' compensation for small business back in 2006.
We had competitive advantages that we knew at that time from a risk selection and
enterprise expertise that Vinny spoke about and clearly from a claim handling standpoint
across the greater BI enterprise. But on a guaranteed cost basis, we weren't taking
advantage of it. We only had 15% of our book of business in comparison to CMP.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the reason that is, is because CMP is like the flagship property in small. It always has
been. It stands on the street corner as that retail business and so we had put a great
effort into working on our CMP book. But I think it cost us an opportunity, if you will, in
walking by the advantages that we had back in 2006.
The line in 2006 had attractive returns, just like the returns that we have today, and we
had a very, very favorable view across many of the key states that we wanted to get in
and penetrate on a workers' comp basis. That state view is critical, so Jay mentioned that
we work on workers' comp across all the businesses in BI, but we all get together and talk
about each state because each state can change quickly. And we do that on a regular
basis. So again, in 2006, felt good about the main states we were going into.
Quickly, how did that turn out with a focus on workers' compensation? Well, we have
grown quotes 18% per year since 2006, and most importantly, we have grown policies in
force 14% a year since 2006. So a great outcome, but I think most importantly is the great
footnote on the bottom.
We have grown this line of business in small commercial while at the same time
maintaining our aggregate returns above or at target levels. And again, I think going back
to the slides on where we want to invest and the competitive advantages that is the best
outcome we could possibly have.
So where has that left us? I'm going to take you back to the first slide where you talked
about net written premiums being flat in Select Accounts over an extended period of
time, but underneath that a lot of change has happened in the platform relative to mix of
business.
CMP was at 67%, as our lead line in 2006; it's now – and workers' comp was at 15%. Today
in 2013 comp is now 29% and CMP has reduced to 56%. Again, the top line has been flat.
We couldn't be more pleased with that mix of business change.
Page 31 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

We are feeling much better about our CMP product. We feel like we are putting the rate
into it to get it back to target returns, but when you think about weather and volatility and
what we have had with weather volatility, and you think about rooftop and property, which
is a big part of CMP, we like the balance that we see here.
The 29%, I am sure somebody may bring up and say, how do you feel about that going
from 15% to 29%? We feel great. In relationship with the size of the book of CMP that we
have, we still think there is room to grow CMP and grow it effectively. Or grow workers'
comp, I apologize.
All right, so we've spent a lot of the presentation focused on line mix and focused on the
technology platform, but I don't want to leave you with the view that in Select Accounts
we are not focused on the future. It's a dynamic business and for those that stay pat and
don't make the investments, I'd argue that you actually go backwards in small commercial.
So first and foremost, we have a relentless focus on assisting the agent in the small
business buying and servicing process. And you have seen that through the Express
platform, but I'm going to highlight a couple of areas that I think are important to
understand. One would be prospecting.

Bloomberg Transcript

So Prospecting for us now is at a granular level where we can actually go into a state, go
into and visit an agency and talk to them about a mix of business, whether it be in our 14
industry segments or workers' comp. We can actually take that down to a business owner
and their address – street address and the exposures that they have. This is important to
us because we want to manage our mix of business inside each one of our key lines.
Number two, selling. And I haven't spoken to this group before about selling; our role in
the selling process. Well, the agents are not only challenged from a cost standpoint on
the servicing of small commercial, but in the last four years they have come to us and
said, "Look, we would love you to sell on behalf of us. Selling in the Express arena, in
particular, with averaging $500 in commission is something that we struggle with." And so
over the last four years, we built a national sales center in one of our service centers. We
sell on behalf of agencies with licensed reps.
To me, it's critical for two reasons. One, certainly it is giving the agent something they are
looking for, for efficiency and cost. But number two, gives us a closer and better lens on
the selling process direct with our customers, the business owner policy.
The next piece of that would be service. So when you couple that we are now looking and
getting better and understanding more of the selling process on behalf of our agents.
We've been servicing small customer since 1998.
We think we understand their needs better, or as well as anybody in terms of what they
need from an audit process? What they need from an endorsement process? What they
need from a billing process, which is one of the most – most calls that we get the most
often are billing issues? That understanding between the selling process and the service

Page 32 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

process we think positions us well for any dynamics that change from customer behavior
in the future.
Second-gen technology, so I'm going to skip over products just in the sake of time, but
second-gen technology. So we came out with Express in 2006, since then we've actually
come out with the second-generation of that. So we have now introduced CMP into the
marketplace in 2013 and the beginning of 2014. We started with umbrella on second-gen
and we will be moving to our second-gen workers' compensation platform in 2015, so
covering our two major lines.
Why is that important? When we visit our agents in particular, the CSRs, our service reps
who sell our product inside of agencies, their life is complicated. They literally sit and spin
from carrier-to-carrier and putting that data inside those proprietary platforms like
Express. If we can make that experience better and easier with a better outcome for
them, we think we profit and we benefit from that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last, but not least, is Travelers' positioning and branding with prospects, customers, and
the small business community at-large. We have come out with several new things. One is
something we call onboarding, so actually this month we're coming out with a welcome kit
that will be delivered with every new business policy that we have for small commercial.
Why is that important? Well, it really is a gateway. Not just a delivery letter or an email that
brings them access to our company, but lands them in Travelers.com, our landing page,
takes them to the services that we can offer them with value beyond the policy. We do
this in conjunction with our agents, but we think it is going to be very unique to be able to
do that. It also takes them to the site where we have virtual risk control. So Bob Brody is
sitting here today and his risk control folks; I love them, but I can't afford to send them out
on a $3,000 account. So we have brought that risk control experience to them from an
industry perspective sitting right inside Travelers.com.
And finally, a partnership, Weather.com. So Greg Toczydlowski and the Personal Lines folks
entered into a partnership with Weather.com, I guess about a year-and-a-half ago, Greg?
We jumped on top of that and the reason why is because this gives our agents a great
advantage in that they can now look at weather events that are coming and we can push
to them through a ZIP Code process those customers that we have with them that are in
the path of harm's way in advance of the storm.
Important for them; it gives them something beyond the policy they are selling to their
customers, important for us because of preparing and mitigating that loss activity, and it
really pays off for the small business owner.
I'm going to switch gears again on you and talk a little bit about stewardship. This is
something that Jay and we do through the Travelers Institute. We think a lot about the
small business community. Not so much from a business perspective, certainly selfishly we
could do that, but simply from a stewardship perspective. We have gone out and done 13
small business symposiums across the country with Joan Woodward and her group simply
to bring to light all the issues really since 2008 that confront small business creation and
Page 33 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

staying in business for small business owners. We do that through things like continuity
planning, cyber risk, and regulatory relief. And we have partnerships with some of the
Federal Reserve Banks in Dallas, Boston, and Pittsburgh, and a partnership with the New
York Stock Exchange.
We all know, I think the employment numbers were reported today, that a majority of the
employment is created through small business owners. And we want to fight the fight with
them and we think we are taking that and doing that. We will continue to. A couple of the
new things that are coming up are cyber and I think again regulatory relief just never goes
away.
And we also have done creation in terms of partnerships. So Small Business Saturday is a
partnership with American Express. We do that on behalf of our small business owners
and our agents, because big box has certainly had an impact on retail establishments in
particular. And we choose a Saturday to partner up with them, which has had a really
positive impact over the last two years.
So I'm going to leave you on a slide kind of where we started. We feel this business is
built on competitive advantages and we have done that over a period of time. But the
advantages that we have with distribution certainly not limited to small commercial, but
built around all the businesses inside BI give us a real leg up, especially in terms of some
of the execution that I have taken you through today. And we think we are well-positioned
for the future to continue to execute.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, I'm going to turn the program over to Greg Toczydlowski.

Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Good morning. Thanks, Marc. Similar to Marc's presentation I'm going to do some of the
same. I'm going to share how we manage the PI business, walk you through what some of
our competitive advantages are and then leave you with an expectation of what you can
expect from us in the future.
As we look at our competitive advantages the top two rows have a similar word in it,
premier. Premier carrier across the independent agency channel and a premier property
writer and automobile preferred writer.
We've spent a lot of time on our words and when we define premier we define premier
as having industry-leading returns for our investors. And I think I walk you through the facts
on that around both of those top two bullets.
As we bring those two flagship products out into the marketplace, we bring them out with
an account solution. We think that's a critical competitive advantage in the marketplace
right now. I'm going to walk you through how we are going to enhance that gap going
forward.

Page 34 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Two enablers that we think are critical for our account solution is really bringing the
advanced analytical process to those products and also combining with the very
contemporary digital set of commerce around how we bring the services and fulfillment
around both of those products to the marketplace.
And then overall, certainly not all of our relationships overlap between Personal Insurance
and Business Insurance but many do. And so having that understanding, the intimacy of
our independent agents and having that better partnership with those franchise agents
really give us a competitive advantage as we bring those markets end products into the
marketplace.
As we look at our overall product mix you can see if you add up the blue and green what
we would define as our Multi-Peril business, our property and our OTL represents 53% of
our overall product mix. That is unique.
When you look at the top-10 industries the closest carrier that has that ratio is 37%. And so
47% of our business being automobile and why that's critical is various pundits out there
that right now that have been talking about the adoption of new technology from
Google's automobile to the autonomous to semi-autonomous vehicles around some
projection being so futuristic that the automobile's frequency may dissipate.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we certainly don't believe that is the case because there would have to be adoption
across the entire fleet of the automobiles in America. However, we do see the
effectiveness of that technology and so we do believe there will be an impact on
frequency over time.
We've spent a lot of time forecasting, understanding the offsetting items. As the fleet
eventually moves into that adoption of that technology there will be offsetting items like
the severity from the vehicle that don't have that technology that are a hit in that very
expensive technology.
So as we look at our product mix we feel very comfortable and pleased with that 53% of
our book of business that has a property orientation. As we shift and look at the customer
mix within our business we define our customer mix based on this exhibit.
And on the y-axis that's the underwriting risk. So we think our target market is the upper
half from an underwriting risk point of view. And the x-axis is the complexity of the balance
sheet of the consumer household. And so we want to be in the marketplace on the upper
half from a complexity point of view.
As we intersect those two variables that's really where our target market is. And as we
define some of those metrics down below you can see 42% of our customers have more
than one product. When we look at the best credit score ratings, meaning the lower risk
business, 66% of our automobile business has an excellent insurance score and 72% for
property.

Page 35 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Full coverage automobile meaning they have liability, comp and collision 75%. And then
overall no loss experience where we would be giving that customer a loss free discount,
very strong numbers at 72% for auto and 86% for property. So we believe based on that
product mix and that customer mix we are very well-positioned to continue investing in
this business.
If we look at two eras in the business and we will clear out the property story first, from
2004 to 2010 pretty strong industry results and again backing up that word premier. If you
look at the blue bullet down low, a 14-point combined ratio advantage for us over this
period of time over the industry, 85% relative to the industry of a 99%.
The industry at a 99% is a remarkable period of time. Over the last 25 years the industry
has had 110 combined ratio in the property business over time. So this was an 11 point
advantage for the industry relative to that long-term norm.
And as a matter of fact three of those periods 2004, 2006 and 2007 were below a 100
combined ratio and that only happened 5 out of the last 25 times for the industry. We
have consistently produced an underwriting return in this business over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we saw a shift in the environment from 2010, and Jay talked about that, it was more
interior weather across the country, many times followed with hail and sometimes with
tornado. We recognize that shift in pattern and obviously coming out of the economic
crisis a much smaller set of net investment income underneath the product so that put
more pressures on the underwriting returns.
So we had a strategy very similar to Business Insurance of improving margins on that
business over time. And you can see three independent periods with close to doubledigit rate increases over 2008 through 2011, excuse me, through 2013, really for that
pursuit of making sure that we were putting up an adequate return in reflecting some of
this volatile and adverse weather that we were facing.
We also looked at terms and conditions within the product increasing what we define as
coinsurance or the deductible that we share with the customer. So we addressed not only
the wind and hail deductible where it's relevant for that particular peril, we also tried to
push the all-rating peril overall up in that marketplace also.
And then we tapped loss reporting. A phenomenon we saw coming out of the recession
was that losses over a period of time elongated, sometimes beyond the year. And
obviously the insurance product is available and our response is to when a loss happens
that we can speedily get out there and indemnify that consumer before any additional
damages happen.
So we did put the limitations on the contract to make sure that we are really being
responsive and the consumer and the agent have an obligation of responding when that
claim happens.

Page 36 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

And then various underwriting guideline changes, from roof inspections to age-of-roof
ratings. We have age-of-roof rating in 32 states. We're rolling it out in five additional
states. And so really, again, back to risk selection and pricing segmentation and making
sure that we know a roof that is 20 years old versus a two-year-old roof has a higher
propensity of damage on one-inch hail. And so we're addressing that in our underwriting
and our pricing.
As we look at the results of some of those actions, as we move forward to the 2011 to the
2013 period, you can see a remarkable enhancement in terms of our combined ratio. 77%
in 2013, continued our gap relative to the industry, and $100 million gap relative to top-line
premium. So we define that very much as a success as we operated in that disciplined
manner.
As we switch gears to automobile, a little bit of a different story but similar from an
industry point of view. Over a 25-period we clear out some of that data relative to
property, the industry has produced 102% combined ratios.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can see over this period of time a 97.4% and you can see our advantage of the 93%
relative to that 97%. And so we saw a shift in the environment around 2008, when we
looked at the underwriting profit in the industry for automobile, only 6 periods out of the
25 produced an underwriting return and 3 of these are on the slide, or 4 of these, 2004
to 2007.
We started seeing, not necessarily an uptick in frequency, but not as much good news
decreases in frequency in 2008, 2009 going forward. That coupled with some of the
weather phenomenon that we saw on the property side of the business gave us some
volatility and pressures in the physical damage coverages.
We also saw some pressures in bodily injury. And then again, that coupled with lower net
investments income, we went on that same pursuit of improving margins in this business
as shown by the rate levels on the right-hand side of this exhibit.
Different than the property business, we felt it more on the production. And Jay alluded
to the competitive nature of the comparative rater. And you can see while we've made
improvements in our margin because we believe we needed to over that period of time,
we felt it on the production side.
And you can see the $3.7 billion dropping to $3.3 billion and that was not a sustainable
strategy over time. But again we are always going to be focused on making sure that we
have a adequate return for our investors and then grow the business over a period of
time.
So as we feel like we have a strong foundation at this point, a 98.9% at yearend 2013, first
quarter of 2014 is one of our lower seasonality periods but we came out of the gates with
a 93.3%. We believe the disciplined rate level that we're taking has been offset in some
of those loss cost pressures.

Page 37 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

And Jay talked about we spend more time on ourselves. We monitor our competition very
aggressively. And when we look at our competition and we looked at a basket of six
players across the country, when we look at their results for year-end 2013, five of those
six had a combined ratio in the automobile line greater than 100% and when we looked at
them in the first quarter of 2014 five of them had a combined ratio greater than 100%
also.
So we believe we have taken the medicine that we've needed to do to address some of
these loss pressures and we feel like we're positioned well as we roll out Quantum 2.0.
Before I drop into Quantum 2, I want to spend a little bit of time on the external
environment and we really have three constituents here, consumers, carriers and
independent agents.
And the common theme across all three of them is this industry from an automobile
perspective has become much more price-sensitive, as consumers have become more
disciplined with their financials coming out of the economic crisis. As carriers have invested
heavily in advertising a number of $6 billion in 2012, that's up from $5.1 billion in 2010
almost $1 billion uptick in a two-year period with the primary proposition on the message
around price.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then independent agents with the emergence of all these more sophisticated
automobile programs, independent agents have adopted comparative raters so they
could be more efficient in understanding how they can input information once and
understand all the solutions. However, we've seen that tool drive towards a price dilution
for consumers.
So as we look at the comparative rater utilization across our book of our business you can
see the red bars are our proprietary quote system, where agents would go directly into
our quote system without hitting a comparative rater and know based on our claim
service, our product and our accounts solution, provide the business to us. As you can see
there has been a shift on that dropping off and an uptick on the comparative raters over
this period of time.
If we look at the percentages on the far right, 83% of our automobile quotes move
through a comparative rater. And the key two dynamics on this slide is the inverse
relationship between RPC, renewal premium change that we've made in automobile
business, and how the new business has dropped off on that rate strategy that we've
talked about.
So again, we feel terrific about the returns that we needed to address over this business,
the production we have felt along the way. So as we were pursuing that rate strategy over
the last two years we've had in development what we call Quantum 2.0. Quantum 2.0
really embraces the understanding of Quantum 1.0 and all the relationships of it, but most
importantly, we reengineered our cost structure.
Jay talked about the $140 million. I thought I would give you a little bit of color underneath
that. All $140 million there was value added OIE or ULET. That was value added to us, but
Page 38 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

we believe that the customer just wouldn't pay for that value. And so, we had to make the
hard line in terms of where we were going to pull those expenses from. Many of the
expenses came from people, consolidating business centers, similar to what Marc
Schmittlein talked about in internal versus external servicing model. We pushed more to
an internal servicing model utilizing telephony software and just becoming much more
efficient. We took that $140 million and we deployed that into our pricing on Quantum 2.0.
In addition to the OIE and the ULET savings we asked our partners who are competing
every day with various distribution outlets that have a lower cost structure from an
acquisition point of view to come along with us as we dieted and exercised also. And so,
we brought the Quantum 2.0 to two point lower base commission and then we continued
to drive that into the marketplace.
In addition to the pricing and the commission we're very proud that we've brought new
features into the marketplace along with that. We've built the product in a very modular
basis and agents can continue to customize how they would like it at individual levels.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at our appetite in terms of Quantum 2.0, you can see on this x-axis, we have
not expanded our appetite, we've just become more competitive across our appetite.
We think that's critically important. As we deploy some of those expense savings into the
pricing, it gives us overall a lower price. Where this slide is a little misleading, you could
almost put a high-low stock set of rows across Quantum 2.0, because based on the new
segmentation we will have customers that will get a higher price than Quantum 2.0 than
Quantum 1.0. But overall based on this new expense base, we will have generally a more
competitive product in the marketplace.
As we look at the results for Quantum 2.0 we really focused on three high-level dynamics;
agent adoption, achieving our desired competitive position, and achieving a mid-teens
ROE over time. And if you look at some of these metrics, we feel like the first two we
clearly have achieved and the third one is going to take time as loss experience builds.
Our agents have enhanced their quote flow from 10% to 15%. Quantum 2.0 is now rolled
out in 28 states, represents two-thirds of our overall new business. We have a large
rollout going this weekend where we'll have approximately 90% of our new business
rolled out by the end of the year.
Our close rate changed, meaning how many sales we had relative to quotes has picked
up from 150% to 200%, and our overall new business is up from 165% to 230%. So we're
very pleased with how it's been adopted, the desired results are being achieved. And
loss experience, it's still early and obviously the earned premium isn't a credible data yet,
but we've spent an inordinate amount of time watching the mix of business,
understanding the short tail line from a frequency point of view so we can constantly
project where we believe that ultimate loss ratio is going to be.
We've already tuned the product in approximately 12 states. As Marc talked about having
that product management organization in the tools and the dashboard where we can
clearly see what our expectations were from a mix point of view and what's coming in. We

Page 39 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

will constantly tune that product to make sure that it's going to give us that mid-teens
ROE over time and continue driving this production growth.

FINAL

As we shift back to homeowners, we're certainly not going to rest on our laurels in terms
of that homeowner strength. We are going to continue to leverage our competitive
advantages out in the marketplace and reinforce and invest more of them. The granular
pricing segmentation, the risk selection and of course our industry-leading claims services.
Not only from a catastrophe response point of view, our overall speed drives dollars and
our customer service is industry-leading. We hear that every day we are out in the
marketplace from our independent agents.
We're continuing to enhance in that business also. Our multivariate capability that we use
in our R&D organization to price our product, we're doing the same thing around how we
report inspection in the marketplace.
For example, we're able to take at a very granular geospatial level a long lap, be able to
look at a household, overlay historical weather period, and then figure out if we should
have an outside inspection versus save the money of not having an inspection. So really
industry-leading ability to really have that lens in terms of how we are expending money
and making sure that we're getting value back for that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, new business segmentation. There is similar patterns that we've seen on
Quantum 2.0 from an automobile perspective that's relevant on the property side.
One example is the quote to effective date. We're rolling that out in the marketplace right
now. But we know shoppers who shop early have a better loss experience than those that
are more distressed, irresponsible in their shopping based on their current expiration
dates. So examples like that we are able to continue to make the product more
competitive and really leverage the understanding of the automobile and the property
business together.
In terms of where are we going with that account solution? We think our competition is not
necessarily insurance carriers anymore. We think our competition is Amazon. We think our
competition is Zappos. We think our competition is Apple.
Consumers are ingrained in having a digital experience and a seamless integration. Just
this week Apple had their Worldwide Development Conference and it wasn't about
bringing out the latest new shiny gadget, it wasn't about an iPhone, an iPad. It was about
how these products seamlessly integrate together. How one app can integrate with
another app, how you could start work on one device and finish it on another device.
We think that's what consumers expect and we think we have all the foundational
capabilities in auto and property to seamlessly integrate them together. There is a
screenshot that this is a beta screenshot, it's not in the marketplace right now.

Page 40 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

But in the fourth quarter we're going to bring out that seamless integration that as our
agents or customers go out and do an automobile quote, based on some of the same
information that's on that automobile quote, or new third-party data sources, we are
going to be able to provide a property quote right next to that.
And so rather than going through a separate automobile fulfillment and property we're
going to continue driving that seamless integration across both products. And we think
that's a serious competitive advantage for us.
When we look at our best credit scores on the property business, we can – and that's to
normalize the mix, when we look at our mono-line property business versus our account
property business, meaning the property has an account, an automobile with it, we have a
three-year longer policy life expectancy than that monoline property. And that's important
because if you make the assumption that that monoline property has a garage and there
is something in that garage that would define, be defined as a bundled product. So three
years of having a single underwriter account solution advantage over having that bundled
product. We think that's important and we are going to continue investing in that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as we bring the products together, the automobile and property, we are going to
continue investing in technology for our independent agent. We just rolled out a new
marketing sales tool kit, having a lot of fun with some license plates as we roll out
Quantum 2.0, that one says quote me. And so really trying to merchandise this product
out there with CSRs and make sure that they understand how to communicate it to their
consumers in a easy and simple fashion to sell more.
Digital: We just rolled out, and right now in a pilot fashion, a friends and family program
where we are testing a new mobile path. And basically through that mobile path you could
submit a claim, do an inquiry on your policy and really understand your documentations
and what they look like. We are getting great feedback from that pilot. We are going to
be rolling that out into various app stores in late this summer. And so we are excited to
continue investing with that digital.
Marc talked a little bit about the weather alert. And we will continue driving a digital onboarding process recognizing that consumers are comparing us every day to how they do
digital commerce.
And then analytics; we will continue to invest in not only in the tools and the talent and that
and how we deploy them across not only our products but around our services and how
we conduct business. As I walked you through that slide that showed where more of that
upper half of the marketplace, it's very critical that we understand how to target
customers. A broad marketing campaign will not be effective when we really have a
targeted marketing strategy.
So we are spending quite a bit of time across our agency and our emerging direct-toconsumer channels around investing and making sure that our messages are out there
and they are aligned with what our target customer looks like.

Page 41 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

So with that, I'm going to bring Jay Fishman back up and he's going to facilitate us on
some Q&A. Thank you.

FINAL

Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

We're really organized. Is it you, is it me, is it us? Greg, thank you. Thanks to all the
presenters. Thanks. Good stuff. I'm going to close with just two quick slides. And it really
will, I think it wraps up everything you have heard this morning and hopefully sets the
stage for whatever questions you would like to ask.
We do perceive ourselves. I think the data supports it, as the premier independent agent
company. Most important for agents' success and there is a tendency of observers in the
industry to not really understand the significance or importance of the engagement with
the agent. We get very account focused but it starts off with an agent and an underwriter
and an account and that's where the business is actually done

Bloomberg Transcript

There's no one better at that breadth of agent support than Travelers. It's the deep
history of analytical skill. We don't run the business anecdotally. We run it by the data and
by the facts. We are constantly sorting, resorting, slicing and dicing to understand on the
most granular level the things we do well, the things that we should do better, where
opportunities exist, where challenges exist that force us to engage in strategy to manage
our various businesses and we do that very much monitoring as a result not a goal.
If we ask the underwriters to grow their business by 10% I have 100% certainty that they
will. They will do so not by cutting price, which I think is largely how many of you view it,
they will do it by broadening their risk selection and they will engage in accounts that
absent that pressure they wouldn't.
So it's not a pricing dynamic, it's a risk selection dynamic. And you have to build a culture
of risk-adjusted returns, allowing underwriters to use their judgment about what accounts
will fit the profile that you seek and which ones won't. Pressure gets them off that. We
don't do that. We don't do it in how we engage with them, we certainly don't do it in how
we compensate or review them.
And lots of people will speak to that but at the end of the year if an underwriter's book
has shrunk by 3% you can't turn around and say why did your book shrink by 3%? You have
to go through the data and see what happened and understand why. And on the premise
that the actions were the right ones you have got to say thank you and congratulations.
So the ability to actually take that philosophy and employ it at a very granular level to an
underwriter in St. Louis is what makes it successful. We are very much, I love the St. Louis
example where one of a handful of companies whether they be a very large national
company with size and scale all attributes critical for competitive advantages and we apply
it on a very local level.
There isn't much that's underwritten out of Hartford other than the Hartford field office. All
the rest of it happens in Dallas and Houston and Los Angeles. It's all about local, local
Page 42 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

connection to the agent, local accounts, local understanding of the marketplace, the
regulatory environment and the loss dynamics that that particular environment drives.
And then our return on capital, again, we laid this out in 2006. Didn't know if it would be
successful but it really has been. And this is sort of the closing slide, which is how has the
stock done? You will of course notice this looks at nine years through 2013, total returns to
shareholders. This is December 31. My guess is if we ran this today maybe the order is a
little bit different. I am not sure about that but it could be. But you can see where we sit
compared to competitors in the industry, Standard & Poor's financials and a host of other
companies.
Now these comparisons on a one-year, three-year, five-year basis are going to become
odd because there are lots of companies that were meaningfully impacted in the financial
crisis and have recovered somewhat but not nearly to where they were before. And so on
a one-year, three-year, five-year basis increasingly you're going to see more of those
companies at the top of these lists. We're running the place for the long-term. It's the only
way we know how to do it.
We make the investments, do the underwriting, be thoughtful about how we deploy
capital and drive returns and so far so good.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that I'm going to bring up our team to take on any questions. I know Brian you are
anxiously awaiting, tell us what's happening with rate. Brian will give you some insight into
that and we will take whatever the questions anybody would like and we'll go from there.

Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

As a point of order could we ask you to please say your name and the company you are
with before your questions. Thank you.

Brian W. MacLean

{BIO 4679150 <GO>}

Okay, and as Jay just said, before we start I will just throw out a few, very few data points
on what we have seen through April and May. First on the weather, our CAT losses after
tax for April and May are approximately $150 million and then from a Business Insurance
production side, just a few comments. And I'd preface it with reminding you that the
second quarter is heavily influenced by June 30 effectives, so take April, May for what it's
worth. From a rate increase perspective in the aggregate rate increases are down a little
bit less than a point in the two months. Retention remains...

Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Compared to the first quarter.

Brian W. MacLean

{BIO 4679150 <GO>}

Page 43 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Compared to the first quarter. Retention remains strong and relatively consistent with
what we saw in the first quarter. And new business is up slightly or a little bit from what we
had been experiencing.
I think a couple of important points, when we look at that and we look at the granular
where we are getting it from, from an account and a class-of-business perspective, we
actually think the move is very consistent with what we've been seeing. And by that I
mean, that the rate retention dynamics that we are seeing, especially on a granular, level
really reflect what we are seeing and what you would expect given the improvement in
the product returns that we are getting across our business.
So we continue to feel great about the execution. That's the basic update on the two
months and so with that, Jay.

Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

We will open it up for questions.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jeffrey Cho

{BIO 16495426 <GO>}

Jeffrey Cho from MFS. I just had a question on the first line. When I look, maybe it's just
the way the data is cut, but from homeowners and to auto, you improved your combined
ratio it is 800 basis points. The industry improved 1,600 basis points and your PIF is down
15%. There's something odd there. And the same thing in auto, combined ratios improved
600 basis points but your PIF is down 18%. So you're not improving relative to the industry,
you are actually getting worse. So can you just help me reconcile some of that?

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Yeah Greg here. I mean really, every year you look at for our business you've got to really
state mix adjust it. So we spend a lot of time, and that's why we look at it over a 10-year
period of time. One or two or three years even depending on where the weather or the
loss trend is at a state level can be somewhat misleading. So every time we look at our
industry results we do it based on our state mix. I think those are straight-up numbers that
you are looking at.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

[Question inaudible]

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

I don't know what analysis he is doing. Let us look at the math separately. I'm not sure
what --

Q - Jeffrey Cho

{BIO 16495426 <GO>}
Page 44 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

Just took from your slides, I guess. I mean just from your slides, I guess I'm just trying to,
maybe from the state level basis you feel like you have improved? But then the combined
ratios roll up to not improving relative to the industry?

FINAL

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Yeah, on automobile, and we talked a little bit about this, I think we saw some loss trends
that are inside our numbers, 2011, 2012. I think if you look at what some of the recent
reporting periods are and there's a lot of prior-year development, we look at ISO fasttrack data, which is a consortium of all the industry results. And we can see loss trends
being much higher than ours in the 2013 period. So it's very difficult when you look at
calendar year. When we look at our best estimate to accident year, we believe we are
absolutely improving the business.

Q - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Mike Meacham, Goldman Sachs (2:13:55). I guess for Greg as well, can you talk about the
learnings you have picked up from Quantum 2.0 as it relates to the direct-to-consumer
initiative and maybe just generally give us an update on thought process around
investment there, expectations for either a pickup in growth or improvement in
profitability? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Why don't I start, this is Jay Fishman. When we started our direct-to-consumer initiative
five or six years ago now we came out and we said that we were optimistic that our
customer through independent agents would not move out of the independent agent
channel quickly. And we said that back in the record and you can see it that we thought
that was sustainable.
But that we weren't willing to not make the investment in case we were wrong. We
absolutely acknowledged that we may be wrong in that regard. So we've begun the
process from nowhere of developing product, technology, infrastructure and it has been a
long journey. And if you take a step back now, our assessment, at least today of the
direct-to-consumer market broadly, I'm speaking now in the broad, not our business per
se, is that there has been less movement in that upper left-hand quadrant that Greg
spoke about, out of agent channels that are captive or independent into the direct-toconsumer channel, than one might contemplate.
And it is difficult until that change begins to occur, if it does it does, if it doesn't it doesn't,
but until that change occurs it is going to be difficult for anyone to build a scale business in
that upper left-hand quadrant in the direct-to-consumer business. There simply is not yet
enough volume there to drive the business.
Now that is our sweet spot. That's where we do business every day. That's where our
results come from. And so we started off with that. That, it was long-term and it remains
long term. We will see how patterns change. We are not a non-standard company. We
don't seek risk in that segment. We are an okay standard company, not great but okay,
willing to take risk in that segment.
Page 45 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

For the moment, that's where the volume has been. And so without Quantum 2.0 at a
lower price point and a different structure we were not going to be able to develop the
direct-to-consumer business in that lower segment, in that standard arena. Our price and
our packaging is not competitive. And so the learning out of 1.0 was that we could do
reasonably well, actually driving customers into that upper left but there weren't enough
of them.
And that we weren't effective at driving outside of that box into the direct-to-consumer
channel as our price and our structure was simply not competitive for them. So 2.0 is an
important element in the evolution of that business strategy, seeing if, in fact, we have a
viable lower-priced product where the underwriting results support the investment. So we
are going to wait and see how the loss trend develops out of this before we go.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now it is available, it's up online, Quantum 2.0 is out there but we are not spending
substantial marketing dollars yet to drive activity. We are going to see how 2.0 does in the
agency channel and then figure out where the best marketing dollar investment can be
made to begin to drive behavior. So I think that's, so upper left, kind of think I've covered
everything I wanted to. When you are looking at the graph, Mike, that's what I was
thinking, we are actually comparing our results to other relatively small direct-to-consumer
companies.
And you can come in on this without mentioning any names, we were at 150% combined
ratio in the business. You can get it from the data. And without mentioning the name
another one that you would be familiar with actually was running at 125% is my
recollection. And that gap was much bigger several years ago. It is getting smaller. We are
making real progress in understanding how to drive behavior and drive activity, how to
meet the customer expectations and how to deliver the product. And now actually 2.0 is
the next step in seeing how that goes.

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

I think that's fair. I mean it's a business of scale, but before we even drive scale our
attention is then on a per-unit basis can we create value. And so Quantum 2.0 is going to
be a critical element for us to say does that clearing price give us the ability to be able to
take the marketing dollars that were very small right now but thoughtfully investing,
amortize them over that customer that we get there and do we feel good about the
value at a per-unit level.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

And we still want to be an account writer. We are okay doing monoline auto and we are
okay doing monoline home. But our whole strategy, Greg talked about the three-year
difference in policy life expectancy, that's a big deal economically. We want to be a whole
account writer. So we are going to watch 2.0, but we don't have an aspiration. We want
again we want to write the whole thing. So our goal is to present a value proposition in the
broadest way.

Page 46 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

By the way, it's not – that's not lost on us that the automobile insurance business may be
changing in very, very substantive ways, maybe. I'm not smart enough to really know or
understand but I can envision a set of circumstances that are quite different. And the fact
that we like that home business and that we are good at it is, I believe, over the next 10
years going to be an increasing competitive advantage, just one person's view.

Q - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Just a real quick follow-up on that. I mean in terms of the upper left, do you think about
direct as potentially being a prospecting agent for tomorrow's upper left consumer? And
to the extent that maybe that group isn't populated with your demographic now, is there
some risk that not attaching to that group could put you at a disadvantage as that group
matures?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That's why we are working on it. That's why we are investing in what we have invested.
That's why the technology is being developed. It's why our unit presence is as effective
now as it is, by the way, and also that search dynamics around that. I also observed that
the digital technical skills that Greg talked about for the customer, that isn't just a directto-consumer element, that's an all-customer element.
Whether or not the customer comes through an independent agent or through direct
channel, they all expect to be able to access service and claim and other information
directly. So, while it's easy to perceive that digital investment as direct only, it's not the
case. That's going to become increasingly table stakes for success in the agent business
as well.
But yes, it's possible. And that's why we are doing it. It's possible that upper left goes.
They haven't yet, and I don't mean absolutely. You will find upper left customers in our
book. But there's not enough volume going on to build a scale business around it. That's
where we are at the moment but that may change.

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

While we take the next one, digital comment, off our across all of our businesses. I mean
Marc's business and across all the Business Insurance.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 19777341 <GO>}

Thanks. Amit Kumar, Macquarie. This question might be for Vinny. You talked about growth
in compensation. Can you talk about California comp and may be SB 863? When it will be
enacted? It was supposed to benefit the marketplace. As of now the comments coming
out of the marketplace actually suggest that it would be a net negative. And I am
wondering are you seeing that in your results and does that change your growth strategy?
Thanks.

A - Vincent Armentano

Page 47 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Yes. So I think California has made some attempts to improve their system with SB 863.
We've seen there the benefit increase is sort of the cost of the program materialize, as of
yet we haven't seen the benefit portion of those changes materialize. A lot of them are
being held up in the courts as they are being challenged.
So with that being said, we do look at each state differently. And so we look at what price
we need in California and that's how we react. But it's not whether we like a market or
don't like a market, we try to understand the underlying cost drivers and on the claims
side try to deal with how do we best leverage those tools that we are given.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

It would be interesting to talk to Marc too. I think the additional short answer is that we
didn't assume that that restructuring would result in savings. Therefore, we largely did not
lower our prices to take those savings into account. And to the extent that drove some
lesser volume for a while, so be it. But we didn't, I may be wrong and we still may be
wrong but we didn't contemplate that the benefit, the reduction in cost would actually
emerge. So that's just a matter of how we view this.

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Thank you, Jay Gelb from Barclays. I know you don't like us to focus on the rate of change
in rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Okay.
[Laughter]

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

So with that said, given the pace that's occurring, slightly less than a point decline each
quarter in Business Insurance pricing, it appears likely at some point the pricing could be
neutral or even negative say in a year or so. Would you manage the business differently in
that environment than you're doing currently?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Well, I don't know what a year will bring, so I really don't. And I am quite certain of this, the
data and analytics that we have are not – I believe that we need all of that by the way, I
really do, and I believe that we were first on the scene in that 20 years ago, but we're not
unique in that sense anymore. Lots of people have a better understanding of profitability,
returns, where they make money, where they don't and why. And if you listen to the
conversation in the industry you will hear most people articulating some form of return
expectation.
Now the interesting thing about this is that it actually happened in St. Louis. It's not as
though – you don't have a pricelist. There is no pricelist. So we don't issue a pricelist with a

Page 48 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

5% reduction or go out to underwriters and say cut the rate by five points. We don't do
that. I don't even know if anybody does that anymore. But ultimately it's the information at
the point of sale and it's the underwriter making the decision with the agent and with the
customer.
Now it's possible that locally, and it's happening to us now, it happened to us a year ago,
any one underwriter on any one account can get aggressive and decide that they want
that account to move, that has happened. It's happening today, it happened a year ago, it
happened two years ago. There is nothing new about that and you're always making
those evaluations and responding to it. I think we would manage our business the same
way, which is attempting to do everything we can do to continue to drive appropriate
returns.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now it's not – it's so important, it is not just at the rate level. We spent most of the time up
here talking about cost, efficiency and productivity. We are driving to be able to outselect.
The rate ultimately is a function of the competitive environment and you can only do so
much. But that is not the only lever that exists. In fact it's the one that is least controllable
in a sense. The one that is most controllable is the productivity in the claim department
and the efficiency in the risk management organization. And importantly in comp how well
we manage medical costs. So we focus a whole lot more on costs than we do on what's
the rate environment going to be a year from now. We are driven to be the most
productive, most efficient, lowest-cost provider. We don't always succeed but we are
driven to do that. We keep moving in that direction.
So I wouldn't declare anything different if rates were – and again my perception is not yet
that the competitive environment has changed. This is why Brian talked about the mood.
Our assessment is that more companies are looking at individual account performance
and concluding what accounts are reasonably priced and which ones aren't. And they are
making better judgments about that than they would have 10 years ago. And I think that is
one of the key differences. But yeah, I think we would try to do the exactly the same
things.

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Okay. And then my follow-up question is on the tailwind of reserve releases. If you
exclude the asbestos environmental modest drag, the core reserve releases equate to
about five points on the combined ratio, I think that was roughly the level it was in the first
quarter. What's happening in your analysis in terms of actual claims versus the expected
that allows that trend to continue and are we nearing the end of that reserve release
cycle?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

They are less and I don't know. What causes us to have favorable reserve development?
Tell me the line, tell me the state, tell me the environment. Actual loss experience is less
than we contemplated it would be. Not that we reserved it more than we thought it would
be and we are pulling out profits later on, absolutely not the case. We make the best
estimate we can all the time. Best estimate because that's the way we price our product.

Page 49 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

We price it off of our costs. If we are missing the cost then we are missing the market. It's
as bad as it gets.
So we make our absolute best estimate. In some cases frequency is less, in some cases
severity is less, in some cases weather losses out of a storm turn out to be less. It's a
myriad of things. And we give you insight into that in our quarterly earnings. We try and
identify at least the lines and the policy years, particularly in the 10-Q, the MD&A, we give
you as much insight as we think is appropriate to give.
But if you asked us today, we believe our reserves are best estimates because if we
didn't believe it we would change it. And so, is it coming to an end? I have no idea. My
presumption is, is that there won't be anymore because it's a best estimate but I believed
that a year ago and I believed that a year ago and I believed it the year before that. It's
just the way economic activity develops against whatever assumptions you make. I'm
looking at our CFO, Jay Benet, are you okay with that? Good. He has laryngitis; otherwise
he would be up here, too.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Josh Clayton Stirling

{BIO 17463087 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein in the back. So, Greg you mentioned
Apple and Amazon, and Jay, I was guessing you were sort of alluding to challenges or
opportunities in personal lines, probably from telematics. I am wondering if you guys can
sort of weigh-in on two of those existential things, the growth at (2:29:56) possibility of
the aggregation model as it has been in the U.K. coming to the United States, or just
separately telematics, very curious to hear your thoughts sort of both on strategy and
fundamentally are these opportunities for you, or are these just things that you are going
to have to play defense and try to and leveraging your homeowner's capabilities and
ultimately sort of hold the line with your account business?

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

I'll take the first one, telematics and then we will come back to the aggregators.
Telematics, it's closer to the panacea of pricing really being inside that vehicle and
understanding the behaviors of that individual consumer. So we, because of that, we have
a product out in the marketplace right now in eight states. It's branded under the name
TeleDrive. And so we've got a device that we can track the behaviors of the customer.
It's actually priced based on one of the true exposures, the amount of miles that they
drive. And so we are deep into our R&D team of really just collecting the information,
trying to understand how that GPS-type data we transmit back to us and what the
correlation is with loss experience. So right now we don't believe the form and fashion
that it's in today, a hard device that you plug into the vehicle will be there in three, four, or
five years. We think the technology will change.
And so because we have it in eight states we're not going to roll it out. It's a little
expensive, the device and the transmission of it. Ultimately, we believe it will come at your
hip. It will come through the smartphone and through ultimately through some of the
networks and the phone. So we are in it. We are going to continue understanding it.

Page 50 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Yes, adoption is the second piece of that. As much as you can build the science around it,
if the adoption really doesn't happen with it, and that has been some of the challenges
right now. Independent agents have been somewhat reluctant to sell the product just
because it's another variable, a set of technology to get in the way from what I hear out in
the marketplace between them and their consumer.
So the penetration has been relatively low in the independent agent channel, but we
continue to work those eight states, market it and really try to understand the pattern s
underneath it.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

And when I have asked agents about it, which I have, the answer I get and of course it's
speculative, I can't give any data to prove it, is that it's also very much for their customers
a privacy issue, that they are just uncomfortable with it, that the magnitude of the savings
are insufficient to overcome the privacy concerns. Now that may be a function of that
upper-left customer, I don't know. It's possible.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other interesting phenomena, talking about changing in the business, the insurance
business trades on subsidies. One customer gets charged too much and another gets
charged too little. The closer and closer you get to the exactly right price to the customer,
the more challenging the insurance business is going to be, because you begin to trade
more and more on the variance.
And if you are getting it right the variance in the future from what you had predicted, that
gets more and more narrow, you're going to find the spread of pricing in the risk business
changing. That's another thing that is very much on our mind. 30 years ago you talked
about five classes, today you can talk about hundreds of classes.
So as those numbers become potentially more predictive, the whole dynamic of who
pays what premium and where the subsidy is embedded begins to change, so it's an
interesting phenomena. So we're there talking to the agents, happy to continue to do
more of it, but as of yet no one is clamoring for it in the independent agent world. So that
would be -

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

And aggregators and we probably could poll everyone and have 12 different definitions of
what an aggregator is. But the simple definition that we think of is the comparative rater
technology straight online without any brick-and-mortar support behind that. We see that
in the U.K. it's over 40% market share; obviously growing pretty aggressively. We think
there's some of them in the U.S., we get lots of calls to be on the panel.
We are really not on that pure definition that we just described. There's lots of hybrid
models out there around that. Time will tell if they are going to be adopted or not. If it's
such a great consumer experience, one of the big constraint or hurdles that we see is the
amount of capital that it would take from an advertising point of view to let consumers
know that amongst the sea of web pages, that they are out there. And the investment
Page 51 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

relative to that $6 billion that I put up on my slide, on the ad spend across Personal
Insurance is a big hurdle to get over. So we will figure out if they can get over that hurdle,
but it's something we monitor pretty aggressively.

FINAL

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

The U.K. has a – interesting advantage of the population concentration. You cut it along
the market and you get a disproportionate amount of eyeballs. And so there's an
efficiency of advertising spend in the U.K. that is very difficult to replicate here.
Now that doesn't mean somebody won't overcome it, I can envision a circumstance
where they could. So when I come back to, so what are we doing? We're competing in a
comparative rater environment today. 2.0 is – it's just the only place that isn't is online.
We're spread sheeted 83% of our quotes now compared to pick whatever number you
like of competitors of the moment. So we understand that ease of access, agent use of
access, low-cost, efficiency and quality service are the factors for success.
And whether that comparative rater platform ultimately morphs its way onto the public
web – we won't be disenfranchised from that. We are already very much competing in
that comparative rater environment. So it's already having its impact on us even though
it's not necessarily easy to go online and do it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Josh Clayton Stirling

{BIO 17463087 <GO>}

That's helpful. Just one question on commercial lines. Broadly you guys adopted this data
and analytics-driven way of managing 10 years or 15 years ago. There's always the cycle
that sort of the first leader figures out a bunch of stuff, expands margin, takes share, gets
ahead. Eventually the consultants lead to sort of the same ideas being used across the
industry. As an outsider you see lots of consultants, you see lots of companies talking
about data and analytics. Are you guys still expanding your lead, or are we sort of already
midway through the cycle where you are going to see these sorts of ideas diffused across
the industry?

A - Brian W. MacLean

{BIO 4679150 <GO>}

So I'll take a shot at this. This is Brian MacLean. I think we continue to expand our lead. I
think our efforts here go back 20 years, a little over 20 years now, of trying to change how
we think of data and how we use it in the commercial business. I think what we are doing
today is dramatically different than what we were doing five years ago. And that was
dramatically different than what we were doing five years before that.
And we obviously don't know exactly what is going on within the competition but we get
some insight into that through – we hire people from the competition, just like they hire
our people. And we get feedback on capabilities, we deal with agents and we know what
they think about the information we have about accounts.
We deal with reinsurers and all of that feedback tells us that we continue to lead there.
We are not going to be complacent. I don't believe that, can another company be just as
good? Yes. But I think we are still leading that charge.
Page 52 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

And I think this isn't something where you can do it, you can buy it off-the-shelf,
implement it and you have caught up. I mean there is also a culture of how you manage
your business, how your people execute in the marketplace and I think, I don't know if it's
unique, but I think we've got a pretty robust set of capabilities about how we utilize it.

FINAL

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Examples I can think of just in the last five years, way back when, we started off with,
believe it or not, a branch didn't have a P&L statement, so if you went to Chicago you
didn't know how Chicago was doing. That's where we started. We moved that process
along to the point where not only do we have obviously P&L for Chicago. We've got a P&L
for every underwriter in Chicago.
So you can actually sit and have a conversation with each individual about their book and
their performance and their agents and their results and get very, very granular. When we
embraced this notion of being return focused we realized we actually had to have the
analytics to do it.

Bloomberg Transcript

So step number one was allocating capital down to each individual account, in the
individually underwritten businesses. Now five years ago people would say we have
allocated capital to a business and it was like a big deal that they had finally managed to
do that. We are so far past that now in terms of allocation of capital and analyzing results.
So in the next step now is to we used to look at expected returns in a given area and it
was the portfolio, the whole book, new and renewal. So several years ago, we saw that's
not enough information. So we can now tell you what expected returns are on a renewal
book and what expected returns are in the new business for let's say worker's
compensation in Chicago.
The challenge for us in this will become when the data begins to lose its significance,
when we get so granular that you are talking about something that doesn't have
insurance validity to it. But we are still going. We are very much on the march of still
understanding how to outselect and that's – I used that word so much today, it's so
important. We take it for granted that you will think that way. Outselecting is where the
real business is and having the data and the insight and corporate culture to make those
outselection choices is a big deal.

Q - William Wilt

{BIO 5683199 <GO>}

Good morning. Bill Wilt from Assured Research. Commercial auto has become a
problematic line of insurance for a lot of carriers. You all have a big position in the
business. So I would be interested in your perspective on commercial auto, where it is
today and its challenges going forward. Thank you.

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

So, you're right. It has been a challenging line. You can read anybody's filings on that front.
I think we've talked about, and I'll tell you it continues through April and May that's auto is

Page 53 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

the line that is getting the largest rate increases, commercial auto, that we're seeing
across our business.
So we think that is needed and we will continue to work it. But as Jay said, it is also about
honing our selection capabilities. And similarly to how Jay positioned the comp discussion,
auto is different business by business. In much of our business, commercial accounts,
middle market, we are an account underwriter. And we write very little monoline business
there. And so we'll have the entire account and auto will be a piece of that and we focus
very much on account profitability. That is not to say that we love products within that
account that are losing money dramatically, so we're working the auto profitability and
issues one way in the middle market.
Marc could talk about small commercial where historically the auto has been more of a
monoline purchased product. And the things that Marc been doing there and he could talk
about the underwriting actions. And we've got Northland and some trucking and fleet
business where we've got other strategies that are really focused on a lot of underwriting
activity that we have been going through and implementing some of the medical stuff
that Vinny has talked about. So it's a different story in each business but a line that has
gotten a lot of attention.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

I would add two things. First is that, and you are exactly right, that we are an account
underwriter and it is not infrequent. And now I am speaking about individually underwritten
accounts, where the auto line, the auto policy is sort of the last one dealt with. It's from
the dollar perspective, it's not the lead. So you go through comp and you go through
property and you go through general liability. And then you know sort of lastly auto goes.
And so it's not that it's the least underwritten but it's probably, from a cultural perspective,
the last one in an account arena to be focused on. So it will always suffer from that, I
suspect.
Two, it's interesting the remarkable improvement in underwriting insight that we have
done in personal auto have been slow to be adopted in the commercial side even in
Select. And we are going to do more of that. We are going to take what Greg has
learned, including going back to the insured's financial score, and bringing that over into
the commercial space. We are not nearly, the industry is not nearly, and that's an
important point, the industry is not nearly as good an underwriter in commercial space as
it is in the personal space. And that's a gap that is just more of a challenge to overcome.

A - Brian W. MacLean

{BIO 4679150 <GO>}

I don't think it is unfair to say, and Bill you can – invest in the middle market it probably is
from an industry perspective the least underwritten line historically. And I think we and
others are becoming more sophisticated and more intelligent and I think all of that will be
helpful.

A - Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

Page 54 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

I think it's small. It's 12% of the book of business, so to Jay's point it is that third line, clearly
where we right commercial auto with the rest of the lines in particular the BOP. There is a
direct relationship between profitability and correlation, between two lines and improved
retention. That really is our sweet spot. We have certainly in the last three years going off
and looked at other things like more monoline auto and the Express where you've got
one or two vehicles. And there are other competitors in that space, you'd probably do
more leveraging off of a platform similar to Greg's.
So we've got some pretty critical learnings. Brian has mentioned that before, but we've
got some of that. I would say just not at the level we needed to in terms of that monoline
book of business. Again, pretty small portion of our overall auto. But I think to Jay's point,
we're going to be leveraging a lot more of what Greg does with credit, et cetera, and
going into that market in the future. And again we feel really good about our target
business associated with the rest of the account.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Meyer Shields, KBW. I want to go back to the personal auto space if I can. One specific
question, Jay, in the middle of last year you talked about roughly 10% rate decreases
overall. Obviously much more granular and much more varied by policy. Is that number still
good? How are your competitors responding to Quantum 2.0?
And secondly maybe more broadly, playing off Brian's last comment that the market is
smarter, if I can say that in commercial lines, how confident are you given that you've got a
couple of huge, really smart personal auto companies that you can develop a competitive
advantage there comparable to what you have in small commercial, or commercial
overall?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

You want to start?

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. We're certainly not seeing renewal premium changes at those levels right now.
They are closer in to, for the first quarter, six and change level.
In terms of our competition...

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Can we go back to that. There's such an important point there. So there's two elements,
the 10% that we talked about was an average price decline. We gave you that scatter
diagram that showed there were lots of premiums that were going to be higher, there
were lots that were going to be lower. The interesting phenomenon is what is happening,
at least so far, it's still a bit of early days, what's happening to average premium, right?

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Page 55 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

On Quantum 2.0?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Yeah.

FINAL

[Indiscernible, cross-talk]

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

On the slide we showed a range of 0 to 6. So obviously when we talked about expense
reductions in the lower base rate generally on Quantum 2.0 relative to Quantum 1.0, yes,
how do you get a plus 6 in average premium? And really that's where we have become
more competitive across our entire target market. Where our mix of business was so
heavily weighted in, call it the super preferred market, now we've got a weight of
business all the way down to the upper half of the standard business. So that comes with
obviously...

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Our average premium is higher. In other words...

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Correct.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

...the listed price, if you want to call it that, has come down from where it was but we
weren't selling any of it the other way.

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Right.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Now all of a sudden we've lowered it some and we are selling a fair amount of it and so
that pushes the balance of average premium actually up. It's – it's sort of what we hoped
for, but weren't sure.

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

Yep. In terms of what our competition is doing, I think it's a story across distribution
outlets. I think you look at the direct players, they've got a combined ratio that is much
more attractive than the captive and the independent industry agency players.
And so it really does vary across where we spend the thrust of our time is the
comparative rater environment. And again, I talked to you a little bit about the basket of
companies that we monitor pretty aggressively and we see combined ratios that look like,

Page 56 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

if that was our data we would be much more disciplined in our rate pursuit. Obviously, we
don't manage those numbers and time will tell in terms of how they react to that.

FINAL

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

In response to the question about competitive positioning, we're – we aspire to be what
we aspire to be, which is the leading account writer for the independent agents with
whom we engage. And we don't- we don't aspire nor could we succeed in becoming as
big as the biggest agent companies or direct companies in the auto business. We are –
it's just – it's not – the market isn't there. The business through independent agents just
isn't there. Progressive is the largest company through the independent agents in auto.
On a national basis, we are second. And I think Safeco is probably third or maybe...

A - Gregory C. Toczydlowski

{BIO 16615940 <GO>}

For all product lines, yes.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And that's where we're going to compete. So our goal is that upper left hand quadrant
through independent agents we can be the leading whole account writer.
Now to the extent that the buying pattern changes and again, to the extent that upper
left hand quadrant begins to change the way it does business, we're going to have to be
there. It's an absolute must and we are going to be. But we'll see if they raise their hand
enough. And it has been interesting, I haven't done the data in a while, but I used to look
back all the time at where our new business in personal lines comes from, which
companies.
And what was interesting is, to some extent, I and lots of you have the perspective that
we get it from other independent agent companies. That's just not the case. Most of our
new business, when I last looked at it, came from either direct companies or captive
companies that were moving into the world of the independent agent and they wanted
that advice and choice.
So it's not the same across the whole spectrum of buyers. They seek different levels of
advice in perspective. And you get the second home, you get the third car, you get the
elements where these things begin to become significant. At least so far people have not
been willing to say, I'll take on that responsibility myself in enough numbers to build a
scalable business. Is that fair?

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Brian R. Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yes. Brian Meredith, UBS Securities. This is for Marc. I am just curious, Marc, could you talk
about the potential for direct-to-consumer on the small commercial line side? Or is that

Page 57 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

just a non-starter for Travelers given your agency and your distributions?

A - Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

FINAL

Do you want to kick it off then I'll talk about the transaction?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Yeah. So first, and we occasionally get the question too, is it possible that comparative
rating technology could emerge and select, both variations of the same questions. So
there have been any number of attempts for people to do that.
The challenge has been that the products themselves are not nearly as comparable, the
terms and conditions and coverages between one commercial carrier to another to make
those comparisons easy to do. And the product is a little more complicated. You add
worker's compensation; you add things to it that, at least so far, has complicated that
decision. So we've come to the conclusion that we don't think so, but it doesn't mean it
can't happen.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we – our platform is we would be ready to go. If, in fact, it became apparent that small
commercial buyers wanted to buy the product directly, or we had to compete in a
comparative rating environment, our cost structure with respect to the latter question will
get us there and the technology platform that Marc has built is movable. There is nothing
that would keep that from being – we didn't have that in personal auto. We were way
behind in that process. I'm not talking about the technology uniquely on the screens, but
all of it, the service, the infrastructure, the claims, everything, we didn't have it.
So, we're ready to go. We are – I'd say that we're not going to lead in that regard. If need
be we'll be a quick follower, but I think it's a challenging business in the following sense.
I'm not being defensive about it because we think about it all the time. It's not just the
customer and the price; there is a whole agent dynamic to it. If your business isn't
successful at the agent's office you're not going to get it. It has to be quick. I mean, again,
you've got a $3,000 account, a $450 commission and a high service burden. You get
requests for certificates, new employees, new drivers, the amount of paperwork and
transaction flow that sits behind these small commercial accounts is disproportionate to
the premium that's generated by it.
And so, the ability to serve the agent efficiently and productively so that they can actually
make money on the business is critical for success. It's not just the price of the agent and
the customer; it's putting the agent in a position to be profitable. Now, can that happen
outside of an agent's office? Maybe, but the hurdles are not insignificant. They are not,
they are not insignificant. Someone would have to come along and be able to handle that
service capacity directly. And we could do that, but it's a big deal to do, a really big deal to
do, different for sure than the requirements behind service in personal auto, by a lot.

Q - Brian R. Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great. And Brian, just want to...

Page 58 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

A - Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

I want to weigh in on it too, I mean, so part of the presentation I had was geared toward
answering a little bit of the question is, I think we've put ourselves in a position the
technology is one aspect, for sure, but how do we handle the front end of that transaction
from selling through to servicing Jay mentioned? So we're staying close to the customer. I
think the difference you have to think about with personal lines and the small business is
think of those segments. You've got contractors, you've got professional offices. And so,
even the proclivity from one end of that spectrum which it could go first, you think that
spreads across all these industry segments.
So I think our ability to stay close to that whole grouping of customers which we have
keep will keep us right in the door in terms of those changing behaviors. And it would be,
as you say Jay, it would be the customer, that end consumer that makes that change,
because otherwise right now our data tells us that they really want the trusted advisor, the
agent in the box on it.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, the other piece, it's interesting too. You go back 10, 15 years there was a big effort
back then to market small commercial cross-selling to banks. You can go back to – and we
were one of them to try to sell it, to try and leverage the banking relationship into a
direct-to-business sale. None of them were successful, none of them were successful.
And you can speculate as to why that is. We think that the customer wanted advice. We
think the customer wanted choice. They just didn't work and the biggest competitors in
that small space, all of us tried it and spent a fair amount of money at it without success.

A - Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

Jay, one more point, too. I'm sorry, Brian, I think it's important. The world of comparative
raters for Greg, that's critical, and we see what's happening in personal lines. The same
players that have done that in the comparative rating space and personal lines have not
got traction, are not even going into it, Brian. What is going on, and we are helping in this
venue, is that the agent needs help transferring data from their agency management
platform, customer data into the various proprietary systems.
They don't want to do the keystrokes. That's where they really lose time, money and
efficiency and we are working on solutions. And I think as we work as an industry on the
commercial side towards that, that takes less pressure and allows the complexity to run
through the product. So it's a different way to put the same issue for them, efficiency and
speed but it is taking that data from where they can have it and not have it and keystroke
it into our Express platform.

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

Thank you. Ian Gutterman, Balyasny. Jay, I'm curious how you think about the period of
change we are going through in the insurance industry. Recent conversations with CEOs
with several of your competitors, they said this is the greatest period of change they've
seen in their careers. And admittedly that is more reinsurance, Lloyds-type focus for now
and your position would seem to be more defensible. I guess I'm curious in two regards.
Page 59 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

One is sort of near term. Are there opportunities or threats that you see from that? Right
now that the simplest one might be buying cheaper reinsurance but maybe there are
things beyond that.
And sort of in the mid to long term, how are you preparing for a different future where
arguably maybe five or 10 years down the road you are originating auto, you are
originating BOP to secure types of capital markets, or Worker's Comp becomes so
predictable that hedge funds are happy taking it for the float and it gets underwritten 10
points, to a 10 point higher loss ratio today and you can't compete with the center
balance sheet. So that's obviously a very big broad question, I am just curious how you are
thinking about it?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

We certainly have a lot of moving parts going on in the industry. I'm not sure it's uniquely
this time. 20 years ago I spent, when I was in the banking business, we would spend hours
20 years ago talking about CAT risk and securitization CAT risk. It just took 20 years to
actually make it happen. I do think that I do take comfort, and I hope not recklessly, we
take comfort that the barriers to entry in the primary business are significant.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thousands of claim people sifting infrastructure, the ability to get a policy out the door, all
of the things that connect to local agents, local offices, local people. We are 30,000
people predominantly in the U.S. The barriers to entry to competing in Topeka for middlemarket business are not insignificant. And I think we take comfort in that. But still we
continue to develop competitive advantages that we think will enhance that, not weaken
it.
I do think that you're going to see – I think there's two phenomena going on. And I'm no
futurist, so I could be dead wrong on all this. There's obviously new sources of capital
coming into the reinsurance space at least so far predominantly in the property side. And
that's interesting. It will be, I think, much more game changing in the reinsurance sector if
they really do embrace the casualty business and the long-term view that you have to
have to be in that business successfully.
The property dynamic, people are sort of dipping their toe in, we'll see how it works, they
will have a bad year, a good year, who knows? But casualty, you're talking about a longterm reinsurance relationship with a cedent and that's going to take a whole different
explanation. It's not just are you here today, but are you going to be here five years from
now because it matters.
And where does the creditworthiness come from and how do you view your own – how
do you view that new entrant's risk profile? So I think one of the key things to watch here
is going to be to the extent new capital that tries to get into the casualty the space and
are they successful. If they are, I think it could change the reinsurance arena potentially
permanently, it really could.
Now, how that affects the primary business, so they are going to be for us now on the
fringe because of what we do. So we are already seeing the change in the layered
Page 60 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

national property business. It has become more price competitive but that is because the
barriers to entry there are low. You can take 25 debts of 7.5, trade off somebody else's –
trade off somebody else's underwriting and just be in the business.
I am thankful though, in hindsight that represents about a little less than 5% of our total
premium in our business. So if that becomes problematic, so be it. It will become
problematic. It's possible that you could see entry, it hasn't happened yet, but you could
see it in the professional liability spaces, again, the layered programs. I'll take – ultimately
the value in this is going to get your question greater opportunity, we are not going to go
into the reinsurance business. We're not going to do that. Nor are we going to change our
underwriting profile in any serious way because of the moment there is some reinsurance
capacity.
To try and arbitrage that implies that the risk, the asset and the liability may match and
they never do. We get in the business with agents and if we want to change that risk
profile, it's painful. So we go in on the asset side it's with a long-term mentality to the
extent the reinsurer on the right side is only on it for a potentially short-term because they
don't like it, and we get stuck in a mismatch. And that is a very uncomfortable place to be.
Actually I'm reading it from the patient side, right...

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

Sure.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

It's all liability, it's their asset, you understand?

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

So we're not going to go out and try and find spaces to engage in and try and arbitrage it.
The interesting thing is, and it gets to your last question, is I don't think there's a better
underwriter – it's an opinion, everybody can disagree – I don't think there's a better
underwriter in the business than Travelers. The ability to evaluate risk and price it and
understand it, to the extent we want to put that underwriting skill to work, not capital now,
that underwriting skill to work, behind someone else's capital in some way, that's a
fascinating discussion to have.
Now you can get into the concept of renting the talent and what is that really worth but
there is no one that does it any better than us, in my opinion. And that has real value to it.
And so we are at least thinking about that, not ready to do anything or undertake any new
strategies or anything else, but trying to stay aware enough of what is going on to
evaluate our own competitive advantages and see if we can put them to work in some
positive way. Not as a risk taker, not as a capital underwriter in the business.

Page 61 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

FINAL

I know you said you are not a futurist but you obviously worked at a bank that went
through a similar – a banking industry that went through a similar transformation of taking
the risk off their balance sheet and handing it off to someone else. Do you think the
insurance industry ends up there some day? Or because it's a liability where you're
selling, not an asset, it is much harder?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Yeah, I – in a world where – so, my guess would be, the only thing I can think of that would
push us there would be a change in the regulatory evaluation of capital.

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

Got it.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Right? So the capital tied up in the business had a different cost associated with it than it
does today. We are not capital constrained at all. Quite the contrary, we've been returning
capital like crazy.

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

And the only thing that might change the way we think about how to deploy that capital
would be if the regulatory environment changed and dramatically changed the amount of
capital that had to be held. And that's – you could say that's a possibility, I think unlikely,
but a possibility.
So I'm not contemplating it yet but right now the industry has so much competition, all at
attractive returns, I can't imagine why someone would choose – you can roll up the book
of liabilities now. You can go to National Indemnity, Jude, I will give you a little commercial,
you can go to National Indemnity and you can have a discussion about laying off a book of
liabilities. The cost of that, the question is does the cost of that, there's either a cost of
keeping it change in the future or does the cost of laying it off change, but right now I
don't see it.

Q - Ian J. Gutterman

{BIO 18249218 <GO>}

All right. Thank you.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

We will take one more question.

Q - Vinay Misquith

{BIO 6989856 <GO>}
Page 62 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

Sure, thanks. Vinay Misquith from Evercore. Travelers has done a great job of raising rates
over the past few years and yet you've lost a little bit of PIF but the overall profitability has
improved dramatically. The view was that as pricing moderates the retention should
increase. We haven't yet seen that, so two questions for that. Number one is why haven't
we seen a meaningful improvement in PIF as pricing moderates? Is the competitive
environment worse now than it was before?
And two is, would Travelers be willing to keep pricing slightly higher maybe 2% or 3%
since small commercial is less sensitive to rate increases than other large commercial
businesses. Would you be willing to keep rates slightly higher so that your margins are
maintained?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

So first, in some of our lines of business retention has improved. And you say that hasn't
been meaningful improvement, one of the challenges is that it really never went down.
We started off in the low to mid-80s, which from a historical perspective – I was in
business in the 1990s where retention in the middle market were in the high 60s. Not too
many people living were old enough to remember that, but that's where they were.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the fact that they started at 83% or 84% and went down to 79%, we never thought
that went down. We were actually surprised, candidly, we were surprised that there wasn't
more churn in the marketplace. And in some of our businesses 79 has become 80 or 81,
but on a historical basis they are still, retentions are still at exceptionally high levels.
Now, just to answer your question, that is not unique for us. Most good carriers have
experienced the same phenomena of very high levels historically of retention. As a
consequence, the new business flow in the marketplace is simply not significant.
There is no new, new business. Our new is someone else's nonrenewal. And so the only
way you're going to see a significant increase in the amount of PIF count is if the amount
of new business flow changes and changes the opportunities, the quotes, the business in
the marketplace changes. And as long as there are very high levels of retention, I wouldn't
contemplate that there would be a strategy that one could employ other than the kind of
competitive advantages I'm speaking about today to outselect that will over time produce
increases in PIF count. It's not by charging 2% or 3% less, or by trying to charge 2% or 3%
more. I am aware in Select, and you can look at our numbers, I don't think in Select the
RPC ever went negative.

A - Marc E. Schmittlein

{BIO 16615938 <GO>}

We looked at it.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

If it did it barely – it never did.

Page 63 of 64



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2014-06-06

FINAL

So you are right, it is less sensitive to it and we have been engaging in thoughtful market
pricing all along. If we hadn't been, the retention would not have been where it is. So
yeah, I'm not sure how exactly how to answer the question, but I think we understand the
price sensitivity in the various markets in which we operate and do our best subject to the
competitive environment to optimize them.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Okay, well thank you all very much for coming today. I'd like to thank our presenters as
well as the corporate event staff who did a beautiful job with this event as well as my
colleague, Andrew Hersom from Investor Relations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you again for attending and we actually will have an informal lunch with
management available for you to speak with. Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 64 of 64

