Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

German Egloﬀ, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Martin Strobel, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Martin Wenk, Head of Asset Management

Other Participants
Daniel Bischof, Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Marc A. Thiele, Analyst
Michael I. Huttner, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
William H. Elderkin, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning or good afternoon depending where you're
attending from. Welcome to the Bâloise Group Half-Year Results 2014 Analysts
Conference Call. I'm Celina, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all
participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the
presentation, there will be a Q&A session. The conference must not be recorded for
publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Martin Strobel, Group CEO. Please go
ahead, sir.

Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our Analyst Conference.
German Egloﬀ and I'll be presenting our half-year results to you. So to start, together with
Martin Wenk, our Head of Asset Management, we'll be happy to answer your questions at
the end of the presentation. In our presentation, we will deliberately focus on only the key
facts. This will allow more time for an extensive question-and-answer session afterwards.
That was the introduction. I would now like to go on to slide number three. I will start by
presenting the highlights of our half-year results for 2014. German Egloﬀ will then explain
the key ﬁnancials. Following on from what he says, I will talk about our operating
Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

performance from a market perspective. To ﬁnish, I will be telling you about where we
stand with the implementation of our strategy and about the outlook for the future.

FINAL

Let's start with the key results for the ﬁrst six months of the year, as shown on slide
number ﬁve. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to report that Bâloise has posted a
strong set of results for the ﬁrst six months of 2014. Our proﬁts went up by around 43% to
reach CHF 350 million.
Our growth in target segments was stronger than before. The volume of business rose by
6.9%. The non-life sector once again proved to be a pillar of Bâloise success. Thanks to
our strategy of continually improving our portfolio, we achieved an outstanding
combined ratio of 93.2% net. This high margin in our non-life business ensures reliable
substantial cash ﬂows.
In changing ﬁnancial markets, we've recorded investment income at an encouraging and
stable level, demonstrating the strength and quality of our asset management. We
achieved an investment yield of 2%. We took advantage of our strong balance sheet to
further increase our exposure to equities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our life business, EBIT increased by around 151%. This leap in proﬁts was driven by an
improved product mix and strong gains on investments. Our hedging instruments
protected us particularly well against falling interest rates.
We are strongly capitalized. Our equity now stands at around CHF 5.3 billion. Our
solvency ratio is an impressive 316%. Our operational strength and robust capitalization
are also reﬂected in the improved rating of A with stable outlook from Standard & Poor's.
With these ﬁgures and results, we are ﬁrmly on track to deliver our ﬁnancial targets for
2014.
That was a brief overview. I will now hand over to German Egloﬀ who will explain the key
ﬁnancial aspects of the half-year results.

German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Thank you, Martin. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning from my side as well. I'd now
like to give you a review of our operating performance in the ﬁrst six months of 2014
starting with the summary shown on slide seven. But before I begin, I'd just like to point
out two things. First, the already announced sale of our Austrian subsidiary is not included
in our ﬁnancial results for the ﬁrst half of this year. As things stand, we expect this disposal
to generate a one-oﬀ proﬁt of around CHF 70 million on the IFRS when the deal is closed
in the second half of the year.
And second, our ﬁrst half ﬁnancial results were also unaﬀected by the partial sale of our
shareholding in (00:04:42). This transaction is also expected to deliver extraordinary
proﬁts in the second half of the year. We have already sold more than 6% of our total 10%
shareholding in the open market and we have not ruled out the option of oﬀering the
remaining shares for sale.
Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

As you can see from our key ﬁgures on slide seven, we achieved outstanding results in the
ﬁrst six months of 2014. Our proﬁt for the period jumped by roughly 43%. Growth in
income from life insurance business was highly encouraging, which is particularly
remarkable when you consider that the interest rates have remained stubbornly low. The
non-life insurance division once again demonstrated its operational strength by achieving
a net combined ratio of 93.2%. We continued to grow highly successfully in our target
segments, expanding our total volume of business by around 7%.
Our equity grew by a further 8% also from its already high level at the beginning of this
year. Our strong capitalization was also illustrated by our Solvency I ratio of 316%, which
was high compared with other European institutions.
I would now like to take a detailed look at the individual operating segments, starting with
our non-life insurance business on slide eight. We achieved an excellent technical result in
non-life insurance. The rigorous discipline that we applied to our pricing and underwriting
enabled us to further enhance our operational proﬁtability.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our highly lucrative target segments such as our Swiss motor insurance business
generated very impressive growth. The modest overall decline in premium income was
attributable to portfolio restructuring measures. We decided to forego some premium
income in sectors that yielded unsatisfactory proﬁt margins, the guiding principle here
being proﬁt before growth.
The optimization of our German property insurance portfolio, namely our decision to exit
the motor ﬂeet business and to focus on attractive niche market segments, also had an
adverse impact on our business volumes during the reporting period. However, these
measures will improve our business mix and enhance the proﬁtability of our portfolio.
In the ﬁrst half of last year, we had realized a fairly large amount of gains on investments in
our non-life business. In the ﬁrst six month of this year, we were very restrained in this
respect, which is why our earnings before interest and tax in this segment fell by 14% yearon-year despite our stronger operating performance.
Later on, I will take a close look at the gains or losses on the investments in our non-life
business. First of all, however, I would like to say something about our insurance claims
and costs.
Slide nine shows the change in our net combined ratio. The year-on-year improvement of
1.3 percentage points in this ratio demonstrates how we have strengthened our
operational proﬁtability. The combined ratio of 93.2% lies at the preferred end of our
target range of 93% to 96%.
We are especially proud of the fact that the substantial improvement in our combined
ratio during the ﬁrst half of 2014 extend largely from the aforementioned further
enhancement of the quality of our portfolio. The cost of basic claims fell sharply.

Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

On the other hand, the costs of large claims declined only marginally year-on-year to
approximately CHF 47 million. Prior-year claims development was, as usual, favorable. At
0.7 points, however, it was below the historical long-term average, which is around 2
percentage points to 3 percentage points on an annualized basis. Adjusted to include the
costs of large claims and the proﬁts on claims reserves, the underlying claims ratio
improved by 4.5 percentage points to 58.8%. And this ﬁgure underscores the excellent
proﬁtability of our non-life insurance portfolio.
The expense ratio rose by over 2 percentage points owing to the aforementioned
restructuring of our non-life portfolio. The reinstatement premiums paid to reinsurers are
also a relevant factor here. Overall, however, our costs fell as a result of our eﬃciency
device (00:10:17).

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now take a closer look at the changes in the gross combined ratios of the individual
countries shown on slide 10. Whereas the ﬁrst half of last year was primarily aﬀected by
major storms in Switzerland and Germany, hailstorm Ela was the only signiﬁcant natural
disaster that we registered in the ﬁrst six-month of 2014. This event added 2.8 percentage
points to the Bâloise Group's gross combined ratio.
Our business in Switzerland improved its gross combined ratio further from 86.7% to an
outstanding 83.3%, thanks to the generally benign claims environment and the absence
of any signiﬁcant large claims. The gross combined ratio in Germany fell by 1 percentage
point year-on-year to 103.3%. Although the level of storm-related claims was lower than in
the corresponding period of 2013, a few large claims in our Germany industrial business
increased the cost of claims incurred. The expense ratio rose by more than 2 percentage
points, owing to the reduction in our premium base resulting from the ongoing
restructuring and optimization of our portfolio.
Belgium's gross combined ratio of more than 101% was badly hit by the aforementioned
hailstorm Ela. This natural disaster added 8.2 percentage points to our combined ratio in
Belgium. By contrast, our costs exhibited an encouraging trend, as shown in the 0.9%
decline in our expense ratio. Like our Swiss business, Luxembourg has also beneﬁted
from a benign claims environment and it excelled with a gross combined ratio of 81.6%.
Let's move on to the life business on slide 11. The life insurance business, which made a
valuable contribution to the strong growth in the Bâloise Group's business volumes and
to the sharp rise in its proﬁts in the ﬁrst half of 2014. The total volume of the business
increased by more than 12% to over CHF 3.5 billion. This growth was broadly diversiﬁed.
We observed consistently robust demand at all national subsidiaries except for Germany.
Our group life business in Switzerland achieved especially strong growth. Volumes in socalled modern product also grew signiﬁcantly in the ﬁrst six months 2014.
Earnings before interest and tax in our life insurance segment came to CHF 249 million,
which constituted a substantial year-on-year increase of more than 150%. Given the
prevailing low level of interest rates, this may seem surprising at the ﬁrst glance. I would
therefore like to brieﬂy explain the key drivers behind this result.

Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

Firstly, our operating income grew signiﬁcantly. The constant optimization of our business
mix in recent years, which has seen a gradual shift from traditional life insurance products
to more modern ones, is paying oﬀ and enhanced our operational proﬁtability in the ﬁrst
half of 2014. And secondly, our life insurance business beneﬁted from what for us was a
benign interest rate environment in the ﬁrst six months of this year. Because interest rates
fell, the value of our interest rate hedging instruments rose sharply, which in turn
increased the gains on our investments.
On the other hand, the burden on the liability side of our balance sheet was less
pronounced. The reason behind this trend is that we monitor our life insurance policies
very closely in line with market conditions and have already strengthened our reserve
substantially because of the historical low interest rates in recent years. The net result of
these interest rate eﬀects was a pre-tax proﬁt of roughly CHF 30 million for the ﬁrst half of
2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 12 shows a structural breakdown of our investments. The robust growth in our
insurance business made itself felt here as well. The value of our insurance investments
under management rose from CHF 54 billion to just under CHF 56 billion, owing to the
higher fair values and the growth in business volumes. Our investment mix remained
largely unchanged. More than half of the portfolio is invested in ﬁxed income securities.
We attach considerable importance to the quality and ﬂexibility of these assets. Some
90% of these bonds have credit ratings of single A or higher.
We invest mainly in government securities issued by countries in which we operate. We
also invest in high-quality corporate bonds. Our investments in longer maturities coupled
with falling interest rates helped to lengthen the duration of the portfolio. Consequently,
the duration gap narrowed further.
The strength of our balance sheet enabled us to increase our life insurance investments in
equities and equity-related ﬁnancial assets. Our total equity exposure rose by 0.8
percentage points compared with the start of 2014. We only purchased high-quality
shares, which is a strategy that has helped to keep our regular income highly consistent.
This takes us straight to our next slide.
Slide 13 shows how the recurring income from investments was kept virtually constant
despite the fact that the interest rate on new investments remained well below the
average of our portfolio of ﬁxed income securities. In recent years, we have constructed a
substantial portfolio of swaps and swaptions in order to mitigate the yield compression
currently aﬀecting ﬁxed income securities.
The main purpose of these instruments is to hedge against falling interest rates. These
hedging instruments help us in our eﬀorts to continue earning an adequate regular
investment yield. We can thus ensure that we are able to honor our life insurance
guarantees in future and can earn a suﬃciently wide margin in the savings results of this
business.

Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

The gains and losses realized in our non-life insurance business declined year-on-year and
were below the historical long-term average. Gains realized on interest rate and currency
derivatives and recognized in proﬁt or loss led to a signiﬁcant year-on-year rise in capital
gains in our life insurance segment, which is reﬂected in the increase in the other line
item. This category also includes valuation gains on real estate. We earned net investment
return of 1.5% in our non-life business and 2.1% in life insurance.
I would now like to take a look at the changes in our equity shown on slide 14. The
excellent level of proﬁt for the period more than compensated for the dividends paid in
the spring of 2014. Unrealized gains on ﬁxed income securities recognized in equity also
increased owing to the full in interest rates. Total equity grew by almost 8% compared
with year-end 2013 to CHF 5.3 billion, emphasizing the fact that Bâloise was well
capitalized. Accordingly, the book value per share rose by more than 8% to around CHF
112 million.
I've given you a summary of our excellent set of key ﬁgures for the ﬁrst half of this year. I
would now like to hand you back to Martin Strobel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Many thanks, German. I would now like to talk about our business from a market
perspective. Let's start by looking at our growth, which is shown on slide 16. Measured in
Swiss francs, our business volume expanded by an impressive 6.9% in the ﬁrst half of this
year. This growth has two sources; the traditional life insurance business and modern unitlinked life insurance. In our non-life business, we are growing above the market average
in our target segments. However, we are also forging ahead with essential restructuring
measures. These two factors are together causing growth in non-life premiums to
stagnate, while at the same time improving the quality of our portfolio.
Traditional life insurance was up by 6.1%. The main driver of this growth was our domestic
business. In our group life business in Switzerland, we won new target customers, which
had a noticeable eﬀect on the growth ﬁgures. The unit-linked life insurance business
performed very well, growing by 35.3%. In Luxembourg, Switzerland and Belgium, we
succeeded in meeting growing customer demand with our modern range of products.
Let's now look at the country-speciﬁc breakdown. In Switzerland, our domestic market, we
achieved signiﬁcant growth of 6.5%. This encouraging result comes from the traditional
life insurance business and investment-linked life insurance. Growth was particularly
remarkable in our group life business, which went up by a considerable amount.
The volume of business in Germany declined, but this was partly due to the restructuring
measures in the non-life business and partly due to the poor climate overall for life
insurance in Germany, not least because of low interest rates.
Income growth from Belgium was encouraging. The volume of business rose by 13.5%.
Our non-life business increased by 103%, while volumes in our modern equity-linked life
insurance business almost doubled, growing by 83%.
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

Growth from our Luxembourg business was strong at 32.5%. This was partly due to the
acquisition of Vivium in Luxembourg. However, there was also organic growth in non-life,
in traditional life insurance and in unit-linked life insurance. That was the Gulf situation.
I'm now going to talk about our earnings, which are described in slide 17. We are proud
that Bâloise EBIT went up by more than 30%. This underlines the proﬁtability of our
operating activities. Every business unit and every operating segment contributed to this
positive result.
EBIT in Switzerland rose sharply by 45% to reach CHF 302 million. This increase was
mainly because of the strong rise in earnings from life business. The non-life business and
Bâloise Bank SoBa also delivered improved earnings.
EBIT declined in Germany. The reason for this is that we incurred further social plan and
restructuring cost, after coming to an agreement with the workers' council in January with
regard to the optimization measures. We are fully on track with optimization measures in
Germany.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Belgium, EBIT rose by 45.4% to reach CHF 95 million. In addition to the excellent
operating performance, this was due in large part to the ﬁnancial income in the life
business. This increase more than made up for the negative impact of the Ela hailstorm.
In Luxembourg, EBIT rose sharply by 82.3%. The acquisition of Vivium had positive
impact, not only because of its contribution to the business but also because of the
beneﬁcial eﬀect of its integration. The acquisition increased our market share to more
than 10%. The operating business also performed strongly, helped by a benign claims
environment in the ﬁrst half of the year.
And now, a divisional breakdown. EBIT declined in the non-life segment. This was
because realized capital gains were lower than in the previous year. The operational
proﬁtability of our non-life business improved again, which can also be seen in the
decrease in the combined ratio.
We made considerable gains in our life business, increasing EBIT by around 151%. This
leap in proﬁts was driven by an improved product mix and strong ﬁnancial income. Our
hedging instruments protected us particularly well against falling interest rates. Our
banking division proved that it is a stable source of income, something that cannot be
taken for granted in these challenging times.
Let's now turn to our Swiss business, which is shown on slide 18. As previously mentioned,
our Swiss business has delivered excellent operational proﬁtability and generated
impressive growth. Non-life. Income from premiums grew at stable rates. We were able to
expand business in the target segments through our target customer management and
our positioning of Bâloise Safety World, while at the same time, we applied a strict
underwriting policy for collective daily sickness allowance insurance and collective
accident insurance, which naturally led to a decline in premiums.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

Our target customer management program has been in eﬀect for a number of years now.
It is now being bolt up by Safety World. This is delivering both growth and high
proﬁtability. Our Swiss business achieved an excellent gross operating revenue with a
combined ratio of 83.3%. Now, the reason for the strong combined ratio was the low
incident of large claims in the ﬁrst half of the year.
EBIT in the Swiss non-life business rose by 5.6% to reach around CHF 110 million. Gross
premiums written rose by an impressive 8.1% in the life business. This strong growth is
mainly attributable to the group life business. We've succeeded in accelerating growth in
the target customer segment, which was reﬂected in signiﬁcant growth in risk premiums.
We also achieved strong growth of around 71% in the unit-linked life insurance business.
With our cutting-edge products, we are becoming increasingly successful at meeting
customer needs and generating solid proﬁt – solid growth, sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

The EBIT of the life business doubled compared to the ﬁrst six months of 2013. This jump
in proﬁts was driven by an improved product mix and strong ﬁnancial income. Our
hedging instruments protected us particularly well against falling interest rates. Low
interest rates, however, remain a challenge that requires us to make continual ongoing
optimizations to our business. The new business margin at 11.9% is within our target range.
This is down on the previous year because interest rates dropped again.
Bâloise Bank SoBa achieved excellent results. Due to growth and lower costs, the
operating proﬁt and net income remained stable and the cost income ratio remained
practically constant. Because of the very high quality of our mortgage holdings, no
impairment losses of any kind were required on this portfolio.
Slide 19 provides a brief overview of our international business. I have already mentioned
that all international business units made a positive contribution to the overall results. In
Germany, we are on track with our optimization measures. We have further accelerated
growth in our target segments, while the rigorous implementation of refocusing and
restructuring measures are leading to new improved product mix but also to a decline in
the volume of business. Operational eﬃciency has been improving according to plan.
An update regarding the HR situation in Germany. Jan De Meulder is recovering well. We
expect him back during the course of this year. Until further notice, (00:28:15) will
continue to serve ably as interim CEO.
Our Belgium business is growing strongly. This is mainly due to the new partnership with
banks through which we are selling our modern unit-linked life insurance. In addition to
growth, our focus remains on the implementation of measures for improving operational
excellence. These are taking eﬀect. The expense ratio is continuing to fall. However, the
combined ratio increased overall because of the severe Ela storm that struck in the ﬁrst
half of 2014.
In Luxembourg, the acquisition of Vivium increased our share of the market to more than
10%. The integration measures are proceeding according to plan. Strong growth and
Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

higher degree of operational excellence led to excellent earnings from our Luxembourg
unit in the ﬁrst half of 2014. With a combined ratio of 81.6% and 82.3% increase in EBIT, we
wouldn't ask for more.
Proﬁtability in Luxembourg also beneﬁted from the positive impact of unit integration and
from the low level of large claims incurred. We are expecting the sale of our Austrian unit,
(00:29:28) Insurance, to be concluded in the very near future. By selling our business in
Austria, we have now concluded our country-speciﬁc refocusing strategy.
On slide 21, I would give you an update on our strategy. We are poised to make Bâloise
even stronger. We are focusing on proﬁtable future-oriented segments. The sale of our
units in Austria, Croatia and Serbia are as much a part of the strategy as the expansion of
our target segments in Germany. Switzerland delivers continuously extraordinary results
with its strong positioning in the highly attractive Swiss market and its clear focus on
operational excellence.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the attractive markets of Belgium and Luxemburg, we are growing our market position
both organically and by making bolt-on acquisitions. But it's not just in terms of our
country mix that we are focusing on attractive segments. For more than 10 years now, we
have been earning our target capital management concept in order to reach out to the
kind of people who value security. We aim to be their trusted partner of choice. We want
them to grow together with us.
This clear focusing strategy perhaps is our measure for achieving operational excellence,
means that we now have one of the most proﬁtable insurance portfolios in Europe. In
order to oﬀer our demanding target customers' added value that is relevant to the needs,
we are putting the focus ﬁrmly on our Safety World. It hones the basis of our positioning
and it is our passion. Making you safer is more than an advertising slogan for us. It is our
promise and embodies the added value that the Bâloise group can provide for its target
customers.
Speciﬁcally, the all – we will integrate the Safety World even more tightly with our
insurance products. These are the reasons why our safety and security components, our
add-on products focused on intelligent prevention are becoming top sellers. Typically,
40% to 50% of new policies or renewed include one of these products, which clearly
shows how attractive they are from the customer perspective.
Their appeals are also undoubtedly enhanced by our pricing, which takes particular
account of how prices are perceived by customers. Thanks to these innovative intelligent
prevention components, we are able to increase the relevant average premiums by
around 6% to 8% by extending the relationship with our customers. This is enabling us to
grow at an above average rate in saturated markets.
And these measures are having an impact. We are growing strongly. Our volume of
business rose by 6.9% in the ﬁrst half of 2014. This growth path of high operating margins
in non-life and life business generates strong cash ﬂows. This is reﬂected in our attractive
and sustainable dividend policy, which we have been practicing for many years. Thanks to
Page 9 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

our focusing strategy around attractive proposition for our customers, for our employees
and for our shareholders.
I will now ﬁnish by taking you through our ﬁnancial targets on slide 22. The present halfyear results demonstrated we are ﬁrmly on track to achieve our ﬁnancial targets. We want
to build on our strong operating earnings power, which will be reﬂected in achieving our
target of a combined ratio of 93% to 96%. In our life insurance business, we are aiming for
a new business margin of over 10%. Our strong operational proﬁtability will translate into
good proﬁts. We are aiming for a ROE of 8% to 12%.
Going forward, the strong and stable level of proﬁtability will continue to facilitate our
practice of paying consistent, attractive dividends. We are conﬁdent of reaching this
ambitious objective, thanks to our clear positioning of the Safety World and our four
strategic levers; growth, non-life earnings power, life earnings power, and eﬃciency.
To ﬁnish, I would like to recap the main points from the presentation. We achieved
outstanding results for the ﬁrst six months of 2014 on the back of a clear positioning,
strong growth and our substantial operating earnings power. Our proﬁtability and
balance sheet are strong, which we continue to facilitate our practice of paying consistent
and attractive dividends. Our excellent results in the ﬁrst half of 2014 and the strength of
our company give us cause to be optimistic about achieving future growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for listening. Now is the chance for you to ask questions.

Q&A
Operator
We would now begin the question-and-answer session. The ﬁrst question comes from Mr.
Peter Eliot from Berenberg Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks very much. I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst one was on the life results.
Well, I wanted to clarify how much of this result you considered as one-oﬀ. I know you
mentioned a CHF 30 million net impact from interest rate falls. I mean, that would seem to
imply sort of underlying EBIT of CHF 220 million or an annual rate of CHF 440 million,
which obviously is sort of signiﬁcantly higher than you've guided to in the quite recent
past.
So, if the run rate is sort of even close to that level in your view, then I'm just wondering
what other than business mix might have caused that change because it seems quite a lot
of just sort of change in business mix. And perhaps you might also just comment on the
regional split because, for me, Belgium in particular was a big surprise.
Second question I wanted to ask actually was on Germany where the underlying loss ratio,
I think you said last year, was 60%, excluding the impact of the ﬂoods being a 9% impact
Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

last year. Just given the price increases we've seen there and given your actions on the
portfolio pruning, I'm guessing, hoping the underlying loss ratio shouldn't be too far away
from that at the moment.
So I was just sort of wondering if you could quantify the impact of those large industrial
claims that you mentioned and the underlying trend there, and perhaps also just how far
we are through the process of portfolio pruning and what we should expect from here in
terms of further premium volume declines.
And then the last thing, sorry, was just on capital management cash ﬂows. I'm just
wondering how these high life earnings might impact your ability to take dividends after
life division, if at all. And I guess on a group level, you've indicated sort of small increases
in the dividend before which, on the current run rate, will sort of put you still within your
target payout ratio range but towards the bottom of that range. So I'm just wondering
maybe you could share your thoughts on what might cause you to sort of change your
view there at all and whether small increases versus payout ratio range without in the
event that those become inconsistent with each other. Thanks very much.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much, Mr. Eliot, and I'd like to answer your second question. This is the
underlying earnings for non-life Germany and third one, the – let's say, our capital strategy
in general. And the ﬁrst question, the life results and what's the run rate, I will hand over
you then to German. So I'll start with question two and three and then give we go back to
German Egloﬀ.
Germany, actually we are fully on track with our optimization measures in all businesses.
So this is non-life, life and eﬃciency. In non-life, the basic claims load is down
considerably. So this is all due to the restructuring, for instance, in the housing arena and
the house insurance business, but also in the car ﬂeet business. We see it quite strongly
declining. What we had in the ﬁrst half in Germany was a considerable amount of large
claims related to some individual customers. The good news is, in this regard, is that if you
take these losses, 80% of these losses relate to contracts that we have already terminated
before the claim came up.
So, from my point of view, this demonstrates that we, let's say, selected the right big
customers, here bigger SME or small industrial clients. We walk away from these
customers, as you know, according to our strategy, and the hit rate is quite high. So, 80%
of large claims belong to contracts that we actually terminated before. But we have seen
this in other businesses as well, but especially in the liability arena, you have, let's say, a
certain timeframe where some losses pop up that's related, let's say, to the past.
In general, putting all this together, we are absolutely fully on track to reach a combined
ratio in Germany that ﬁts to the level of the group. The group target is 93% to 96%, and
I'm absolutely conﬁdent that we will reach this quite quickly. So we are really on track to
optimize the non-life portfolio in Germany.

Page 11 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

You also asked, okay, what does this mean for our portfolio pruning, so what about
growth. And we have seen a strong decline in non-life in Germany in the ﬁrst half, and this
will continue, let's say, in the second half. There might be a smaller decline in the ﬁrst half
of next year, but then it should come, let's say, to a stable and – to a stability since on the
other side, we've seen acceleration of growth in our target segments. Target segment, as
you might remember, are, for instance, the technical insurance business for SME, so the
SME business in general where we have a good risk control and pricing power on this
segment. And so, yes, there will be further decline, maybe not as fast as it has been in the
ﬁrst half, and let's say, you should see growth again in the next year.
Eﬃciency-wise, we are also fully on track. What we promise to you is to reach the CHF 40
million cost-cutting eﬀect by 2015, that we are on track to deliver this. And what you see in
the EBIT of Germany, the EBITs declined in the ﬁrst half of this year, and this decline is due
to social plan cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you might remember, we communicated this in – I think, in March that we had an
agreement. And in January and then in March with the workers' council on all our
measures to improve eﬃciency. And this identity to the thing that we had to take into
account fully the social plan and some restructuring costs. And along with the social plan
is €12 million eﬀect on the EBIT. So if you add this €12 million back, you see that EBIT in
Germany increased. And this is due to the, let's say, underlying improvement of the
business.
And so we're on track with the CHF 40 million. We're also on track with the 400 people or
400 FTE we want to reduce by 2017. In half-year this year, 130 FTE has left the company.
By end of this year, it will be 230. So, actually, we are a bit before schedule – we're a bit
ahead of schedule in terms of the reduction of the FTEs. It goes a bit faster than we
expected this to be. So, also the numbers of FTE are declining strongly in Germany as
(00:42:02) actually as planned. So, putting this all together, as you know, we are aiming
for making Germany as proﬁtable as our other subsidiaries in the international markets.
And we are well on track to reach this target.
Now coming to your – sorry, yeah, Mr. Eliot?

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yes. (00:42:21). Thank you.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Now, coming to your third question that was the capital management and dividend
question. What you know and what Bâloise is famous for, we want to be perceived as
really attractive dividend payer. That's absolutely clear. I mean, we have proven so in the
past and we will continue to do so in the future. So there's no reason to believe that
Bâloise won't be attractive also from a dividend perspective going forward.
Now, we've got a very good year. 2014 has two elements. It's from an operational point of
view, it's really good and improving, looking, for instance, at integration in Germany. And
Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

we have these extraordinary eﬀects and we look at the big picture, let's say, and checking
all options. We're checking all options regarding capital management. What this exactly
means then, we will communicate as we do it always at the beginning of next year when
we've seen, okay, how we closed this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Now, Mr. Eliot, I'd like to hand you over to German Egloﬀ, what is the run rate of the life
business.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Yes, well, the calculation you did is certainly adequate, but you have the CHF 30 million
and if you end up with 220 million or something, I would share your opinion that this is
too high, probably. If we see the diﬀerences year-on-year, then we have this interest rate
driven eﬀect. We have operational improvements. However, some of these operational
improvements are one-oﬀs as well. For example, we have cut down (00:44:10) Switzerland
that is for, for example – is an example for that, and there are others things that are just
coming along that one-oﬀ. So I would guess that about half of the operational
improvement is probably recurring.
And the third eﬀect is that realized capital gains have been a bit higher than in average.
And now, it depends, of course, where they're happening due to the tax situation. And
this is your other question about – that you were surprised about Belgium. Now in
Belgium, our realized capital gains that have been driven by risk management thoughts
because our exposure in Belgium government bonds was a bit high. So, therefore, we've
realized bonds there and they are tax-free. And that is the reason that this ended up in the
result – or one of the reasons that it ended up in the result and why the Belgium life result
is that high.
So – and I would say, this has certain one-oﬀ eﬀect as well. So, if you do the calculation
with the CHF 30 million interest rate eﬀect, I would take some more way to have a run
rate, but I guess if you're around CHP 200 million, that's probably a fair estimate, given
the current situation. Is that okay?

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yes, that's great. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Daniel Bischof from Helvea. Please go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Three questions from my side. On non-life, ﬁrstly that 4.5 percentage
point improvement, I mean, the underlying claims ratio. Do you think this improvement is
fully sustainable or was there also a degree of luck in there? And secondly, on PYLD, I
mean, you have now a three-year downward trend of reserve releases. Could you tell us
what were the moving parts in there and maybe also comment on the areas where you
may even had increases? And maybe also going forward, should we still take the longerPage 13 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

term average of 2 percentage points to 3 percentage points as a good reference point for
reserve releases?

FINAL

And then just a quick one, I mean, there was quite some media coverage about better
related losses in July and August. Just to get a sense, whether these were material events
for Bâloise or you consider them as the normal noise?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Mr. Bischof. And I'd like to answer the question one and three on
my own. This is the non-life improvement and the – let's say, the natural disaster claims in
the second half. And to prior year loss development, I'd like to hand you over to German
Egloﬀ.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll start with your question number one. Actually, I'm very happy about the 4.5%
because this demonstrates how we work on the portfolio. And I regard them as pretty
sustainable. Why is this so? One fact comes from Switzerland. Here we do quite a big
restructuring in the group health and the group accident business. And this will also go
on since there the combined ratios do not fulﬁll our target levels. So we will see there
ﬁghting improvement in the loss loads from the Swiss business coming from these two
sources.
We see a strong decline of the basic claims load in Germany. We talked about this that
the colleagues in Germany are really very, very focused on decreasing the claims load,
especially, let's say, the mid-sized normal claims loads. They also focus on large claims, as
we discussed, but also on the, let's say, mid-sized claims load. And we see now the full or.
let's say, we, yeah, we see more of the things ﬁtting through in Belgium.
As you remember, we bought two companies in Belgium and they had – their loss ratios
have been worse than the loss ratios of our operation in Belgium. And now we apply all
this re-underwriting and our techniques target, our management target, customer
management, Safety World, and this has an eﬀect.
So, yes, I regard them as pretty stable. The 4% to 5% – I mean, to be honest, we had a little
lower – large claims load. You might have seen this. It was below 3% in the ﬁrst half. This
was due to no major claims in Switzerland. I mean, the 3% is more or less also the run rate.
So actually, on the group level, we didn't – we had to list a non-loss ratio from the more or
less on – from the large losses and now this improvement in the midsized losses. So we
are on a good track to improve the combined ratio further.
Coming to your third question, losses in July and August, yes, there have been some – it
was quite a high media coverage, especially in Switzerland. I mean, you had the
impression that half of Switzerland is under water if you open the newspaper here. And it
must have been a diﬀerent country actually because our Switzerland, from our point of
view, was not that really aﬀected that heavily by the storms and so on. So, yes, we had
some claims. That's clear, but nothing worth mentioning in this call. German?

Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. About the loss experience in previous years, well, quite often, that is sort of
recognized as if we had a load full of reserves, and the question is just how – why we are
opening the tap (00:50:26) and whether there are still reserves around or not. Of course,
that's not exactly the reality. In fact, we have re-reserving of old claims and we have gains
on old claims.
And I would guess – I mean, this is a half-year result and, as Martin just explained, the
underlying was very good. It could well be that this ﬁgure, this 0.7% is a diﬀerent one at
the end of the year. It will certainly be. We have – I mean, by theory, it should be near
anyway. However, the experience is 2% to 3%, and there is absolutely no indication why
this should change. Because if I just think that we had a couple of re-reserving of old
claims in Germany, so that's one of the reasons why the large claims load in Germany is
that high and that we have coming diﬀerent technical parameters in Switzerland, which
are reserved already as well for the accident portfolio, then I'm quite conﬁdent that the
substance within the portfolio and the reserve record is unchanged. So, therefore, in the
long run, I'm still expecting the 2% to 3%.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Very helpful. Thanks a lot.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Mr. Michael Huttner from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

(00:52:17). Thank you so much. So, three questions, the gain on Nationale, the run rate in
non-life and maybe you can provide some of the elements because you've already
mentioned quite a few. And then the internal (00:52:33) given you've now exited Austria
and sold, maybe you can give an update on that.
On the run rate in non-life, I think it was CHF 193 million EBIT. The gains was a bit low, so
maybe that's annualized – that gets us back to about CHF 210 million, then you had very
low run rate in terms of reserve releases or prior-year development. So maybe that gets us
back to about CHF 235 million. And then we have the German restructuring cost, which
I'm assuming, but maybe you can say this is coming through mainly in non-life. So the
CHF 235 million will then maybe get to about CHF 250 million for half-year run rate. I'm
just wondering, is that roughly the ballpark ﬁgure? Those are my questions. Thank you.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Mr. Huttner. And I would like to answer the ﬁrst two questions. So
this is the, let's say, the gain on Nationale Suisse and then the run rate in non-life, and
then I will hand you over to German Egloﬀ to answer your question on the SST.

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

And gain of Nationale Suisse and actually we're selling two kind of shares, the Nationale
Suisse and Helvetia shares. And we expected to be, let's say, the eﬀect and after
proﬁtability before tax, let's say, between CHF 90 million to CHF 100 million. So we are
proceeding quite nicely in selling these shares and we expect the eﬀect in this magnitude
in the second half.
And then run rate, non-life, as you know, Mr. Huttner, we do not give guidance on
individual segments. And the only guidance we give is on the group level. And – but let's
say, commenting on the factors you said, looking at the non-life business, I mean, we saw
a below average prior-year loss development. And as German Egloﬀ just pointed out, we
expect this to return to normal more or less and we had some under-average realized
gains. So I think the assumption for the realization is a around CHF 50 million a year or
something as in ballpark. I mean, you never know when there's a ballpark. So this gives
you two indicators on how we look at the moment.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

(00:55:16)

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I mean, restructuring – yes, there was restructuring eﬀect in Germany. We also have
integration cost now in Belgium. We will have in the second half in Luxembourg. But I
mean, restructuring in Germany has been social planned and restructuring together have
been, I think, CHF 70 million EBIT. So that will fade out over time, you're right.
And – but I mean, just to move it to the higher level, the guidance we're giving, as you
know very well, is the combined ratio of 93% to 96%. And actually, I'm very conﬁdent that
we will pursue this target. So I think we will also going forward having a very, very good in
non-life business.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

The theme on the combined ratio, if I – it's in 93.2% domain or not that I'm aware of would
be positive. So PYD would be positive. So my guess is you would be now beating it or was
that am I taking the wrong idea here?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

I mean, you don't – you're not angry at the management that beats expectations, do you?

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

It's fantastic. It's nice that it happened. Okay. Thank you.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

I hand you over to German Egloﬀ regarding the SST.

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Well, on the SST side, there's nothing really new or spectacular. It's still in the green on
our side. However, due to the interest rate movement that we have seen in the ﬁrst half,
the SST growth should be a bit lower than it was at the beginning of the year that will be
normal. However – meanwhile, the authorities are ﬁddling around the parameters and the
models as well. So, therefore, I think it was and is still valid that it doesn't make sense to
publish it because we have to publish three new statements per year. That I wouldn't like
to (00:57:26) on your side. So, therefore, nothing spectacular, nothing with EU, still in the
green, but the movement with falling interest rate is that Solvency I is giving up SST or
Solvency II to – should go down. That's how the model is working.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

And the gains on Austria and Nationale, would they oﬀset this interest rate or they will be
peanuts?

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Well, they have been – their SST is based on a market valuation. The participation have
been – so shares have been at market value in the books. And the participation had been
at market value in the book as well. And now if you just think of the ﬁgures, I mean, the
whole liabilities on the life side is about CHF 30 billion. And we are talking – and this is
very sensitive from an interest rate movement. And we are talking of a one-oﬀ gain of CHF
50 million, CHF 60 million from Austria. So that doesn't really change the laws.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Yeah. I understand. That's very helpful. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Marc Thiele from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Marc A. Thiele

{BIO 3503774 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. I have questions related to the life business. The ﬁrst one is,
can you give us a degree of indication of how much of the gains have been utilized on the
statutory accounts for the German life ZZR? Have you already met the full-year
requirement, or have you utilized any of that?
And then the second question is, previously, I think you mentioned potential options
related to the German life business from a strategic standpoint. With the recent change in
the law being less supportive, has your view changed in terms of potential disposal
options?
And then the third question is related to the entire life division on the reported earnings.
Do you think there is a potential increase in the reserve requirements in the second half of
the year, given that we've seen a further decline of interest rates quarter-to-date? And

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

yeah, could you quantify that, or could you actually include a table in your disclosure to
give us a degree of sensitivities?

FINAL

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Thiele, for your question. And I will answer the ﬁrst two, so this is the ZZR,
and for the ones that do not know, the German term is the so-called Zinszusatzreserve, it's
a strengthening measure of the local balance sheet. Second one is, how does the new
legislation in Germany make us look at the life business from a strategic point of view, and
the third one was the sensitivities, if we could provide a table if interest rates go down in
the second half. And to the third one, I would like to hand you over to German Egloﬀ and
maybe also Martin Wenk. The ﬁrst one, I will answer it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so, Zinszusatzreserve, this is a mechanism to strengthen local reserves. It does not
worry us at all, and we comply with all the rules and do the strengthening. And we do this
also, let's say, in a stepwise manner. So there's no – there's nothing, let's say, from an IFRS
point of view, and we just closed the IFRS 2000 (01:01:27) level that will aﬀect this, as we
have a very sound life business in Germany. We are very well reserved. What we feel in
looking at competitors is that we run oﬀ the German life business now for many years
under an SST regime. And maybe some of the competitors in Germany do not yet fully
understand the impact of the Solvency II regime on life business. So we feel that we have
quite an advantage here managing the life business in Germany.
Now, coming to your second question, the option for the life business, actually, as you
know, we have a run-oﬀ book in Germany. This is about CHF 1 billion technical reserves.
And here, as we communicated, we're checking all options. This has not been aﬀected by
neither the interest rate development nor the new laws or something. So we are
constantly in the mood of looking at our business and improving it. So, no news, let's say,
in our thinking, or regarding our thinking in this topic.
Now I hand you over to German Egloﬀ regarding the sensitivities.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Well, a sensitivity table would, of course, be very comfortable for us as well. And in fact,
we are in a situation now where the eﬀects are not linear anymore. We have to be – divide
two things. The ﬁrst thing is the level. Well, we – and for how long does it have an eﬀect?
So I'll give you an example. If interest rates are staying where they are, then at the
moment, nothing happens. Of course, the gains that we had on the derivatives don't
reappear. They are consumed now. That would be the situation.
Now, if it stays where it is for the next 10 years, then you have to technically re-reserve on
the local areas. So that means a loss recognition test in IFRS are hit sooner or later. And
then you have to build reserves as well. But that's not next week. That might happen next
year or the year after.
So therefore, this is one component. So, two dimensions. And the third dimension is
indeed what happened for this half year closing is that if we have seen even lower levels
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

in the past, we are reserved on that level already. But if those levels are hit again, then we
wouldn't see the picture we are seeing now for this half-year closing.
So therefore, it's quite complex. Not only complicated, it's really complex. Depending on
the consolation, diﬀerent things can happen. But we are working on it, and of course, if
we ﬁnd a way to give you more insight in terms of how sensitive the business is reacting
and on what kind of parameters you could build on, we will give that to you. But at the
moment, it's really a hard one.

Q - Marc A. Thiele

{BIO 3503774 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

I think Martin has -

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Martin Wenk

{BIO 4193573 <GO>}

But I think, Mr. Thiele, I think in general, what we can say about the balance sheet
management of Bâloise that we have, let's say, become less sensitive to interest
movements. I mean, if you – especially, let's say, through the downward movements. I
mean, this was one of the criticisms we have been faced, let's say, some 10 years ago. And
I mean, we did a lot. We strengthened reserves considerably, and this is the passion we
have now in the balance sheet, and we bought, I think, Martin, in 2007 until 2011
(01:05:30) they work oﬀ now nicely, and they're especially there to correct us from the tail
risk, and what we see right now is that this tail risk actually is the interest rates falling at
one. So I feel that we have much better protection against falling interest rates than some
years ago.
German, you want to add something?

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

You summarized it perfectly.

Q - Marc A. Thiele

{BIO 3503774 <GO>}

Very helpful. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Farquhar Murray from Autonomous Research. Please go
ahead.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Afternoon gentlemen, obviously where you are. Just three kind of topics from my side.
Firstly, (01:06:13) EBIT, and could you just quantify the gains that you've gained through
from Belgium, the computation of EBIT there? I think it's something of the order of, say,
Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

FINAL

CHF 50 million to CHF 60 million? And then we've kind of indicated that if you look at the
operational improvement around half of that is sustainable, can you just quantify what
operational improvement you are talking towards that and also perhaps explain why it's
kind of partly one-oﬀ?
And then ﬁnally, I think in the end of your comment to the last question, you kind of said
that the run rate would be around about CHF 200 million. Now I think historically, you'd
always said that that was the annual run rate, but I'm just trying to clarify what – I mean, the
kind of semi-annual annual run rate and you just doubled the guidance.
And then just coming back – actually, just going from there to the non-life side, if you're
saying that the underlying loss ratio of 59% is kind of sustainable, prior year should be
about 2% to 3%, and a large loss of, say, probably 3%, and let's say, the spend ratio stays
static or goes down. And frankly, we're clearly heading toward the kind of target
combined ratio of more like 91%, 92%. Are you actually changing the target combined
ratio at this stage? Thanks.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Mr. Murray. And we have – basically, you asked two questions. It is the run rate
for the full year in life, and I will hand you over for this to German Egloﬀ. And I will answer
ﬁrst the question on the combined ratio rate.
So, looking at the results this year, with the combined ratio was for the ﬁrst half year and
then looking, let's say, on the non-life prior-year loss development and capital gains and
so on, capital gains is not going to play a role here, but you would come up with a 91% to
92%, so below the 93%.
And I come back to what I said. And ﬁrst, I mean, we gave – we deﬁned the targets. So, for
instance, the non-life target of 93% to 96% to meet them in most years. So this is the idea
of the range. It'd be most years, maybe there might be an exception once every ﬁve years
or whatever, but in most years, it should be in the range. But the ambition is always go to
the better ﬁght.
So we're really working on improving the earnings quality, especially out on the non-life
side as this is the cash ﬂow generator, as you very well know. So I wouldn't be really sad to
learn that we move Bâloise towards, let's say, 93% or even south of this ﬁgure. But I mean,
let's cross the bridge when we get there. I mean, for the meantime, I think the target is
nice, 93% to 96%. We have proven that we can manage the company to remain in the
target, but we are working hard, let's say, at an ambition level to make it as low as
possible.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

German? I'll hand you over -

FINAL

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks for clariﬁcation. Of course, the CHF 200 million was not for the half year, I
mentioned. And it might be a bit higher on the whole year. The calculation, I think, was if
you made an analysis of change, a primitive one, from half-year 2013 to half-year 2014, we
have a CHF 50 million delta from the interest rates because prior year was minus CHF 20
million, and turnkey was CHF 30 million plus. And so, that means on stable interest rates,
this will be nil. And then the operational improvement, so the diﬀerence year-on-year is
CHF 150 million. As I said, one-third is interest rates, one-third is operational
improvement, and one-third has to do with that realized gains.
Now, the operational improvement. Included there is, for example, a cut of surpluses of
annuities in Switzerland. You can only do that once and that's why it's one-oﬀ. And then,
therefore, I would guess, but this is really a guess, about 50% of the operational
improvement is probably sustainable and 50% might be one-oﬀ. So that means about
CHF 25 million is probably sustainable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the realized capital gains, in normal times, we don't have them. So, part of this is in
the interest rate derivatives and in FX derivatives. But this is actually in insurance. This is
not due to generated proﬁt. In fact, it has now, but this is not the purpose of these
instruments.
And bonds, we are rarely realizing gains in bonds, but we have done this year in Belgium
just for risk management purposes. But of course, we are not jeopardizing our risk
management standards by building up two big positions in order to be able to realize
them afterwards, hoping that there are gains in it. It could be realized losses as well.
So, that was the calculation. And if I take all this into account, let's say, on a yearly basis, a
CHF 200 million run rate and agree it might be a bit higher given this situation is
probably serious. But interest rate diﬀerences might be complicated. And I just said to
Marc Thiele before, in certain areas, we just can hardly predict what happens. And what I
forgot there, which is very important as well, is that local regulators are currently inventing
sometimes strange things. One thing will happen, the ZZR in Germany, and other
countries might invent similar things. So, therefore, I'm a bit – depending on how far run
rate is taken, if you take it for 10 years, I will be careful; if you take it for two years, okay.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. German, that's extremely helpful actually. Just one quick follow-up. In terms of the
Belgian allocations you made out of government bonds, what did you shift those assets
(01:13:14)?

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Sorry. I didn't quite get that.

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Sorry. In terms of Belgium where you kind of sold government bonds, what did you buy
as a follow-up after that?

FINAL

A - Martin Wenk

{BIO 4193573 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe I can answer that. The reason why we sold that is that in Belgium, all insurers
have a very high allocation in their own government bonds and that really actually is
beyond our credit limit we have. So we have sold it into our limits we have for the group.
Back into that limits, mainly coming out of the acquisitions in Belgium and in Luxembourg.
And we have just reinvested it in other interest-bearing instruments, mainly bonds again
but other debtors.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Was that mainly Germany there?

A - Martin Wenk

{BIO 4193573 <GO>}

No, not Germany. Germany seems to be very low at the moment. But you have seen the
spread of Belgium against Germany came down. So we really lowered the allocation
against the Belgium, but we have bought other government bonds, as I said, and
corporate bonds and other instruments. One of the major shifts basically is also that we
went again into high dividend-bearing shares.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. Thanks very much, guys.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. William Elderkin from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you. And hello, everyone. I've got a couple of questions. Most of these are followups. First of all, on the non-life underlying loss ratio, the 58.8%, I got an impression from
the previous discussion that this is the number you view as completely sustainable, which
is a very good eﬀort on your part. I just – in my mind, I will say – remember, you've made
reference to a very benign loss experience in Switzerland, and I just wondered how those
two impressions reconciled. In other words, is there an element to that underlying loss
ratio that is reﬂecting below trends claims experience for whatever reason and sort of if
you could clarify that.
Secondly, staying with the non-life loss ratio, if you look historically at the claims ratio
you've reported in your presentation, for example, the 61% you show on slide nine and
compare that with the claims ratio that you calculate of your segments for income
statement, the segment's income statement has always been a higher number historically
related to the cost of claims on long-term disability business, and that's been a drag of

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

about 1.5% per year traditionally. This year, that's actually been a positive movement by
about 20 basis points. And I'm just wondering, has something changed with your
accounting policy or presentation which would cause that relationship to change. And
then could you quantify what the level of restructuring costs in the ﬁrst half non-life
segment proﬁt actually is? And then ﬁnally – I'm sorry, and I'm still for (01:16:30) questions.
What ﬁxed income reinvestment rate are you getting on your non-life ﬁxed income
portfolio?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Elderkin, for your questions. I will answer the ﬁrst one and the third one.
So the ﬁrst one was, how does our perception of our, let's say, claims trend performance
linked to the benign claims environment, especially how do they ﬁt together? Then there
was – your second question was the diﬀerence between what we disclosed in combined
ratio and in the segment claims numbers, is there any change? I'll hand you over there to
German Egloﬀ. And what was the portion of restructuring cost in the non-life segment? It
was your third one, and then the reinvestment rate in bonds in non-life was the fourth one.
And for this one, I would hand you over to Martin Wenk.
So, answering the ﬁrst one, yes, we had a benign claims environment in Switzerland
regarding large claims. I mean, normally you have – in the ﬁrst half, you have hailstorms,
for instance, and that can be very costly. But as you know, there was no summer in
Switzerland in the ﬁrst half. There was a mild winter. And this led to the case that we didn't
have a major hailstorm. And this is the reason why, let's say, from a large claims point of
view, we have low average – you might see on the slide that we had, I think, 2.9% of the
large claims. It's normally above, let's say, or around 3%. So it's a bit lower here yet, but
we had higher low to large claims in Belgium and in Germany.
So group-wise, let's say, we are more or less on track, let's say, with these large claims, but
it was a diﬀerent mix this time, higher claims in Germany and Belgium and lower large
claims in Switzerland. But nevertheless, I mean, you're right, there was – there's also a
benign – in general, benign claims environment in Switzerland. I mean, for instance, if we
look at claims frequency in car liability and you might remember that we compare
ourselves to the benchmarking ﬁelds, I mean, what we see is that we still have by far the
lowest claims frequency in this regard.
So our selection techniques works and we feel this every second (01:18:48). I don't see a
reason why we should have a higher load here. So – because we stick to our strategy and I
don't see an increase here. So, all in all, I think (01:19:02), we had, let's say, a little bit
below average but not far below average in the ﬁrst half, and this is due to Switzerland,
the benign environment here.
And the restructuring cost in non-life, and actually, I know the restructuring cost. For
instance, the CHF 12 million social plan in Germany and Europe, and on top, the CHF 5
million, I think, restructuring cost. But actually, I don't know exactly the split between nonlife and life segment. And I think I suggest that we come back to you with an indication of
this. And to make sure, okay, what was the portion that goes to non-life and life.

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

And now I would like to hand you over ﬁrst to German Egloﬀ regarding just the
diﬀerences here in the two tables you found, and then afterwards, Martin Wenk for the
reinvestment. German?

FINAL

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Yes. I'm not quite sure whether I understood you right. It was about costs being in the
combined ratio and being in the secondary report. Was that the question?

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Yeah. Historically, if you look back and compare the cost ratio that you talked to in your
presentation -

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

I see. Yeah.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

– and the cost ratio that you calculated. The one in the income statement is usually about
1.5 percentage points higher and that eﬀect doesn't seem to have a accounted in the ﬁrst
half.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

No, no. Actually, we haven't changed something in the accounting policy. I could imagine
that two reasons might be responsible for that. But maybe we should later come back and
calculate that back to see your goals. Just the two reasons. The ﬁrst one, Martin just
mentioned the restructuring costs are of course not in the combined ratio, and they are
high end now than they are probably normally.
And we have some other costs related to former M&A projects, which are not included as
well in this closing. So this is one thing. And the other thing, it might have to do with the
structure of the portfolio as well, because it is, of course, the restructuring in Germany,
let's say, we are – in attendance, we are losing a large corporate business and replacing
them by a smaller SME contract. And that might have an inﬂuence as well. But I would
propose that you're probably coming back to the IR guys and look for the real ﬁgures
then. Then we can try to create the bridge. That's okay to you?

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Yeah. If you would – particularly, it has been a sort of 1.5 percentage point drag in terms of
the actual claims ratio (01:22:00) would very helpful.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Okay. Well, we can probably explain that with the eﬀect as we go into details.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}
Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

Okay. Now, I can give you the answer for the reinvestment yield in non-life. And the easy
answer is it's 1.85%.

FINAL

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you. May I ask one follow-up on the life side? The discussion on the life proﬁtability
has been very helpful. In the past, you've talked about having very strong risk proﬁts
emerging from the group life business, and I sensed that maybe that's not necessarily
sustainable. Could you give us a sense of what you're feeling is on that sustainability at
this point? And also, when we look at the overall EBIT for the life segment, how much of
that proﬁtability is coming from this group life risk eﬀect in a broad sense?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

So again, I'm – ﬁrst of all, the margins we have in the business are quite stable. And what
we see in the risk result, especially in group life, is we cannot improve margins further.
This relates to the discussion we had – that I mean, the sector in general, but also Bâloise. I
mean, we have very good margin, so to say. And I don't think there'll be further increase
and there might be also a low, but really a low downward pressure.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we see is that given these very – let's say, very attractive margin situation, we are
able to attract the right customers within our target segment. So, let's say, from an
absolute point of view, what is the return of life business, and a lot comes through from
these optimizations and business mix and by the selection techniques. We see this quite
strongly, especially in Switzerland.
And this comes then back to what German Egloﬀ said, if you do the list of change EBIT
wise, half-year-half year, we have to explain the jump of CHF 150 million. And German
explained that, let's say, CHF 25 million out of this is really a sustainable improve of the
half year earnings part of the life business. And this is due to better business mix, this is
due to cost lowering, and this is due to also better products and more unit-linked and so
on, better customer mix, more risk-oriented customers, and we will pursue this strategy
because we will continue on this – in our strategy.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Strobel. The message essentially, whatever the group life risk contribution
and the current EBIT is, your view is that level is pretty sustainable?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Yeah. What we said in – at our Investors Day is that if you take the EBIT of life in
Switzerland, actually, then 50% of the gross result was the risk result. And I think this
ﬁgure is more or less at the level. It should, let's say, improve over time, but not, let's say,
quickly. But I think 50% of the EBIT is from the risk result. And as you know, we always
give for the full-year than the analysis of change given the (01:25:32) information and then
March next year for the – or for the full year.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}
Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

Thank you. That's very helpful.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
The next question comes from Mr. René Locher from MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Q - René Locher
Yes. Good morning or good afternoon, gentlemen. Just a follow-up question. The ﬁrst
one on the CHF 40 million restructuring cost in Germany, when should or can we include
it in our ﬁnancial model set by 2015, 2016, just a little bit of an idea here? And then on the
slide and the combined ratios, these claims from storm Ela, I guess we had a little bit of
same impact once when Kyrill happened. And perhaps you can very quickly explain once
again your reinsurance strategy of the group because I was surprised to see that one
storm can run 8 percentage point negative impact on the combined ratio? I mean, then
on group, 2.8%, it's much, much less, but nevertheless, I was a little bit surprised here.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then just for Martin Wenk, I don't know if we have seen that number before, but I
guess on slide 40 – slide 40, when we see the investment property, the net yield of 2.3%,
is that the net-net yield you achieved on our investment property? Thank you.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr. Locher, for your questions. And I will answer the ﬁrst question, so
restructuring cost in Germany, by myself, and then I will hand you over for the reinsurance
policy to German Egloﬀ and the return on our property and mortgage portfolio, then
Martin Wenk.
Germany, what we have in the ﬁrst half is €12 million, First, we planned some – on top,
some restructuring costs. And I expect a, let's say, more a single-digit ﬁgure in the second
half in Germany and then the major restructuring sort of plan, cost would be over in
Germany. So there might be a remainder, let's say, but it's a very small one than in 2015.
So the large chunk of this is, a signiﬁcant chunk should be over in 2014.

Q - René Locher
And then just the cost savings then, when they see through in the P&L going forward?

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Pardon me?

Q - René Locher
Was that the cost savings then? Now, you do restructuring, but then what is then the
positive impact we should factor in?
Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

I mean, what we said is the €40 million in Europe, €40 million annually and we will reach
them as indicated in 2015.

Q - René Locher

FINAL

Okay.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

So they might not fully show up in 2015, but to a large part. And the actual full eﬀect
would then be in 2016. So – and this is €40 million.

Q - René Locher
Yeah. Correct. Thank you very much.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

You're welcome. And now, again, on the regional side.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, the very important thing is that the ﬁgures I said, the 8.2% in Belgium and the 2.8%
for the group, was a rough ﬁgure.

Q - René Locher
Yeah.

A - German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

On a net basis, that obviously had a far lower impact. Otherwise, it wouldn't be possible
that the net combined ratio actually is lower in the year before. So actually, on a net basis,
this will actually cost us just the retention for the program plus the recent statement
premium. But that's not really changing, I think.
So Ela is not seen on a group level. I would say that's the level that we have to consider
that has always happened in a normal year. So I wouldn't like to explain the combined
ratio. And it would be wrong to add Ela on to the next combined ratio and talk about this
is extraordinary bad luck. This happens somewhere. But it is important to understand the
cross-utilization of Belgium.

Q - René Locher
Yeah. No, no. I understand. Yes. Thank you.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

Martin?

Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-28

A - Martin Wenk

{BIO 4193573 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Yes. Regarding the yield on our real estate, we published this ﬁgure also before.
And it is net of cost and based on the IFRS long-term (01:30:36) value. So, if you see the
ﬁgure going down, the main reason is that the market value has increased as well. If you
take the absolute ﬁgure of income I have at real estate, it has even increased a little bit.

Q - René Locher
Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more questions.

A - Martin Strobel

{BIO 5296838 <GO>}

In case that there are no more questions, gentlemen, I thank you very much for your
interest in Bâloise, for your very interesting questions. I hope we could provide some
insightful information for you. I thank you very much and wish you a nice afternoon. Thank
you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

