Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

Y 14 Analyst Meeting - Webcast in English
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, President and Chief Executive Officer
Nobuhiro Kojima, Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning Department
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Taichi Noda, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for coming. Based on this
PowerPoint presentation I'd like to start the explanation. During the discussion with the
(inaudible) and also in the prep [ph] meeting, we have completed some of the parts in
the PowerPoint presentation, so I'd like to skip the parts.
Please turn to page one. These are the key points today. In FY13, well, we didn't really
expect the natural disasters to expect good result. However, there was a great impact of
snow damage in February, because of that the adjusted consolidated profit declined.
However, the profitability has stably increased, especially with the steady growth of
automobile insurance, and we expect it to grow going forward as well. So probability to
achieve the targets for the final year of the mid-term plan FY15 is high, but we have to be
more conservative. The probability is getting higher.
In domestic P&C the adjusted combined ratio has drastically improved in FY13 and we
already achieved its target for FY15. Our performance has been greatly improving and
that is what we strongly feel. Meanwhile, in FY14 and onwards the hike of consumption tax
and the effect of the revision of driver rating system will have some negative impact on
the premium income, which should be taken into consideration by the management. We,
however, continue to commit to achievement of FY15 goal and measures for that are
already taken. And in the market the direct channel is getting more and more important
now and the impetus, it's continuing. Saison Automobile and Fire Insurance Company in

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

our Group and its market share is 12% some. In the previous year, it was 5.9%, so year-onyear it's almost doubled. This is a success too.
Domestic life insurance business has increased the performance stably as well focusing
on the unique sales method to make use of P&C channel and our strategy to focus on
protection type products; it's going to increase as well. FY13 was a transitional period in
the product revisions, because of that new business did not grow much. However, new
medical insurance products were launched in FY14 that would contribute to making the
brand Himawari Life a pioneer of medical insurance.
As for the overseas business, as was announced, Canopius, whose acquisition was
completed on May 1, it's going to contribute greatly to our profit and expansion of the
segment. Canopius is going to be the platform of the overseas business for us to
establish more global foothold.
ERM, the advanced strategic risk management will be fully established to be utilized in
management decision-making from this fiscal year.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the other day, we announced share buyback at a return based on FY13 performance.
I'd like to elaborate on our capital policy in the status of internal solvency margin ratio,
reduction of strategically holding stocks, as well as return to shareholders policies.
Next page, please. This is the history of NKSJ Holdings since the business integration of
April 2011. In each area we stably implemented integration, M&A investment and a
cultivation of new businesses. On September 1 this year, with the permission of the
authority, Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa will be merged to become Sompo Japan
Nipponkoa. The Group's brand name will be Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Group and the
corporate name of NKSJ Holdings will be changed to Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Holdings
Incorporated. Some people say this is the long name, but the most important thing for us
is to have this highly recognized brand name, please understand the situation.
Next page, please. This is the progress of the management plan. In FY13, although the
progress was good in terms of profitability, but as I mentioned before, the profit declined
year-on-year mainly due to snow damage in February. However, our main products, such
as automobile insurance has stably increased their profitability and I'd like to emphasize
that the progress will be prominent in FY14. FY15 the final year of the plan is just around
the corner, the management believes that probability of us achieving the target is
favorably increasing in our premise, the market situation is going to be better.
Please turn to the next page. This is the performance based on J-GAAP. For FY14, we
expect the ordinary profit to go up by approximately JPY40 billion driven by a significant
increase in underwriting profit. On the other hand, we have extraordinary losses from the
merger one-time costs including the release of the integrated system. So the net income
will be reduced temporarily, as I have explained earlier. As for the merger one-time cost,
please regard this as an essential upfront investment for the future to not only gain cost
competitiveness, but also to become comprehensively competitive.

Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

I would like to jump some pages and go to page 14. Now, we'd like to explain some points
by businesses in the Group. First of all, the adjusted combined ratio for the Domestic P&C
business. The current plan to achieve the adjusted combined ratio target is to reduce 6.7
points in the four years up to FY15 to achieve the 95% level. However, we've been able to
achieve this plan earlier due to the current improvement in earnings and also expense
control due to the merger synergy. As a result, the adjusted combined ratio was down to
93.9% in FY13, which was the second year in the plan.
Having said that, we cannot be too optimistic, although, we expect some negative factors
in FY14 and on such as increase in repair costs and impact of the consumption tax hike, we
would like to make it a minimal target to achieve the FY15 plan through continued product
and premium rate revisions and merger synergies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next page, please. Next is page 15. This shows the combined ratio for the mainstay
automobile insurance business. The loss ratio is clearly improving due to continued
revisions of product and premium rates. The combined ratio in FY13 was 96.3%, although,
we have mentioned earlier that we have some negative factors in FY14 and beyond still
Sompo Japan will start revising its product and premium rates from July this year and
Nipponkoa will do the same from September revising its product and premium rates. So in
this way, we will continue to take necessary measures in the future.
Please turn to page 16. This is regarding the merger of the two P&C companies. In a
nutshell, merger preparations are progressing smoothly to start Sompo Japan Nipponkoa
on September 1. Regarding the organization, we have unified all the organizations this
April and completed the 1 will program. The legal merger will follow in September this
year. 1 will program is about having one person to make the decisions. The achievement
rate for personnel reduction is at 67% in the two years against the three-year reduction
plan. This combines natural attrition, personnel assignments and early voluntary
retirement programs held twice with approximately 800 employees.
The system integration is going smoothly as well. The newly integrated products are the
same as we've announced before. Thus we are fully prepared and we look forward to the
seamless transition on the day of the merger.
Please turn to page 17. This shows the merger synergies and one-time costs. There have
been some slight changes, but basically it is in line with the plan. The synergy will be less
in FY14, due to general system costs, but we will achieve JPY56 billion in FY15 as we have
planned, this includes labor costs and other expenses. And the synergy will increase
further in FY16 and on due to total reduction of system costs and et cetera. This fiscal year
we will book a significant number for one-time costs, and most of them will be posted in
the first half results because the merger has to be completed on September 1, which is
the first half. Please refer to this slide to get a more details about the costs for the first
quarter and second quarter respectively.
Next I'd like to explain the Domestic Life Insurance business, and please turn to page 32.
Himawari Life, the domestic life insurance business in the Group is growing continuously
and profitably, leveraging the sales channel and product portfolio. In short, they make

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

good use of our network of P&C insurance agencies to expand the sales and focus on the
highly profitable protection-type products, such as medical insurance and income
compensation to expand the profitability.
Next page is page 33. Based on the strategy, as you can see utilization of P&C channels
and the focus on protection-type products have been increasing steadily. Going forward
we will continue to strengthen P&C channels and the profitable product strategy. We see
some environmental changes, but I'm sure we can address that.
The next page is page 34. As I have mentioned before in May, for the first time in six
years since 2008, we launched a new medical insurance product. The point is fullness of
protection and price competitiveness. The balance is very difficult, but, in reality, the
response with the market is very positive, so we have good expectation. In the medical
field, average period of hospitalization tends to be shorter now, while when hospitalized
with major three diseases, such as cerebral infarction and cardiovascular diseases, the
period tends to be longer in some cases. Taking the actual situation and the needs from
the customers into consideration, we offer options for customers who prefer substantial
protection, while maintaining price competitiveness. We intend to grow new business
greatly this fiscal year and onwards leveraging the products.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please open page 35. This is the image of the growth in domestic life insurance business.
This is different from P&C business. As for the life insurance business, the effect is going
to be realized later, so after launching new products, we increased the sales, and after
that we experience the plateau, and after that we can step up by introducing new
products.
And as for the channel, we have life insurance professionals and also bank assurance
business as well. They have different characteristics compared to insurance professionals,
and we have to take that into consideration as well for further competitive products and
prices. All-in-all, we have to take into consideration the structural changes of the market
and also we have to address the real needs of the customers that is the stage for us right
now, and this is the beginning of our evolution.
And we'd like to skip the pages to page 42. From here, I'd like to explain the overseas
business. Of course, we'd like to increase the overseas insurance business as well to
enhance the business and corporate value. Since the integration in 2010, we have
implemented selective and disciplined investments focusing on the targeted investment
markets to fulfill our management plan. As a result, we had M&A activities in Turkey and
Brazil and also we have acquired equities of Canopius as planned, while increasing the
presence in overseas market.
Please turn to page 43. In terms of our Group's investment in M&A, Canopius was the
largest scale ever. And regarding Canopius, we've already explained to you that they
have a very high track record in the specialty area, we can call it a core competence in that
sense. So, because of that, between Canopius and us there is little duplication in the
fields that we operate in and the geographies too. So it's an ideal complementary

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

relationship. They from the Lloyd's Group have very high ERM knowhow, so we can gain
that from Canopius as a synergy effect.

FINAL

We can provide various elements to Canopius too, they can provide resources to us too,
and in this kind of a complementary relationship, we can accelerate our globalization. In
any sense, the biggest point is that, we're going to use this vehicle as a platform.
Moving on to page 44, we're looking at the performance transition of Canopius. Well, we
had less natural disasters last fiscal year, but let me just add some points about FY13. The
gross premium rate was GBP866 million, it is close to JPY150 billion in Japanese yen,
combined ratio 84.5%, ROE is 25%, very high so much that maybe, I should say we're
jealous of this number. Looking at the past history, they have had two digits very steadily
in the past as well.
Next page. Due to the contribution from Canopius, our overseas insurance business is
expecting a significant increase in profit. Canopius will start to contribute to the
consolidated numbers from FY14. But we accounted JPY6.2 billion for the nine months
profit from April to December; the full-year profit contribution will start from FY15. So with
increased contribution from Canopius, we now have a higher chance of achieving the
profit target for the overseas insurance operations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 46. This is the overseas assumed reinsurance business. In accordance with the
directions we have explained so far, we are progressing well in line with the plan. But with
the merger of Canopius, we have started to study how to optimize the Group's strategy
for assumed reinsurance business and also how to utilize the resources from Canopius.
Okay, we would like to skip a few pages, and go to page 50. The next topic that I'd like to
touch upon is ERM. As I have mentioned in the very beginning, from this fiscal year, we
have decided to call the ERM a strategic risk management, which is a mixture of business
strategy and risk management. And we have started to use this in our management
decision-making. As shown in the conceptual diagram in the middle, we aim to maximize
our corporate value by controlling the balance between capital, return and risk. We hope
that this leads to better management of the company.
Please turn to 51. I'm sure I'm preaching the preacher here now, but the ERM is a material
for management decision-making and already we have started to calculate the ROR and
ROE by businesses and insurance type and we are using them in our management
activities already. Other practical examples of use would be, for example, investment on
growth businesses such as overseas M&A or underwriting and ceding policy for natural
disasters and plans to reduce strategic holding of stocks. By using these quantitative
indices, we believe we can deepen our management discussions. And we have already
started utilizing this.
Please turn to page 52. This is about the internal solvency ratio; we recorded 157% at the
end of March. From this time, we have started to disclose the target capital level of the
internal solvency ratio. Our target is 120% to 170% for this internal solvency ratio. And so,
we can say that the March end level is obviously within this range. This target has been
Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

considered comprehensively from viewpoint such as achieving the ROE target and
financial soundness and we will verify the appropriate range going forward by looking at
other companies in the market as well and we will continue to try to set the right target as
we move forward. This is the market sensitivity internal solvency ratio. Here are the
numbers. The impact of the share prices is still large, so we'd like to control the sensitivity
to the volatility.
Please open page 56. This is the asset portfolio of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa. The general
account is managed with diversified investments, while the savings type account utilizes
portfolio management based on ALM. 32% of the general account is domestic stocks that
is approximately JPY1.5 trillion, still accounts for a large portion. But the duration gap
between assets and liabilities of the savings account is small, that means the risk
associated with interest rate volatility is limited.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next page is about Himawari Life. Here we are maintaining a conservative asset
portfolio based on ALM. The asset liability duration gap will be reduced gradually and
steadily.
And the next page shows the status of the reduction of strategic stockholding. We were
able to reduce JPY206.1 billion in FY13, which was the highest level of reduction ever. This
means, we promptly achieved our plan to reduce stocks earlier than planned until FY15.
The amount reduced in FY14 is expected to be a little less than half of the reduction in
FY13, but this is in line with the current mid-term plan. Going forward, we will review the
holding level of strategic holding stocks from viewpoint such as strategic risk
management and et cetera. We like to have plenty of discussions internally and we will
reflect the FY15 amounts to be reduced into our future plans.
Finally, I'd like to comment on the important topic of shareholder return. Last week we
disclosed information regarding share buybacks as a way of returning to shareholders
from the FY13 earnings. With the higher certainty of achieving our management plans and
to respond to the expectations from the market, we have increased the amount of
buyback from JPY8.3 billion last year to JPY10 billion this year. In accordance with our
policy of paying a stable dividend, we will maintain JPY60 per share for FY14. Furthermore,
we will consider flexible share buybacks according to capital conditions, adjusted profit,
balance with investment for growth and et cetera.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for your kind attention.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now we would like to receive your questions, please give us your name and the company
name. Could you raise your hand?

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

My name is Shiota from Daiwa Securities Company. I have two questions. The first one is
about life insurance business. In page 35, you have this table as shown in here. Going
forward, there will be a changing trend and DIY Life was sold and the prices will decline.
And how are you going to utilize the cross-selling channels and also shops to sell your
products in this situation, could you please explain that?
The second question is about page four. The forecast for FY15 is presented, and these
three years the P&C business was not very profitable, but in these three years, it's going
to sustain the business. And when you think about year 2020, P&C domestic and also life
insurance and overseas business, how are they going to grow? Or are you going to have
any new businesses? So I'd like you to talk about the situation in the long-term.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much for your questions. Both of the questions are very important and at
the same time very difficult to answer. So I'd like to present to you my own opinion about
the life business, the first one, this is what I think. Compared to P&C and life insurance
business, in P&C especially the mainstay automobile insurance, in these five to eight years
the profitability was negative. And also in most of the main P&C companies, the
performance was not very good, so stable and also profitable products on the market
cannot be delivered. And as we discussed with the organization for the insurance
companies, we started to improve. So as for P&C business and P&C products. Now we
are entering the stable phase, where we don't compete such intensely. And as for life
insurance, we have the third sector business.
Well, one of your companies in the industry is getting highly competitive in terms of prices
because of the premium rate change. We have to increase the prices but they are
decreasing the price, and also because of the bank assurance and also cross-selling
channels they are expanding the business. For Himawari Life, this is a negative situation as
well or we can turn the situation into a positive situation, but the competition just started
for the third sector business. In the third sector how are we going to compete in terms of
prices? Our recognition in the management is that GDP per capita and life insurance and
GDP per capita including protection-type, including savings time.
The portion is pretty high amongst advanced countries. So the next stage is the third [ph]
sector for us. So what should be the trigger? Right now in many different senses in the life
insurance channel and also in the cross-selling channels, we compare many products to
offer the best products to our customers. And at this timing, we have to explain to the
customers, why we recommend these products, so that means we need transparency. As
a result, customers would reconfirm their needs. Well, they are going to be I'm sorry to
say more enlightened. So it's not gradual, but drastically the business is going to grow and
how Himawari is going to survive in this market might be your question. P&C and life we
don't really need to distinguish our customers between them.
P&C agency channel is the strength for our life insurance business. And they know what
kind of products are suitable for the customers. They might have drastic
recommendations too. So we need to sell a lot, not only cross-selling, but also we have to
increase the number of customers in that regard, even though we cannot really make big
Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

profits. So in a real sense we need to have consulting type sales, we shouldn't push our
products but in a real sense we have to have consultancy type of services, it might take
time. But we need to address the needs of the customers. And as a customer start to
recognize, they would highly evaluate us. For over [ph] insurance, we need to say this is
the appropriate level of the insurance.
So this time we have developed new medical insurance and we need to make it evolve
and also we have income compensation as well. And based on our strategic concept, we
really need to address the customers' needs for this protection. For example, I'd like to
say customers are really recognizing importance of each product, so that's how we
market our products.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question is about 2020, that's the year we are going to host the Olympic
games -- in the insurance industry. The trend is going to continue, so if combined ratio of
the P&C business continues to be about 95. Well, we have to separate retail from
consumer business.
For retail business toward 2020 we are going to enhance profitability. In the earlier stage
of 90% is going to be held and then we might have another stage for a price competition.
The mechanism of price competition is already built into the market by direct insurance.
They are the cherry picker. So it's something like department store business, Sompo
Japan Nipponkoa business, and that's something they can do compared to mega
insurance companies. So mid-term and long-term 90% to 95% of the profitability can be
maintained. However, we might have new risk associated. As you have pointed out,
autonomous cars, the emergence of that would give us a great impact. And also in the
ageing society, super ageing society, medical insurance would have a great impact.
As for P&C business, as for autonomous cars, in our research institute we have a lot of
analysis. We can reduce the loss ratio and also the premium income might decline, but
those are not the risks we have to think about, the risk itself is going to change. The
liability insurance to products liability, that might be the shift. And also the loss themselves
might change because the liability of the drivers depending on the liability relies on drivers
or if the liability relies on the company side, depending on that, the laws and regulations
might be different.
This is my individual opinion. I don't think every car in Japan is going to be autonomous, I
would say 20%, 30% only. So there would be a mixture of cars on the road. So we are not
really sure if the accidents, the ratio of the accident is going to decline such drastically,
Well, I'm not opposed to autonomous cars. I'm for autonomous cars, but I don't think the
situation is disastrous for our insurance business. And, as was announced, nurse
population and also nursing care is going to increase in terms of proportion we might
have nursing robots and also nursing careers and we might have more importance in
nursing insurance.
Natural disaster is our concern. New normal is the trend right now in the world. The
situation right now might be really normal when you consider that we have to control risks
stably. Autonomous cars and nursing robots compared to that natural disaster would be a

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

bigger concern. So when you consider only life insurance business, we might have
limitation domestically and also going forward, we are service industry, both domestic
P&C and life insurance, so we need to develop new businesses. In holdings we have
exclusive teams for that, to address health, nursing care, safety, security of the public, we
are going to focus on that, still that's the seeds for our profitability.
And your question fortunately was for 2020, we have some time. We will be prepared. I'm
not really sure these are the difficult question.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

As for the first question, in the other group for example as for low prices you might make
a decision about establishing a new company. But in your Group, you have Himawari Life
to address low-priced products as well?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Yes, already in the Himawari Life, we have direct insurance channel in the business. And
we are watching the market and we have the experience with DIY Life. If we can hold on
only with direct life insurance? Not really, people are very important. If we can do it with
only pure direct insurance, I think Himawari Life can do it. The brand name doesn't have to
be the same but it's possible. There would be no channel conflict; we do have the
experience in P&C. So we can manage the situation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Muraki from Deutsche Securities. Reinsurance and internal solvency are my two questions,
on page 45 and 46. In the overseas insurance business, you talked about Canopius, its
profit contribution. I understand that you are a company that is not doing just reinsurance,
but you're underwriting in a market that is quite similar to reinsurance. And pre-acquisition
of Canopius you had also the reinsurance business, which you elaborated on page 46.
Compared to your original plan, it seems like the underwriting is progress very quickly in
your plan for FY14. So can you talk about the underwriting environment today? And what is
your stance in doing this underwriting as the prices go down?
Second question is related to page 52 about the internal solvency ratio. Since the past,
you've been revising the calculation method multiple times. This time have you reflected
any of these revisions of the calculation on to these numbers today? In terms of risk you
have natural disaster risk and also to your point, the long-term, well, risks which includes
natural disasters as well. So are you talked about the diversifying of risk effect? Has that
effect been reflected or not?
On the capital side, you have the future profit, which is growing. So how have you dealt
with that currently in these numbers? There is the international solvency regulation; the
first proposal will be submitted in 2016. So currently, we don't see a clear outline of the
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

regulations yet. And in this situation you're talking about a range of 120% to 170%. So I'd
like to ask you the grounds of these numbers?

FINAL

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

Yes, I'd like to answer the two questions. Thank you very much. I'd like to talk to page 45
and 46, regarding the reinsurance business. Regarding page 46, already we have the
Canopius numbers, which we have been disclosing before Canopius acquisition.
On the reinsurance business things are very good and steady. And one of the biggest
factors of that is foreign currency. So, if we take out that foreign currency impact then we
are overall doing well, not significantly great, but overall good. But on top of that, we have
our future possibilities because we now have Canopius in our group. To that point, we
have on page 43, the acquisition of Canopius domains and geographies that we relate to
and the point of this slide on page 43 is that, there are a lot of supplementary or
complementary businesses to each other. Based on that, we go to page 46, Asia,
America, Europe, we were going to take all these disasters, but now there is this
complementary business from Canopius that can help us. So my overall comment here
would be in terms of the existing plan it had progressed very steadily, although there was
foreign exchange impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

And for the Canopius impact, we have already started discussing how much it is and the
contribution will accelerate going forward.
Now, I'd like to move on to your next question about solvency, which is related to page 52.
We have set the target capital level in a range from 120% to 170% and this is the first time
we have disclosed such a range. The risk model has been revised and also various items
that we have not accounted for have been reflected to a certain level. And today just so
happens to be the day where we have the hybrid remuneration. There is one that we
procured last year and there is one that we procured five years ago, there was a
duplication between the two, but already that duplication has been reflected into this
calculation.
So for the number 170% in our current business plans, we have ROE 7%. So if we are to
secure that level then 170% should be the limit, the ceiling that's the rationale. And for
120%, we looked at our ratings and also our financial positions made sure that we can
secure that minimum level and determine this number.
So maybe in reverse we can say that these numbers 120% to 170% is exceeded or
undershot, then we would like to take counter measures, so that we can prevent that
undershooting from happening. And so, what should we do specifically? We have listed up
those items. So if we are going beyond 170% then we would be discussing how much risk
we're going to take more. Are we going to return to shareholders, those were the
discussions if we exceed and if we start going down closer to 120%, then the discussion
would be about mitigating risk even further, which would lead to the strategic
stockholding topics and various other items. And my point is that, in this way, we are listing
up the items relevant to higher than 170% or lower than 120%.

Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

In terms of the regulations that you mentioned, the law and regulations are still very fluid
and nothing is really quite fixed. As soon as we see an outline of this, we would like to
take another deep consideration in this matter. So at this point, we can say, as I
mentioned earlier, that ROE 7% is the target and also the necessary capital that we need
to secure in this current environment that we foresee is the basis of our numbers that we
have shown here.
I hope this answers your question.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you. I have two follow-up questions. The first one, you said that the specialty is in
the center and you're saying that even in the current environment these are the many
projects that you can secure. So please let me know if this is correct or not? And to the
second one, you have a certain level of long-term risk reflected to this, but it doesn't look
like the ratio have been impacted to this maybe there were some positive impact and
negative impact and the net became something close to zero, maybe that's why the
numbers aren't changed?

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

To the first follow-up question. The point that we need to focus on is how to manage. We
would like to look at the global points we have been focusing on the Thai flood and we
need to focus on the other disasters that may happen, there was one in the United States
and having those in our perspective, yes, we believe that we can fully continue to
underwrite at this level.
To the second point, we are reviewing various types of risks. For example, the high
skyscraper risks, et cetera. These have led to some negative factors as well. So that's
why, yes, to your point, we have the positives and negatives and the numbers did not
change much.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

To your first question, maybe you're asking about the specialty risk? Are we going to
expand more into this specialty risk? Should we be still optimistic? Maybe that's your
question. Now the current situation regarding specialty market is that, it's really specialty,
special properties, special occupations and so this is more about developed countries, so
America and then Europe, in this order is the market that is relevant and this is where we
have a mixture of various items, it's very diverse in one word. So out of this diverse pool
of various items, sometimes we might reach out and get something -- grab something
that we shouldn't have, we may grab something that we should secure; it's a mix of
various things.
And so, the underwriting capability becomes a key. Underwriting capability in other words,
quality needs to be maintained, if we take the analogy of driving a car we don't want to
step on the accelerator, so much that the quality is sacrificed. So, especially long-term
that's one of the items that you don't want to grab from the market.

Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

Anyway, we need to do this well. If we do this well, we can definitely grow this business, in
other words, we need to be very prudent and not just blindly expand or -- try to expand
our numbers. Thank you very much.

FINAL

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

My name is Tsujino with J.P. Morgan. Page 52 shows the asset portfolio. The breakdown of
the risk, if possible could you please give us last year and this year? Diversification has
taken effect and you have Canopius, but still you have the situation. So what kind of risk is
increasing and what kind of risks is declining? If you can identify those, it would be clearer?
And also international solvency margin, you were talking about rules to take into
consideration. I might be very optimistic, but economic value-based approach is not
employed. We are talking about risk-weighted approach and 99.95 is what you have
written here. And also as I calculate the risk weight for the equities, I assume is utilized.
Well, I don't really think those factors are constraints to your company, but because you
have these methodologies you used for consistency, probably you can consider using the
other methodologies. So please explain that so that we can avoid misunderstanding?
Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

I think you have two questions. The first one as written in page 52, this is the breakdown
of the risk. Overall, it's not really changed as you have pointed out. First of all, the P&C -the risk for P&C is declined and the risks we are taking here, life insurance we're taking
more risks, accordingly we have some diversification effect between different businesses.
And as for the P&C business, now we have sold a lot of strategically holding stocks, so
Sompo Japan Nipponkoa, domestic insurance business, for that the overseas business is
taking more risks. That's the rough situation compared to the last year.
The second question, 99.95% as you say, is a more solid risk control and ERM for our
strategic management is almost fully established already, so that we can explain to the
public. And we don't really think that this is going to give us any constraint and also the
regulations going forward will be clearer and of course we have to address these as
necessary, but we are not thinking about revising how to calculate those risks.

A - Unidentified Speaker
As for risks. For example, strategically holding stocks about JPY200 billion or so was sold
and the risk buffer is about plus a JPY50 billion. FY14 includes Canopius already further
calculation, because of the acquisition Canopius the risk associated after selling 200
billion, we have the buffer of 50 billion and that addresses the situation. The breakdown
was explained by Kojima and that's the situation so far. And value-at-risk methodology is
utilized for us too. But, of course, only value-at-risk is not sufficient. We conduct stress
tests thoroughly and we talked about 120 to 170. The lower limit the 120 is because of this
stress test, we have calculated to come up with 120 that's the lowest limit, that's our
assumption.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}
Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

As for life insurance, the impact using the sales channels, while you have the P&C
channels, how much of the sales channels are P&C agents? And how much are crossselling channels? What's the breakdown? And you talked about the launch of medical
insurance and you said the response from the market was good. Since it's May, I'm not
really sure if you have certain figures, could you please elaborate on that part too?

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

In Himawari Life, this is the situation of the life insurance sales. First of all, P&C channel the
agencies about 63% and including future professionals, including trainees, we have P&C
professionals the portion is 45% and lower at FY13, that's the breakdown.

A - Unidentified Speaker
And also the new medical insurance product, as was announced already, the product is
simpler and the price is lower and we launched this product in May. Today is the 27th of
May. We are right now confirming if we have the right number here. And as for the
medical insurance, about 160,000 for FY12 and about 300,000 cases is our target. And
also the number of medical insurance policies is going to increase in our plan. And as for
the new sales channels, since we have such new products compared to last year, we are
increasing the number of new channels. We actually are going to double it in our plan and
we are promoting the plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

And as for the sales of the new medical insurance, the other day we announced more
than 10,000 policies that means for nine days about 1,100 per day. So compared to the
past we are selling a very well. In the past it was 600 to 700, and as of now a little bit less
than 20,000 policies. And we do have the effect of the new product. And since the
previous announcement it's been about 10 days. And so far the sales is not really
declining. So about 300,000 per annum can be achieved. The start has been quite good.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Next question please.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Otsuka from Nomura Securities. Two questions please. Number one, it's on page 16 and
17, it's about the two P&C companies merging together. Earlier the CEO, Mr. Sakurada
talked about further synergy from this merger, but practically and the practical items are
here on this slide, but what is the top line synergy for retail? And do you have any synergy
there actually is the question? MS&AD doesn't have it, Tokio Marine doesn't have it, no
one has such a large scale merger with such large synergy. So I cannot help, but having
very high expectations to this, can I hear some very good synergies from this?
Number two, a quantitative question for the overseas business. In the current mid-term
plan that we're running in right now, it seems like you have a very good lap in the adjusted
profit. But how about beyond that, how are you going to weight this? How are you going
to place the weight or where will your focuses be? Now, if I should just mention what I
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

think looking at the company from outside is that, these two domestic P&C companies
merging together would be was an item that many of your domestic staff members were
spending their time on. So now that this is completed, would you be shifting your time to
other things? No. And in that sense, would you be shifting that to overseas business
expansion or M&A? Are you going to allocate your labor in different areas?

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

Yes, to your question synergy after the merger and the merger one-time costs. In terms
of the synergy, we are looking at the ones that are very secure labor costs and also real
estate costs et cetera, -- property costs, et cetera. But other than that, there is another
big piece, when we merge this in September, the system will be integrated as well, but
there is a run-off period for a while for NKSJ, so when that is completely integrated and
unified we will have more synergy. And also more efficient use of labor will be pursued.
And you asked specifically about the top line synergies. To that point Sompo Japan
Nipponkoa have been working to gather already since last year in their operations. So, the
sales result of last fiscal year has been improved already. That's all that I can say for
quantitative and specific items.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

If I may add regarding the merger synergy. Basically, it's the expensed countermeasure
really the controlling expense really is the key to our decision of doing this merger. And
this fixed cost is really about labor costs, system costs and store operation costs, it's
really these three major fixed costs that we have in our operations.
As already explained in the IR document, these three major expense items are the ones
that will dramatically decline after the merger. And that's why I'm talking about JPY56
billion in the next fiscal year.
For the top line, P&C also has their sales channels, the product will basically be Sompo
Japan products after the merger. And the back office processing, the system will be
based on the Sompo Japan specifications -- of the system, I mean. So when we look at
Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa, we have more burden on the Nipponkoa channels. So over
time, Nipponkoa sales channels will also be able to provide the Sompo Japan products to
their existing customers, that's P&C.
And for life insurance, Nipponkoa Sompo's sales channel conventionally was not in the
third field, they didn't have the medical type of insurance products so much. So sales of
this will be one of the expansion items. This is of course in the life insurance category, but
this is what would be conducive to the sales expansion top line synergies.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

There is nothing for me to add regarding your first question, but still I'd like to mention
that is the operational costs that we want to rationalize really. I will not name the other
company, but if we benchmark that competitor, we will definitely improve the operational
costs and I guess your point is that, is that you expect more than that. But as a general
Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

discussion, we can say that the Nipponkoa pro agencies will be selling the Himawari
products for their first time. It's just 12 months right, or maybe 18 months that they've
been selling Himawari products. So there is much more room for this to penetrate and
that will lead to top line synergies.
Also there is the financial institution channel, Nipponkoa was the one relatively stronger in
this area. So for the financial industry channels, Sompo Japan will be the one that will be
entering it in a newer way. So there is synergy on that side as well. Furthermore, I will not
name this, but there is a corporate property, Sompo Japan had no-trade here, but for
Nipponkoa these -- a few big names were they are very important trade partners. So
there is a possibility that we will see some synergy there as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

And also maybe you're pointing that we will lose a sense of target after we merge, once
we merge everything is done and we lose the sense of a goal. But that is not true,
because we would like to nurture a business that allows us to capture customers, of
course, ultimately we need to capture profit, but we like to invest in getting customers
first of all, because in the life insurance and P&C insurance I know there is existing
customers, but there is more new customers that we should be going after in the third
field. We have very high interest in this other area.
When it comes to cross-sales channel, in Sompo Japan is the 20 million customers that
Sompo Japan has and we can cross-sell the life insurance to them, the level is only 6%
now, but we can increase that to 10%, 15%. But Sompo Japan Nipponkoa's customers are
not what we're talking about, Himawari's customers are not what we're talking about,
there is other customers, but there is still within our Group. For example, there is the
metabolic syndrome health checkup that our subsidiary is doing. And I think they have a
share of 45% in the market. And their annual counseling items or guidance is 100,000
patients or customers and we don't have the data of these patients. I shouldn't say we
don't have, but it's unknown to us.
How many of them are Sompo Japan customers? We will find out going forward. Then,
after we find out, they will become Sompo Japan customers, Himawari customers. Then
this visiting health consultation company will contribute for a higher business rate. So this
not just about the existing business expansion, but it's more about circulating our
customers within the Group. I think we need to set a KPI regarding how well we circulate
the customers within our Group. And if that circulation and our expansion of business is
not enough, then we should take into consideration M&A as well.
For overseas business it's a very good question. But really, recently I think the textbook
approach is not really good, like okay, M&A, emerging market, let's go overseas. This is
very textbook and we don't think it fits to us anymore. Because in emerging countries
there are actually conglomerates. So there is the banks and there is the conglomerates,
who have already secured the business. So it would be great if we can buy from them at a
good price, but if we can't, then it would be a joint venture, and if it's a joint venture the
key issue is whether we can get the majority or not even if there is no capital regulation
we don't know if it would work or not.

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

FINAL

But having said that, the market is expanding for sure. So we definitely need to keep our
radars very keen. It's not just about the premium income, it's not about the business
numbers, it's more about how many people, key people we know in the market. So we
are actually already talking to these key people in the market.
Your next question, whether we have life insurance in our perspective or not? Yes, we do
of course, there is various life insurance companies and we like to do this as well, so we
are taking various cases into consideration, but as you know well, it is not protection-type,
it is savings type. So the truth of the matter is that it's an investment trust. So we have to
think whether that kind of a business fits us and the answer is still a question mark. And
when I say this everyone says, you're pessimistic. And I don't mean to be pessimistic at all,
but I still think that we need to do this well. So the conclusion is that service industry
overseas is something that we would like to focus on going forward.
For the existing business, we will continue to have more top line, steady top line, so we
need to work on cutting the operational expenses, so that we can get good a bottom
line. That's all from me.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

My name is Noda, Goldman Sachs. I have two questions. The first one is about reduction
of the strategically holding stocks, you talked about risks and also associated assets to
reduce equities. And as you have reduced equities, did you have any negative impact on
the top line? Or in the past you have some concern, but right now you don't have any
reduction of equities and also the relationship with the top line, could you please specify
that? And based on that, how much more you can reduce equities going forward, could
you please add that point too?
And the second point is about Himawari Life return to shareholders policy, it's not included
in the adjusted profit. But in Japan GAAP are you maintaining good profit? And in the next
mid-term plan Himawari Life, how are they going to contribute to return to shareholders
policy in the next mid-term plan?

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

As for the reduction of strategically holding stocks, honestly, we are trying hard, so that
we don't have any impact from that. If you sell too much of course that would impact the
top line. We do have the plan that specified in page 58, starting from 2012, we review that
plan and also -- and we'd like to sell 60% to 70% in the earlier stage. So we exchange
opinions and also we have discussions with the insurers, so that we don't have any impact
on the top line right now. This is the answer to you.
And going forward, as planned in FY14, we'd like to do it and also for ERM and also what
we are going to invest into and based on that we'd like to consider FY15, so that we don't
have any negative impact on the top line, by front loading the reduction.
Page 16 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

And as for Himawari Life, return to shareholders policy. The contribution to the bottom line
strategy we observed, that's what the other many shareholders are saying and how the
impact would be that's your question too. Going forward, we'd like to maintain our policy.
The contribution to the bottom line by the life insurance business is very unique when the
sales is growing, it's really hard for us and when it declines that has a positive contribution
to the bottom line and because of that it's difficult, but we have to take into consideration
the future growth and also the next strategy. Based on that we'd like to consider the
return to shareholders from the life insurance business.

A - Unidentified Speaker
As was answered by Kojima, page 58 shows the reduction of the strategically holding
stocks. They are by charts, we have the first three years and the next three years, the
balance is about the same in the plan. As was in the presentation, the balance as of the
end of March is about JPY1.5 trillion. And also the net asset adjusted for P&C business is
about 1.7 trillion, about the same amount and since we have the reduction the net asset
compared to the net asset the balance of the strategically holding stocks is lower. We
always discuss what the appropriate level is, but about 70% or so of the adjusted net
asset and that should be the target.

Bloomberg Transcript

And after the six-year plan, well, especially in FY14 as in page 58 compared to this year is
going to be a lot smaller, because as we have mentioned before, we're trying very hard
not to have a negative situation on the top line and we take time to discuss with the
insurers that's why so after establishing ERM officially and fully if we have specific targets
probably we would come up with the new plan. But FY15 target would be as specified in
this presentation.
As we move forward, of course, there might be some insurers and that would give us
some concerns about the top line, so we have to take that into consideration to address.
And also Himawari Life, I mentioned this before MCEV is what we are using. This is the
most advanced EV for the profitability for our plan. But since we don't have so much cash
that's not included in the return to shareholders, but according to the Japanese standard
8 billion, 10 billion are going to be realized.
And also, we considered the reinsurance business to make a more cash from EV, but
Himawari Life is in the progress of growing right now. So we'd like to use EV further to
calculate the profitability, so that's not include -- Himawari Life is not include in the return
to shareholders policy. After 2015, we have to come up with a new mid-term plan. But
during FY15, during the current period Himawari Life's profit is not going to be included in
return to shareholders policy. But overall of course, our policy is to continue stable
payment of dividend and also return to shareholders based on our profit and also share
buyback policy.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

Do we have any other questions?

FINAL

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Sasaki from Mitsubishi UFJ. I have two questions. Number one, is there a possibility for you
to increase dividend and when? Second question, we talked about autonomous cars. You
have a new product for Nissan LEAF, I think. Can you talk about the drivers distance? I think
that's what you are reflecting into your products. So how are you going to calculate this
going forward, the driving distance? How many times you stepped on the brakes? And
what are some of your directions going forward?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Regarding increase in dividend. In our capital policy, the target rating is AA, for profitability
ROE 7% and total return yield excluding life insurance EV 50%. This is what we would like
to return over the mid-term that is what it says in the mid-term plan capital policy for
shareholder returns. Currently, JPY60 is the stable amount that we'd like to pay per share,
per year. And if we have more profit that exceeds this level, we would like to do share
buybacks. Therefore, for FY15 -- up until FY15, the profit guidance that we have, we
believe will be achieved basically in line with the plan.
We have a growing certainty for this as we speak today. So JPY60 per year is one policy
and on top of that share buybacks, if more. This is the policy that we have no plans to
change as of today. Hope this answers your question regarding the dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

And to your second question about the data, how do we get -- reflect the data to our
policies. Currently big data really is something that we need to work on, how do we
acquire a data from big data to reflect some of the fruits of that onto our products or
operations? The Nissan LEAF product has a few stages, one of the stages is to, how do
we collect the data? And the next stage is, how do we analyze the collected data? And
the third stage is, how are we going to reflect it on to what? These are the items that we
are considering right now. So for Nissan LEAF we're -- Nissan LEAF is one method to
collect data and there is still limit to the amount of data that we can get from Nissan LEAF
alone.
So we would like to consider various other methods that will allow us to gather more data
through various other channels. So we're trying to expand the channels for data inflow.
Also there is the premium payment, how do we pay, when you have -- what kind of
damage, when? We call this an algorithm analysis that determines the amount of benefits
that we pay out. Where and how do reflected into our operational numbers? It's really the
specific discussions that we're having.
We cannot tell you what we're going to do after Nissan LEAF or what we're going to use
and where we're going to reflect those numbers? It's not like we have those answers
right now. But this is -- the idea is that we have to start off on this endeavor related to the
autonomous cars that you talked about, how we should reflect that into that area as well,
is another part of our considerations.
Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Any other questions?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

My name is Majima, Tokai Tokyo. In the short-term Q1, Q2 allocation of the temporary
expenditure that was explained and after the hike of consumption tax 5% at the end of
March and 8% June, so there should be a great impact on Q1 or it might not have any
impact. So how much is the impact or the hike of consumption tax per quarter and could
you please present that if you have any impact? And the first one is Canopius, they have
insurance policies for sports cars and so on in the UK. And they have flooding situation in
that country. And can you achieve the target even though they have this flooding situation
in UK?

A - Nobuhiro Kojima

{BIO 18839538 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the hike of the consumption tax. First of all, in FY13, in the end of the fiscal year, we
have to allocate the reserves taking into consideration the consumption hike of 5% to 8%,
so we include the impact. And your question was about every quarter. Actually, the timing
of half a year is the timing for the revision for us. And after April, we already included the
impact of the hike, the new consumption tax rate is already included. So if the revision
does not have address exchange the impact would not be so big.
The management of the company is very solid and the underwriting capability is very high
that's one of the reasons why we have acquired this company. And when we consider the
previous year's settlement, we have to, of course, take into consideration the flooding
situation to review the situations. So our forecast already includes the flooding situation.
Thank you very much.

A - Unidentified Speaker
As for the consumption tax, 1% makes about 11 billion before tax and after tax about 8
billion. So you asked for every quarter. Well, unless we have the mid-term accounting -well, because Q1 and Q3 we have abbreviated method, so after tax that's about 8 billion
and before tax it's 11 billion and that should be an impact roughly. So after the mid-term,
sorry, after the mid-year, of course, we're going to calculate officially, we have this
abbreviated method for the benefit calculation. So that might be unofficial [ph] number.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

And now it's time to close. With this, we'd like to close the meeting. Thank you very much.

Page 19 of 20



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2014-05-26

Page 20 of 20

