Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Barry Lee Stowe
Jackie Hunt
Michael Andrew Wells
Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou
Tidjane Thiam
Unverified Participant

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi
Blair T. Stewart
Gordon Aitken
Greig N. Paterson
Jon M. Hocking
Lance M. Burbidge

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver G. Steel

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Unverified Participant
Good morning, and thank you for coming to our Investor Presentation this morning. You
would have seen the announcement we made this morning alongside our annual results
for 2014 and the announcement made by Credit Suisse.
Of course, the board is sorry to lose Tidjane as Group CEO, but understands his desire to
take on a new challenge, the new environment after seven very successful years at
Prudential. He's made an outstanding contribution to the success of this group in recent
years and that can be seen in today's results.
We are fortunate to have a strong management team beyond Tidjane. The board also
has a rigorous succession planning process and that is now being implemented. We
believe we'll be in a position to announce the name of the new CEO very shortly. You will,
of course, be aware that appointment is subject to regulatory approval. That's all I'm
going to say. I'm going to pass it over to Tidjane. Thank you very much.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Page 1 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you, Paul (1:09). Good morning to all of you. Thank
you for being here. Those of you who know me know that I will not miss an opportunity to
point out that I am – today is kind of (1:20) because we're one day after Arsenal beat Man
U at Old Trafford, So, that puts me in a – yes, thank you – particularly, good mood. So – it
doesn't happen very often.
So, anyway, okay, good morning. We had a broad-based performance in 2014, a really
good year. And if you look back to what we said in 2010, growth and cash, I believe it was
fifth consecutive year where we have delivered on both commitments. So, what I intend
to do is, in my section, is to give you the highlights of our financial performance in 2014.
I will also cover kind of the usual BU by BU overview. Then Nic will take you through the
financials and I will come back towards the end for the outlook before we move to Q&A.
So if we begin with 2014 annual performance, you've seen the numbers this morning. We
have made good progress across our key metrics and if you start with growth and IFRS
profits, IFRS profits are up 14%, and very fundamentally over five years doubled for the
group as a whole, but also doubled for each of Asia, M&G and Jackson, which is really
underlying this as good performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

New business profit, which is something we've always looked at more closely (02:50) is
up 10% at £2.126 million (sic) [£2.126 billion] (2:53) and we are satisfied with this number,
given the low interest rate environment and long-term interest rates going down in 2014,
and also, as you know, the fact that in Jackson, we have a sales cap, a self-imposed sales
cap. So in that context to grow at 10% is very pleasing.
And the third thing we encourage you to follow and judge us on is really cash through free
surplus generation, which is part of our 2017 objectives and which is up 9% at £2.5 billion,
it's a number I'll come back to. For me it's fundamental that this group, in the way it
operates, generate in excess of £2 billion every year and that is core to our strategy.
And finally, we've been able to increase tangible returns for shareholders, by that I mean
the dividend, which is rebate upwards by 10% to be at 36.93 pence. That said, we
reiterate that our dividend policy hasn't changed. I'm sure we'll come back to it in Q&A,
but it's always the same. And this rebate has only been decided by the board because of
the strong operating and financial performance of the group.
And if we move to capital, whether it's on the almost on its last year, the old regime, the
IGD regime, we have a cover of 2.4 times at £4.7 billion after a number of, if you wish, IGD
costly moves in 2014 that Nic will come back to from the SCB deal to repaying the hybrid
debt.
And on an economic basis, on the same basis we presented it last year, we're on 218%
solvency from 257%. We believe that these numbers are the translation of our strategy,
which has been unchanged. You've heard us say the same things for a number of years,
and we believe this strategy is robust, works across the cycle and delivers good result and

Page 2 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

2014 is a good illustration of that because if you look at the backdrop of 2014, it hasn't
been without its challenges.
Certainly, my years here I don't remember a quiet year. And we can go around the globe
from challenges in Asia from the Umbrella Movement, the Hong Kong protest, which
worried a lot of you; the coup in Thailand; Indonesia, we were flooding at the beginning of
the year, the election that had a huge impact on consumer confidence in Indonesia; you
have the FX depreciation across the board in excess of 20%, these are very significant
market moves.
You've heard in Europe, closer to us here, everybody has kind of forgotten it but the
Scottish independence vote and the uncertainty induced by that. You've had the budget
reform and the disruption to the annuity market. And you have more global trends or
phenomena such as the commodity price fall or the oil price fall which has an impact in the
markets we operate. In the question of the normalization of the U.S. monetary policy with
the end of QE3 or in Europe, in the Eurozone, a new QE and lower interest rate in their
fight against deflation, or the threat of deflation, and as Mr. Draghi would say to avoid an
embedding in the expectations of deflation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it was not an easy year. And this makes us really happy with the numbers we have
been able to deliver. Our job as management is to try and deliver for our shareholders
good results, even against headwinds. And if you look at the progression by BU in 2014,
you see that Asia IFRS is up 17%, and 8 of the 11 business units in Asia had double digit
growth in IFRS profits.
If you look at the U.S., so again, a really bright spot with a record remittance, $680 million
or £415 million to put this in context in 2006, the total remittances from all of the
businesses in the U.K. – sorry, to Prudential into the U.K. into the center were £99 million.
So that gives you a sense of the scale of the transformation and the performance of
Jackson there. So 2014 was 40% up on 2013, and 2013 was 17.5% up on 2012. So it's been
really over the three years a very, very strong progression. And you know that we believe
that the proof of the pudding is in the eating and cash is the ultimate measure of
everything we do, and by that metric we've done very well.
If you look closer to home here in the U.K., PruFund, which is really our with-profit product,
very strong progression in 2014, plus 27% in funds under management to reach almost
£12 billion, £11.6 billion for a single fund in the retail U.K. market. That's an amazing
performance.
And M&G up 13% in profits at £446 million for M&G. Again, if you look back a few years
ago you'd see that the entire Prudential used to make £600 million or £700 million in
whole. So M&G has become almost as big as Pru used to be. So this validates, we believe
our strategy and I think it's the illustration that the strategy we put in place works.
One thing we've talked to you about for many, many years, I remember when we started
doing this it was just one bar in 2008, the first time we did this disclosure, which is the
sources of earnings. And we've told you that we would work hard to correlate to the
Page 3 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

extent possible our earnings from interest rates and that's what we've done. With the
emphasis on fee income, the emphasis on insurance income, the sum of the two have
gone from about 50% of the initial 2008 total to 74% today. And the total bar has more
than doubled in the process, so kind of 19% over eight years for the two together is very,
very significant. And it has really transformed the nature of our earnings.
We don't really like spread income because we think that it is risky, often underlying that
our product and interest rate guarantees and guaranteed returns, it's capital intensive,
and it's very exposed to economic cycle and the interest rate cycle, and we deemphasized it. And actually when we write that whole business, as you know, we tend to
believe in the with-profit fund or we have a comfortable capital buffer.
So this is really underlying, if you have a valuation multiple, spread income is on the
relatively low multiple and a lot of the re-rating of the stock has been in the ability to
deliver this profile and this change in profile which makes us believe we're quite different
from most companies in this sector, which have anywhere from 50% to 80% of their
earnings from spread income.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the lucky part is that we've done that at a time when interest rates went to one of
the lowest points ever. So it certainly has increased the distance between us and others.
But it's really this consistency in the direction of the journey and in performance that
supports our confidence that we are going to achieve our 2017 objectives. Think about it
as a 10 half-year period, we've done four half-year period. So we're not even half way but
we think that we are tracking well and it's encouraging.
So moving on to something, I know which is on your mind, which is really capital and
solvency. But first I got to have to say is that the first source of capital in business is to
operate profitably and in a cash annuity manner. All our efforts in terms of running the
company with strategy of a business model is to make sure that we deliver every year
positive cash generation, it's at £2.5 billion in 2014.
We actually believe that that will allow us to grow our way out of any capital challenge
because when you're progressing at that pace – and again, Nic will give you more color on
that – you can't really get in solvency trouble. And we believe that whatever lens you
adopt for solvency, that strength will come through.
Cash is cash is cash is capital and that's a fact. So we have designed the model. And that's
why we're so relaxed about it and quite confident because we know we can operate at
that level and think that there's plenty of upside there. This is with interest rates, longterm interest rate at very, very low level. We can generate £2.5 billion of cash.
So Solvency II is an interesting lever. You know that we have had reservations about it. We
have always been very clear about what they are. Essentially two, one is around market
consistency as a way to assess assets and liabilities across the economic cycle. We do not
think it works. I think we were vindicated in 2008, 2009. We don't think it works at all times
in the cycle. There are moments where it's fine, but there are moments where it's not.
And the other one is really when you're value at risk, which we believe is incorrect
Page 4 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

because insurance companies are resolved as the liabilities come due, and that's at one
year. And the one year mix, which is of the banking origin, is inappropriate and inadequate
in the case of long-term liabilities like we have in the life sector.
So, those are the structural deficiencies of the framework and you see that a lot of the
discussion and lobbying has been actually on mitigating, either through countercyclical
buffers or (12:29). It is to mitigate at the extreme of the cycle, the impact of that approach.
So, accepting that, we're also very pragmatic even if we were not convinced that it's the
right way to look at it. It is going to be implemented on January 1, 2016. So, we do not
have a choice, but we believe even taking into account that, there's still some areas under
discussion with the regulator. And I have to stress it's a positive and a constructive dialog.
We're very happy with the engagement we have with the regulation on that, and there
are mainly two issues there.

Bloomberg Transcript

One is around the recognition of the Asian surpluses. We are a very Asian company. We
produce very significant material surpluses in Asia, and the regulator must make a
determination on how much of the surpluses he's going to recognize. Our view on that,
again, from an economic value perspective is that those surpluses exist, okay, in absolute
terms, and they belong 100% to the shareholder. But the debate on how much of it is
recognized here in London is not economic, and it won't change the economic reality.
So, we have said that there is a discussion on that, but we're saying it doesn't affect the
underlying economies. Those surpluses are sitting where they're sitting, and they are
accruing to the shareholder through a share price. You can see it in the share price. You
can see it in the valuation of our Asian business, those surpluses are real. And we have
discussion on the calibration of things like credit and longevity and they're ongoing. But
the message, the key takeaway on that is we're running a highly capital-generative
strategy and business model. And we think that the result will be manageable. That's the
word we want to put to you: manageable, i.e. without major consequences on the way we
run the group, our strategy or our ability to reward our shareholders.
And Nic will come back to that and give you the sensitivities with more numbers. So, that's
what you see at the group level. So if we move to the business units, it's another chart
that you've seen over the years. It is a quarter-by-quarter sales in Asia. Again, when we
started it, there aren't many bars and now quite a few. We've had 20 quarters of growth
above 16% in Asia, that's five years.
And for us, that's really the power of the story, and it demonstrates very much the power
of a platform and the diversification we have in Asia because if we wanted to make a very
busy chart, we could've put all the challenges we've had over the years from the Indian
market in 2010, from trends in Korea, from Indonesia this year. I don't remember in my
time in the company a quiet year in Asia. And Barry and his team have been able to
deliver for a straight line through that. And the investors' diversification and the quality of
the platform and the quality of the distribution force, which has allowed us if you look at
the numbers to double basically the sales between 2009 and 2014, and the profit in the
center, have effectively more than doubled.

Page 5 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

What we're seeing on Q4, you can see the size of that bar, it's in a very strong rebound in
our numbers in Q4 in Asia. And I think that came through in the results you saw this
morning. And I'd like to give you a bit of color on how it happened, looking at some of our
key markets starting with Hong Kong. Remember, many discussions about Hong Kong
being a mature market, well, it was up 39% for us this year, year-on-year, and more
pleasing inside that is that H&P has taken off, or Health & Protection. It's something we've
always wanted to do. You know that our profile in Hong Kong is very affected by the fact
that we have a with-profit fund, profit emergence is slow and we've always had as an
ambition to inject more Health & Protection in there.
Barry has launched two products; it's PRUmyhealth crisis multi-care and PRUmyhealth crisis
lifelong care which have been very successful. And actually H&P sales were up 56% yearon-year in Hong Kong. When you see the size of Hong Kong, that's our largest business,
to grow your largest business by 39% and 56% is quite an achievement.
Singapore, we have a very large business in Asia, did well. Agency APE is up 16%. You
know that actually the market grew less than that, so we've gained market share in
Singapore. And within that, SCB had a very good year also up 12%. So we're again pleased
with the performance in Singapore. She's growing very nicely, double digit and very
profitable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And Indonesia, always a lot of focus on that country; we've told you things as they were as
the year unfolded Q1, Q2, Q3. Q4 was very strong. Q4 was up 53% on Q3, and we see
absolutely Indonesia returning to growth. And I'm sure we'll have a chance to talk about it
at Q1 in May, but we're confident.
So those are the three biggest units, but we also have a range of smaller units that are
coming up. China, China has made it on those charts because growing at 30% per annum
for a number of years will take you to a good place. IFRS was up 30%, APE was up 35%.
And again here, the H&P, Health & Protection theme is there with Health & Protection very
helpful for bottom line, up 43% in China. The interesting thing about China is we disclosed
only 49%.
Moving, if you put China on 100% basis, it's my pleasure to tell you that China is our fourth
largest business in Asia, so it's taken over Malaysia, a major development for us and is
continuing to grow very, very strongly. So the patience I think we have displayed there by
not selling down and continuing is starting to pay off and to have a material presence on
our scale in China and that's going to continue to grow.
The Philippines, it's kind of our little darling in the region, you know that. It's a great
economy. Over the next three years, they have the best expected economic growth, GDP
growth in Asia. Earnings up 75% and we focused on growing our regular premium and
Health & Protection sales in that market (18:41). 30% up regular premiums, great promise
of future profit, and Health & Protection up 36% again.
And finally, Thailand; we had our first full year with Standard Chartered, so 12 months with
Standard Chartered, APE is up 36% and IFRS earnings up 10%.
Page 6 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

So here is the (19:00) first division doing very well and the second division below, smaller
but growing faster and catching up, and we always believe that in the end, we all going to
look in first division we hope.
Maybe just a zoom on SCB, because it's topic of interest; we spent shareholder money to
get the distributions. It's very important for us but we produce the returns and year-onyear progression second half, second half, 2013, 2014 to 33% and that is really broadbased, very strong performance in Hong Kong and elsewhere in Asia. The new markets
we activated. So, when you talk about activating, we see this as a new relationship. We're
very, very pleased with this progression.

Bloomberg Transcript

But Asia is not just life, although I've said up to here it's about the life. We said, it's also
Eastspring. And Eastspring has had simply its best year ever, £5.4 billion of net flows, total
net flows. That's almost on the scale of M&G, it's remarkable. And you see the funds
under management went up 28%, £77 billion, and behind revenue profit, growing up 32%
to a very – getting close to £100 million, which is kind of material for our business we built
over the years and started from nothing. Actually, Eastspring is now the largest onshore
retail asset manager in Asia, I'm quite proud of that. And again, Barry, Guy (20:22) and the
team have done a great job. Great job on this.
Now, we always said on the (20:27) don't get carried away. We know it's a cyclical and
volatile business, and it's very much driven by markets. So we always have a word of
caution there against projecting those trends as they are. But this year, a very, very
pleasing results. So if you look at Asia as a whole, again, IFRS profit is comfortably above
£1 billion, £1.1 billion. Again, a few years ago, the group was making £600 million or £700
million as a whole. So that's again, a remarkable transformation of Asia and cash
generative, with almost £600 million of cash, £592 million, up 15%.
So a really good year, strong delivery in 2014 in Asia in the challenging context. I'll remind
you all, these numbers were produced against all the headwinds we talked about in the
region last year. Disciplined execution by the team, high-quality Pan-Asian platform, and
we believe the business remain well-positioned to deliver long-term, high-quality
profitable growth.
So moving on to the U.S.; I'll go back to a chart we've been using now for two years or
three years, but the good thing is that we're building more data points. The evolution of
the VA sales in the U.S. has been nothing short of remarkable, very, very strong. We went
from kind of $6 billion six years ago to about $23 billion this year. But the true story is
inside those numbers. If you look at the gray chart, it should come first. These are the
GMWB. So, the VAs with living benefits, we keep emphasizing that actually since 2011, they
have been flat, and thus deliberate. They're moving up and down $15.1 billion in 2014, but
this is a point in which we're a bit sensitive. We believe that we're controlling that volume
of sales. Mike and his team are well in control of that. They're very proactive about it. We
have a budget every year and we deliver on that budget, and we think that's absolutely
supported by the data.

Page 7 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

But we have an interest on that, we've been innovative. They created Elite Access, Elite
Access $5.1 billion in this year of sales. Since it started three years ago, we've sold now $10
billion of this product. And I said that they created a market because – I think VA is the
number four product on a standalone basis across the U.S. market. Elite Access alone, that
is a commercial success. That is a testament of product development skills and the
distribution power that Jackson has.
And finally, you have the VAs without any living benefits in dark blue. So, we've been able
to pull the streak of combining controlled risk consumption. We've a continued increase in
the top line investment price of the economic performance of the business and if you
look at the non-living benefits, VA has gone from 11% three years ago to 34% now. And
that's a very, very good development. It's also as a whole a more capital efficient niche
and you will see that when Nic talk about the new business stream.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, low interest rate, of course, is always the discussions with U.S. 10-year Treasury in blue
and we put that against the fee income, and again there, if you look at the 2006
numbers, £177 million of fee income, £1.4 billion, this year, it's a remarkable performance,
and the fact that we have driven both the volume and the product characteristics
generated this type of profitability in the low interest rates environment. It's one of the
things that give us confidence that this is a robust business model that can survive and do
well across the cycle, and no better proof of that than my favorite chart, the cash
remittances.
From Jackson, there's nowhere to hide. (24:12), we've told you charges on the cash
generation. These transfers have been made with a strong RBC. We have 450%, 456% at
the end of the year, 450%, and $680 million of transfer. I don't have anything to add to
that. It's a remarkable performance.
Moving on to the U.K., Jackie and the team have had a challenging year. You've seen what
happened in the market with the budget announcement. So in that context, we are
already pleased with the performance IFRS profit of 7%, and we're putting a great deal of
in-force because it's obvious and you'll notice that we just repeat the importance of inforce in the profitability of a company like ours. Yes, there is a lot of focus on new
business, and that's what's generated – commenced in the call, but really, most of the
value is emerging the in-force. And besides, it's very good at doing that. And that only
happens as a result of good discipline, cost discipline, (25:12) management, lapse
management. That's what drives these numbers. So we're very pleased with that £614
million.
And at the top, you see what happened, the decrease in the retail annuities profitability
from £110 million to £57 million, and the very strong activity we've had in bulks. And I will
again insist one didn't drive the other. This was just a very good year for bulks. If the
conditions for writing profitable business had not been there, we would not have written
that business. We didn't write it to make up for fallen annuities. We wrote it because
there's very strong demand for bulks. And Jackie has one of the best teams in the
market. And there are customers who will pay a premium for the safety of Prudential and
for the name of Prudential. And that's where we like to play in very big schemes but who'll

Page 8 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

understand the value we're buying and are willing to pay a premium price at the midst of
hurdle rates in terms of capital allocation and trade levers. So it's been a really good story.

FINAL

The other bright spot really in the U.K. is the with-profit. I know we keep surprising by
talking up the with-profit but we have no reason not to talk it up. If you look at the – what
does it do? Delivers controlled volatility and returns. That's that red curve and that red
curve is against the fund comparator that's relevant and you can see the outperformance.
Well performed at FTSE. And of course, investment performance in the retail market drive
net flows. Our net flows have been very, very strong. We were just two years before at
£7.5 billion. We're at £11.6 billion. We did plus 21% followed by plus 27%. And this is where
we think actually the reform is driving increased saving. I think that is linked to the
environment where consumers are actually incentivized to save more. And we have a
great engine, a great vehicle for savings that we wrap in different wrappers. But
fundamentally, delivers good investment performance and therefore attracts flows.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that's part of our answer to the regulatory change for which we're preparing in the U.K.
If you look at the retirement space, we've been able to come up with a drawdown that
has been launched in December very successfully. We're also developing a more flexible
investment product, giving more choice to the investors and is doing very well.
If you move to the savings space, we told you we would develop PruFund ISA, so put the
with-profit in ISA. That has been done, and the indications we have from the business is
about – the applications are very, very strong, ahead of April 6. We're only going to put it
through after April 6, it's very strong. Very strong pipeline and Jackie can give you more
color on that.
So, stronger presence in the retirement space, better savings offering, and stronger
distribution. We have now developed a bond that can go on platforms, and we are
actively promoting it to place on more platforms. And that also contributes to the
increasing sales. Actually, if you look at the proof of the increase, quite a bit of that is
increased distribution. We just have been able to put the product on the shelves of more
distributors with very good results.
So the U.K. for us is always – U.K. life, but also M&G. Look at M&G, this chart is familiar. If
you look at the – in the red, it's the external funds under management. We went from £70
billion in 2009 to £137 million in 2014. So it's more than doubled. And in the same time,
Michael and his team have grown profits. You can see on the next slide progression in
IFRS profits have more than doubled between 2009 and 2014 to arrive above £400
million.
So bringing all this together, just want to look at our three usual metrics: IFRS, NBP and
cash but at a group level. We are pleased with this performance. It's been over a long
period of time, I think which is really the main thing because – specifically one year or two
years, but this is now can be called a long track record of very strong performance. Profits
have tripled since 2006. IFRS profit, £1 billion to £3 billion, and we insist again on the

Page 9 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

consistency of the strategy. We've been quite boringly telling you about the same things,
and I'm afraid we will continue to do so.
New business profit, same thing, more than three times increased between 2006 and
2014. And finally, free surplus generation which we have really emphasized the cash
generation from kind of £0.5 billion to £2.5 billion, which we believe is a very natural
evolution. We start with NBP, goes into IFRS, goes into cash if you are disciplined and if you
execute well, which is what we believe we have done.
So with this, I'm going to stop, and I'm going to let Nic take you through the financials.

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Tidjane, and good morning, everyone. In my presentation, I will provide
you with a detailed look at the drivers of our performance in 2014, and give you an update
on our capital position and on our balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

So starting with the – can we go back, starting with the financial headlines, the group
delivered a strong performance in 2014, with good progress across all of our key growth
and cash financial measures. We achieved this against the backdrop of lower global yields
and continued volatility in currency markets. Operationally, we faced a number of countryspecific challenges in Asia, and unprecedented levels of regulatory change in the U.K. life
market.
Despite these headwinds, and after allowing for the currency translation effects, IFRS
operating profit increased by 14% to £3.2 billion. Free surplus generation was up 9% to
£2.6 billion. Post-tax new business profit grows 10% to £2.1 billion, and embedded value
operating profit also on a post-tax basis grows by 4% at £4.1 billion.
Both new business profit and EEV operating profit were adversely impacted by the
decline in yields, absent which, the year-on-year improvement in these performance
metrics would have been 14% for NBP and 11% for EEV total. Foreign exchange has been a
feature in our headline results during 2014 when reporting the performance of those
businesses that generate earnings in U.S. dollars or in various Asian currencies.
Collectively, these businesses now produce most of our earnings.
The effect of reporting these overseas results using the stronger average sterling rate
during 2014 is shown in the red bars on the right. As we have said before, this effect is
purely translational because in all cases, we run local currency businesses, where assets
and liabilities are currency-matched and we have no transactional cross-currency
exposures.
So, in line with the approach that I adopted at the interims and for the purposes of
today's presentation, I have re-expressed the 2013 comparatives on a constant exchange
rate basis. This slide summarizes the effect of this retranslation on the four financial
metrics that I'm about to cover with the impact coming from Jackson shown in dark blue

Page 10 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

and that coming from Asia in light blue. With this covered, we can now focus on the
underlying drivers of our performance.
Turning to the contribution of our four businesses to each financial metric, you can see on
this slide that the improvement in performance was broad-based. Asia delivered an
excellent trading performance with strong growth across all measures, particularly IFRS
operating profit and free surplus generation, the two metrics that form part of our 2017
financial objectives. In the U.S., the benefits of our disciplined approach to managing the
balance between growth risk and capital were evident in the strong improvement in the
IFRS operating profit and free surplus generation. The two EEV-based metrics also
improved despite the self-imposed sales cap on certain products and the drag from
lower U.S. Treasury rates.
In a year of considerable market disruption, our U.K. life business delivered a resilient
performance achieving the highest levels of new business and IFRS operating profits since
the 2008 financial crisis. Finally, M&G reached new highs for both funds under
management and IFRS profit. So this 2014 broad-based delivery demonstrate Prudential's
ongoing ability to generate both growth and cash a distinctive feature within our industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to look at each financial measure in more detail. Starting with IFRS, total
operating profit increased by 14% to £3,186 million, which represents a 26% return on
equity. As you can see on the right, most of this increase came from our preferred
sources of fee income and insurance or technical income.
The rise in fee income was driven by growth in Jackson separate account balances as well
as the increase in funds managed by M&G and Eastspring. The improvement in technical
income reflected another year of strong Health & Protection growth in Asia and a higher
contribution from REALIC. Spread income grew at a more modest rate as we seek to
reduce the weight of this interest rate sensitive source.
Operating costs have also increased but at a lower run rate than total income,
demonstrating once again the operational leverage in our business. So in 2014, we
increased both the scale and the quality of our IFRS operating profit. Turning to the IFRS
results for each business, and starting with Asia, our overall profit was up 17%, with strong
underlying performances in both life and asset management. Higher life profits of £1,050
million reflected the increase in the scale of our operations across the region, and our
focus on regular premium protection-oriented solutions that address the needs of Asia's
growing middle class.
We measured the scale of our business by reference to policyholder liabilities, which as
you can see in the top right hand box, increased by 20% to £26.4 billion, as we added
another cohort of regular premium new business. As a result, total income across the
region grew by 10%, which outpaced the 6% increase in costs.
So the dynamic that we have talked about before or that in high quality, new regular
premium business through a large profitable and sticky existing book all processed
through a scalable platform remains a powerful underpin of our earnings momentum in
Page 11 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

Asia. In 2014, Eastspring attracted a record £10.4 billion of third-party and internal-led
flows, which together with positive market movements drove assets under management
to a new high of £77 billion.
Fee income increased by 20% in line with the growth in average AUM, and with costs
rising at a slower rate, the overall IFRS profit was 32% higher at £90 million. In the U.S.,
IFRS profit was up strongly at £1,443 million driven by 21% increase in Jackson's life result.
The improvement in Jackson's profitability has been accompanied by a positive evolution
in the sources of earnings with fee and technical income growing strongly as shown in the
chart in the top right.
Spread income is only marginally up on last year with reductions in crediting rates broadly
matching the decline in yields. As the headroom between current and guaranteed
crediting rate levels is now small, a lower for longer interest rate scenario will see spread
margin decline towards the 200-basis point level in the next two years or three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Technical income benefited from an increased contribution from REALIC of £216 million,
up from £178 million in the previous year. REALIC is now equivalent to 1/3 of the technical
income block shown in blue. Jackson's fastest growing source was fee income, driven by
the growth in separate account balances, which is illustrated in the chart in the bottom
right. As you can see, the increase to $127 billion was mainly due to $12 billion of business
inflows. Elite Access contributed $5 billion of this $12 billion and represented just over 8%
of the separate account assets at the end of 2014. Finally, the profit from other U.S.
operations is lower at $12 million, reflecting the fee refunds in Curian, which recovered at
the interest.
Turning to the U.K., the improved performance was driven by the life result, which
increased by 7% to £752 million. This result was underpinned by resilient contribution from
our two core sources of with-profits and in-force annuities, which were not impacted by
the U.K. market reforms. Alongside the rest of the market, sales of new individual
annuities declined, reducing the contribution to profits from £110 million to £57 million. Box
written on attractive economics added £105 million to the total.
We remain selective in our approach to the bulk annuity market, and we will only write the
business where returns are sufficiently attractive. So as we move forward, we think about
the profitability of our U.K. life business in three blocks. The first relates to the season and
relatively stable results from with-profits and in-force annuities. The second relates to the
contribution from new individual annuity business whose size will ultimately depend on
how consumer demand for this product develops after April this year.
And the third represents the profit from bulks, which will vary depending on the ongoing
availability of sufficiently attractive deals.
Staying in the U.K. and turning to M&G, IFRS operating profit was 13% higher at £446
million, reflecting the growing scale of the business. As you can see in the box in the
bottom right, assets under management increased to £264 billion driven by strong inflows

Page 12 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

and positive market movements. Within this total, retail AUM grew faster at 11%, reflecting
M&G's success in Europe where it secured record net inflows of £8.1 billion in 2014.
The higher overall level of AUM and the positive shift in business mix towards retail drove
an 11% increase in fee income, which you can see in the box in the top right. M&G
continues to invest in people and infrastructure to support the growth that we have seen
in recent years. In 2014, the rise in costs was outpaced by the higher level of fee
revenues, driving a small improvement in the cost/income ratio to 58%.
The rate of investment will continue for the foreseeable future which will mean that this
ratio could rise in the coming years. I will now move to free surplus, the primary measure
of cash generation of our business. As you can see on the left, free surplus generation
after investment in new business, increased by 9% to £2,579 million. The key component
of this was the return from life in-force book, which was 19% higher at £2,276 million. This
strong increase reflects the dynamic of adding another cohort of high return fast payback
new business on an already sizable back book.

Bloomberg Transcript

The £314 million positive experience result reflected our ongoing success in managing the
existing business for value. As I said last year, the comparative benefited from higher
assumption changes producing a result which was well above the run rate that we typically
achieved.
In the top right, you can see that all three businesses are making significant contributions
to the life in-force total, with a strong uplift in both Asia and Jackson, with a high return
fast payback dynamic is most evident. The U.K. free surplus is lower, as 2013 included £78
million of positive longevity assumption change, which has not recurred.
Total new business strain was broadly unchanged at £606 million. As you can see on the
bottom right, Asia strain increased, reflecting higher sales volumes and changes in country
mix.
In the U.S., strain benefited from proactive actions on commissions, and favorable
changes in product mix, higher Elite Access for example.
The U.K.'s total new business strain includes £31 million for bulks, which represents part of
the extra investment that we said we would make in the U.K.
This next slide shows how the 2014 free surplus flow has impacted free surplus stock on
the left, and cash on the right. As you can see in the chart on the left, after deducting
remittances, the overall stock is up at around £5 billion. However, as our business is now
bigger, the level of cover that this stock represents is broadly unchanged. Once again,
remittances have been strong across all businesses. The impact of sterling strength
against Asian currencies is now beginning to come through in the remittances from Asia
and you should expect this effect to carry through into 2015.

Page 13 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

Jackson's record remittance of £415 million was a result of its disciplined approach to
managing the balance between growth, value risk and capital. M&G's higher remittance
reflected growth in its overall earnings base.
As previously flagged, the small decline in the U.K. remittance is due to the extra
investment that we are making in response to the U.K. market reforms, which will continue
through to 2016. As you're aware, remittances from our U.K. life businesses are subject to
regulatory approval and notwithstanding the capital generative nature of this business, I
anticipate that securing approval will be more protracted this year as we transition from
the old, from the existing regulatory regime into the new one.
Finally, on the right, you can see that after paying a high dividend funding the upfront fee
for the renewal of the SCB distribution agreement and repaying $750 million dollardenominated hybrid debt, we closed the year with £1.5 billion of central cash, a very
comfortable position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before leaving this topic, I wanted to re-emphasize the reliability of our future cash
generation by reference to the updated undiscounted (45:00) monetization profile of our
life businesses. The dark blue bars in the top chart represent the end 2013 life in-force
book monetization profile as we reported a year ago.
The light blue bars represent the updated profile of this block one year later. These bars
are now higher than before reflecting positive experience and the effect of the stronger
U.S. dollar, which, taken together have offset the impact of lower yields between the two
periods. When we add the cash flows from the 2014 new business cohort shown in red,
we have another profile that is higher than the one we started with, evidence of the
powerful capital velocity capital dynamics of our business.
We remain on track to deliver the £10 billion cumulative free surplus objective after
financing new business over the 2014 to 2017 full year period. I will now briefly cover the
EEV results before turning to capital.
On this basis, total operating profit was 4% higher at £4,096 million, equivalent to a return
on embedded value of 16%. As shown on the left, the result is driven by combined life
operations where profits were up at £4,174 million, led by Asia. The bar charts, the bar
chart on the right analyzes the contribution to the life totaled from new business, which
was up 10%; and from in-force, which was flat. As I mentioned at the start of my
presentation, the decline in long-term yields during 2014 dampened both new and inforce EEV results by an estimated £90 million up on new business and £187 million for inforce.
And this effect masks a stronger positive underlying trend. Experience profits shown in the
breakout box on the right remain the prominent feature of our results totaling £470
million, while assumption changes were also positive at £138 million. The fact that
experience and assumption changes are positive in each of our three main businesses
confirms the high quality of our franchise.

Page 14 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

New business profit shown on this next slide increased by 10% to £2,126 million, with all
three businesses posting year-on-year improvements. You can see in the table on the
right that this improvement is primarily driven by sales growth offset by the adverse
impact of lower interest rates.
All three regions continue to write new business at very attractive internal rates of return
of more than 20% and show payback periods. In Asia, new business profit increased by
13% to £1,162 million driven by the higher volumes from our expanding distribution
capability. Our NBP performance in the region is both robust and resilient, underpinned by
a 16% NBP increase from our Southeast Asia sweet spot, and a 19% NBP increase from
Health & Protection.
In the U.S., new business profit increased in line with sales, product and pricing actions
have defended our new business economics, which remain close to all-time highs despite
the drag from the lower interest rate environment. U.K. NBP was 14% higher at £270
million supported by a strong contribution from bulk transactions in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Retail NBP was 23% lower due to a reduction in individual annuity sales mitigated in part
by higher NBP contribution from with-profit bonds. Moving now to the rest of the profit
and loss account, which is summarized here for both reporting basis, in 2014, the impact
of higher equity markets and lower long-term yields produced a number of offsetting
effects within the IFRS investment variants line which came to a negative £0.3 billion.
The most significant component in this line relates to Jackson for the reasons that we
have set out previously, the different accounting treatment on the movement in the
valuation of derivatives and the corresponding guarantee reserves produce a net
negative result. This has been a recurring feature of Jackson's results on this basis,
reflecting in perfect IFRS accounting. We continue to hedge the risks of this business on
an economic basis and accept the accounting volatility that ensues.
As we move down the table, we see a positive £0.6 billion effect, reflecting unrealized
gains on Jackson's fixed income securities following the decline in yields. The stronger
U.S. dollar at the end of 2014 also contributed positively. So, after the payment of
dividends, total IFRS net assets increased to £11.6 billion, up 22% in the year.
On an EEV basis which does not suffer from the same limitations as IFRS in reflecting the
full economic substance of market movements on our U.S. business, the overall
investment variances were positive £0.2 billion. Therefore, under this basis, the strength
of our operating performance, together with positive foreign exchange effects, net of
dividends produced a 17% increase in EEV net assets to £29.2 billion, equivalent on uplift
of 165 pence to 1,136 pence per share.
The next few slides cover the group's economic capital position and our preparation for
the implementation of Solvency II. We're now less than a year away from having to adopt
Solvency II. However, there remain significant areas where quality clarifications are
needed. We intend to apply for a full internal model in June, and we will seek to
incorporate Jackson using the equivalence provisions. PRA internal model review,
Page 15 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

feedback and final approval is not expected until later this year which means that we will
only have full clarity on this topic once this entire process is completed.

FINAL

We have updated the group's economic capital results which are based on outputs from
our internal model. Other than replacing the liquidity premium approach with the matching
adjustment principles for U.K. annuities, these results have been produced using broadly
the same methodology and assumptions as last year.
So we continue to assume U.S. equivalence and have included Jackson's excess surplus
above the 250% RBC level. Our methodology recognizes fully the value of overseas
economic capital and incorporate a risk margin in line with the Solvency II requirements.
Now based on this methodology and assumptions, our economic capital at the end of
2014 was £9.7 billion, equivalent to a healthy cover of 218%. As you can see on the right,
our business operations delivered £1.8 billion of economic capital in the year, equivalent to
around 25 points of cover.

Bloomberg Transcript

As this capital measure is more market sensitive, the impact of the decline in U.K. interest
rates is more pronounced contributing to a negative movement of £0.9 billion. So before
capital actions and notwithstanding the adverse market effects, our business performance
drove an overall increase in economic capital.
The remaining items shown in light blue reflect the impact of deploying our economic
capital to renew our distribution agreement with SCB, repay hybrid debt, domesticate the
Hong Kong business and pay the external dividend. The negative £0.3 billion for model
changes is mainly due to the impact of adopting the matching adjustment principles.
So the key messages here are; one, that we are capital generative on this risk sensitive
metric reaffirming the positive cash and capital dynamics of our business; two, that the
overall reduction in the level of capital was principally driven by deliberate actions in
pursuit of our strategy; and three, that our year end position remains strong even in this
historically low-yield environment. We have updated the analysis of the economic risk
profile of the business which is broadly unchanged from last year and is not highly
concentrated to any particular risk type.
We have also updated the sensitivity of the end 2014 economic capital position through a
range of market shocks shown before the impact of potential management actions, and
that's important. Even though the financial impact of these sensitivities is a little higher
than the previous year, which is due to the lower end 2014 interest rate levels, the overall
effect of these market stresses is manageable reaffirming the resilience of our business
model.
Before leaving this topic, I would reiterate that these results should not be interpreted as
representing our Solvency II capital position. As I have already mentioned, policy remains
unclear (54:01) in a number of areas, while in others, it is ultimately subject to regulatory
interpretation and supervisory judgment. We have provided you with some indicative

Page 16 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

sensitivities in your pack on three key areas under discussion based on completely, and I
stress completely, hypothetical assumptions.
These are one, the impact of an artificial haircut to Asia's economic capital contribution to
the group total under the Solvency II fungibility tests which, as Tidjane has said, would not
represent economic reality; two, the impact of calibrating U.K. credit and longevity oneyear stresses above levels that we would deem appropriate; and lastly, the offsetting
effect of applying transitional relief in the U.K. for differences between the economic
capital and the Solvency I relative position.
While we would expect the Solvency II result to be lower than the £9.7 billion of economic
capital, our starting point is strong and our business remains highly capital generative in
nature. This fundamental feature of our business is unaffected by Solvency II, and
underpins our confidence in the overall capital dynamics and capital position of the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

I have provided on this next slide the usual update on balance sheet. In summary, we
remain well capitalized and defensively positioned. The group's IGD surplus at the end of
the year is estimated at £4.7 billion, and this is after deducting an aggregate £1.3 billion for
the full upfront fee of renewing the SCB agreement, the hybrid debt repayment, and
other corporate activity.
The financial strength of the U.K. with-profit estate remains a core part of our product
offering, and this stood at £7.2 billion at the end of 2014, up from £6.8 billion at the start of
the year. The U.S. RBC ratio has improved to 456%, after covering the record cash
remittance, underlying Jackson's disciplined approach to risk management. On this basis,
the hedge program was essentially breakeven, as movements in hedge assets and
guarantee reserves broadly offset.
And finally, in response to your requests, we have provided you with some additional
disclosure on our exposure to oil and gas, which in our view is well contained, are properly
diversified, and focused on high quality names. For further details, please refer to the
appendix slides.
So, to summarize, we delivered a strong broad-based performance in 2014 against the
challenging backdrop. The group remains highly cash generative, given by the predictable
generation of free surplus from our growing life insurance book. Our capital position and
conservative balance sheet remains a source of strength for our business and adds to our
resilience. And finally, we are positive on the financial outlook of our business and have
signaled our confidence in our future prospects through the 10% rebate in our full year
dividend.
I will now pass it back to Tidjane.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Well, thanks a lot, Nic. I'm now going to talk to you about the final part of this
presentation, our outlook, which is positive and confident. And I'll start, really, with the
Page 17 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

basics, where do we compete? Where are we?

FINAL

We think that we have an attractive footprint. As you know, we have 24 million customers
across regions. And our footprint is really Asia, the U.S., the U.K. and as you can see, two
spots in Africa where we're starting.
But we think that the point about this, if you look at new growth, not the stock of assets,
but new growth, where we are – represents 63% of the GDP growth expected in the next
five years and that's a great place to be.
But presence alone is not a guarantee of success. It's a (57:55) of your capabilities and
having the right strategy and we have the right strategy. In those geographic areas, we
are focused on the right opportunities. It's the emerging middle class in Asia and its
savings and investment needs – sorry, saving and protection needs; for U.S., Baby
Boomers and transitioning into retirement; and the U.K., which is a very attractive asset
management and savings market.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, if you look at the scale of those opportunities, there are many, many assessments of
the middle class in Asia, but in our sweet spots, so just the sweet spot countries, Hong
Kong, Singapore, Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, we expect the
middle class to grow by more than 100 million in the decade between 2010 and 2020.
That is more than the entire population of the U.K. and we have 8 million customers in that
space. So we think that the headroom is very, very significant.
Look at the U.S., we expect 16 million more retirees in that same decade and that's more
business for us. And if you look at the U.K., we expect the assets under management to
increase by – to more than £1 trillion over the same decade. And, again, it's the second
largest market in the world. And we got massive opportunities. We have the capability and
the execution to capture them, and that's really the next slide where we'll just give you
the progression in our Health & Protection sales in Asia in six years, they have more than
doubled.
If you look at the U.S. again, more than doubled in terms of sales and deposit by product,
if you can also see that the makeup has been transformed, VAs which were smaller than
fixed annuities in the dark blue in 2008 are now more like three times, the volume of
fixed annuities. That's, again, a transformation. And I could also talk about M&G and its
success in the retail asset management market.
But all that, if it doesn't translate into tangible returns, it's not really meaningful. The good
news is we have been able through a disciplined execution to grow that red bar, which is
really the free surplus generation to keep the blue bar going down, the new business
strain under control. As the group gets bigger, in absolute terms, it hasn't really moved
which means that the light blue bar, so cash generated after new business strain has been
growing very nicely which has allowed us – and that's really my final slide – to have a very
nice slope in the dividend, and take it above to pre-crisis level which for a financial
services company is a good performance.

Page 18 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

So, to summarize and close and conclude, we're in the right places. We have the right
strategy. The execution is good. 2014 was a good year. We have no intention to change
our strategy. It served us very well. There's plenty of headroom, and Asia is at the center
of all this for very obvious reasons. It's more than half the world's population. It continues
to grow even if the absolute growth rate may slow down on a relative basis, still a very,
very high growth area and we are uniquely positioned in Asia with our distribution
platform, our capabilities and our team to do well.
Of course, we don't ignore the clouds on the horizon, certainly lower for longer. Low longterm interest rate is a particular challenge for the industry, but we think that we have
effective responses for that. We have a strong balance sheet. Nic and I have spent a lot of
time talking to you about the cash generative nature of our business model, and how that
allows us to deal with the challenges of new solvency models.
And again, we believe that that strong balance sheet leaves us well positioned to deliver
long-term shareholder value.
So with that, I will stop. I will ask my Executive Director colleagues to join us on the podium
here, and we will start taking your questions.
Raghu, if he wants to allocate the... and Richard, yes. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

The usual drill, please. State your name and your firm's name before asking the questions,
and mic is going around.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

(1:02:10)

Q&A
A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Are we ready? Jon?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions on capital,
please. Just on the point about the overseas surpluses, are you including any surplus
above 100% of local? Or are those numbers the same numbers as you've got in the free
surplus calculation to EEV?
Second question. Presumably, this doesn't impact remittances at all; this is purely an
aggregation impact at group. So you might end up with a lower group number than we
might have hoped, but from a business point of view, it has no impact. And then thirdly, on
Page 19 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

the credit longevity point you mentioned, is that purely a U.K. issue? So it's a U.K. annuity
book issue? And actually, if I tack on a fourth one, you presumably have got quite a lot of
debt capacity. So if you did end up with a low ratio, there's a very easy solution to all of us.
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Jon. The easiest is the credit longevity, so I'll take that. That's
U.K., exclusively U.K. Nic, do you want to take the oversea surpluses, where do we take
them (1:03:18)?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. I mean the oversea surplus in Solvency II is a completely different calculation. So
what we do for our own free surplus calculations is we look at tangible assets and the
extent to which those exceed more about – on average, about 130% of local minimum.
That's the definition of free surplus and 130% is what we think across the region we need
to hold relative to local minimum.
Solvency II just looks through completely. It's a completely different calculation. It allows
you to put a realistic value on your reserves. And candidly, when you're talking about a lot
of health and protection business, that realistic value uplift is significant and it throws away
the local requirements or an uplift on those and replaces them by one in 200 stress,
which we then calibrate taking each risk and modeling that out and applying diversification
benefits. So net-net, Solvency II gives an answer that is bigger in terms of available capital
or surplus in Asia than either taking 100% or the level that we apply. In reality, it doesn't
change the distributions from Asia one jot. Why? Because those distributions will be
determined by reference to the local regulatory regime. Yes. So, Solvency II is interesting
and it's relevant for Asia, but doesn't change the way we think about that business or
indeed what capital can be remitted from that business. Therefore, whether there is a
haircut or not against that, it doesn't affect it. That's why we say it's uneconomic.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And that's the central point really. So, the remittances are driven by local solvency. We
spend a lot of time building the local solvency to a level where capital can flow freely and
it's not a constraint. So, there is no connection there.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Here's the follow-up. In terms of the – you mentioned there's a sensitivity in the press
release, though, I haven't had a chance to dig through the press release yet. So you're
saying that even those these aren't equivalent regimes in Asia, your economic capital
number recast on an economic basis, you're effectively including a larger economic
solvency than might be there on a local regulatory basis?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yeah. They're not equivalent this year. We have had to look through all of that and redo a
calculation at this stage. They may become equivalent regimes in the future if the local
Page 20 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

regime evolves in some way and as we saw at the visit in Asia earlier, there are one or
two steps in that way over the next five or so years. So, no, what we're bringing in is a
completely different model.
You asked a question on debt capacity. Yes, with the repayment of debt and, of course,
the increase in IFRS in embedded value, if you like, a gearing ratio whichever way you may
want to calculate it. It has reduced. Yes, we have the capacity to increase that. And we
have done from time to time just increased the flexibility that we have at the group. It's
another lever that we have. It's a great position to be in if you have a growing business
that throws out capital, yeah, we can borrow against that. So, we make those decisions as
and when – as we need be – as necessary.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We go to Blair, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair T. Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. A couple of questions, please. On
the fungibility issues, I think you gave us 20% sensitivity in the pack. I just wonder if that's
how we should read that 20% number. And wouldn't one answer to the fungibility
concerns from the regulator be to change your policy and the way that you remit capital
and just remit as much as you possibly can rather than just what you need just to prove
the point on that issue? And your sensitivities on economic capital to interest rates have
broadly doubled, I think. Could you talk a little bit about that? Is it just a function of where
rates are? Have you changed the methodology there at all, please?
And, I guess, Tidjane, I'll probably ask the inevitable question. Why – because we ask this
question lots of times over the next few months. But why are you leaving a big company
like Pru to join a relatively small company like CS?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Blair. Okay. Fungibility, do you – and the sensitivity we gave?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I mean I wanted to stress that they were completely hypothetical. I mean, candidly, until
we go through the discussions, until we apply – formally apply for the internal model, I will
mislead you if I said anything other than the fact that it's completely hypothetical. I want to
reiterate that this is purely, I mean, I hesitate the word, it's a fungibility testing Solvency II
that we must demonstrate on how that you can remit this capital with even in a ninemonth period. And it's quite an onerous test now. There's ways in which you can do that.

Page 21 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

Yeah, clearly, if you brought the money back, you'd avoid that. But candidly, we need the
money there to take advantage of the opportunities that exist in those markets. So that
wouldn't be a smart thing to do given the opportunities that are there to create value and
generate more capital in the future.

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

But on that, we have a data point, and we keep referring to it, which is the 2008-2009
crisis. It's a little what Solvency II does is trying to mimic what would happen under stress
and we got absolutely all the dividends we wanted out of Asia in 2008 and 2009,
because it was a single dividend payment at the worst possible time. So this gives us high
confidence but actually that capital is accessible even under stress but the problem here
is that we're simulating a hypothetical event. And then it's easy to make extreme
assumptions. But in a real life case, the capital has proven to be very fungible even under
stress.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I mean that's the sensitivities – we're talking about onerous sensitivities here. So just to
give you an example, 40% shock on markets, that's 40% on top of one in 200. That's a
70% market decline, just to put a sense of perspective as to what these things represent.
Interest rates, interest rates is entirely – yes, the 50 basis points sensitivity that we give on
interest rates particularly staying in the U.K., that's up to 130 basis points reduction. Where
the effect is more significant is at those levels of interest is the value of the future with
profit transfers and that's what's driving the additional volatility there, but notwithstanding
the point that I made earlier, and I'll reiterate now is that even taking further reductions in
the yields from this very historically low interest rate environment, the other opposition is
safe.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I'll give – the next one was for me. Okay. Where do I start? I know that Africans have a bad
reputation but I – pardon me for making that joke. I never had an ambition of being a CEO
for life, and we have presidents for life in Africa. So I was always going to lead, so let's
start with that someday. So the question becomes when. When you're a CEO, it's
something, probably one of the most difficult calls you have to make knowing when to
leave.
And for me, when to leave is a time when everything is going well, okay? You don't want
to leave when there are issues to solve, businesses to restructure, things to deal with
because that is what I think unsettles the market the least and leads to a least suspicion.
I'm leaving after our best year ever, and I will be here to talk about Q1 and you will be able
to see if the business is going sideways or slowing down. I can tell you it's not. So, that is
really the best moment to leave if you're a CEO and if you want to not to throw a hospital
pass which is an expression I've learned in the U.K. to your successor. So, that's one.
Two, I've always had someone on my team was reminding me that I've still got five years.
I really think that's the kind of very natural cycle. It's just not good. It's not healthy. Sorry, I'm
going to come back to my favorite topic, Arsenal. It's not healthy to stay too long. It

Page 22 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

doesn't matter how successful you've been. I'm going to say – I was going to say that
always because this is just stuck in my throat. When you're 19, Mister, you know who, so
that's not a model to follow. So, you have to know when to kind of gracefully bow and
move on and do something else. So, that is really the core of the answer.
And where I go is a function of opportunities, et cetera. I'm not going to talk about Credit
Suisse on this stage because I'm paid by Pru and I'm here as CEO of Pru and it would be
inappropriate. But I can answer the first half of the question which is why leave now. And
I've built a good team. It takes a few years, I think, took five, six years. That was
announced in March 2009, and you were here six years ago. I think I'm leaving a great
team behind, and I'm very confident in the prospects of the company. I've never believed
that I was irreplaceable. We say in French, when the cemeteries are full with irreplaceable
people. So I will be replaced and very well replaced. Yes?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Greig?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Greig Paterson, KBW. And, Tidjane, congratulations on your
performance the last few years, I know we've bounced heads back and forth a few times.
But I think it's been very successful. So, well done.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Just three questions. One is DBS coming up for renewal this year. I just wonder if you want
to talk about your appetite for big bulk deals, distribution deals in Asia. Second thing, just
in terms of Standard Chartered, the new deal, I was wondering if we are up at the sort of
returnable run rate now. In other words, you've rolled out in all the regions or is there still
some figure coming through in the next few months as you fully a bed down. Just trying to
understand where we are in this trajectory.
And in terms of U.S. remittances, if I recall, there was some issue around business mix VA
versus fixed annuities and the rating agencies, and that was more of a concern in Solvency
II and the local stat and whatever. I just want to – wonder if you can talk about the
prospects for remittances and how it fits in the context of the rating agency model.
And sorry, this is not a question, just a clarification, Nic. When you talk about that 130 times
local, are you talking about the IGD basis or your economic model, sorry?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

It's a free surplus basis.

Page 23 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

So that's what you're currently using in your eco capital model?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

All right. Cool.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Well, thank you, Greig. I'm glad you didn't take personally my constant teasing of you. So,
ask for forgiveness on that. But dividends, we never comment on M&A situations, whether
we never confirm or deny or say anything. So, we won't say anything specific about DBS.
But with general appetite for deals and SCB, Barry, you want to take that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Sure. I mean, we are – one of our strengths, obviously, is that we have the largest, most
productive and most diverse distribution platform in Asia – in the industry in Asia.
Obviously, our intention is to continue to build upon that existing strength and make it
stronger and stronger still. So do we want distribution deals? Of course, we want
distribution deals. Do we need them? We do not. We've already got a market-leading
position in terms of scale and quality. So what that means is the – getting a deal, any
particular deal or not getting that deal is not existential to us. We will continue to do well
no matter what. And therefore, it comes down to economics where the economics are
rational, where the partner gets a sense that based upon our track record of success that
we'd be the best partner, then – and the chemistry right between the two partners, that's
a perfect combination, and we usually get those deals and we usually do well with those
deals.
The best evidence of that is SCB, which continues to go from strength to strength. As
we've told you, the half-year point, the 7-1 (1:16:08) kind of reboot of that relationship for
another 15 years was really a pivotal moment because it's sort of re-energized both
teams, and the level of cooperation has been extraordinary. The chemistry between the
teams, both at a global and at a local level, which has always been good is even better,
ideas that have been talked about for the last few years is interesting ideas in terms of
how to expand the business for the bank and for us are now being put into action. So, I
think the simple answer to your question is you should expect to continue to see very
good performance out of SCB, I'm very optimistic.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I think there's a question on the run rates, do you feel that you have some headroom of
which – sustainable run rates on SCB, I think, he was asking.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}
Page 24 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

I thought I answered it, no?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, I'm coming back for more. Okay, great. Are you – should you be – I know, Greig, I
know, Greig.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(1:17:15)

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

There is more under – more new initiatives underway, so I think you should be optimistic
as I am.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I just wanted to get you on to a hook US...

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Thanks. Thanks.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

...U.S. mix, VA, FAs between Michael or Nic.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

I think, Greig, it matters by rating agencies for one. They have different views of it and
they look at now – the dialogue we have with them is the various risk levels and the
various types of VA we've written. So, I think it's a little different discussion for us than a
carrier with a single product when they go in. I think the rating agencies are certainly more
conservative post-crisis. The process has changed. It's much more scripted and
structured. They have latitude, I think, for judgment. So, there is a little bit more of a
formula but I think we're fine. It's not – that wouldn't be a remittance issue for us. That
remittance discussion will be with the regulator state level, New York or Michigan.

Q - Unverified Participant
[Question Inaudible] (1:18:17-1:18:24)

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

You notice I'm not answering that.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

(1:18:27) I thought it would be very cool if (1:18:29).

Page 25 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

Q - Unverified Participant
(1:18:33)

FINAL

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

It is – you see the recurring nature of the revenue. The question is what we do in country,
all the normal variables we look at in a given year. But the resilience of Jackson's earnings
is clearly there.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Who's next?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Lance?

Q - Lance M. Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning. It's Lance Burbidge from Autonomous. Two questions. First one for Mike, I just
wondered if you might comment on what The White House has been saying on purchase
of retirement products in the past couple of weeks. And secondly, for Barry on Indonesia.
Indonesia, obviously, had a very good December. Is there any kind of idea you can give us
in terms of how active your agency force is at that point and sort of how much capacity
you have to see that growing rapidly?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. So, Mike, you go on then.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

This is actually an issue in the Department of Labor about, I'd say, two and a half years
ago it first arose. And I think the – and The White House now has the documents of what
we're understanding is somewhere in the next 60 days to 90 days, the release or
comment office (1:19:48) management budget, there will be a little financial impact of the
normal commentary, then we will see what we have. I think the academic work that was
done to support the argument that some things not – that there's not value to be advised.
It's always difficult because how invested would those – what percentage of equities what
those clients have had if they made the choices by themselves. And I can tell you we're
dealing with advisors every month, where they would tell you as they get clients to invest
when they want and they get them to sell when they want. And that's not a new concept. I
mean, that's the same thing you'd see with advice in Asia, the U.K. or anyplace else. They
get clients to manage risk levels prudently.
I don't think the work that was published shows that. I think it shows, if you bought a fund
perfectly timed an ETF purchase versus bought a load fund with advice, it's the net
difference. And so that's sort of the – I think the mistake in the core premise of it. But you
also see the SEC pushing back on. They see it as their enforcement jurisdiction and no – I
don't think they share the mandate at this point.
Page 26 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

So I think we're going to see a lot of comment on it, a lot of discussion. I think the counter
is going to be – it's a very well governed market, heavy disclosure. You'll probably get a
little tightening of the movement from suitability, which is the U.S. standard towards best
advice, which is more of what you used to say here the reasons why letters and things.
There isn't that concept really in the States. You see where the SEC advisors a bit, but
you'll probably see a more of a hybrid of the two, and if I was guessing, that's where to
land. But it will be an industry issue for six months to nine months at least.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And if I may add just one thing, there's a bit of good news, actually non-risk, which is – and
we met some of The White House people. They have examined commissions and
decided not to touch with, and they mentioned RDR or (1:21:44) something, they looked at
and proved was not a success. And that they didn't want to imitate.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yes. The early draft of the language as we understood it would have bought all
commissions on retirement products. And again, that would have allowed advisory fees.
So the details when this will matter and I would tell you from Jackson's point of view, if it
acquires a change in product or structure or distribution, I think we're better situated than
any of our competitors to address that quickly and effectively. And I think again, the
systems capability, you're going to need sophisticated delivery on whatever the new
structure is, technology, et cetera, and we have those capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike. Barry, Indonesia activity?

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. So the short answer is that, yes, December was a great month and obviously the
number of active agents spiked a bit. So that was very important. We couldn't have
produced those numbers without that having happened. The dynamic that's been
happening throughout the year is last year as we had sort of this consumer uncertainty
and then the natural disaster issue with the flooding and so forth as well, is really that if
we were taking longer to activate new agents, and as you know the agency model there –
a lot of the production – a material part of the production is dependent upon our ability to
quickly activate new agents who're being recruited. And that's really the metric where we
were struggling that it slowed down and that did pick up significantly in December. So I
don't think we're at a point where we can declare victory. Obviously, Tidjane alluded to
the political environment there. It is – people are more optimistic, I think, generally
speaking, based on what Jokowi has been able accomplish so far. He has taken the hard
decisions, as he said he would. So, I mean that, I think, calls for optimism. But I think don't
think we're at a position we can declare victory, but we're hopeful of that point.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Very good. Where do we go?

Page 27 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Gordon.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

Gordon, yeah.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Gordon Aitken from RBC. I have couple of questions for Mike, and one for
Jackie. Mike, you were very open about your desire for M&A within Jackson, and you said
back in December the market was quite tough in terms of P/E having lower hurdle rates.
Can you just update us on the market? I'm not asking you about the specifics, but the
market there.
And secondly, and is related, why do you need to acquire? I mean, if Jackson remains
within the Pru Group, you have lots of diversity. Admittedly, Jackson standalone, it does
look exposed to VAs. And then third question for Jackie is, you had a competitor saying in
bulks they were quoting on £10 billion of bulks at this current point in time. What's your
expectation for the market this year? We've got some people saying it's a £10 billion
market. That's a new norm. Other people are saying £100 billion over five years. What do
you think?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Mike, do you want to start?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Just for the – Gordon, on the M&A, I think the market remains competitive. The
participants are a number of U.S. insurers and foreign insurers. They have said they'd like
to buy something. You have private equity, that's opportunistic where you just want to do
a single transaction and hand it to a third-party administrator to run and they see it as –
they tend to like the annuity deals because they see those fixed annuities as sort of a
levered planned bonds. The model being stripped the capital out and run up the risk in
the portfolio and just about everything the regulator doesn't want to hear.
And the third is now you have private equity firms that have actually built platforms in the
U.S. where they are building competitive insurance companies to consolidate. So those
are the three types of buyers. And you have your hybrid to that, (1:25:50) and things. So
that's the competitive landscape. It's a great point of diversification globally. We
absolutely have that as part of the group, but there is actually pretty good opportunity for
our shareholders when we do these purchases. We can take a lot of the expenses out of
a competing life company and get materially higher returns than if we bought life policy
individually, and it's also, I think, a lower risk transaction you get away from some of that
first and second year risks writing a life policy in the States. But the actual returns we've
got on the life blocks we've done have been excellent for shareholders. It goes to our
expense base. It goes to the technology. It goes to the service model. It's all scalable. And

Page 28 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

as shareholders, you own the capacity in the States and we're just utilizing some of that.
So I think that's the other reason to do it.

FINAL

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

And on the bulk pipeline, we continue to see it as an attractive market. Overall, we think
there is about £1.8 trillion of liabilities looking for a home. If you look at the pipeline coming
into this year, it has been incredibly strong, certainly stronger than I've ever seen it. We
will, however, continue to be selective. We've talked about being disciplined and we
genuinely are disciplined, and we look at the opportunities, not just in terms of the
financials of hurdle rates and the return in that way, but also the amount of capital
consumed on various bases. So you should expect to see us active in the market, but very
selective about the deals that we choose to undertake.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Just being conscious of time, we'll take a couple more.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Yes, a couple more.

Q - Oliver G. Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver Steel with Deutsche Bank. Three questions. First is, Elite Access has seen quite a lot
of lookalike competitors. So I'm wondering what the competitive landscape is there and
what advantage you still have over the competitors?
Secondly, I wonder if you could just give us a bit more insight into where the SCB sort of
premium increases come through. I mean, Hong Kong clearly obviously but perhaps you
can talk through the other countries as well and where the opportunities still are? And
then thirdly, Nic talked about the U.K. regulator taking a bit longer to agree to any cash
transfer from the U.K. business. So I was just wondering, what the issues were in that
regard?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Oliver. Competition for Elite Access, Mike?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

The short answer is there's a dozen or more. And I think there is two more filed. With our
£5 billion in change of sales last year, I think the most successful number two product was
in the 200s with 70% of their sales being in their own agency force in in-country. It is – one
of the things I'm most proud of with Elite Access is it is – if you were trying to measure
Jackson's capabilities, I think it's an excellent example of you need product alignment, the
design, the training. Jackson was named yesterday in one of the industry trades,
BlackRock, us in a – I apologize one of the firms has provided the best training to advisors
in the alt space period, not just the VA space.

Page 29 of 33



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

And I think the formula behind it of building a good product, understanding the client, et
cetera, and being able to help the advisor work into the business model, that last piece is
incredibly difficult. And I think that's where the competitors are having the most trouble.
They are building – well, the category is called IOVAs now, investment-only VAs and are
immediately adding guarantees to them. And so they are no longer IOV – so they are
IOVAs with guarantees now, I guess. So this is just going to continue to go to the
industry's default high commission, throw a guarantee on it model. We're not – and it's a
good investment product. And if you think of the alt returns expectations, you would have,
this is not a product that can support a super heavy fee load. It doesn't have the S&P kind
of upside to it. So you got to – I think the industry has got to be careful here not to
commission themselves into a product that doesn't work for the consumers.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Very good. And that's important so, because really Mike is being modest but the level of
success achieved by Jackson is – compared to the competition is extremely impressive. I
mean £5 billion to £200 million is impressive. Standard Chartered, where did the growth
come from?

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. It's – if you look at just what happened in the second half of the year, particularly
towards the end of the year, it's actually quite broad-based. Hong Kong, which is always
been the largest market did really well. The relationship in Hong Kong in December to
give you an idea was up 37%. You might be shocked to hear that Korea had done really
well. In fact – and I'm almost reluctant to give you this number, but in December, Korea
was up 633% for SCB.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

So it's probably from a low base.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yeah, it's a relatively low base. I think 600 policies versus the one we sold last year. But –
and Taiwan has done well. And Taiwan and Korea are lumpy because it's really – the panic
market in those two countries features a lot of hot money product, which we won't do.
And so generally what happens is our sales in Taiwan, and particularly in Korea, it tend to
spike when all of the local competitors who manufacture the hot money products that run
out capital and there is nowhere else to go. And then they come to us and we sell them a
sensible product. So it's a little bit lumpy. But the Hong Kong story is a strong and
continuing and durable story as is the story in Singapore. We're making good traction in
markets where Banca is still modest, be it like Malaysia as an example.
But one of the real shining stars post-renewal of the SCB that you have is really India
where we did not have a relationship until we signed the new agreement, which was
effective on July 1. We're fully active on July 1. Gone into every branch and have just done
an amazing job of some specific products that are very appealing, some using technology.
It's a 100% paperless process. It's all done on iPad. It's really quite clever. And interestingly

Page 30 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

from a standing start, India went from zero to our number four market within the context
of SCB. So a very strong start there.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

U.K. dividend?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I mean the simple answer is that there is still too much up in the air. I can give you some
examples around that. I mean, matching adjustment is a completely new set of new
approach. You're having to think through eligibility. You have to think through cost of
defaults, cost of migration in relation to downgrades. EIOPA guidance in terms of the
base has only emerged in the last week and every week that goes by as you see some
more guidance emerge laterally around some of the criteria around the asset liability
matching and so on and so forth. All that is to pay out with participating in the preapplication process and matching adjustments in the second quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Longevity. In longevity, we're moving away from a one-off test which is the way in which
ICA has been underpinned to a one-year test. And we're trying to effectively establish a
capital amount that says, how would you change your longevity reserves based on any
information that might evolve in the year, and then how do you apply one in 200 stress on
that? So it's a completely new way of looking at things with no precedent in a one-year
context.
And then luckily lastly, the application of a risk margin is quite onerous. Again, just to give
you an example, if you took at the end of 2014 interest rates, if you took the combined
effective risk margin and SCR, that would be equivalent to around 15% of annuity reserves.
That is much higher than what you currently require to do under ICA, which brings
transitionals straight into scope. They were designed exactly to do that, to give you relief
when Solvency II comes up with an answer that is different to ICA. The whole process
about how you go about securing transitional relief is still up in the air. So all I was flagging
is there is a lot up in the air and it'd be wrong of me to sit here and say in a year of
transition with so many questions outstanding, I'd be wrong not to flag a risk that the
discussions will take longer. Now, the key, though, point is that the business is throwing out
capital. Okay? So that's key, and it's basically the same across all of our businesses.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And if I can just add to it that if you step back, really what I want to put on the record, I
said it in my notes is that the dialogue with the regulator is good and constructive. I insist
on that we found a very receptive regulator and we engaged in a – Paul and I want to see
them and all issues on the table and we're all working towards the solution. That's one.
Two, again, back to a capital generative comment and stress testing with dividend, we're
always telling with stress test for group dividend. One of the scenarios we look at is what
if the U.K. didn't pay any dividend for three years or four years? And I can tell you dividend
is sustainable, can continue to grow at 5% even under worst scenarios and part of why
we're always so cautious and we rebased. So for example, we look at all those scenarios
Page 31 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

and we give you an upper rebase that is robust and that will basically survive under any
scenario and that's really important.
And the final point on the remittances is they are not actually that important because, as
Nic said, if the business is cash generative, if, for any reason, you stop paying from any
business, you're building up very quickly, the position of that business and after two or
three years, the capital starts flowing again because whatever punctual tension there is, is
resolved. And that's why the system is very safe as a whole, because if you're running
four cash generative businesses, you can't ever really get in trouble, all you have are
timing differences in system and that's why we feel so confident in the group dividend. It's
just the timing difference, not anymore. Next question?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Final question?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Hi. Just a couple of question. First of all, on your economic required capital
movement, what actually drove the £1 billion increase? I guess it's not the U.S. rates
because you are treating U.S. on equivalence that should not really impact the required
capital. So what really moved that? That's the first thing.
And secondly, you showed £1.8 billion of capital generation on economic capital basis.
Again, can we get more color on how much of that base is coming out of U.S. because as
U.S. is on the equivalence basis, how does that move? I mean, should we think about EV
basis of economic capital generation or it's a different metric altogether? Thank you.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Ashik. Nic, I think they're both for you. You put on the slide, the movement.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Not on the – yes, you're absolutely right, the required capital increased from £7.2 billion to
£8.2 billion. A third of that roughly, a third is the model changes, the matching adjustment,
for example, goes straight to the delta, the £0.3 billion that I referenced goes straight to
the denominator. A third of that comes from literally business growth, as you put more
business on to your book, then it requires you to put some capital. And the other third
comes roughly from FX. A lot of the required capital sits outside the U.K. and therefore
when currency moves, that has an impact. Yes, there was some market effect, but that's
relatively de minimis.
The £1.8 billion, I mean, we bring in the U.S. on effectively the local RBC, above the 250
(1:38:20). I don't have the math in my head, but we do give you a slide that shows the
movement in the available capital in the U.S. at the back of the pack starting from the
opening stock (1:38:33) position, plus generation, albeit with market effect, less dividend.
And I think you can use that to broadly calculate it. So that's a good way of bringing that in,
but of course, that's capital generation excess 100, not excess 250 (1:38:48).
Page 32 of 33



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2015-03-10

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Very good. Well, I think this brings this morning to a close. Since this is probably the
last time I do this, if you will allow me to make a few closing remarks. Mike reminded me
that he served under five CEOs at the Pru but I'm the longest serving, so I'm quite
pleased for all the questions. So anyway, I'm quite pleased about. That's all of the
questions on the way now. It's been a real privilege, an honor to lead this company. It's a
great company and we have a great team. I've said that several times today. I took – I
think the day I was appointed, we closed at £2.52. I don't know where we are today, but it
starts with £16. So I won't claim the credit for that. There is a lot of that – I talk about
hospital pass when I was appointed at an interesting time, some of that is just the crisis
being resolved but some of that is really a merit of this team and it's been a great ride. So
I just want to thank all of you. I know that over the years, we've had many, many meetings,
many discussions. So we will not have gotten where we are without your support, your
interest in the company and your understanding.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just two more points, one, it may surprise you but I want to, on the record, acknowledge
someone who is fierce competitor of ours that is Mark Tucker, who gave me a great
opportunity here and I want to put it on record and express my gratitude to him. It's
something I owe him. And finally, just to say that you shouldn't stop loving Prudential. It's a
great company and it has a phenomenal team. So thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 33 of 33

