Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

Q3 2015 Earnings Call - Oslo
Company Participants
FINAL

Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud
Helge Leiro Baastad
Janne Merethe Flessum

Other Participants
Blair Stewart
In-Yong Hwang
Jakob Brink
Matti Ahokas
Steven A. Haywood

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day and welcome to the Gjensidige Q3 2015 Results Presentation. Today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Janne Flessum, Head of IR. Please
go ahead.

Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Good morning, and welcome to the presentation of our third quarter results. At this time,
our CEO, Helge Leiro Baastad, will start by commenting some highlights for the quarter,
as well as commenting on our expectations going forward. Then, our CFO, Catharina
Hellerud, will comment numbers in more detail. And she will also spend some minutes
this time discussing our capital position and how it looks in the Solvency II perspective.
Then there will be time for a Q&A, and in addition to Helge and Catharina, our Head of
Capital Management, Jostein Amdal, is also present to answer your questions. Before we
start, I would like to remind you that you can download our presentation from our
website, gjensidige.no. Please, Helge.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Janne, and good morning everyone. Then starting with page two in the
presentation. I'm once again proud to announce that Gjensidige has reported a record
Page 1 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

high underwriting result, both for the quarter being in isolation and for the year-to-date. A
more challenging ﬁnancial market, however, results in a somewhat lower pre-tax proﬁt for
the quarter of NOK 952 million.
The underwriting result was NOK 1.091 billion corresponding to a combined ratio, 80.1%.
And with discounted reserves, the ﬁgure is 78.6%. We reported 5.1% premium growth in
the quarter and we experienced favorable claims development. Large losses, 4.7%, came
in just below the expected level, while run-oﬀ gains, this quarter, 4.4%, contributed
positively to the result.
The underlying frequency claims development, however, was very favorable, especially in
the Private segment and especially then property and private, or sorry or motor.
The private segment reported and – I'm talking about Norway, now, the private segment
in Norway's reported a much marginal decrease in premiums of 0.3% this quarter, but
underlying premium growth was a positive 1.7% when adjusted for changes in the
partnership agreement, as we have commented over the last couple of quarters. The
commercial segment reported growth of 3.2% in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

As commented before, we are experiencing intense competition in the Norwegian
market. Growth is slowing down somewhat in step with the economy, overall, as we
expected and have commented on before. However, our competitiveness is strong and
we have been able to maintain our market position.
For the Nordic segment, we reported growth of 17.1% but adjusted for currency FX and
acquisition of Mondux in Denmark, the underlying growth was 1%. We are experiencing
intense competition in the Danish market as well, especially in the large corporate
segments.
However, the positive development in the Danish housing market continues to support
good growth in the private portfolio. We are particularly satisﬁed with the strong
proﬁtability in the Danish portfolio combined with the fact that the Swedish portfolio is
also developing positively.
Finally, if you then jump to the Baltic area, we are happy to have closed the PZU
acquisition in Lithuania. Marius Jundulas, the former head of PZU in Lithuania has been
appointed as the new head of Gjensidige Baltic. I had great conﬁdence in our
organization in the Baltics and look forward to starting the integration and realizational
synergies as planned. Right now, our Baltic operation is unproﬁtable and it will get worse
before it gets better. Our ambition is to secure a solid position in an interesting growth
market for the future.
Moving to the investment return, we reported a loss of NOK 150 million in the quarter,
mainly driven by the widening of credit spreads and weak equity markets. Catharina will
comment more deeply back to this afterwards. Summarized then, the annual return on
equity for the year-to-date is 15.8% and that's satisfying given the very challenging climate
for investment returns.
Page 2 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

Then turning to page three. Despite a rather more challenging operating environment,
we are increasingly conﬁdent that we can deliver good earnings, and consequently,
dividend growth over time. Strong underwriting proﬁtability is expected to continue to
oﬀset a more challenging environment for investment returns.
So, ﬁrst of all, we expect to deliver solid premium growth going forward. Secondly, we
expect average annual run-oﬀ gains to double the next three years to ﬁve years compared
to the average level in the last ﬁve years, and that we will continue delivering solid
underwriting proﬁtability. And last but not least, we are experiencing a more positive
regulatory development that supports our capital position, and ultimately, our dividend
capacity.
I will devote a few minutes to brieﬂy walk you through each of these three drivers. So
then, we can look at the page four in the presentation. We expect solid premium growth
also going forward. We still expect to be able to deliver organic growth in step with
nominal GDP growth over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, we will continue with the strategy of buying companies and portfolios that are
complementary to our existing operations. We will continue to capitalize on our scalable
operating model and implement best practice across the Nordic countries and the Baltics.
We have successfully bought 12 insurance portfolios or companies since 2006 resulting in
the share of premiums coming from outside Norway now approaching 30%. And the
proﬁtability in the Nordic segment is very good. It is important to emphasize, however,
that we will continue our disciplined and rational approach to structural growth, and we
will stick to the requirement that acquisitions have to support group targets within two
years to three years.
Moreover, as highlighted on page ﬁve in the presentation, we will have to be even more
disciplined as regards insurance operations going forward to compensate for low returns
from the investment portfolio. We are even more conﬁdent that we – than before that we
can deliver a combined ratio at the lower end of our target corridor. We note the
measures implemented to ensure great eﬃciency and competitiveness are producing
good results with the weak customers. As you're aware, the target of 92 to 93 requires the
contribution from run-oﬀ to be zero. Our actuary function recently carried out a major
review of the group's claims provision. This is a work we have been – this is a process,
over one and a half to two years actually, internally, and it concluded that positive
changes in the claims levels appear to be so systematic that the level of provisions should
gradually be downwardly adjusted by some NOK 2.5 billion to NOK 4 billion.
These supplies in particular to the motor TPL and workers' comp products in Norway,
where we have seen a positive development largely driven by better road safety, car
safety and safety in the workplace.
As a result of this, we now expect the average annual run-oﬀ gains to double in the next
three years to ﬁve years, compared with the average level in the past ﬁve years to
approximately NOK 800 million. This means that we expect to report a combined ratio at
Page 3 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

the lower end of the corridor 86 to 89 for some years to come. And I remind you that this
is still on a discounted basis. And it's also important to be clear that the prices we set
today reﬂect the expected claims development in future. So, in the longer-term, it is
therefore expected that the run-oﬀ result will be more or less zero as previously
communicated.
Finally, increased use of analysis-driven business processes including more and more ﬁne
mesh tariﬀ setting and involves CRM as well as rationalization measures and increased
digitalization are producing positive results every day. And in combination with good
underlying proﬁtability, this will help us to ensure competitiveness also in the longer-term.
Last but not least, if you look at page six, the regulatory uncertainty in Norway now
appears to be decreasing, which will be positive with respect to the capital situation, and
thereby, also the future dividend capacity.
Based on the signals received during the quarter, as regards to Natural Perils Fund, we
expect to achieve ﬁnal and positive clariﬁcation of this issue before the turn of the year.
And we expect that the Natural Perils Fund will qualify as Solvency capital from January 1,
2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moreover, we now believe that the risk relating to tax has been reduced, although it will
take time until we have ﬁnal clariﬁcation of this issue. However, we now see the worst case
scenario presented last quarter as unlikely.
All else being equal, it now appears that the need for the strategic buﬀer will be
somewhat lower at the year end. In addition, the board has decided to remove the
technical buﬀer with eﬀect from the third quarter in the wake of the previously
communicated change to the currency hedging strategy for foreign subsidiaries and
branches.
So, then to sum up, based on our continued good growth, excellent underlying
proﬁtability, increased run-oﬀ gains and prospects of a strengthened capital position, I
would like to remind you about Gjensidige's dividend policy. First and foremost, it is
about delivering a high and stable nominal dividend over time. But it is also about not
accumulating unnecessary excess capital. The aim of our capital management is to
contribute to the achievement of the group's ﬁnancial targets, including the target for the
return on equity. In periods with growth in earnings, as I had commented today, it is
therefore natural to expect growth also in the nominal dividend distribution. In addition,
any capital over and above the group's deﬁned capital need will be distributed to the
owners over time. And by that, I leave the word to Catharina to close the presentation of
the numbers and capital position.

Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Thank you, Helge, and very good morning, everyone. I will start by commencing on the
ﬁgures on page eight. The underwriting result is record strong both for the quarter and
year-to-date. The frequency claims development has been good during the quarter as a
Page 4 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

result of normal seasonal variation, but also because we again see that the frequency
claims development, it's better than we normally we expect.
In addition, the run-oﬀ gain was higher during the quarter than in the corresponding
quarter last year. And as Helge has commented, it is also expected to be at a higher level
going forward. On the other hand, the proportional large losses is somewhat higher in the
quarter than in third quarter last year, and it's also close to the expected level. Roughly,
one-third of the large losses in the quarter around $80 million is due to the ﬂoods in
Norway and in September. Pension and Savings and the Retail Bank continue to deliver
good proﬁt performance even though this quarter the bank reports a proﬁt before tax
expense that is lower than in Q3 last year. This is largely due to negative development in
the liquidity portfolio, as a result of the widening of the credit spread. Looking at the
development in the net interest income, it increased by 20% compared to Q3 last year,
and the bank is still popular with our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the last 12 months, lending has increased by as much as 30%. Investment portfolio had
a negative return over 0.3% in the quarter. This is – this result is primarily inﬂuenced by the
widening credit spreads and the negative return on the current equities, including the
shares in the SR-Bank. In all, this leads to proﬁt before tax expense of NOK 952 million.
Turning to page nine. You can see that we reported a combined ratio, 80.1% in the
quarter, corresponding to 78.6% on a discounted basis. The cost ratio was 14.5% and the
loss ratio was 65.6%, which is 5.4 percentage points lower than in the corresponding
quarter last year. The run-oﬀ gain was as much as 2.3 percentage points higher than in Q3
last year. And this expense part of the positive development, a proportion of large losses
being one percentage points higher than in Q3 last year, partly oﬀset this (15:14). But
adjusted for these two eﬀects, the loss ratio is 4.1 percentage points lower this quarter
than in Q3 last year.
In addition to that, during this quarter, we have rewrite the provisions level for mobiles,
for motor and workers' compensation in Norway. This has do with the development we
see as regarding claims, which Helge commented on at the start of his presentation.
In that connection, we have also made certain adjustments to the provisioning level for
the ﬁrst half of this year, which makes a positive contribution to proﬁtability in this quarter.
It is particularly in motor private that this has a signiﬁcant eﬀect corresponding to NOK 70
million, aﬀecting the combined ratio on the group level, 1.3 percentage points. The eﬀect
is considerably smaller in commercial motor and workers' compensation. The adjustment
of the mobile will also aﬀect the proﬁtability on motor private going forward. But
remember that lower provision levels reﬂect the lower expected claims inﬂation, which
will also aﬀect pricing. The inﬂation expectations in motor have been done where they
adjusted from 1% to 3% to around 1% going forward.
The proﬁtability in motor private has been very good in the quarter, of the one we take
into account, the above mentioned mobile adjustments. That said, I should remind you
that the result in motor are normally expected to be good in the third quarter. There are

Page 5 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

more claims and more (16:54) in the ﬁrst and – ﬁrst and fourth quarters and we may still
see diﬃcult winter with a completely diﬀerent proﬁtability level than we see this quarter.

FINAL

Property private have also developed good or delivered good proﬁtability in the quarter
and better than in the corresponding quarter last year. We have a negative eﬀect from
torrential rain in Norway in September, but last year, there were many more water
damage claims and thunder and lasting related (17:24) claims during the quarter.
The Norwegian commercial segment has also delivered some solid results during the
quarter. The frequency claims development is good, that the impact of frequency claims
was at a more normal level than at the same time last year.
Today, I will skip the next four slides and move directly to page 14 to comment on the
investment return. The investment portfolio was NOK 57 billion at the end of Q3 and
again a negative return of 0.3%. The main explanation for this weak return was widening
of a credit spread combined with a weak equity market. I would also like to remind you
that weak currency hedge closed (18:07) 100% of our exposure.

Bloomberg Transcript

The match portfolio of NOK 36 billion yielded a return of 0.5% in Q3 compared with 0.9%
in Q2. The hold-to-maturity portfolio yielded a return of 1.5% in the quarter relatively 1.1%
(18:28) in the quarter, on par with a return in the second quarter when adjust the sort of
price gain in second quarter related to a bond that was redeemed before maturity.
We have made a few investments in the Norwegian hold-to-majority portfolio during the
quarter, amounting to slightly less than NOK 300 million. The average reinvestment rates
for these investments has been 3.7%, aﬀected by a combination of some decrease in the
interest rates and the considerable widening of credit spreads.
The free portfolio amounted to NOK 21 billion and yielded a negative return of 1.5% in the
quarter. The widening of credit spreads contributed to the bond portfolio yielding a
negative return in the quarter. And this applies especially to a global high yield fund.
Current equities also yielded a negative return, aﬀected in particular by the development
for the shares in SR-Bank. The shares, which we hold (19:28) that we are not in a rush to
make here the same. Private equity have a negative return of 0.8% in the quarter and this
also includes a realized loss of NOK 10 billion in connection with a sale of our stake in our
technology funds. Adjusted for this loss in the portfolio yielded a more or less zero return.
The property portfolio yielded a good return in the quarter. The general required rate of
return has been reduced from 6% at the end of the second quarter to 5.9% at the end of
Q3.
Altogether, a net increase in value of NOK 159 million was recognized in the quarter. After
the end of the quarter, 50% of the shares in Oslo Areal, which is a company where we
invest our property portfolio, were sold to the Swedish company AMF. This sale will result
in a gain of NOK 350 million in the Q4, of which NOK 250 million is related to reversal of
deferred tax. Our intention is to keep property exposure at around today's level and the
concentration will be reinvested in property through Oslo Areal

Page 6 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

So, moving onto page 15, you will see that we have changed the illustration of the capital
position from this quarter. Returns really applicable lead infrastructure (20:48) has been
removed since we assume that it is no longer interesting to monitor lead perspective
(20:55). In addition to the rating model and the partial internal model, we now also show
the capital position calculated by using the standard formula. As you can see, the capital
position is solid, seen from all three perspectives and I will discuss all three perspectives
in more detail.
Starting with rating perspective, which is still the most binding capital perspective for
Gjensidige. We kept the current month increase (21:21) by around NOK 200 million from
the previous quarter and this is primarily due to the insurances increasing, largely as the
result of acquisition of PZU and Mondux now having been incorporated in our ﬁgures.

Bloomberg Transcript

Available capital increased by NOK 100 million in the quarter. There are some major
adjustments behind this small net increase. The main explanation for the increase in the
available capital is we can now assume that 70% of the proﬁt after-tax will be distributed,
where we left the rest of the total comprehensive income be part of the available capital.
And this is a change in principal that we have implemented for all of the three capital
perspective. In order to give a more correct picture of the available capital throughout the
year. And in Q4, we will then, of course, adjust with the actual proposed dividend.
In total, this means that the available capital increased by NOK 1.3 billion will include the
whole eﬀect for the year-to-date. On the other side, there are also some elements that
explains (22:34) in available capital, which is increased deduction for intangible assets
after the acquisition of Mondux and PZU. The main aﬀect of acquisitions, obviously, it
does inform or reduce available capital and not increase capital requirements.
In addition, the asset value in the hold-to-majority portfolio has been reduced by NOK
100 million during the quarter, due to the widening of credit spreads. And the – and on
the other hand, reduced discount rate has also reduced the result of the discounting
eﬀect by NOK 200 million.
In addition to that, the board has decided to remove the technical buﬀer above the
capital requirement, which result in NOK 700 million reduction in the capital requirement
compared to the second quarter. In total, this means the capital margin from underwriting
perspective of 170% at the end of Q3 corresponding to a strategic buﬀer of NOK 2.6
billion.
During the ﬁrst half of 2016, we plan to submit an application for approval of the use of
the internal model for calculating the standard structure capital requirement. Until the
application has been approved, the standard formula will be used to calculate the legal
capital requirement.
At the end of the quarter, the solvency margin based on standard formula was 155%. For
capital management purposes, it has been decided that the solvency margin should be in
the range of 115% to 140% when assessing this perspective in isolation.

Page 7 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

Figures for the internal model perspective are currently setup in accordance with the
version of the internals, which we will apply for approval. It is therefore our best estimate
of what the relative solvency position will be once the internal has been approved.

FINAL

As you may notice, the capital requirement is down from the second quarter. The main
explanation is that from this quarter onwards report that solvency capital requirement in
isolation and not the economic capital requirement.
I should also mention or remind you that from Solvency II regulations are based on
principles. We have used our own interpretation, so there is some general uncertainty
about whether our interpretations are correcting or compact (25:01). That said, we have
for several years how to get a dialogue with the Norwegian FSA, concerning our
interpretations, so that we assume that this the correct picture.
At the end of the quarter, the solvency margin based on the internal model was 206%. For
capital management purposes, it has been decided that the solvency margin should be in
the range of 120% to 175%. The minimum deferred above the capital requirement is there
to ensure that short-term volatility in the capital position or risk taking, those things will
lead to breach of requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

Any buﬀers above this represents ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. That, remember then, that it is the
rating requirement that is the most binding.
So, if you look at page 16, I will talk you through the available capital and capital
requirements from the statutory perspective for giving on the point where they defer
(25:59). The basis for the available capital is the IFRS equity. The Natural Perils Funds and
the guarantee scheme provisions are included in the IFRS equity and we have not
excluded these elements from the available capital.
It is the same assumptions as we have always made. In the same way, as for the rating
perspective, we have taken into account for a dividend payment corresponding to 70% of
the proﬁt after tax and the rest of the total comprehensive income is included in available
capital. Moreover, the balance sheet shall be valid using market-based principals and our
risk margin should be deducted. It is only because the risk margin that's available capital
percent to the standard formula and the internal modal are not identical.
The risk margin is calculated based on the capital requirement, and is therefore greater in
the standard formula than in the internal. As regards to the calculation of the capital
requirements, we believe that the internal model best reﬂects the Gjensidige's risk proﬁle.
The general explanation for why the internal model leads to lower capital requirements
than the standard formula is that internal model is a more comprehensive model and the
model is more detailed and it is also based on the Gjensidige's observable (27:19) data as
regards insurance risk.
As a whole group (27:23), partial internal has been used which means that part of the
capital requirement almost 38% is calculated by using the standard formula. I will
comment (27:33) but the two perspectives diﬀer seeing diﬀerently.
Page 8 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

The biggest diﬀerence between the internal model and standard formula is the insurance
risk where the tax requirement, person-to-person to the internal model amounts to
around 70% of the standard formula requirement.
While the standard formula calculations are not relatively – are at a relatively aggregated
level. The internal model calculation are at a more detailed level. In order to model the
risk correctly, insurance products with diﬀerent risk proﬁles are modeled separately in the
internal model. And in addition, the standard formula, it does not manage to capture the
eﬀect of the reinsurance (28:19) internal model. From market risk, the capital requirement
according to the internal model amounts to around 80% of the standard formula
requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

Again, this is because the internal model is more detailed particularly for bonds and
equities. Moreover, correlations between diﬀerent asset classes seems to be artiﬁcially
high in the standard formula, especially the correlation between property and other asset
classes. This is generally higher diversiﬁcation in internal model, diversiﬁcation between
the main risk categories in the internal model makes up about one-third of the standalone
capital requirement. In the standard formula, it is around 20%.
Adjustments of the base capital requirements concerned to risk reducing eﬀect of
deferred tax in the stress scenario in the two perspectives. Net capital requirement is
highest in the standard formula because the eﬀect on the capital requirement is of highest
in this perspective. The current tax rate of 27% has been used to calculate the eﬀect. If the
tax rate is reduced, this eﬀect (29:29). So the total capital requirements in the internal
model perspective amounts to around 78%, now the capital requirement corresponds to
the standard formula.
We have also included an illustration of the sensitivity for the capital position in the
internal model. The capital position is not very sensitive to interest rate, since the interest
rate risk on the asset side is largely hedged using that a precise exposure on the liability
side, is greater sensitivity relating to changes in the credit margin since we do not have
correspondingly hedge on the liability side. An increase in the credit spread of around 50
basis points will give a negative eﬀect on the solvency position of 8 percentage points.
We have a relatively high credit quality in the bond portfolio which to some extent
reduces the probability of course of such wide credit spread to the entire portfolio.
Operator, with that, we are ready to take questions.

Q&A
Operator
We will now take our ﬁrst question from Matti Ahokas from Danske Bank. Please go
ahead.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Page 9 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

Yes. Good day to you all. A question on slide number 15, you talk about that the capital
above requirement is now NOK 2.6 billion, and of course, I guess the big diﬀerence here
is the NOK 0.7 billion technical buﬀer, which was reduced. Should we expect this
technical buﬀer will be paid out as dividends, and if not, why? And how much do you
expect that the need for the strategic buﬀer would be reduced, is this only this NOK 0.7
billion or is it more than that?
The second question is basically, if you believe that your reserves are too high, why don't
you actually decrease them in a one-step changes instead of taking them over a number
of years. Is there accounting reason for this or one could think that, if you've come to the
conclusion that your reserves are too high, why don't you just take it back in one-step?
Thanks.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, Matti. It's Helge. I can start with your ﬁrst question and that's related to excess capital
and payer potential. We cannot quantify, that what we have presented today, is the
situation with less regulatory risk by year end. And that would mean lower need for
strategic buﬀer, all else equal. Also the removal of technical buﬀer could imply extra
payout, all else equal.
As you know, the board through the annual strategy or ORSA process gives it full review.
And we can't go into the detail regarding the conclusions, that will be as a process with
the board. And capital position analyzed in the forward-looking perspective is also
important for us. You also had a question related to reserve releases, and I think I said that
we have worked with this for a long period of time. It's both external and internal reviews.
In depth reserve reviews have also been performed by actuaries in Gjensidige. And as we
commented today, the reviews point to the conclusion that claims related to personal
injury tend to be smaller than assumed up till now.
The gradual approach of releasing reserves secures that releases are based on actual
trends that are permanent and not randomness. So this is to be 100% sure. We want to
use three years to ﬁve years and have a gradual approach to be 100% sure. The
development will be monitored closely every quarter over time of course.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Makes sense. If I may have a follow-up on the capital there, as previously the huge
discrepancy between the rating-based approach and then the internal or the standard
formula, is it fair to assume that the rating agencies could also kind of or these diﬀerent
ratios would converge in the future because at least now it seems that the diﬀerences are
so big. How loudly could one think that the rating-based requirement could potentially be
closer to the standard royalty internal one?

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

You know that we today have come eﬀect from internal model where the diﬀerence in the
capital requirements in the S&P perspective and the internal model perspective
incorporated in the capital requirements in the S&P model. We have this M factors that
Page 10 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

FINAL

we're allotted (35:21) to use to reduce the capital requirements in the S&P factor, which
actually reﬂects that S&P takes into consideration the capital requirements in the internal
model being lower than in the S&P model.
So the eﬀect today is what it is, and of course, you can speculate whether it could be
higher or lower, but at least we see that, yes, S&P look into internal model as long as you
have or you need to have an ERM strong rating to be allowed to de-risk, but I would say
that we have always seen that they're moving or at least looking closer to the internal
model than we used to do before.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Great. Thanks. Very helpful.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Blair Stewart from Bank Of America. Please go
head.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you very much and good morning. I've got two questions. The ﬁrst one is just on
your pricing strategy with regards to the decision on the reserving position. Presumably,
you're having reserve releases because your pricing has been – your pricing assumptions
have been too conservative, and that's why you're having the reserve releases. You say
that going forward in the long-term, you still expect to have zero reserve releases. And I'm
just trying to square the circle here and trying to understand have you already adjusted
your forward pricing to reﬂect a view that these trends that you're seeing on claims are
permanent and that's why you think over the long run you will still not see big reserve
release. I'm just trying to get a feeling for where – if there's an impact on the pricing, given
the results of the reserve. Hopefully, I've explained that question clearly enough. I suspect
I haven't working, but I can come back if not.
And the second question is just on the – relating to the strategic buﬀer, et cetera. And you
say that the risks – the worst case scenario you talked about in Q2 is unlikely and the need
for the strategic buﬀer has somewhat reduced. I get the point about the Natural Perils
Fund. I think you always expect to that outcome, but the risk relating to the tax issue, it
seems to have reduced but hasn't entirely gone away. So I just wonder if you can, perhaps
quantify again related to the ﬁrst question, how much of that strategic buﬀer do you think
is still necessary within the company in the near-term at least? Thank you.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

I can start with the pricing and I'll just comment on the, I think we go to the reserve side
(38:15). I actually commented that we have rewrite during this quarter, the provisioning
mobile, for motor and workers' comp in Norway, which means that we now assume a
lower inﬂation going forward than we have previously done. And I also commented
speciﬁcally on the motor product where the expected claims inﬂation has been moved
from 1% to 3% to 1%. So, yes, it will aﬀect pricing going forward because when we look at
Page 11 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

pricing, we look at the underlying claims inﬂation and when the claims inﬂation is coming
down, it will also aﬀect the price eﬃciency going forward.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Is it possible to quantify what the impact on the pricing is going to be? You said
inﬂation has gone 1.3% down to 1.0%. Is that what the price of the inﬂation?

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

No, no, no. It used until – if you remember, we communicated until November or the
Capital Markets Day last November that we expected the claims inﬂation to be 4%. Then
we adjusted it to be between 1% and 3%.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

We adjusted it around 1%. And when we look at pricing, we look at increasing the prices
in line with underlying claims inﬂation.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

So long-term inﬂation, Blair, for motor is expected to be around 1%. And for property in
Norway around 4%. And as you know, regarding pricing, it's diﬀerentiated market pricing
all the time in attractive segments, so increases will be below long-term inﬂation in 2015.
That's the situation just now.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

And the tax, yeah, the tax element. I can comment on the tax element as well. The worst
case scenario, the 3% the last quarter, NOK 1.4 billion both included tax eﬀect on the
premium provision, which we now think is very little likely. Which means that you need to
pay tax on the future proﬁt. We do not expect that to be part of our new proposal from
Norwegian authorities. And so we have adjusted the risk down from NOK 1.4 billion to
around NOK 900 million. And we also think that, given that they had to withdraw the
proposal, that's a send oﬀ in May or so (40:53) this year. We actually expect that the new
proposal will be a bit changed, we expect to see a kind of a transition (41:05), meaning
that the tax hopefully be paid of more than one year. That's why, we say that, the risks
regarding tax have come down.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. So I guess both wants a number (41:20) on it, but could you – could we assume that
the strategic buﬀer perhaps could be halved in that respect?

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

We don't comment on the last.
Page 12 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

I think it's diﬃcult for us to have assumptions. No, as I said it did this on the discretionary
basis, the discussion with the board and together with the board.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Very good. Thank you very much indeed.

Operator
We now take our next question from In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Good morning. This is In-Yong from Goldman Sachs. I've got two questions. Firstly on the
underlying claims ratio improvement that you saw in both private and commercial in
Norway. Could you just give us an idea of how much if any of that is down to kind of the
more slower growth in the Norwegian economy, whether that's kind of machines going
idle in some places for example or people driving less?

Bloomberg Transcript

And second question is on your ROE target the 15%. So is it based on kind of no reserve
releases. Do you now have kind of a high number, say 17% as something that you're kind
of focusing on internally or are you still very much focused on the 15%? Thank you.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Looking at the claims review (42:48), we don't expect that to see or we don't see in this
short time period and the impact now from the macroeconomic environment obviously.
Let's say, we can see today that people are driving lesser than these (43:03-43:09) The
Norwegian economy is, yeah, a part of the economy is actually doing very well due to
lower (43:18), et cetera. Meaning that they have a better competitive position before. So
it's kind of (43:23). Of course, eﬀects from the (43:26) going forward as well. But we can't
see these eﬀects, so far it's – yeah.
If it happens here, it's still too early to tell (43:41) in the ﬁgures now. When it comes to ROE
target, the targets are long-term targets, what you talked about and the higher level of
loss gains (43:54) going forward is temporary eﬀect that you will see probably for the next
three years to ﬁve years. So we have not changed the ROE target. But we'll look at, if the
discounting roof are changed, so that we will have to also use discounting in our group
accounts, we will just (44:19) of the targets, but this is a long-term target. We will not
change the eﬀect temporarily.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Sure. Great. Thank you very much.

Operator
Page 13 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

We will now take our next question from Jakob Brink from ABG. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Thank you. And I just have two questions I guess, one at least. I'm just thinking how
should we think about those extraordinary run-oﬀ gains for the next three years to ﬁve
years in relation to your dividends i.e. ordinary versus extraordinary. I'm just thinking that
if you would include the extraordinary run-oﬀ gains as part of your sort of bases of paying
out the ordinary dividend, I guess that could give you some problems three years to ﬁve
years down the road when they disappear. So how should we think of that?
And then secondly, I know we have already been asked about this, so you've been asked
about this twice about the strategic buﬀer. But if I would take the 70% payout ratio that
you currently use in your capital up to the expected by consensus NOK 6.25 dividend for
this year, the strategic buﬀer will be just below NOK 2 billion at the end of the year. Is that
what you mean with the reduction or should we actually expect also an extraordinary
dividend on top? Thank you.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Your ﬁrst question related to the run-oﬀ gains and dividends and the mix between the
ordinary dividends and extraordinary dividends. What we have presented today means
that you will see higher dividends, all else equal, for the next few years. We will aim at
high and stable nominal dividend over time so, and we will avoid a nominal reduction
after ﬁve years.
So we will calibrate dividend stream to avoid that. We can pay extra dividends all the time
in periods with excess capital. So this will be a calibration from our side and we will avoid
a nominal reduction. And that's when I commented a dividend policy, it's for us important
to have high and stable that's the ﬁrst starting point. So it will be a mix.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

You also have a question regarding the strategic buﬀer eﬀect whether it was just a
technical, when we talk about reduction outcomes (47:03), was it?

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Your question was whether this will be an extra ordinary dividend payout?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Page 14 of 16



FINAL

Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

I think we commented that maybe when Matti asked that question. I think this will be – this
is a part of the yearly ORSA process and it will be on a discretionary basis, a discussion for
the board. But we have presented the situation today with excess position of NOK 2.6
billion. And we have also said that it's a reduction of regulatory uncertainty. We have said
that we have removed the technical buﬀer and we need going forward some excess
capital to support our growth strategy and it's still on the tax side, for instance, some
uncertainty on the regulatory side. But we will come back to that in connection with fourth
quarter.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. Many thanks.

Operator
We will now take our next question from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi and good morning, everyone. Can I just ask on the S&P Capital model, your 117% ratio,
you gave the target ratios, the target ranges on the Solvency II ones. But do you have a
target range on the S&P rating requirement? Are you above or around 100%? Is that your
kind of target metric here? And then second question on the Baltics, what is being done
in the Baltics to turn things around? You mentioned it will get worse or it gets better, can
you say how worse it will get before it gets better and how will the recent acquisition help
here? Thank you.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

I can comment on the S&P margin. It's about the strategic buﬀer of course. From the size
of the strategic buﬀer, it's kind of (49:13) and then you will see the margin. So it's based on
the size of the strategic buﬀer and the discussion with the board as Helge commented on
the discretionary basis where we – the size, the need for the type of this strategic buﬀer.
And we have not set (49:34) a ﬁxed ﬁgure on the strategic buﬀer.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yeah. On the Baltic side, we – as I said, we closed the PZU deal late in September. So we
are in a situation now where we want to, of course, integrate our old Gjensidige Company
with PZU in Lithuania. And it deﬁned this as a restructuring case. We have had a situation
without this election (50:07). And we also have had a situation with not satisfactory sales
development.
So what we are doing now is actually to invest into the basics. First thing ﬁrst, motor tariﬀ,
ICT system, training, we actually implement the best practice, light version I would say
from the Nordic or Norwegian market. We will meet, we will achieve the plan we
commented in connection with the release when we released the information regarding
PZU that meaning proﬁtable situation in 2017, but 2015 though and 2016 will be a loss
situation in the Baltics. We will increase costs. We will invest into the basics of the
company. I can't give you any more detailed answer, but you will see a worse situation I
Page 15 of 16



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2015-10-23

guess in some few quarters from now and then we'll turn it around and be making proﬁt
in 2017.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
There are no further questions in the phone queue at this time. I would now like to turn
the call back to the speakers for any additional remarks.

A - Catharina Elisabeth Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Before we end the call, I would just like to remind you that we are in
London on Monday and have both an analyst meeting there and also a group lunch
meeting and we're also doing road shows to Dublin, Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam,
Copenhagen and the Norwegian West Coast in October and November. So please just
contact us if you would like to set up a meeting. And once again, thank you for
participating and have a nice weekend. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

