Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

Q2 2015 Earnings Call - Pre Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Alberto Minali
Mario Greco

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Generali's First Half Results for 2015. I'm pleased
to report that we have had an excellent start to 2015 with double-digit increases in both
our operating results and net profit. This is a record half for Generali, and reflects strong
performances across our group.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look back to 2011, we have grown net profit by 13% per annum over the period.
More recently, the work of resolving the issues around the so-called strategic investments
over the past two years means we're able to report a closing of the gap between
operating result and net result. As a key pillar of the new strategy we announced in May
was increasing cash generation, these results are a right step in that direction.
The 21% increase in net profit and 11% increase in operating result in the first half has been
achieved in the face of very strong headwinds that you all know. Growth in our core
European markets is low, interest rates remain rock bottom, and regulatory pressures are
challenging the way we run our business and the product and services we offer for our
customers.
Now, despite all these, our business is performing very well. We have a strong foundation
to build on, excellent and varied distribution networks, a wide product mix. And when it
comes to the highly-competitive property and casualty market, we have superior
capabilities reflected in market-leading combined operating ratios. Most of all, we have a
hunger to reach our goals and become the retail leader in Europe.
As I said in May, we have rebuilt the group's capital position to a comfortable level where
we can run the business in a non-constrained way. We did this organically through noncore asset disposals and organic cash generation.
On a Solvency I basis, we are well placed. On a Solvency II world, we are equally in a very
solid position. Our internal model economic solvency ratio stood at 200% at 30 of June,
which is 14 points above the position at year-end 2014. We're well in line with our peers,
but what is important to us is that we run our business for cash and dividends, and we will
not be entering into a race to the top. The Solvency II application process is continuing,
and we expect to obtain the approval from our regulators for our portion internal model
effective from January 1, 2016.
Page 1 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

Looking at our main markets, we're seeing good improvements in many of our key
financial indicators. On this slide, you can see further details of the performance in Italy
and in Germany, our two biggest markets.
In Italy, our Property & Casualty segment continues to achieve excellent underwriting
results. Combined ratio remains well below 90%, despite an increase of 1.6% points of
natural catastrophes in the first semesters. The Non-Motor line performed very well,
driven in particular by our SME business, reflecting the success of our repricing and
pruning activities.
In Motor, we continue to be selective, and we will give up volume for a better margin if
necessary. Net inflows grew appreciably in Life Insurance to €3.9 billion led by unit-linked
products which almost quadrupled. This is consistent with our strategy to move away from
traditional guarantee based business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Banca Generali continues to grow from strength to strength and it provide us an
increasingly meaningful contribution to our operating profit headed by a 37% increase in
the bank's operating profit that we have seen over the period. This has helped drive the
value of our stake in Banca Generali to €1.8 billion, the vast majority of which, I remind you,
is not on our balance sheet.
In Germany, despite the challenging economic environment of low interest rates, our Life
segment has delivered a resilient performance. The output is a 21% increase in the
operating result to €200 million. Our Property & Casualty business continues to do well
and we have taken 1.2% off the combined ratio to bring it down to 92.5%. This is
notwithstanding the heavier cost of natural catastrophes in the past six months.
Beyond the financial result is the speed and efficiency with which Giovanni Liverani and his
team are progressing with the rollout of the new strategic positioning. The discipline and
focus we employed with our turnaround at group level and also the approach we took in
Italy for simplifying our operations and structures are being well-deployed here in
Germany.
The new management team is already in place and adapting the business for the new
normal is under way. Our aim is to produce a new business model in Life Insurance that
will ensure long-term profitability and a stronger focus on distribution strength through
customer-centric operating units.
Moreover, it will also include a more lean and modern operating platform. All these
measures aim to successfully reposition Generali Deutschland and enable it to face the
challenges ahead. A restructuring charge of €100 million associated with this work has
already been booked in the second quarter.
In France, the results have been very good, too. In the Property & Casualty segment, in
particular, we see an improvement of the overall combined ratio to 99.2%. A meaningful
contribution to this impressive performance has clearly been the absence of storms,
heavy rain and hail in the first half.
Page 2 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

But we've also seen an improvement of more than 2 percentage points in the underlying
combined ratio which, therefore, starts to evidence the success of the turnaround actions
which Eric Lombard and his team have taken over the last two years. Consequently, we're
confident of delivering a sub-100% combined ratio in 2016 as promised, even without
counting on an absence of natural catastrophes as we saw in this semester.
Our Life business in France remains dynamic with a more efficient mix of sales. It is very
pleasing to see the significant increase in unit-linked products. In addition, we have started
to distribute new pension products with more favorable economics this month. Further
initiatives to drive profitability in our Life products will be released in the coming months.
Overall Life net inflows for the first half are €700 million, which is a remarkable
improvement in contrasting to this time last year. Again, this is fueled by unit-linked flows,
which more than doubled from last year and accounted for 80% of the net total.
Finally, turning to our business in Central Eastern Europe, our results are just as promising.
In our Property & Casualty segment, we have seen another excellent performance. We
have a Property & Casualty business which is well run and profitable in markets which have
greater growth potential than in the other more mature markets of Europe. I continue to
be excited by our business here.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, these are very promising results for the start of the next phase of our
transformation. The main engines of Generali's core business in Europe are all running
smoothly and we're travelling in the right direction.
Let me finish now by giving you a recap of where Generali will be heading in the coming
years. After accomplishing a deep financial turnaround of our group, we have shifted our
focus to outwards and set clear yet ambitious goals. We want to become Europe's
number one retail insurer. This is defined by becoming the first insurer that pops into a
customer's mind in terms of service and products is not only size.
Generali's DNA is one of the European retail insurer, and we want to build on this strength.
One of the ways we'll achieve this is by enhancing our already powerful distribution
capabilities and keeping them for the future, for example, by providing our agents with
more efficient digital tools. It also includes better customer insights and transforming that
into a brand that comes top of mind in terms of service. Put simply, we want to become
more and more important to the customer and the best at serving them.
Secondly, we need to become a fast, lean and agile company with a focus on generating
cash. We are putting in place a strong and effective governance and organization which
allows us to become more efficient in executing on our ongoing business transformation.
Going forward, we will continue to be rigorous in seeking out and taking advantage of
group synergies and economies of scale. The goal is to be lean and also agile with cutting
edge technical capabilities.
Thirdly, we want to become simpler and smarter. By using data analytics, we want our
insurance solutions to be more relevant and appealing to our customers. Generali will be
Page 3 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

known for offering innovative, efficient, customer-friendly solutions seeking to cut out the
complexity and replacing it with ease and convenience. And in order to make insurance
solutions more smart and simple, we will significantly leverage in technology and
partnerships. We're very much aware of the importance of technology in our sector, like
many others.
In order to become a successful retail organization, we will need to leverage on that. We
want to further develop simple and smart connected insurance, such as telematics,
behavior-based health solutions and domotics. And in addition, we'll leverage on
partnerships with innovative providers. Some of this will also bring in-house such as our
recent acquisition of MyDrive Solutions, which will become a UK-based hub for the whole
group in the field of data analytics aimed at offering tailor-made solutions for our
customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Generali has clear financial goals. As I mentioned before, cash generation is our main
focus. We seek to generate cumulative net free cash flow of more than €7 billion by 2018.
Just to compare, last year, our net free cash flow was €1.2 billion. This shows how seriously
we are about generating cash for the next three years.
We're also committing ourselves to pay more than €5 billion in dividends through 2018.
Remunerating our shareholders and providing an attractive yield are priorities for us. In
addition to all this, we're committing ourselves to cutting costs at a pace of €250 million
per year to reinvest a big part of this savings into innovations and business development.
We remain committed to keeping our nominal cost base flat at the 2012 level of €6.3
billion. At less than € 3.2 billion, our costs in the first half show us to be exactly in line with
that.
And finally but not less importantly, we remain committed to generating a compelling
operating return on common shareholder's equity in excess of 13% over the cycle. This is
a highly attractive return in a world where yields on major European government bonds
remain below 1%. We have a very clear vision of how our group should look like by 2018. In
order to realize these goals, we will continue to remain as focused and determined as we
have been over the past three years. This will be a challenge, and we do not plan for
support from the market. And we do expect resistance from our competitors, but these
results provide evidence that we are headed on the right path and we're focused on
delivery. Thank you for listening.

Alberto Minali

{BIO 16909383 <GO>}

Good morning. This is Alberto Minali, CFO of Generali. I'm pleased to report to you this
morning an encouraging set of first half 2015 results. Let me start with a brief overview
while noting that, as before, prior year's figures had been restated throughout the old
presentation to reflect the current geographical perimeter of the group.
The total operating result of the period reached almost €2.8 billion, thanks to positive
performance of all business segments. The net result of the period is up 21.6% to €1.3
billion. It's fair to say that last year's result had been affected by the €190 million

Page 4 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

impairment of Ingosstrakh. This year's results have been nevertheless influenced by
higher restructuring charges. The operating return on equity has improved by 110 basis
points from 7.2% to 8.3% year-on-year on a basis which is not annualized.
Shareholders' equity remained substantially flat from year-end 2014, decreasing in the
second quarter of the year due to rising interest rates. Our strong pro-forma internal
model economic capital ratio further improved by 14 percentage points from the end of
2014, reaching the 200% threshold. Overall, operating result increased by 11.3%.
Looking at the segments in more detail. The Life operating result posted a strong 13.2%
increase to €1.7 billion. Property & Casualty showed a 2.3% increase, reversing the
negative performance of the first quarter. The segment Holding and Other businesses
increased 7.9% to €71 million profits, driven again by very strong result of Banca Generali.
Let them see the journey from operating result to the bottom line. Non-operating
investment income reached €351 million, thanks to higher net realized gains and lower
impairments, again, reflecting the impairment of Ingosstrakh last year. Non-operating
holding expenses decreased by 10.3% to €367 million, thanks to €41 million lower interest
costs. Other known operating expenses increased by €298 million versus the same
period last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me explain this movement, which is mainly one-off. Firstly, we have €134 million higher
restructuring costs. This item is exceptionally high in the second quarter, mainly due to the
specific issue in Germany where the restructuring program is moving ahead and, in fact,
we have booked the full restructuring charges there much earlier than originally expected.
In addition, in Germany and in Italy, we have strengthened some other provisions against
specific items, explaining their remaining delta. These will also not be recurring.
Therefore, I would expect the other non-operating expenses to be very much lower in the
second half of the year compared to the exceptionally high levels seen in the first half.
Despite these, net of taxes at a similar rate last year, the overall net result increased by
21.6%.
Let's now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity remained broadly stable
at the year-end level. The €1.3 billion positive contribution on net profits has been almost
entirely counterbalanced by the negative evolution of the available-for-sale assets, and in
particular, of bond investments in the second quarter. The dividend payment in May has
reduced shareholders' equity for further €934 million, while other items were €932 million
positive, mainly as a positive effect on the pension liabilities deriving from increased
interest rates and the positive currency movement, in particular due to the appreciation of
the Swiss franc towards the euro.
Our Solvency I ratio remain overall stable at 156% or 164% pro forma for the sale of BSI.
On the positive side, the net result contributed for 8 percentage points. On the negative
one, we had an increase of our required margin, driven by the underlying growth of our
Life business and by exchange rate effects, with 6 percentage points negative impact on
the ratio.
Page 5 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

Financial markets and other had an additional 1 percentage points negative impact with
negative effect from higher interest rates offsetting the associated positive impact in our
available capital from the aforementioned reduced pension liability and foreign exchange
movements.
The pro-forma view of economic solvency using our new internal model further increased
in the first half to 200% from 186% at year-end 2014. In addition to the organic creation of
capital, financial market effects and especially the improved level of reference rates
contributed to both an increase in own funds and a reduction in the SCR.
Let me focus now on our business segments starting with Life. Overall, Life premiums
increased strongly by 10.6% to €26.9 billion driven by positive trend of all business lines.
Worth mentioning is the continuing growth of unit-linked production that posted a 25.7%
increase with a particularly strong contribution of Italy and France.
Life net inflows also continued their strongly positive trend, growing 38.5% year-on-year
and reaching €8.2 billion. The Life operating result went up 13.2%. New business value was
down 29.2% at €474 million due to a 8.5 percentage points margin contraction. This is the
consequence of the rather extreme economic scenarios at the end of March as I will
explain to you in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me first dive into the single drivers of the Life operating result. The technical margin
posted a robust 6.1% increase, thanks to higher risk results in Germany and increased unitlinked fees in Italy and France. The investment result increased by €284 million, partially
due to the growth of the invested asset base, but also thanks to higher net realized gains.
I would add that part of these profits have been used to increase our policyholders'
reserves, such as the strengthening of the PPE (20:47) in France by €170 million or the ZZR
in Germany by €58 million net of policyholders' participation. Expenses increased by 11%
mainly due to increased acquisition costs as a consequence of the growth in volumes, but
the overall Life expense ratio declined 0.2 percentage points to 9.4%.
Life net inflows started with a very positive trend reaching €8.2 billion in the first half of the
year. Our continuing focus on increasing the share of more capital-efficient products
enabled us to have, once again, the majority coming from unit-linked business, which
accounted for 52% of total net inflows.
Looking on a country basis, in Italy, we have a particularly strong increase of net inflows at
€3.9 billion, up 78% year-on-year. The growth has once again been driven by unit-linked
business, thanks to the success of our hybrid products. In France, we see an acceleration
of the recovery trend starting in the second half of 2014 with the €721 million positive net
inflows driven by strong unit-linked premium up 46% and also reduced surrenders.
Also in Germany, after the planned reduction of single premium saving business in 2014,
net inflows continued their recovery showing a 23% increase driven by the unit-linked
component. Lastly, the decrease in EMEA is mainly explained by contraction in the sale of

Page 6 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

wealth protection products in Europe through our platform in Ireland and by increased
maturities in Austria.
These strong net inflows contributed to an overall 5.2% increase of Life technical reserves
over the first six months to €365 billion. It is worth highlighting the particular positive
development of unit-linked reserves, up 13.4% to €76.5 billion. Life general account
investments remain overall flat at €322 billion compared to the end of 2014. Total Life
current returns are down 10 basis points to 170 basis points for the first half. As always,
this is not an annualized figure.
In absolute terms, current income increased 2.6% reaching €5.5 billion. Fixed income
current returns in particular had the same development as total Life ones. Also here,
current income increased by €233 million or 5%. In the first half of the year, we invested
pre-existing cash, net inflows, bond redemption and coupons at an average yield of 2.4%
in the Life segment, mainly in financial and non-financial corporate bonds and government
bonds.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to new business, APE is up 5.4%, like-for-like to €2.7 billion, driven by strong
performances of unit-linked and protection, up 35% and 21% respectively while saving
business posted an almost 8% decline. Unit-linked production weighted for 26.7% on APE
versus 20.7% in the first half of 2014. Protection business increased its share to 16.6% from
14.1% year-on-year. As you can see, the relentless effort to redirect our production
towards more capital-efficient products is continuing.
Looking at our main countries. In Italy, APEs decreased by 1.6% due to positive group
business one-off during the first half of last year. Net of this one-off, APE would have
increased by 13.9% (24:44). In terms of business mix, we see a continuing strong
performance of unit-linked production with weight on APE strongly increased from 8.7% to
22%, thanks again to the continuing success of hybrid products. At the same time,
guaranteed saving business declined by 16.3%. We saw a strong development in France
where APEs increased 27%. The biggest contribution came from unit-linked, up 54%, and
protection business, up 46%.
Germany grew by 5.1%, driven by 38% increase of unit-linked production. Traditional
savings business decreased on the other hand by 8%, in line with our strategic decision to
continuously decrease the weight of fewer guaranteed savings products. The new
business margin experienced a sharp decrease down 8.5% points to 17.5%.
The positive impact on the margin of the change in business mix as well as reduced
minimum guarantees was much more than offset by worsened financial scenarios. I
remind you that the new business value of the second quarter of the year is calculated
using financial assumptions as at the end of March, which were characterized by reference
rates at the lowest level ever and by very high volatilities.
At the end of June, these assumptions have improved substantially, this assumption which
will be relevant for the new business value calculation in the third quarter. All other things
being equal, you should, therefore, expect to see a significant recovery when we report
Page 7 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

FINAL

our nine months results. As a consequence of this profitability contraction, the new
business value decreased by 29% on a like-for-like basis to €474 million.
Now let's turn to look at the P&C. Gross written premium are overall stable on a like-forlike basis at €11.3 billion. Looking at business line, Primary Motor posted a 1.7% decline
mainly driven by Italy and France, as I will explain later, but with an improving trend in the
second quarter of the year. Primary Non-Motor increased by 0.9%. The combined ratio
improved by 0.2 percentage points notwithstanding a slightly increased nat cat burden.
The operating result improved by 2.3%.
Looking at the components of this operating profit increase, we can see a technical result
at €644 million, down 0.7%, a positive development of the investment result as a result of
slightly decreasing current income more than compensated by reduced interest expenses
on operational debt and investment-related expenses and an improving residual other
items line that increased by €7 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look now at gross written premium developments within our core countries. Italy is
down 3.5% at €2.9 billion, still driven by the highly competitive environment of Motor.
Primary Motor decreased by 9%, consistent with the trend observed in the first quarter,
mainly due to reduced average premiums. Primary Non-Motor is slightly positive with a
slightly declining health business compensated by growing personal lines.
France declined by 2.5% to €1.380 billion due to the competitive market environment and
the continuation of strict underwriting guidelines and pruning activities. Primary Motor
continue its negative trend with a 5.5% decrease driven by an ongoing pruning of
unprofitable fleet and garage-related contracts, and by a still soft retail market but will
continue positive signs in terms of number of contracts in the retail segment.
Non-Motor is down 1.5%, mainly due to contract cancelations in the commercial
construction and general liability businesses. It is worth pointing out that the rate of
decline of both lines has moderated since the first quarter, which is an encouraging sign
for the future.
In Germany, premiums went up 0.6%. The reason for this slow growth rate is that the
Motor business, up 0.7%, is also this year affected by the ongoing shift from the main
renewal date from January to other months of the year, that in June affect policies with
the semiannual payments. As in 2014, we expect that this effect will be leveled during the
rest of the year benefiting also from relatively good market condition, with average
portfolio premiums still rising. Non-Motor went up 0.6%.
Moving to the profitability analysis. The combined ratio improved by 0.2 percentage
points year-on-year to 92.6%, in presence of a 0.1 percentage points higher nat cats. The
main nat cat events were storm Mike and Niklas affecting mainly Germany and also winter
storm Anton, which caused losses in Italy. Looking at the single drivers, the loss ratio
improved by 0.7 percentage points, thanks to the improving currency result, down 0.3
percentage points and higher prior years releases. The expense ratio increased by 0.5
percentage points, mainly driven by higher acquisition costs.
Page 8 of 10



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

Looking at the combined ratio in our main countries, in Italy, our combined ratio
deteriorated slightly, but still at a net solid 88.7%. That should be seen in the light of the
nat cat losses that were worse by 1.6 percentage points. In France, the combined ratio
improved significantly by 5.9 percentage point to 99.2%, thanks to a 6.4 percentage
points lower loss ratio helped by the absence of nat cats that last year weighted for 3.6
percentage point, as well as by better current year results, reflecting the first signs of
success of our turnaround efforts. In Germany, the combined ratio decreased by 1.2
percentage point despite the 0.7 percentage points higher nat cats. CEE confirms its
outstanding profitability levels with an 85.4% combined ratio.
Overall, P&C investment remained stable at €39 billion with respect to year-end 2014. In
terms of investment returns, total P&C not annualized current returns declined by 10 basis
points to 170 basis points. Also fixed-income current returns decreased by 10 basis points
partially compensated by increased current returns on real estate and equity investments.
The average of investment rating P&C during the first half of the year has been 2.1%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me finally turn to our Holding and Other businesses segment whose overall
contribution to the group operating result increased from €66 million to €71 million. This
improvement has been entirely driven by the positive contribution of financial businesses
that posted a €45 million improvement. And in particular, Banca Generali which yet again
posted an excellent performance.
Operating holding expenses increased from €197 million to €251 million year-on-year. This
is reflecting the reinforcement of the Group Head Office structures starting 2013 and
further developed in 2014, including the transition to the new Solvency II regime as well as
the development of Regional Offices aimed at leading, coordinating and controlling the
key business areas for growth prospects, as in the case of Asia. Other businesses have
increased their positive contribution from €62 million to €77 million.
Overall, we are very pleased with the progress made in the first semester of the year in
challenging market conditions. We have seen profitability improvements across the
business lines backed up by strong volumes and improving mix in the Life segment. And
our underwriting fork (33:12) is leading to the best-ever combined ratio for the semester
in P&C. We are well placed for the transition to Solvency II with a pro-forma internal model
economic capital ratio, which has further strength to 200%. Overall, as Mario said, this is
an excellent foundation from which to execute our new strategy. Thank you very much for
your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
Page 9 of 10



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-07-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

