Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Lars Møller, Director-Investor Relations
Morten Hübbe, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Tor Magne Lønnum, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Christian Hede, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jakob Brink, Analyst
Per Grønborg, Analyst
Steven A. Haywood, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Lars Møller
Good morning, everyone. Here's Lars Møller, Head of IR at Tryg. We're here to present
our Q3 results. With me today, I have our CEO, Morten Hübbe, and our CFO, Tor Lønnum,
with me. So, with this short introduction, over to you, Morten.

Morten Hübbe
Thank you, Lars. And we start on slide three, we show the key focus areas, where we have
a very strong focus on executing our eﬃciency program of DKK 750 million and
improving our customer experience as we know that also contributes to customer lifetime
and bottom line. We've seen in this quarter a positive top line of 0.6% for the ﬁrst time in
three years, mainly driven by existing customers, but we also see an increase in customer
satisfaction.
We see some areas where the current claims inﬂation is higher than the current price
development. We see, for instance, in travel and property insurance that that is the case.
And we are, of course, taking the necessary steps to mitigate and ensure that price
development is higher than claims inﬂation.
We're also in the process of converting a number of old products to new products. And
we expect that process also to contribute positively to improve proﬁtability and margin.
And of course, we focus on the acquisition we've done of children's insurance in Sweden
from Skandia, which is an acquisition which will support our ROE target of 21% within
three years. It's also a positive add-on to our children product coverage and the process
of broadening the product coverage per customer, because we know that motor will
Page 1 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

become slightly smaller and we know that more products will broaden and extend the
customer lifetime and earnings.
If we turn to slide number four, we show the ﬁnancial highlights of the quarter. We see a
satisfactory technical result with a combined ratio of 86.1%, including 2.6% one-oﬀ
restructuring charge to make sure that we deliver our DKK 750 million savings. So an
83.5% combined ratio before restructuring. As planned and communicated, we've done
this restructuring charge. And as I mentioned, it's DKK 120 million. And that is the case for
all of the restructuring between now and 2017 and the full DKK 750 million eﬃciency
program.
As I mentioned, we see that our customer focus supports the premium development. We
see an improvement in the three-plus customers, so the product coverage. And we see an
improvement in retention rates, both of which are developing positively in Denmark
where they are somewhat more challenged in Norway.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we see a negative investment return, mainly due to equity market in the quarter.
And of course, that has a negative impact on our return on equity. But it's very important
to communicate that we stay 100% committed to delivering a dividend despite that, which
is nominally stable to slightly growing. And we ﬁnd that more important than any payout
percent.
If we turn to slide number ﬁve, we show a bit of customer highlights, where, as I
mentioned, customer satisfaction and NPS is increasing and it's now 20%. We see that the
number of customers buying more products is increasing and also the customer retention
rate is improving. We see that as positive drivers because, basically, we see that the
strongest combination of customer focus on bottom line is when our existing customers
stay longer, buy more products and that they are more satisﬁed, because that is where we
drive the highest also bottom line value and the highest and most positive development
with our customers.
And over to you, Tor.

Tor Magne Lønnum
Thank you, Morten, and good morning, everyone.
If we move to slide number seven, I think it's ﬁrst and foremost important to highlight the
positive aspect in the report, i.e. that we actually have a positive top line development this
quarter in ﬁxed currency. Now, of course, you're all very well aware of what has been
going on in terms of the Norwegian krone, so, of course, it doesn't sort of reﬂects the
reported top line, but in ﬁxed currency, as I said, it's a positive development. And it's fair
to say that that's the ﬁrst time in more than two years. Of course, we're pleased with that
development.
There is a positive development in all business areas except Sweden. Going forward,
there's no doubt that we expect the top line to continue to be under pressure, particularly
Page 2 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

because, as we have talked about before, there is a slightly weaker development in
Commercial Norway and we also see some competition in terms of Danish product lines.
We do expect Sweden to develop more favorably going forward into 2016, albeit it will
not be sort of a straight top line growth line. It will be volatile.
If we move to the next slide and talk about the average premiums, there is a continued
positive average premium development in Norway, a small positive development in
motor in particular. You see that there is a continued negative development in average
prices in Denmark. Motor is driven by a combination of competition and exchanges. You
see that there is also a small decrease in average prices in housing, primarily driven by
business mix changes.
As Morten highlighted initially, of course, we are looking into price increases in
conjunction with portfolio conversion going forward. So we do think that we will be able
to mitigate the impact of slightly lower prices.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move on to slide number nine and look at customer retention, there is a very
positive development in Danish, both Private and Commercial lines. And we are actually
getting close now to 90% retention in Private line Denmark, which is very positive. It's also
worth highlighting, I think, the fact that Commercial Denmark has actually improved 1.4
percentage points over the last 12 months, which I think is relatively strong. You see that
there is a slightly weaker development in Norway, primarily driven by challenges in
Commercial, as I have highlighted, but also slightly weaker development in the
Norwegian Private portfolio to a certain extent driven by sort of the car dealership
insurance, but also by competition.
If you move on to slide 10, there is an underlying improvement of slightly ﬂattish
development in terms of the combined ratio. You have noted in the report that we have
an improvement in terms of cost and a slightly weaker underlying in terms of claims. If you
look at the business areas, we do have an underlying improvement in Corporate and
Sweden and the rest is slightly weaker development in Private and Commercial.
The development in the latter, as Morten mentioned initially, is primarily driven by some
increased claims inﬂation in property and that's across Private and Commercial and also
an increase in terms of travel expense claims.
If we move to slide number 11 and look at the eﬃciency program, we added savings of
DKK 45 million in Q3 and we are at DKK 180 million year-to-date. The savings continue to
be very visible in terms of cost savings, as I'm sure you've noted in terms of development
in the cost ratio. The claiming – the claim savings is less visible, as I've discussed in the last
slide, primarily due to what is going on in terms of claims inﬂation.
If we move to slide number 12 and look at the expenses and the expense ratio, you see
that we have a nominal expense reduction in all business areas. You can also see that
there continued to favorable in development in terms of FTEs and there is a drop of
almost 174 FTEs just since the end of Q2. Outsourcing in group ﬁnance is starting now to
be visible in the numbers and something that we have highlighted before.
Page 3 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

If we move to slide number 14, in terms of the underlying claims ratio, as I mentioned, you
do see a slightly increase in the underlying claims ratio and primarily, as I said, driven by a
development in property and travel expense claims in Private and Commercial.
If we move to slide number 15, you see that we have had a higher impact of large claims
in the quarter, 4.3%. It's slightly higher than expected year-to-date, but we don't consider
to be a trend. So more sort of a what you would call normal volatility. And keep in mind
that the DKK 550 million expected for the full year, of course, is the budget. And I think
I've said before that there will be natural variations around such a number.
Weather claims are lower than last year, despite ﬂooding and heavy rain showers in
Norway. Year-to-date, we are slightly higher than last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move to the last part, there is a slightly higher run-oﬀ level in Q3 at 8.8% which, of
course, is driven by a strong and favorable development in the long-tail reserves related
to workers' compensation and motor TPL. It's in line with the guidance, but slightly higher
level of run-oﬀ releases than what we have seen in some other former years. We don't
expect sort of the level to be at call it the 7% level run rate but we have had, as I said, a
relatively good development in terms of resales and thus high run oﬀ this quarter.
If we move to slide number 17, I think Morten highlighted on the overall level what's going
on in terms of the investment return. Relatively large loss, DKK 383 million for the quarter,
2.6% down. Equities, in particular, were down by 10.3%, which is weaker than the MSCI
World that is our benchmark as well. And it means that we have had sort of most of the
former quarters we have had slightly better performance than MSCI World. This quarter
we had a slightly weaker performance.
High yield and emerging market debt performed better than benchmark but gave
negative yields. In terms of the mismatch, you see that it's slightly lower than DKK 50
million negative but still a relatively high amount and in particular, I'm sure you've all
noticed that there has been large market movements in terms of credit spreads through
the period.
If we move to slide number 18, the capital buﬀer. It's worth highlighting that there is a
relatively large movement in capital buﬀer this quarter. Two things I primarily would
highlight, the fact that there is natural seasonality in the capital buﬀer as we will build up
for the Q4 dividend. But there is also two relatively large movements; one is currency
movements due to the weakening of the Norwegian krone and the other is related to and
a reduced equity exposure as a consequence of the drop in equity markets in the quarter.
It's worth highlighting that any share buyback as you know, which is extraordinary, is
something that we will announce in conjunction with the Q4 reporting. Previously we have
said something about that already in December, but we will do that in conjunction with
the Q4 reporting. I would also highlight for this page that there is no impact of the
acquisition of the Skandia child insurance portfolio at this point in time, because we have
not been given the regulatory approval. That is something that we expect somewhere in
the ﬁrst half.
Page 4 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

Now, we have highlighted that that will have a DKK 400 million impact in terms of capital,
so that's worth noting. There are, as you know, still elements of uncertainty in terms of
capital. There is the model improvement, there is the Natural Perils Pool, some elements
related to deferred tax and future proﬁts. And there is also a discount curve change that
will be implemented in Q1 2016.
The last thing that I'd highlight on the capital slide is the fact that, as Morten highlighted,
there's no doubt that when we establish our dividend policy, that was established for
exactly the situations that you see in this quarter. I think we were relatively transparent in
saying that there will be periods where you can have impact on the insurance operations,
for instance, harsh winters, like you saw in 2010 or periods where you see signiﬁcant drop
in equity markets like what we have seen in this quarter.
The dividend policy was deﬁned to meet exactly situations like this. And that's why we
said that there will be a 60% to 90% range, based on the proﬁt after tax. I think it's very
important for us to state, as Morten said initially, that there's no doubt that we will defend
the nominally stable and slightly growing dividend. And that will be a very important
priority in terms of our targets. And that's, as I said, exactly why we deﬁned the dividend
policy the way we did.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move to slide number 19, it's also worth mentioning the fact that we simply did this
acquisition of the child insurance portfolio in Sweden from Skandia. That actually moves
our market share in Sweden on child insurance products to 10%. So there's no doubt that
that is a very nice ﬁt, very good strategic ﬁt with our existing business.
We do know that such a portfolio will contribute to very high retention levels, and has a
very strong proﬁtability, which means that in our mind, this acquisition will contribute to
the overall ROE target of 21% within three years.
As you can see there on the bottom left, we have just tried to show you what kind of
capital impact the various business lines will have in terms of capital, and it's just a
reminder, I'm sure you're all very well aware of that, but it's just to tell you that this is the
reason why you see a relatively high capital impact from such a portfolio, because it's a
combination of the capital charge related to the business and the goodwill. But as I said,
there's no doubt in our mind that this portfolio will contribute to the overall ROE target of
21% within three years.
And I guess, with that, I'll leave it back to you, Morten.

Morten Hübbe
Thank you, Tor.
And if we turn to slide 20 for some concluding remarks, I think, ﬁrst of all, it's extremely
important that we have a very strong focus on improving our eﬃciency and delivering our
eﬃciency program of DKK 750 million, because we know that that will beneﬁt both our
shareholders and our value creation, but also our customers and our competitive
Page 5 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

position. And we're quite pleased that in this quarter, before the restructuring charge, we
improved our cost ratio by 0.5%.

FINAL

We are initiating minor price changes to make sure that we manage inﬂation, particularly
in the areas where current inﬂation is slightly higher than current price changes. And
we're continuing to improve our price diﬀerentiation, as we know that, that is gradually
improving our risk selection and our margins.
We have reiterated our ﬁnancial targets for 2017 with a target of an ROE at or above 21%, a
combined ratio at or below 87% and the expense ratio at or below 14% in 2017. And then
of course, our customer targets also for 2017 to improve the NPS, the customer retention
and the broadness of the product coverage.
We continue to work with smaller acquisitions in the case that we can see that they can
support our ROE target of 21% within three years, so that they create value for our
shareholders.
And also, we would like to see that they can add to our product coverage because we
know that when we add product coverage to existing customers, they stay longer. They
are more satisﬁed, and they contribute with a stronger bottom line.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then ﬁnally, as Tor mentioned, we remain 100% committed to nominal, stable and
slightly growing dividend regardless of what happens to equity markets and regardless of
the payout in percent. Thank you.

Lars Møller
Operator, we are ready to take questions, please.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you very much. And our ﬁrst question comes from Jakob Brink from ABG. Please
go ahead.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Thank you. Sorry, but I know you stressed it three times, but I would still like to go back to
the dividend policy. So I mean, the way I read it and the way you've put it on page 20, you
have the payout ratio targets and then you are aiming or I think you're writing on your
website you have an aspiration for an increasing dividend. I mean, how should I read this?
Should I read it the way that you'd do everything you can to basically increase the proﬁts,
so that 90% will also lead to an increasing dividend or could we actually see you going to
above 90%? And in that case, then how far above 100% could we see you going – 90%,
sorry? That's the ﬁrst question.

Page 6 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

And then secondly, could you please update us on Solvency II? I, at least, have forgotten
the impact of the changed discounting curve in Q1. And then also did you get any sort of
more details on how you treat, for example, the 200-year event tax asset? And also
maybe any news on potential H1 issues? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yeah. I think, Morten, he's pointing to me to those two questions, Jakob. So I'll start with
the ﬁrst and foremost, yes, there is no doubt that we are willing to go above 90% in order
to defend the nominal cash dividend. Is there a limit in terms of how high? I don't really
think that that's an issue, to be frank, and there is – we haven't discussed any thresholds in
that respect. The ambition is to defend the cash dividend.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

But if I can just – and if I look at your net proﬁt over the past 10 years, I know that a lot of
things have happened in Tryg, both, I mean, the higher underwriting proﬁtability et
cetera. But if I look at the 10-year average net proﬁt, it's been around DKK 1.8 billion
which, I think, consensus if you just put in the negative deviation today, for 2015, will be at
around DKK 1.8 billion. So basically, it's not sort of an exceptionally weak year. I do
recognize that it's slightly weaker to underwriting, but having improved since the past 10
years, but still. So why is it that you can go above your own target, won't that hit you at
some point?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
I'm not sure if I sort of follow your question, Jakob. I mean, if you come for – if you sort of
calculate the DKK 1.8 billion after-tax proﬁt on average for a 10-year period, that should be
suﬃcient to support a dividend, shouldn't it?

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

I just mean if you do that, and then take 90%, then you will end up at around 5.8%, so
which is not an increase in dividends, so that's why I'm asking. So if you increase the
payout now, then you can do that this year, yes, but if you do that then it's kind of saying
that next year you expect the proﬁts do somewhat better.

A - Morten Hübbe
Jakob, the motivation for having the debate is the negative results on the investment
income in Q3.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Morten Hübbe
And I guess what we're basically saying is that we see that we will defend and deliver a
nominal stable to slightly growing dividend regardless that we have losses on the
investment book.
Page 7 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

And I guess that ultimately what we're saying is one, that that is very important for us. It's
very important for our shareholders. And basically, we are running a portfolio where we
are conﬁdent that we are continuously developing our insurance operations and earnings
in a positive direction. And the fact that we have volatility from quarter-to-quarter in the
investment book shouldn't change our commitment to the nominal dividend. And as Tor
said, if that means going outside the 60% to 90% payout in terms of range, then we're
comfortable with doing that. So I guess that's the clear signal.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
In terms of the question related to Solvency II, it's fair to say that the discount curve that
you asked about is one, among several elements that will have an impact when we move
over to Solvency II. So you know, there will be positive elements, and there will be some
negative elements. And as I mentioned, this is one of them.
In terms of the positive elements, the tax asset is one that has been highlighted. There is
no doubt that parts of our deferred tax asset will be – we will be able to utilize the
Solvency II. But as I mentioned before, this is still – there is still some uncertainty around
how that will develop.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Can you say anything, if we would exclude any debt issuance, then all those new impacts,
positives and negatives, what should we be looking at on a net eﬀect? Sort of a range
maybe?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
No, I'm not going to do that, Jakob.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
But what I can say is that – and that's really why I highlighted it because if you look into
just for this quarter, you see that there is a relatively signiﬁcant drop in terms of capital
requirement. And I mentioned there is two elements, one is the weakening of the
Norwegian krone and the other is related to the capital charge based on equities
underway that they have dropped.
So that's why I think it's fair to say that the transparency in terms of what will happen
related to the capital in Q1 is still not fantastic, so to speak. And that's why it's fair to say
that, again, as I mentioned earlier, there will be some positive elements, there will be
some negative elements. You see that the capital buﬀer at this point in time at least is
Page 8 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

signiﬁcantly higher than what you saw, for instance, in the previous quarter. So that's why I
think it's fair to say that there will be some – that it won't be the same level of visibility, at
least not yet.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator
Our next question comes from Mr. In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Good morning. So two questions for me. Firstly, on the price increases that you are
planning on in travel and property, is that something that – is that a need that the market is
recognizing as well or is that something Tryg will sort of be leading on?

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly, just on the buyback expectation, you guided to DKK 400 million capital
loading from the Skandia acquisition, so I don't know if that means we should look for
DKK 400 million for a buyback estimate or your individual solvency ratio still looks fairly
solid and you still have got a potential for further leverage. So I just would be interested
to hear kind of what your thinking is around the buyback and what kind of constraints you
see, if any, aside from the kind of solvency internal model and buﬀer. Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning to you as well. I think I'll take the ﬁrst question and then Tor can lead on. In
terms of the travel and property, I think, ﬁrst of all, they fall into two rather diﬀerent
categories. On the travel insurance in Denmark, what we see is that the scope of travel
insurance has changed rather signiﬁcantly.
Previously, the Danish society would typically pay for the accidents and illnesses you
would have abroad and only, to a lesser extent, the private insurance would pay. Now,
we're into new regime where the society will pay a lot less and the private insurance will
pay a lot more. And that has basically changed the division of responsibility between
society and insurance.
So the challenge that that increases travel claims more than anticipated is one that I
expect to be a challenge for all of the insurance companies. I think they will probably
choose diﬀerent strategies in terms of timing and increase in percent, et cetera, but it's
basically a challenge and a new role that covers the whole of the market.
When it comes to property insurance, I think, ﬁrst of all, we're talking about signiﬁcantly
smaller numbers and we're talking about small and more gradual increases in inﬂation
which could probably vary from company to company. But here we are talking about
smaller price adjustments to make sure that we handle the slightly higher inﬂation in a

Page 9 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

gradual tempo and not sort of in bigger hikes. So hopefully, that sheds some more light
on that.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

FINAL

Great.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Good morning to you as well. In terms of the question about the buybacks, ﬁrst and
foremost, it's important to say that – and it goes back to the dividend policy. What we are
truly committed to is to maintain a nominally stable and growing dividend. The buybacks
are extraordinary distribution of capital.
So going back to your question, there is no doubt that if we do an acquisition like we did
with the child insurance portfolio, all other things equal, that will have an impact in terms
of buyback, all other things equal, that will have an impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, as you indicate, there are other moving parts in terms of the capsule once you move
into 2016 and we have talked about some of the elements earlier. We have also, as you
indicate, highlighted the fact that there is a potential for some increase in terms of
leverage if we have better visibility in terms of the natural payrolls fund.
Now, you know that the Norwegian government has proposed changes in the act that will
support a Tier 2 attribution of the capital from that front. And as such, of course that will
support a potential increased leverage in the balance sheet. But that's really why I said
earlier that it's natural for us to discuss the capital elements in the Q4 reporting, i.e., in the
Q1 2016 because then we have better visibility.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Christian Hede from Nordea. Please go ahead.

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. This is Christian from Nordea. A couple of questions. I'm sorry I have
to go back to part of your voicing. It seems like we are much more defensive if you can
say in your voicing now. And so I was just wondering why has that changed dramatically
since Q2. Is that only due to the drop in equity markets because I guess that can happen,
and it doesn't necessarily change the underlying case? So that's one thing.
And another thing is on your growth ambitions for 2016 or your targeted growth of
around GDP, including acquisitions. Should we expect you to do more acquisitions? Is that
kind of part of your plan or will you be able to reach GDP growth as you see it now with
the acquisitions you've already mentioned?
Page 10 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

And possibly, I guess that's mostly for you, Tor, maybe you could run us through how you
see the impact from a weakened Norwegian economy on such books? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning, Christian. Well, I guess on the voicing question, that's the ﬁrst time we
have a question like that, but I guess it's relevant. The way we see it, when we have a pretax which is down DKK 538 million year-on-year in the quarter, then clearly we shouldn't
be cheerful and happy in terms of voicing.
But as you rightly point out, when the majority of that is an almost minus DKK 400 million
on investments and DKK 120 million on the restructuring charge, then, of course, as we
see it underlying, we have an improvement in the cost ratio that's great. We have a slight,
slight deterioration in the underlying claims ratio, which we actually wanted to improve
slightly. That's why we need to make sure that we capture these few areas where claims
inﬂation is slightly higher than the current pricing development. And we are doing so.
So you're completely right. In the underlying case, there's really nothing much that has
changed. But on the other hand, DKK 538 million is DKK 538 million. So if we don't sound
very cheerful, you can probably attach DKK 538 million, which is more or less investment
market and a choice to do a restructuring charge as planned, and which will allow us to
deliver the DKK 750 million. Yeah. Hopefully, that is slightly clearer.

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
To the other two questions. In terms of the growth ambition, I think we said though
already after Q2, Christian, that in order to sort of reach a growth in the area, 1% to 2% in
2016, that would have to be dependent on whether or not we would be able to realize an
acquisition. Now, we knew, of course, when we said that in Q2 that we would be able to
realize an acquisition of the Skandia child insurance portfolio. And as such, that will have
an impact and that will contribute to the growth ambitions for 2016.
The challenge, of course, is that, as I mentioned earlier, this is based on regulatory
approvals. And since this is considered to be a life product under Danish regulation, there
is some uncertainty as to how fast that process will progress. And that's why we have said
we don't expect closing to take place before sort of somewhere in ﬁrst half 2016. And as
I'm sure you can appreciate, that of course will have an impact on the overall growth.
Now, I think I highlighted earlier as well that we've had a positive quarter in terms of
growth, no doubt in ﬁxed currency. There will be volatility going forward as well, but
based on sort of the acquisition that we have made and based on what's going on in the
portfolio, we should be able to get at least not too far oﬀ in terms of the growth ambition I
mentioned.

Page 11 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

So to your question, it doesn't mean that it will be dependent upon further acquisition.
That does not mean that we will stop looking for portfolios because we will constantly be
looking for more bolt-on portfolios that will contribute to our earnings. And we do think
that we can take out synergies from such portfolios.
The last question that you raised was what is the impact in terms of a weakened
Norwegian economy? And I think it's fair to say that we have already highlighted that the
Commercial area in Norway isn't looking as good and that is particularly due to the fact
that you've seen a decline in trend for smaller and medium-sized commercials on the
western part of Norway.
If you continue to see a deterioration in terms of the economy, I do think that that will
have some spillover eﬀect on the Private lines as well. And it's probably fair to do a
comparison to what you've looked into in terms of the Danish economy over the last two
years. So, there's no doubt that sort of – the bleak prospects in terms of the Norwegian
economy will, to a certain extent, have some impact.
But keep in mind that reinsurance – no, sorry, insurance is relative stable in the sense that
people will always need to cover their basic insurance needs. And as such, typically also
in the downturn, you will see less impact in a business like ours.

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. That's very good.

Operator
Our next question comes from Per Grønborg from Danske Markets. Please go ahead.

Q - Per Grønborg
Yes. Good morning. A couple of questions from my side as well also very much related to
Norway. First of all, to clarify what you just addressed to on Norway, the impact on the – of
the macro economy. I assume it was premium you talked about and not the underlying
environment. Are there – do you see any impact on the underlying environment from the
situation in Norway?
Then all on Norway, when I look at your Norwegian country segment, I don't know, I know
you don't favor to talk about the country segments, but still it looks like a lot of your
volatility is coming from Norway pretty bad Q1, impressive Q2, a Q3 that solely was saved
by huge prior year gains. Why are your Norwegian business, it seems to be much more
volatile than other players operating in Norway? In that context, is it fair to assume that
large claims are very much centered around Norway, I get that impression from looking at
the result of your ceded business. Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum

Page 12 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

Yeah. Good morning, Per. You're quite right. The comment I made in terms of macro was
top line based. In terms of claims environment, it's fair to say that we haven't really seen
any particular trend, any particular impact yet. And from time to time, you'll see that
people are trying to make the correlation between sort of economic output and claims
inﬂation or also claims frequency for instance. And I think it's fair to say that we think it's
diﬃcult to establish that kind of correlation.
So, the only thing that I think I'd highlight in that sense is the fact that if you continue to
see a weaker economy, that will, of course, have an impact on the claims inﬂation that it
should put a lid on the pressure, I think, of the Norwegian economy, but you know as well
as me, Per, that that kind of development it will really take some time before it ﬂows into
the numbers.

Q - Per Grønborg
Then, I guess, you have a quarter (41:11) on the other side that potentially could increase in
a bigger ﬁnancial economy.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yes, absolutely.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Morten Hübbe
And I guess it's required to be very detailed there. Of course, you can ﬁnd this historical
marginal positive on the claims development when the economy slows down. And of
course it makes us slightly, slightly less worried about claims inﬂation in Norway. But we
are talking about marginal numbers. And as you've mentioned, on the other hand, there's
a slightly, slightly bigger risk of fraud and policyholders being on the water. But I think, to
be honest, what we're saying is both factors are rather small.

Q - Per Grønborg
Yeah. Okay.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
I think to your – to the last question in terms of volatility in the Norwegian business, it's
important to say that it may be perceived to be volatile. But as you correctly highlight, that
will be highly dependent upon the impact of large claims. And I think when you've looked
into the country segments before you've seen that Sweden from time to time is moving
into negative territory for instance. And of course, this is one of the good things about
being a larger Scandinavian group, is that fact that you can sort of align such large claims
across the portfolio.
But to be precise, we have had a very signiﬁcant claim in Norway this quarter. It was this
storage – this large storage building that burned, was completely destroyed. So, that had
a signiﬁcant impact. And you also know that although weather, as I mentioned, is not that
– or is better than last quarter than this particular quarter. There's no doubt that all

Page 13 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

material part of the weather claims are actually coming out of Norway. So, of course, that
is what you perceive to be the volatility related to the Norwegian business.

FINAL

Q - Per Grønborg
Going forward, could you help us a bit not to ask this basically stupid questions on the
Norway if you started to give us the weather impact and the large claims impact also for
the two-country segment, just a wish?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
It's duly noted, Per.

A - Morten Hübbe
Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, guys. With regards to your 20% ROE target for this year, considering what
happened in the third quarter with the investment result, how challenging is this 20% ROE
target to achieve in 2015? And do you think this – achievement of this target will have any
impact on current or future share buybacks?
And then the second question is related to a previous question in this call, with regards to
the discount change that's coming in the ﬁrst quarter, can you quantify any impact here
for us, please? Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yes. Do you want me to start with...

A - Morten Hübbe
Well, I can start. I guess, Steven, that if you look at the ROE target, I think we have been at
or above that ROE target in a number of quarters. I think our year-to-date ROE this year is
around the 17% mark. I think around in this quarter well around 6%. And clearly, the drop
in investment income in Q3 has, of course, put a negative impact on that.
And I guess, we don't want to try to guess what happens on the Q4 investment income.
We can see that investment market have been slightly more positive in the beginning of
Q4, but there's a rather long period of Q4 still out there. So clearly, what we're saying is
that the ROE for the full year will be largely dependent upon the volatility of investment
income of Q4. If that continues to be volatile or negative, we won't reach our ROE targets.
If we have more positive developments, we will. On the other hand, we actually focus on

Page 14 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

our insurance operational contributions for the ROE targets. And there, we remain very
conﬁdent that we will deliver as planned, mainly with our DKK 750 million program.

FINAL

And I guess, as we've said, we are completely committed to delivering the nominal stable
to growing dividend. You asked about the buybacks, of course, if we have more negative
developments on the investment side, of course, that will have a negative impact on the
buyback potential. So, clearly, there's correlation there.
But we wouldn't want to speculate on what happens with investments in Q4. But I guess
we are quite pleased that our investment portfolio in general is fairly conservative
because otherwise, this debate could be a lot more diﬃcult.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
And just a couple more comments from me, I think. In terms of when you look at into sort
of achieving the 20% ROE target, there's no doubt that the material driver in terms of
delivering that return is the insurance proﬁt. And I think Morten has highlighted a couple
of times, there is a strong underlying insurance result, insurance proﬁt technical result,
albeit it's slightly weaker underlying.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, in our mind, sort of the stability of the insurance business, and that's really what we've
been focusing over the last few years, that is the main driver in terms of the proﬁtability
and that will continue to conﬁgure.
Now, the reason for highlighting the fact that the ROE may be – that it may be an issue for
this year's target is, of course, that the equity markets at the moment are very volatile. And
I'm sure you have observed that only since the end of the quarter and up until this point in
time, we have seen a very positive development. And to me, that only goes to highlight
the fact that at the moment, at least, it is relatively volatile.
There's nothing new in that, but perhaps it's more volatile at this point in time than what
you've seen in the previous quarters and years. And that's why we think it's okay to
highlight the fact that that may be an issue for the 20% ROE target this year.
Now, to the other question in terms of the discount term, what we will do is that we will
give you a description of the elements related to the Q4 report. So, you will get more
clarity when we publish our Q4 report.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much for your answers.

Operator
We have no further questions on the phone, so back to you, speakers.

A - Lars Møller
Page 15 of 16



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2015-10-09

FINAL

Yes. Thank you very much to all of your for participating in this call this morning here and
thank you to Morten and Tor. We will be around here and road showing today in
Copenhagen and Monday in London, and then in the coming week after in the U.S.
market. So, looking forward to meet you all around there and have a nice day and
weekend. Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

