Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Helvetia Switzerland
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Stefan Loacker, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Daniel Bischof, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
Stefan Schürmann, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome to the Half Year Results 2015 Conference
Call and Live Webcast. I am Maria, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you
that all participants will be listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After
the presentation, there will be a Q&A session. The conference must not be recorded for
publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Stefan Loacker, CEO, Helvetia Group.
Please go ahead, sir.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you, Maria. Ladies and gentlemen, we are delighted to present now for the ﬁrst
time the half year results of the new Helvetia and we want to welcome you to this event.
As you can imagine, we can look back on a very busy but also successful ﬁrst six months,
which were dominated by the integration of Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria. We
would now like to provide you with detailed information on the progress we have made
and the key aspects of our half year ﬁnancial statements during this presentation.
As you already know from the past, this presentation will entail after my introduction our
CFO, Paul Norton, explaining our key ﬁnancial ﬁgures. Then our Chief Investment Oﬃcer,
Ralph-Thomas Honegger, who will tell you about the investment results, and our CEO of
Switzerland, Philipp Gmür, who will report on the business performance in our home
market. At the end of the presentation, I will provide a brief update on our strategic
position before we take the questions as usual.
Page 1 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

Let me now open the material report by looking on slide three, which is indicating the
performance of the underlying earnings which increased by 12% to CHF 221 million. The
improvement has mainly come from the non-life business, where proﬁt rose by 46% to
CHF 158 million year-on-year. This strong increase was supported by the acquisitions and
is also based on a very good technical result, which is reﬂected in the excellent combined
ratio of 92.4%, which is the best ﬁgure within the last ﬁve years. The result in life insurance
also increased by 18% to CHF 85 million.
Only the result in the business area Other activities was at minus CHF 22 million below the
previous years' ﬁgures. Premiums were also inﬂuenced by both acquisitions. Total
business volume in original currency rose by around 15%. The strongest impetus here also
came from the non-life business, which increased by 50% to just under CHF 2.4 billion.
On slide four, you see that transaction is literally completed, while the integration is fully
on track. The legal and ﬁnancial acquisition of Nationale Suisse has been fully completed
in the meantime. As you know, Helvetia controlled 100% of all shares already in April and
then merged the legal entities of Nationale Suisse in Switzerland into the existing Helvetia
companies. The merger in Austria also took place already.

Bloomberg Transcript

Spain, Italy and Germany are in preparation and will be completed step by step by the
end of 2016. Thanks to this rapid progress within the legal transaction, the way was paved
for completing all operational aspects of the integration. On the next few slides, I will
provide you with further details along the market areas Switzerland, Europe and Specialty
Markets.
Let us start with Switzerland on slide ﬁve, which already achieved all key integration
milestones. The joint market launch of the integrated product range took place on May 1
as scheduled along with the rebranding of Nationale Suisse to Helvetia. Those of you in
Switzerland may have had the opportunity to see yourselves that we have replaced
illuminated signs, logos, posters and all the other elements throughout Switzerland.
In terms of personnel and organizational aspects, we have also made good progress. The
new organizational model for back oﬃce and sales force has been operational since the
beginning of May. The overall organization is stable and eﬃcient. The majority of the
around 3,700 FTEs are actively integrating into the new Helvetia and are dealing
positively with the new situation.
As expected, natural ﬂuctuation helped us to achieve the necessary staﬀ synergies as
gently as possible. This means that a net ﬁgure of 186 FTEs have left us since June 2014.
As the labor market in the Swiss insurance sector is very receptive, this ﬁgure will
presumably increase further as we go along. Additionally, around 35 early retirements are
expected. The 75 employees who will be made redundant as a result of staﬀ reductions
will be given active support in ﬁnding a new job via the agreed social plan. A salary
guarantee also applies until the end of 2015.
In Switzerland, we are now starting a stabilization phase in the new organization, with a
focus on ﬁne-tuning the processes and systems. We are now making a staged transition of
Page 2 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

the remaining insurance policies in claims, claims ﬁles from the former Nationale Suisse to
the IT systems of the new Helvetia.

FINAL

In Europe, we are also on track, although some steps are taking slightly more time than in
Switzerland due to a diﬀerent local regulation for staﬀ reductions and legal mergers. Joint
management teams have also been established and are operational since the beginning
of this year in all country markets of our group.
The integration of the product range is also being implemented in Austria to some extent
already since the beginning of this year. In the other country markets, the preparations are
ongoing or the implementation is just now gradually taking place. The rebranding into
Helvetia will also be largely completed by the end of the year.
As you know, Nationale Suisse position in Belgium was under review since roughly one
year. The withdrawal from the Belgian market will be completed these days. All necessary
oﬃcial permits are available by now. In future, we will only continue to write art insurance
there via our Liechtenstein subsidiary.

Bloomberg Transcript

I turn now to slide six to the segment Specialty Markets, which has been also realigned
and freshly newly established in the beginning of May this year. Through Specialty
Markets, Helvetia is pursuing a strategy that focuses clearly on proﬁtability, which is to a
certain degree a bit in contrast to the previous focus on growth at Nationale Suisse.
Against this background, we have already started analyzing and partly realigning the
portfolio of international and major risks in engineering as part of our right-sizing.
The French unit will continue to pursue its strategy as a successful niche player in the
marine business. We will also continue to drive the successful approach of global risk
diversiﬁcation in our active reinsurance business. The segment Specialty Markets is
currently also focusing on stabilizing systems and processes. At the level of group
functions, the consolidation of the operating systems and the corresponding data are also
progressing as scheduled. Employees who have come across Helvetia have been active in
their new roles also since the beginning of May this year.
All in all, as you can see, we have really achieved a lot regarding the integration of
Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria in the ﬁrst six months of 2015. This shows that the new
companies are also a good cultural ﬁt with Helvetia; otherwise, it would not have been
possible to make such rapid progress. I'm convinced that we will also jointly and
successfully cope with the planned integration work still ahead of us.
On slide seven, you'll ﬁnd an overview on the current status on the synergies achieved. At
the top left of the slide, you can see the year-on-year change in FTEs at group level. As of
June 30, Helvetia's staﬀ base was 292 FTEs below the same date in the previous year. Of
these 292 FTEs, 232 left as a result of the two acquisitions and can be classiﬁed as
synergies while the remaining 60 are in conjunction with the sales in Belgium.
The staﬀ reductions equate to pro rata cost savings on personnel costs of CHF 9 million at
the ﬁrst six months of this reporting period. We have also achieved savings in the nonPage 3 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

personnel costs of CHF 6 million in the ﬁrst half of this year, while synergies especially
resulted from reducing redundancies in IT, logistics, marketing and Corporate
departments. Overall, the volume of synergies amounted to around CHF 15 million pro
rata and, therefore, we are also already ahead or at least well on our way to achieving our
annual goal in this respect.
Let me conclude with slide eight and looking back one year ago when we just published
our half year results last year, 2014, obviously, we were at the very start of this process to
acquire Nationale Suisse. In the meantime, we have taken the opportunity to create an
even stronger Swiss insurance group out of the merger of two successful companies. The
new Helvetia is already ideally positioned. We are among the market leaders in
Switzerland. We have a presence in four key European insurance markets and we have a
strong niche position in attractive specialty markets that have been developed over many
years.
As you know, the new Helvetia also has a major value to leverage its ﬁnancial success and
we will now realize the potential of this step by step. Thanks to the growing proﬁt share of
the non-life business as well as the expected cost synergies, there is a signiﬁcant potential
to raise the dividend further in the next coming years. We have created the best possible
conditions for this through the successful integration which took place in the last six
months.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, to provide you the key information
on our ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to the conference call. I'd like to give
you a more detailed information on the successful ﬁrst six months of 2015, starting with
slide nine.
Through acquiring Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria, the IFRS result for the period was
strongly inﬂuenced by temporary special eﬀects. As we've already announced, Helvetia is
therefore focusing underlying earnings until the end of the 2017 ﬁnancial year, which
eliminates these temporary special eﬀects and therefore reﬂects the operating
performance of the new Helvetia group.
I'll therefore start by moving from underlying earnings to the IFRS result on slide 10. The
underlying earnings were CHF 221 million. This includes already realized synergies of CHF
15 million as well as additional ﬁnancing costs of CHF 7 million. I will discuss the synergies
in more detail later on.
As required by IFRS, we recorded the following special eﬀects as a result of the two
acquisitions, which had a negative impact in the IFRS result for the ﬁrst six months of 2015.
These were integration and restructuring costs of CHF 27 million, planned amortization of
intangible assets, CHF 30 million, and additional planned amortization due to revaluation
of interest-bearing securities to market values of CHF 21 million.
Page 4 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

Finally, we also booked CHF 19 million predominantly related to taxes on these special
eﬀects. The IFRS result, corrected for these eﬀects, was therefore CHF 162 million. As
there were no major special eﬀects from acquisitions in the previous year, we did not
adjust the 2014 result.
Before I discuss results by business areas on slide 11, I would like to point out the
acquisitions of Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria took place in the second half of 2014,
meaning the two acquired companies were not yet included in the comparative ﬁgures to
the ﬁrst half 2014.
On slide 11, we can see that Helvetia Group had impressive underlying earnings of CHF
221 million, up 12% year-on-year. Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria, acquired in the
previous year, made a major contribution to this earnings increase. Against this was the
eﬀect of the unpegging of the euro minimum exchange rate by the SNB in January 2015
and the associated exchange rate eﬀects, which together with low interest income had a
negative eﬀect on earnings growth in Swiss francs.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the non-life business, we generated CHF 158 million, up 46% year-on-year. The strong
increase is due to improved technical result and the additional volume from both
acquisitions. All the non-life units achieved a combined ratio of below 100%. Earnings in
the life business were CHF 85 million, which corresponds to a year-on-year increase of
18%. Increase in proﬁts was driven primarily by lower expenses for interest-related
additional reserves in Switzerland.
The earnings contribution made by Other activities was at CHF 22 million, below the
previous year's ﬁgure of CHF 16 million. This was mainly due to the lower result from
group reinsurance, was primarily attributable to severe weather losses and large losses in
Germany. Gains/losses on investments, net, were also lower year-on-year. In addition to a
higher cost base and ﬁnancing costs due to the acquisitions, investment result was also
lower compared to the previous year.
I'll continue with the result by segment on slide 12. We have changed the segmentation
since January 1, 2015. The operating segments of Helvetia Group now consist of
Switzerland, Europe, Specialty Markets and Corporate, and reﬂect the new alignment of
Helvetia Group. We have adjusted the previous year's results accordingly.
Currency eﬀects had a negative impact on the results for the segments Europe, Specialty
Markets and Corporate, in particular, supplied (15:55) the unpegging of the euro from the
Swiss franc. Currency translation diﬀerences therefore decreased results by CHF 16 million
when converted into group currency of Swiss francs.
The segment Switzerland, which includes the Swiss market unit, was the strongest pillar of
the Helvetia Group in the ﬁrst six months of 2015m with an earnings contribution of CHF
169 million and an increase of 46%. Philipp Gmür will give you more detailed information
about the segment results, which are once again very good.

Page 5 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

The Europe segment comprises the market units of Germany, Italy, Spain and Austria. The
result from the segment Europe increased by 5% to CHF 54 million. In original currency,
earnings growth was 22%. In non-life, we increased our result year-on-year by 12%, which
was largely due to the better technical result and the additional earnings contributions
made by Basler Austria and Nationale Suisse. The life result fell by 9% as a result of lower
proﬁts from investments and stronger reserves in the Germany and Austria market units
due to the low interest rate environment.
The segment Specialty Market includes the specialty lines of marine, engineering and art
insurance in the unit Switzerland/International, the France market unit, which specializes in
marine insurance as well as the globally operating active reinsurance. The segment result
for Specialty Markets was at CHF 20 million, up 46% year-on-year. This positive
performance is due to the improved technical results and additional earnings contribution
made by the market unit Switzerland/International. It also includes the former
multinational Specialty Lines business of Nationale Suisse.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to the ﬁnancing companies and the holding company, the segment Corporate
includes the Corporate Center and Group reinsurance. The earnings contribution made
by the segment Corporate was at minus CHF 22 million, below the previous year's ﬁgure
of CHF 16 million. As already mentioned, declining earnings was due to a weaker result in
Group re, higher costs due to acquisitions, a low investment result and the ﬁnancing
costs.
I'll continue with our business volume on slide 13. In the ﬁrst six months of 2015, the new
Helvetia Group generated a business volume of CHF 5.3 billion. Compared to the
previous year, this was an increase of 15% in original currency. The two companies
acquired in the 2014 ﬁnancial year, Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria, made signiﬁcant
contributions to this growth. Growth was driven by our non-life business, which rose by
48% in original currency. In the life business area, investment-linked insurance solutions
and deposits increased, while traditional insurance solutions declined. The overall result
in the life business was a reduction in volume of 3%.
In terms of segments, Switzerland produced the largest increase with a rise of 15%. Philipp
Gmür will tell you about this later. The expected positive eﬀect of acquisitions could also
be seen in the segment Europe with growth of 10% in original currency. In non-life, all
market units assigned to the segment rose with satisfying double-digit growth rates in
original currency. With increase of 70% in original currency, Austria achieved the biggest
growth rate.
However, life business volume fell by 16% in original currency. This decline was largely
caused by volume reductions in traditional life business in Italy and Germany, which could
not be oﬀset by the good growth in investment-linked products. In contrast, we increased
business volume in Austria and Spain in original currency, particularly with investmentlinked insurance solutions.
In the segment Specialty Markets, we also generated a volume that was 37% higher in
original currency year-on-year. Growth was driven by the market unit

Page 6 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

Switzerland/International, which comprises the Specialty Lines business in Switzerland
and international markets. This growth resulted mainly from the ﬁrst-time consolidation of
the former Nationale Suisse business. Active reinsurance also grew strongly with an
increase in premiums of 21%. This growth is the result to targeted diversiﬁcation by region
of business lines, as well as the selective expansion of existing business relationships.
I'll continue on slide 14 with the satisfying performance of the net combined ratio.
Compared to the previous year, the net combined ratio improved by 1.6 percentage
points to 92.4%. This improvement is the result of a lower claims ratio. Due to a good
claims performance and also thanks to eﬃcient reinsurance programs, the claims ratio
was 1.6 percentage points down year-on-year.
It was particularly satisfying that all market units were once again able to achieve a
combined ratio below 100%. Due to initial synergy eﬀects, the cost ratio remained
unchanged at the previous year's level despite historic higher cost ratio at Nationale
Suisse. I'll now move on to the life business and start with the breakdown of proﬁt by
source on slide 15.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to start by noting the breakdown of proﬁt is based on the reported IFRS
ﬁgures, and therefore does not contain any adjustments for (21:29) acquisition eﬀect.
While the risk results remained at high level and even improved slightly on the previous
year, interest result fell year-on-year. The lower yields were the main inﬂuence here. As a
result of the two acquisitions, the (21:47) interest result was negatively aﬀected by
additional amortizations due to the revaluation of interest-bearing securities to market
values.
Earnings before taxes in the life business increased by CHF 6 million or 7%. The main
reason for this increase was a lower cost for reserve strengthening. Realized gains fell
year-on-year. The result is also reﬂected accordingly in the policyholder participation
result.
I'll now discuss the performance of embedded value and the new business margin on
slide 16. The embedded value of Helvetia Group was CHF 2.9 billion as of June 30, 2015.
This represents an increase of CHF 91 million or 3% compared to the ﬁrst half of 2014.
Compared to the beginning of year, however, the embedded value of Helvetia Group
decreased by CHF 78 million or 3%, of which CHF 38 million comprised dividend
payments from our life units to the parent company in the ﬁrst half of the year. The
remaining diﬀerence is mainly due to negative economic variances. The decision of the
Swiss National Bank to no longer support the Swiss francs against the euro resulted in
sharp falls in investment yields and negative currency variances. However, this is partially
oﬀset by the positive contribution of new business.
The new business volume fell compared to the ﬁrst six months of 2014. In Switzerland, we
were unable to place index-linked tranche products in capital life business, individual life
business to the desired extent as a result of the weak investment and capital market
environment. In the occupational pensions business, volume for full insurance solutions
Page 7 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

was also lower due to the interest rate environment. In foreign markets, new business
volumes for capital-intensive traditional savings products declined in particular.
The value of the new business written in 2015 was lower than in the ﬁrst six months of
2014. This is mainly due to the lower reinvestment rates year-on-year in all countries, as
well as the lower new business volume. As a result, new business proﬁtability, which is
calculated from the performance of new business volume and value, also declined from
1% to 0.3%.
As you can see from slide 17, direct yield in Switzerland and EU countries fell further due to
the lower level of interest rates. However, it needs to borne in mind that the average
interest rate that Helvetia must generate to meet its obligation also continues to fall. So far
we've been able to keep the interest margin at an acceptable level, particularly in
Switzerland, our largest market unit. This is because expiring contracts with high
guaranteed interest rates are being replaced by others with lower guaranteed interest
rates, and the increases made in reserves also reduce the average interest rate required.
We are continually adjusting our products to the low interest rate environment. From
today's perspective, the interest margin in our projection should also remain positive for
the foreseeable future, even in a continued low interest rate environment. On slide 18, I'd
like to come back to the temporary special eﬀects due to the acquisition. We are on track
to reach the approximate estimations of synergies and integration costs for the 2015
ﬁnancial year, which we gave you at our ﬁnancial results conference in March. For that
reason, we have kept the forecast basically unchanged through to 2017. I would
nevertheless once again like to point out this is an approximate indication, as the
individual items may change.
In the ﬁrst six months of 2015, we achieved synergies of CHF 15 million, mainly from
Switzerland, Corporate Center and Austria. We have therefore already almost reached our
expected average synergy target of around CHF 18 million for the whole year 2015.
Integration costs were CHF 27 million in the ﬁrst six months and therefore also within the
expected target range on a half year basis.
The ﬁnancing costs of CHF 7 million in the ﬁrst six months of 2015 and the amortization of
intangible assets under IFRS of CHF 30 million were also at expected level and should not
change. We adjusted the forecast slightly in respect of the additional planned
amortization due to the revaluation interest-bearing securities to market values. We
budgeted a value of CHF 21 million for this for the ﬁrst six months of 2015.
I'll now end my presentation by looking at changes in equity on slide 19. Helvetia has a
strong capital position even after the two acquisitions. The Solvency I ratio was 200% as of
30 June 2015, and SST ratio was in the target range of 150% to 200% as of the end of
2014. As of 30 June 2015, the group's equity was 10% lower compared to year-end 2014 at
CHF 5.1 billion. The reasons for this were the reduction in the net gains and losses on our
AFS ﬁnancial assets recognized in equity, currency losses when translating the equity of
European market units, and higher values of pension liabilities in Switzerland as a result of
reduction of the discount rate to reﬂect lower interest rates. Furthermore, we pay

Page 8 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

dividends to our shareholders of CHF 196 million. A positive inﬂuence in equity was the
group earnings for the period of CHF 162 million.

FINAL

My colleague Ralph-Thomas Honegger will now provide you with more information on
the investment result.

Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, with the unpegging of the euro exchange rate on January 15 of
this year, the Swiss National Bank provoked a severe market reaction. The euro
immediately lost almost 20% against the Swiss franc and fell below parity. It then
stabilized again for a long period of time at a level of CHF 1.04 against the euro.
The Swiss equity market fell by around 15% immediately after the SNB's decision, but
recovered remarkably quickly from this fall. Interest rates fell further and settled below the
0% threshold also in the long term driven by the negative interest rate policy of the
National Bank.

Bloomberg Transcript

The property market saw a mixed performance. Whereas residential property continues to
beneﬁt from low interest rates, the prices of commercial property came under pressure
due to the higher vacancy rates and economic concerns in the wake of the strong Swiss
franc. European equity markets began to surge, encouraged by the European Central
Bank's bond purchasing program and the imminent economic recovery. The liquidity glut
pushed interest rates to historic lows and interest rate spreads continued to narrow.
The Greece crisis, which became more acute around mid-year, triggered strong
corrections in equities and resulted more broadly in further rises in interest rates.
Nevertheless, the markets were not hugely impacted by the increasingly confusing
situation. The U.S. equity market took a break after a strong 2014 and consolidated in
expectation of an initial interest rate hike by the Fed at high level. Interest rates saw a
volatile performance. From the 10-year maturity range, coupons were almost mostly
above 2% in the second quarter. The U.S. bond market, especially in the Corporate
segment, was comparatively attractive, although the required currency headwind reduced
yields.
Overall, the market environment was demanding and challenging, not only due to the
continuing low interest environment, but also due to the lack of liquidity in the bond
markets. In the ﬁrst six months, Helvetia achieved an investment result recognized in the
income statement of CHF 522 million. Details of the investment performance can be seen
in slide 21.
Helvetia generated current income of CHF 503 million in the ﬁrst six months of 2015.
Despite the integration of the Nationale Suisse assets, earnings were CHF 7 million lower
year-on-year. This was due to two reasons. Firstly, the devaluation of the euro meant that
current investment income generated in euro was signiﬁcantly lower year-on-year after
translation to Swiss francs. Secondly, the continuing low interest rates put pressure on
investment income. Direct yield on investments fell to 1.1% not annualized. This
Page 9 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

performance is largely due to the extremely low yields on new investments and
reinvestments.
In addition to the current income, realized and book gains of CHF 19 million were
achieved. These resulted from equity market gains and proceed from the sale of bonds,
mainly as a consequence of targeted shifts in the bond portfolios away from the lowyielding euro to currently more attractive U.S. dollar bonds. The currency losses, resulting
from the SNB's decision, were largely oﬀset by our hedging programs. In total, an
investment result of CHF 522 million was achieved, CHF 60 million less than in the very
strong previous year.
The reduction in unrealized gains of CHF 539 million recognized in equity neutralized the
eﬀect on the income statement, meaning that the overall investment result for the group
was negative at CHF 17 million. The investment performance was at 0%. This decrease was
especially due to the rising interest rates and interest rate spreads in euro, which occurred
in the course of the unresolved Greek crisis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, I would also like to point out that we generated income of CHF 87 million on
investment-linked insurance solutions for our customers. Slide 22 shows the investment
result broken down by the individual asset classes. Just under two-thirds of the current
income of CHF 503 million comes from ﬁxed interest securities and mortgages, which
contributed CHF 272 million, respectively, CHF 45 million in absolute ﬁgures. CHF 49
million was earned from dividends from shares, and CHF 119 million from rental income.
Taking into account the (34:05) periodic dividend income, investment properties again
achieved the highest direct yield on a non-annualized basis. Gains and losses on
investments were CHF 19 million. The main contributors to these results were equities and
income from currency hedges, recognized under Other in the table, while ﬁxed interest
securities suﬀered losses due to the euro devaluation. The investment result of CHF 522
million recognized in the income statement came from equities, investment property,
mortgages and income from currency hedging.
Unrealized losses recognized in equity resulted from the interest and spread performance
as mentioned already. The valuation margin on the ﬁxed interest portfolio fell by CHF 468
million. To explain this fall, I would like to remind you that an increase of almost CHF 1.7
billion was posted for the whole year 2014.
The reinvestment returns achieved are stated on an annualized basis in the bottom half of
the chart. A total of around CHF 3 billion was reinvested in the ﬁrst half of 2015, 80% of
which ﬂowed into ﬁxed interest values and, particularly, in the newly established BBB
corporate segment in U.S. dollar bonds and in convertibles. This allowed us to more or
less navigate around the negative interest rates in Switzerland. However, the foreign
currency investments also resulted in higher hedging costs. In addition, the funds to be
reinvested were invested mainly in equities and in mortgages.
In the latter investment category, Swiss life insurers were able to oﬀer attractive terms due
to the long-term liabilities. Helvetia beneﬁted from this market opportunity and expanded
Page 10 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

its mortgage portfolio above budget via its own sales force and via third-party channels,
doing so at comparatively attractive spreads and without watering down the high security
requirements. By contrast, the prevailing market situation permitted an even more
beneﬁcial risk direction. The overall direct yield on new investments is therefore 1.7%
annualized.
Asset allocation changed only marginally in the ﬁrst six months of 2015, as you can see on
slide 23. In short, you can see that the weighting towards interest-bearing securities fell in
favor of property and mortgages. The investment portfolio reduced from CHF 48 billion
to CHF 46 billion due to the sharp euro devaluation. This was mainly due to currency
related to lower values of euro investments of our European subsidiaries. This is reﬂected
by corresponding decline in Swiss franc denominated insurance liabilities.
The rating quality of the bond portfolio is shown in the following slide 24. The quality of
the portfolio continues to be very strong. The proportion of securities with at least an Arating was at 87%. Almost half of these have the top rating of AAA. The establishment of
the BBB corporate segment was seen in a slight rise in the proportion of BBB.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like now to give you an outlook for the second six months. We can assume that
interest rates will remain at a low level due to the expansionary monetary policy of central
banks in general and the ECB's bond purchasing program in particular. Although the
expected interest rate hike by the Fed may result in slightly higher yields, we do not
expect a natural turnaround in interest rates. In this environment, we will continue the
investment policy adopted in the ﬁrst half of 2015 and test out alternative investment
options with attractive risk/return proﬁles.
I will now hand over to my colleague, Philipp Gmür.

Philipp Gmür
Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that I can once again report a successful business
performance in Switzerland. With the acquisition of Nationale Suisse, Helvetia has further
strengthened its strong top-three position in Switzerland as a leading all-lines insurance
company. With the consolidation of Nationale Suisse, we were able to increase our
business volume particularly in non-life and to generate satisfying growth in proﬁts.
On slide 26, you see the highlights of the Swiss business. As an introduction, please allow
me to provide you with a brief summary of the key ﬁgures for the Swiss business. Premium
volume increased by a total of 15%, with the non-life business acting as the main driver of
growth following the consolidation of Nationale Suisse.
The life business remains stable at a continued diﬃcult interest rate environment. Regular
premium business continues to grow and could therefore oﬀset the decline in single
premium business. Underlying earnings stood at CHF 169 million and were thus 46%
above the comparable ﬁgure for the previous year. Both life and especially non-life
contributed to this satisfying result. In non-life, the earnings improvement was mainly due

Page 11 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

to the higher volume as a result of the acquisition. Although the combined ratio, net,
increased by 2.5 percentage points, it is still at a very good level of 86.7%.
Turning to slide 27, you see that life business volume remained at around the previous
year's level in a still challenging low interest rate environment. In individual life, premium
volume increased by 15.2% to CHF 438 million. Growth was mainly driven by the ﬁrst-time
consolidation of the former Nationale Suisse portfolio. Due to the diﬃcult capital market
environment, single premium business remained below that of the previous year. In the
ﬁrst half of 2015, we succeeded in marketing the single premium tranche product,
Helvetia Market Trend, despite a challenging environment. However, it turned out to be
more diﬃcult to place the desired volumes than in previous years.
The decline in demand for the payment plan product also contributed to the reduction in
volume. However, regular premiums, which are key to assessing business performance,
grew by 1% on a comparative basis. The unit-linked product Garantieplan and pension
products performed in a satisfactory manner.

Bloomberg Transcript

In group life business, there is ongoing demand for full insurance solutions. Regular
premium business is important for long-term performance and, here, Helvetia achieved
growth of around 3%. The broker channel made a particular contribution to the expansion
of business in this area. However, the growth in regular premium business failed to oﬀset
the decline in single premium business in the ﬁrst half of 2015, which resulted in an overall
decrease of minus 3% for group life business. In the current low interest rate environment,
a reduction in single premium business has been consciously accepted through a
selective approach to underwriting new business.
In the life business in Switzerland, we also achieved continuing strong results. The risk
results in the death and disability business lines, together with lower quality holder
participation, partly oﬀset the lower interest rate results. Furthermore, expenses for
additional reserves were lower, which resulted in a higher overall life result year-on-year.
Our next slide, 28, focuses on the very proﬁtable non-life business. In non-life, we
increased premium volume by 88% to over CHF 1 billion. As already mentioned before,
this increase is mainly due to the acquisition of Nationale Suisse. Growth was mainly
driven by the motor and property business line, and by the newly acquired
accident/health portfolio. However, there was also a slight increase in non-life business on
a comparable basis. I would particularly like to highlight the motor business line where we
generated strong growth. The key sales channel in Switzerland is still our own ﬁeld sales
force. However, Helvetia also achieved pleasing growth in the online sales channel via the
new acquired smile.direct.
The net combined ratio increased by 2.5 percentage points in the reporting period, with
both a higher claims and cost ratio. This drive is largely due to changes in the portfolio
structure as a result of the acquisition of Nationale Suisse. At 86.7%, the combined ratio is
still at a very good level. With the integration, we see further possible eﬃciency measures
with the corresponding potential to reduce costs.

Page 12 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

The claims from the severe weather events from July to August are, of course, not yet
included in the ﬁgures presented. However, on the basis of the claims reports we have
received so far, we only expect claims in the single-digit million range, which will not have
any signiﬁcant eﬀect on the results for the second half of the year.
In summary, we can look back on a successful ﬁrst half of the year and we are conﬁdent
that we will remain on course for success. For the second six months, we expect
continued satisfying growth in non-life. Premium performance in individual life will largely
depend on whether the capital market environment permits us to launch a further tranche
product.
Finally, I would just like to mention that the work to integrate Nationale Suisse continues
to proceed as planned and we have made good progress.
And with that, I would like to pass back to Stefan Loacker.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current ﬁnancial year, our
strategy period 2010-2015 is now coming to an end. I would therefore like to ﬁnish our
presentation by summarizing what we have achieved so far when implementing our
ambition Helvetia 2015+. Please follow me on slide 30 through these diﬀerent aspects.
We have already achieved our guiding principle which was to excel in growth, proﬁtability
and customer loyalty. As you know, Helvetia has grown by nearly 30% since August 2010.
Alongside organic growth, our active M&A strategy has also contributed to this and has
allowed us to improve our local market position in almost every country market.
We have also made excellent progress in terms of proﬁtability. Underlying earnings were
at CHF 422 million in 2014 and thus almost 24% above those of 2010. Non-life business
clearly drove this proﬁtability. The combined ratio was on average at 94%, meaning that
we also achieved our target range of 94% to 96% in that period of time.
The results from the pension and life insurance areas also remained strong despite the
diﬃcult market environment. We are well positioned here as a result of our good asset
and liability matching, and we can continue to meet the expectations both of customers
and shareholders even in a low interest rate environment.
Finally, this strong proﬁtability also had an impact on our dividend policy. Compared to
2010 when we paid out CHF 14.50 to our shareholders, we were able to pay a dividend of
CHF 18 already last year, which equates to an increase of 24%.
We have also made a big leap forward in terms of customers. As of the end of 2014,
Helvetia had more than 4.7 million customers whose satisfaction, which is already at high
levels, is conﬁrmed in regularly conducted surveys. Brand awareness, a positive image

Page 13 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

among all target groups and Helvetia's proﬁle as Your Swiss Insurer were strengthened
even further.
In summary, I can therefore say that we are successfully on the ﬁnishing line on track of
our 2010-2015 ambition. In recent weeks we have therefore started to the develop the
helvetia 20.20 strategy. We are all highly motivated to continue writing our company's
success story and look forward to presenting the new strategy at the full year results
analysts' conference in March 2016.
For the moment, we would like to thank you for listening and we will now be happy to
answer any questions you may have.

Q&A
Operator
The ﬁrst question comes from Stefan Schürmann, Bank Vontobel. Please go ahead.

Q - Stefan Schürmann

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Good morning. I have two questions. The ﬁrst one on life segment, you said that the
reserve strengthening was less than last year. Can you give some more indication here
how much you did reinforce the life reserves and if it only was in Switzerland?
The second question also in regarding to life, the new business margins were quite
modest, 0.3%. Could you may be split that into Swiss units and the rest? And maybe also
on the non-life side, just for the combined ratio prior year, did the prior year reserve
basically contribute more or less than last year?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you for these questions, Stefan. On life, reserve strengthening, Paul, what is the
availability of additional disclosed information?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

At the moment, Stefan, in the half year, we don't give details of the reserving. I can't tell
you. But major contribution to the reduction in reserving came from Switzerland.
However, there are some signiﬁcant reserving (51:31) this half year and we had some more
modest reserve increases in Germany and Austria (51:38). At the year-end, we produce a
notice you're aware in the annual report which shows you the net impact of life reserve
and also the half year.
In terms of the new business margin, I think the diﬀerences in Switzerland it was 0.3% and
in EU was 0.4%. That's the split between the two units. Obviously, Switzerland is by far the
biggest and contributes the most. And obviously, it depends with the traditional
embedded value on the discount rate to be used. And in Switzerland, it's 6%, and in the
EU, it varies roughly between 7% and 8% at the discount rate.
Page 14 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

It's probably also helpful to understand that with regard to the liabilities in Switzerland, we
did not yet anticipate the decisions that every autumn after we've taken on the mandatory
group pension business, we still have the 1.75%, which is to be applied today. Maybe
some of you have seen the indication that the specialists commission already brought to
the national government, which is to reduce this rate to 1.25%. And that eﬀect is certainly
one of the contributing factors to improve the ratios as we go along, but this is not yet
anticipated in the numbers that we have shown here.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Then on the non-life, you wanted to know about the reserve run-oﬀ results. The run-oﬀ
results are broadly neutral compared with prior year, there's no particular impact to run
oﬀ of.

Q - Stefan Schürmann
Okay. Thanks.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Next question, please?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Next question comes from René Locher, MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Q - René Locher
Hi. Can you hear me?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - René Locher
Okay, ﬁne. Just a follow-up question on reserves increase in the life business. What we
have seen with your competitor is that they have ﬁnanced, let's call it that way, ﬁnanced
reserves increases through gains and losses from investments. Now, as I can see in your
P&L, you have CHF 19 million realized gains. So, I'm wondering a little bit, if this is good
enough to increase reserves in the life business. So, that's my ﬁrst question. Second
question is on slide 18. So the synergies noted (54:41) integration costs you gave here as a
total are pre-tax number. So, can you just tell us if it's now pre-tax or is it after-tax?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

That's all pre-tax.

Q - René Locher
Page 15 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

Sorry?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

That's pre-tax, René.

FINAL

Q - René Locher
Yes. But then when you look at your half year result, let's – for example, if you go from
underlying proﬁt after-tax from CHF 221 million, there you see integration costs of CHF 27
million negative. So, it looks like the CHF 27 million negative is on an after-tax basis.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yes, but if you look at the slide on page 10, you see integration costs of minus CHF 27
million and you see, below the line, core total acquisition eﬀects, you see tax and other
items which oﬀsets that. (55:47)

Q - René Locher

Bloomberg Transcript

Oh, I see. I see. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much. So, let me see, on the Swiss
combined ratio, for Philipp Gmür then, this one from slide 28, I'm a little bit surprised to
see that the expense ratio, how you reported (56:12) the cost ratio, increased. Well, I do
understand the business mix, no doubt, we might see a little bit higher claims ratio
because you bought a motor business, which generally has a higher loss ratio here in
Switzerland.
But I would have thought that given that most of the cost-cut of (56:35) synergies will take
place in Switzerland because you acquired a non-life business from Nationale Suisse that
the cost ratio should remain in best case, let's say, at last year's level. So, perhaps, you can
just explain a little bit if we should expect a higher combined – so claims ratio and higher
cost ratio – because of the new business mix following the acquisition.
And then just a last question on Other activities, I already discussion with someone this
(57:13) morning, this minus CHF 22 million. So, as I understand, it's driven by the group
reinsurance business and I guess it's also to do with the corporate function at Nationale
Suisse. So my question is should we expect this minus CHF 22 million going a little bit
more direction zero, or is this kind of a sustainable run rate going forward? Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. René. I would guess that Paul is picking up the basket topics around Other
activities and reserve increases in life versus realized gains on the investment, while then
Philipp will join in on the Swiss combined ratio cost – cost ratio. Please, Paul, could you
start?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

On the reserve side, lastly, the CHF 19 million is partially – a ﬁne step (58:09) clearly, you
also have to remember that a certain amount of – well, all the life adjustments are oﬀset to
Page 16 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

some degree by the policyholder participation (58:26). And also interim – at interim,
during the middle of the year, it's diﬃcult to actually come to a ﬁnal landing (58:34)
exactly where the reserves will come out. So, there are some shifts within the reserve
movements during the year. So, you have to wait until the end of the year is what we're
going to say (58:43).

Q - René Locher
Okay.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

In terms of development to synergies pre-tax (58:47), the other – another aspect in there –
there's two things in there. First of all is group reinsurance, had some losses. To some
extent, it's the counterpart of some of the better results in the non-life side, that's their
job, is to smooth out ﬂuctuations. You have to remember we bolt together two corporate
centers and we're only at the very beginning of the whole synergy process, so you're
bound to get an increased amount of costs in there, and of course, those costs will reduce
over the next 18 months or so. So those synergies coming, both not only the personnel
synergies, but other ones as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

There's also in there some FX losses as well from the SNB decision we had. We still do
have inter-company accounts with subsidiaries which we don't hedge. It's not worth it.
And when you have a 15% devaluation, you will suﬀer something in there. And the other
thing is, last year, although it doesn't occur truly in (59:48) the underlying, it's the
dividend from Nationale Suisse of CHF 7 million which we got previously.
So, when you take those out, there will be some ﬂuctuation from the GRI going forward,
depending on the results and how the reinsurance programs are structured. And also,
remember, we're at the very beginning of restructuring those reinsurance programs, have
to bolt those two together. And of course, the corporate center costs will start to come
down quite a lot.

Q - René Locher
Okay. Thanks.

A - Philipp Gmür
If I may add some thoughts with regard to the cost base in Switzerland. First, we have to
take into account that the original cost bases of the Nationale Suisse companies in
Switzerland were higher than in the Helvetia units, so that's the ﬁrst point. The second
point is with regards to the portfolio mix that not only the claims ratio is higher, but also
the cost ratio is higher in the health/accident portfolio, a new portfolio which we acquired
and which has its eﬀect now in this half year result.
A third point is that you have to take into account that we see all those comps right now
before the most synergies being realized. So we have still a lot of overlapping functions
and we gave a salary guarantee for every – for all people working in Switzerland
Page 17 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

throughout the year, that means that until the end of 2015, we might see a rather higher
cost basis than we were used to in the years before. So, we are still positive that we can't
realize many other synergies and that the case is still on the way. And already by the end
of the year, we will see some changes in the cost basis. And certainly, with regards to the
slide Paul was mentioning by the end of 2016 and to 2017.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. Do we have more questions?

Operator
Next question comes from Jonny Urwin, UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. First one is on the group life business.
I'm just wondering if it will be possible to get a rough indication of the ROEs you're
making on those lines in the current environment. And, secondly, I'd be really interested
to hear a few comments on specialty pricing at the moment perhaps by line and region, if
possible, just to know if you've seen broad-based pressure or are things holding up,
(01:02:42). Thanks very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. I unfortunately have to disappoint you with regard to disclosure of a segment
ROE on group life, which is just something that we never produced. And therefore it's also
not something that I can help you with a particular answer on that point of view. With
regards to specialty pricing, there is – I think one part of the reality comes from the market
and the second part is what we can do ourselves being at the beginning of an integration
process, also in the specialty market.
On the market side, indeed, we have a quite heavy competition mainly in the engineering
area, which is something that does not particularly change from one geographic area to
another. So, there is a broad competition and is not easy to increase rates or even to
sustain the rates across the board in the engineering line.
It's a bit better in the marine business, which is our second specialty line, particularly in
the domestic cargo businesses that we do have in Switzerland, Germany, France with a
quite large volume. There is a largely stable environment in these lines of businesses. It's
also true for the art business, which is a very small part within the niche, where we also
have very favorable combined ratios at the present setup.
In reinsurance, which is our third specialty line, in the active reinsurance we are writing,
there is still broadly a soft market and is not yet a turning point (01:04:34). But the second
point is that internally, we are at the beginning of this integration process and we do also
have opportunities to increase our proﬁtability from inside. One driver is certainly the cost
ratio where we have just started to dig through those integration purposes. And the
second is also the technical side. We did a certain cleanout or we are in this process of
Page 18 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

FINAL

some parts of the portfolio, especially in the large engineering risks we have inherited, so
to say, from Nationale Suisse growth strategy. We do not pursue a growth strategy on that
particular segment anymore, but we will shift it to a proﬁt strategy.
And thirdly, we have diﬀerent capacity, a larger capacity with regard to our net retention.
Part of the proﬁt was just handed through to the reinsurance market lately in Nationale
Suisse, stand-alone case. And there we do have also an additional leverage. So, all in all,
we are not unhappy with the quality of the specialty lines' technical result. As you have
seen, it's roughly in the 95%, 96% combined ratio area through the three lines of business
that we have there, three market units that we have there, but there is still a big room to
improve.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Just a quick follow-up on the group growth business. I appreciate you can't give us the
speciﬁc number, but would it be possible to say whether you're covering your cost of
capital? Is it broadly in line or slightly below?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Well, you can see the Swiss result for the new business margin was 0.3%.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

About two-thirds of our business is group life business. And so by covering – having a
0.3% positive margin under the Swiss and embedded value model, by deﬁnition, you're
covering the cost of capital.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. All right, thanks.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Do we have additional questions?

Operator
Yes. We have the next question from Daniel Bischof from Helvea. Please go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Most of my questions have already been answered, so just two
remaining, ﬁrst on group life. So, we had the proposal to reduce the guaranteed rate to
1.25%, but the Swiss Insurance Association immediately published the release saying that
it's still too high and should rather be around 0.75%. What's your view here? And then the
Page 19 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

second one is on the SST. I noted that the interest rate sensitivity increased quite a bit
from 9 points to 14 points. Could you explain why this is?

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

I suggest that, Philipp, you will take up the question of still too high or going to the right
direction. Depending on the view, depending on the formula, but certainly for something
that should be safe and guaranteed in any circumstance, 1.25% is on the higher range.
And that was also the notion of Philipp that the experts commission brought. So, it's
impossible, but on the large – on the higher range of the possible solutions proposed
with the 1.25%, which, by the way, is not yet decided.

A - Philipp Gmür
Yeah. Stefan, you already answered the question, it's on the right direction, of course,
from 1.75% to 1.25% that's proposed right now. Why do we say? Absolutely in accordance
with our association, but 1.25% is still too high. We need a (01:08:23). That means, if you
give guarantees and you are locked in at 1.25%, you have not so much mean to ﬁnally get
higher returns. And that's our issue. So, we still hope that maybe the Federal Council will
see that and go down to, let's say, 1%. But the direction is good for the time being, and as
Paul mentioned, we earning our capital cost at least.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As to interest sensitivity point...

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I guess, Daniel, you're referring to page 59 or slide 60.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Yeah, exactly.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

So you're talking about the minus 14 percentage points as a result of the interest rate, 100
basis points. Is that it?

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Yeah, which was at minus 9 points at year-end.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I can't tell you oﬀ the top of my head why that is we can come back to. In my mind, it's
within sort of relatively normal ﬂuctuations. There's all sorts of impacts to the (01:09:41)
way interest rates are capped and so on, but we'll come back to you on that one.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Page 20 of 21



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-09-01

There's no change in the duration proﬁle, so it must be a technical assumption driven
change that we have here.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

We can come back to that.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks for that.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that was the last question.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Are there any questions left?

Operator
No, there are no more questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

All right, then we suggest that we also have the opportunity to have one-on-ones or see
you on the road show the next couple of days. For the moment, thank you, really, for your
interest and have a good afternoon from our side. Bye-bye.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Good-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

