Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Andrew Horton
Martin Lindsay Bride
Mike Donovan

Other Participants
Barrie Cornes
Eamonn M. Flanagan
Fahad U. Changazi
Kamran Hossain

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our results presentation for the half year ended
30th of June 2015.
If I move through the disclaimer quickly on contents, I'm going to give you a brief overview
of the numbers, a short business update. I'm then going to hand over to Martin, who's
going to go through various elements of the financial performance, investments capital
and some reserves capital and so on.
And then, we have our special guest of 2015, which is Mike Donovan. Now, Mike was
intending to get here yesterday and unfortunately, his flight from San Francisco was
cancelled and therefore had to be diverted through Washington. He has made it this
morning. Unfortunately, his clothes did not follow him. So, he has arrived not completely
without clothes. We're pleased that he did bring some clothes just in case. So two counts
he made it here, which is fantastic, so well done Mike, and he's wearing clothes. Great
things on both counts.
Mike knows everything about the technology world. He's been heading our Technology,
Media and Business Services division for the past 10 years or 11 years, designed to
Beazley Breach Response product. So we're going to focus on cyber this morning. And
then, I'm going to come back for the outlook.
So, if I give you an overview of the numbers, you'll see that the profit before tax is up 16%
over last year at $154.5 million. And why is that? We've seen a relatively quiet claims
environment, especially on the business we wrote in 2014, particularly in the short tail

Page 1 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

classes, and within that, the catastrophe exposed classes. So, we could see prior year
reserve releases across all lines holding up to similar level to last year. And that's
delivered the 86% combined ratio.
The underwriting return, combined with relative benign investment world up until the end
of June and the excitement over Greece and China, meant we deliver a similar
investment return over 2014. And the combination of the underwriting and investments
means we've delivered a good return on equity at 20%. And out of that, we continue with
our dividend strategy of growing them between 5% and 10%. So, the interim dividend is
up £0.002 at £0.033.
The one challenge in this market, it's very competitive and growth is really tough, so
raising top-line growth at 2%. So, it is difficult to grow in this environment, and our aim is to
continue to try to grow at mid-single digits going forward into 2015 and 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I give you a flavor of where the growth has actually come from, we continue to focus on
smaller lines of business. We continue to focus on our U.S. business. So, our U.S. source
business has grown by 25% year-on-year. And if you remember, we grew that in 2014
over 2013 by 19%. How have we done that? We continue to open further offices. We've
opened an office in Los Angeles which sort of finalizes our U.S. footprint focusing on New
York, Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Dallas, which we opened last year, and Atlanta.
So, adding to our office footprint and slowly filling up each of those offices with the
product lines we want to write within the U.S.
The accident and health business, which we've been investing in for several years now
based out of a small office in Minneapolis, is starting to write premiums. I think last year, it
was $1 million or $2 million. Now, it's up to $14 million. Our aim is for that to continue to
grow.
We also announced early this year, I think April, a partnership with Korean Re, where we
have agreed to cede about 1% of our premiums to them, so about $20 million. And now,
they're giving us $20 million of Korean business which is very difficult for us to access. The
main aim of the partnership is not purely a premium swap of $20 million for $20 million. It's
actually partnering with them and looking at product development we can deliver to the
Korean market and giving them expertise of what we are doing within Lloyd's.
Andrew Pryde, our Chief Risk Officer, has already lead the first delegation out to Seoul,
and we've come up with about a dozen ideas of where we could work more closely
together on product.
We continue to attract more people. M&A, which I'm sure we will talk about on the Q&A,
M&A in the market, I think, is good for Beazley being an organic growth company because
people always fall out of mergers and acquisitions transactions. So, there is always an
opportunity to recruit good people who fall out of other organizations when M&A takes
place, and we are gearing up to ensure we make the most of that.
On that note, I'm going to hand over to Martin to talk about the financials.
Page 2 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. Good morning, everyone. I'm Martin Bride, Finance
Director. So, what I would like to do is just spend a couple of minutes on a few of the
finance KPIs and then to go through my usual trio of investments, reserve releases and
capital.
So on the finance KPIs, just a couple of points I'd like to draw out, the ones on the first
slide. I'm very pleased with the net earned premium growth, 7%. So, that's a strong
growth from my perspective. In particular, our U.S. business started growing strongly in the
second half of 2013 and particularly, that aspect of the business is now flowing through
the earned premium line. So, that's a good outcome from the team.
The other highlight for me here, I mean there is a helping FX effect, but the NTA per
share, shareholders have £1.35 this time last year. They received a £0.212 in dividends and
they've now got £1.566 in the company. So, that's a big increase in NTA over a 12-month
period which is testament to the achievement of the teams at Beazley.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, on the investment front, remarkably a similar picture to 2014. We've achieved 1% in the
six months, so an annualized 2% return, and it's pretty much business as usually. If you look
at our portfolio, we remain with a core portfolio, 85% of it conservatively invested and
generating, given the very low interest rate environment except for returns. And then we
have about 15% seeking slightly higher yield in what we call our capital growth asset
portfolio.
We are in the process of implementing a few minor changes within that portfolio, and you
can see between December and June a slight evolution in the weightings there. But
overall, it's a very consistent strategy and we're pleased with the way it's performed in
the first half of the year. We, nevertheless, continue with very low U.S. interest rates and
are hoping at some point that that perspective changes and rates actually go up which is –
be great for the economics of our business, although it will create some investment
losses as and when it happens.
Moving on to the claims reserve picture. Reserving is a key part of Beazley results
presentation. Our philosophy as a company is always to reserve prudently across all our
lines of business. And therefore, on average, you should expect to seek reserve releases
coming from the claim reserves as they are paid out, and that is the case in the first half
of 2015. You can see it's very much in line with our long-term average coming from most
divisions of the company are contributing to that reserve release picture, so we're very
encouraged with that.
And just as important as the releases that have been made in the half year is the question
of is that likely to continue, and that's why we show you this graph, which is giving you an
indication of how we view the strength of the reserves that remain on our balance sheet.
As you can see, we are in the corridor that we're targeting. The graph is relatively
sensitive, so I don't get too excited by minor movements in it. I think the big picture
takeaway for me is that the reserve strength of the reserves in our balance sheet remains

Page 3 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

consistent within the corridor that we've targeted. And therefore, all other things being
equal, those reserve releases that you see coming through our P&L are sustainable and
should continue as we go forward.
Finally, an update on our capital position. We have a strong capital position. The board saw
fit to declare an interim dividend of £0.033. That's an increase of just over 6% over the
same time last year. The philosophy of Beazley is to review capital positions at the year
end, once we have a clear view of the business plan for the next 12 months and the fullyear results. So, we're very pleased with the strong capital position we have at the half
year, and that will be reviewed towards the end of the year.
So Mike, over to you.

Mike Donovan

{BIO 21247195 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Martin. Hi. I'm Mike Donovan. I lead the Technology, Media and Business Services
team at Beazley, and we focus on ensuring technology companies and also providing
solutions, data breach solutions, in the marketplace.
We focus on both large and middle market accounts over $35 million in revenue. We have
a separate business unit that focuses on the same products within under $35 million. We
have three main products: Technology Errors & Omissions which is we have a forum that,
first, we brought out in the year 2000, and we focus mostly on the larger end of the
technology E&O space. We're a leading market in insuring large technology and firms. We
insure some of the largest in the world. We work with our brokers to develop through our
expertise and understanding the client's needs. We're working a lot of bespoke
programs, and that's been a very successful line of business for us for many, many years.
The segments that we write in are quite diverse across technology-related companies,
service providers and associated companies that are in that space. It is an area that a
number of those companies do have exposures to breaches. And indeed, some of the
breaches that occurred in the early 2000s to mid-2000s is where we first started to
become aware of and learn about how data breach has occurred and gain some
expertise in that area.
The Beazley Breach Response product is a product that is an integrated product that
integrates both the service offering and also the insurance. And it is aimed at companies
that collect personal information. This is a product that is aimed primarily on the middle
market with revenues up to about $3 billion.
We also have an Information Security Insurance product that is an indemnity-based
product. And so, it does not have the services component to it, and it focuses more – the
target market for that is generally the larger companies, who are large enough to the
service component, is not something that they need. So, those are the three products
that we focus on in TMB.

Page 4 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

This slide here shows the growth of TMB over time starting in 2007 and a few points on
that. One, you can see that kind of the pink and reddish lines are the ones that represent
our information security in BBR products, and you could see the growth from a very small
part of our portfolio to the predominant source of revenue over the last few years. The
E&O component has been more stable. The E&O business is a more mature market, and
so we have been maintaining our position, and that market has been growing slowly over
time, but it's just a more mature market.
The other thing to point out on, this is in the last year 2014 to 2015, we've seen a marked
increase in demand for our products in the breach response and information security
space. And that's on the back of all the news reports that you've read on the various large
breaches. It has really created increased demand, both among large accounts and also
into the mid market and smaller end of the business.
This shows just dramatically where our underwriters are located. We have 10 in London, 4
of those underwriters in London focus on non-U.S. business which we see as a potential
growth area in the future, and we are working to build business primarily within the EU and
the UK. And in the U.S., we have underwriters that are distributed across all of our main
hub cities in the U.S. with some key underwriting groups in Farmington, Connecticut; New
York and San Francisco.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also have a dedicated breach response services team that now has five professionals,
three of which are based in Philadelphia, that's where our leader is Katherine Keefe, along
with two service managers, and then one in Atlanta and one in San Francisco.
I wanted to focus on BBR services for a minute, BBR being the product that we are best
known for in our team. It was launched in 2009. There is approximately 9,000 policies
currently in force. Of those, the large majority of those are small accounts in the under
$35 million range, although the large majority of the premium is in the accounts within the
TMB unit in the over $35 million.
We have – we write into a number of different segments. Healthcare is the largest, though
followed very closely by retail and hospitality. We also have strong positions in higher
education and financial institutions, particularly credit unions is a very strong area for us.
And we write across really all sorts of different companies, charitable organizations. Any
organization that collects personal information is a potential client.
The BBR Services team has handled over 25,00 breaches now, large and small, and I
thought I would provide a chart to give you an idea of the different types of breaches that
they handle. One of the things that we are able to bring to our clients is the great
experience that we have in dealing with a very large number of breaches. Breaches
happen in all sorts of different ways.
What's interesting to see, looking at the chart there, is that about half, which should be
the right-hand side of the graph or the chart, are basically mistakes that people make.
Those remain the predominant cause of breaches. These are all the breaches that we

Page 5 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

handle in 2014, so large and small. Mistakes tend to be mostly smaller breaches, though
sometimes they're very large.
You can see a hacker malware and insider behavior is actually a smaller part, though more
of those breaches tend to be difficult. And you see the payment card breaches, actually a
very small percent. But again, of those, more of those tend to be problematic than in
some of the other classes. So that's, I thought, interesting to sort of see the wide variety
of different types of breaches that we handle.
This is a slide that gives a little more detail into how our breach response product works.
Our BBR Services group is a dedicated business unit within TMB, and they coordinate
services that the clients require through a network of external vendors that we contract
with and that are part of the team. And the circle there really represents how it works. You
have the BBR Services group that basically coordinate and organize all of the other
providers who are helping in deal with the breach event.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've provided our – the clients are able then to have – basically, the breach is taken care
of them on a sort of a turnkey basis and we found that as very – it resonates greatly in the
middle market because it takes a lot of resources for companies to develop the ability to
do this on their own. And so, we're able to bring to them the ability to have it handle in an
effective, an efficient and economical manner and also and most importantly to try to help
them control both the legal costs that are involved and also the reputational damage.
We also provide our clients with risk management advice and advice on breach
preparedness. And at the bottom there, it shows across the time line basically of how we
address breaches, first, by helping our clients not have breaches in the first place. And
then when we get involved, then there's a time line of basically how we lead them
through handling the breach to hopefully a successful – and where they provided a
mitigation to the affected clients, patients and customers and are able to successfully
manage their reputational issues.
Controlling risk, this is an important part of what we do in managing the portfolio. We
control risk, first of all, through having a very diversified portfolio. We work hard to make
sure that we have a cross-section of accounts, all the different segments, different sizes
and so forth. Those are very important. As I've noted, a large majority of the risks are in
the middle market and small account segments. We see that the frequency of events
tends to be lower that the severity of events tends to be lower, and a lot of the highprofile attacks that you have read about in the paper are generally, they are brought
against very large companies.
BBR Services and the claims team track breach trends and events with our client base and
working with all of our vendors. We're usually really on the front line of seeing exposures
develop, and the claims are very short-tail. You know when a breach happens
immediately. And so, it allows us for a rapid portfolio adjustment, if needed, in response
to any changes in trends.

Page 6 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

I'll also mention that a lot of the press and government concern has been around
infrastructure risk, attacks on the power grid, things of that nature. Our insurance does not
deal with that. We're simply – we're dealing with the risk to consumers or for financial loss
essentially associated with loss of data. So, our insurance is not focused on any of those
infrastructure risk at all.
We do have technical experts that assist us with underwriting and devices needed and
also on assessing potential points of aggregated exposure. We model aggregation
scenarios and of course, we have reinsurance protection to protect against any kind of
aggregated scenarios.
And then differentiators and opportunities. The key differentiators that we have in BBR,
one is the focus on the value-added proposition of the services. This is the key value add
to the product when we first developed it. It continues to be the key sales point. We were
an early mover in the segment and so, it's allowed us to continue to keep ahead of the
curve.
We continue to invest in pre-breach services for our clients. We recently relaunched a
client portal to enhance our ability to communicate with our clients on risk management.
We spend a lot of time on workshops with large clients face-to-face. So, we developed
relationships with our clients both to increase the loyalty of our clients and also to
hopefully help them increase their ability to prevent breaches and prevent losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally, we have built a very strong brand in BBR, and our brand definitely
differentiates us from our competitors.
In terms of opportunities for further growth, we see still a large amount of opportunity in
the mid market and small account space in the U.S. The last year, where the large
breaches that have happened, have really actually increased the size of the market and
so, whereas we kind of saw market penetration in one spot a year ago, we actually see it
different now because there are so many more buyers in the market than they were last
year. So, there is still a lot of opportunity there.
We do anticipate growth in international market. It's been much lower than in the U.S., but
we are seeing slow increases in growth and depending on regulations in the EU, that
could change significantly over the next year or two.
Aggregated opportunities, what that is, is that we work with a broker on a portfolio of
accounts that are potential buyers and we approach them in an aggregated way in order
to try to drive purchasing from potential buyers who have not yet bought cyber insurance.
We have a dedicated team that works on that.
Embedded insurance, this is where we take the BBR product and we embed it into
another insurance company's product. This is aimed generally at micro business, so it
might be with a medical malpractice insurer that will embed that into their medical
malpractice insurance with very low limits and generally for very small doctors' offices. It
may be in a business under protective insurer and again it's embedded, so that provides
Page 7 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

a – it provides coverage that they can add to all of their policies in bulk. That has been a
growing area, one that is an area that we've been focusing on also for growth in the
future.
We continue to differentiate our offerings. We spend a lot of time on R&D. We're working
on automating in small account underwriting and distribution. As that area starts to
continue to grow and become a bigger area of potential opportunity, we're working on
more automation area. And of course, we continue to work on investing in building our
BBR brand in the marketplace.
And so, that is update on where we are with our TMB and BBR. Thank you.

David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Mike. It's an exciting area for us and it's grown a lot historically, and our aim is to
continue to grow it. That was not setting Mike's business plan for 2016, I hasten to add,
but do keep it in your account when you're reviewing the plans. So, it should be a growth
area for us going forward.
Before I look at the outlook, I want to look at the rate change chart since 2001. It's
something we look at each year. One of the aims we have in rebalancing the portfolio,
looking for the ones with the most opportunity in more challenging markets, pulling back
on the ones that are more under pressure is to keep that dotted line as flat as possible,
and that is the overall rate change of the portfolio. And you can see, it's been edging
down over the past couple of years. But generally, it's been pretty stable for the last
decade.
Within that, you can see quite a lot of volatility. So especially, the catastrophe exposed
lines, the top line is reinsurance, property reinsurance, about 10% of what we do. You can
see that's coming off quite quickly. But that's compensated by the next line down, which is
specialty lines sort of the red line where that continues to edge up, and we're seeing
some good rate increases in the cyber market in 2015.
Property, pink one, hidden by the dotted line and the pale blue one, being impacted again
by mainly the catastrophe-exposed businesses of property and energy, is edged down.
Life, accident and health, the black line, is flat and political risk, contingency and terrorism
continues to edge down with the terrorism rates having fallen every year since 2002.
So, the outlook. One of the roles of the CEO, I feel, is to be the most repetitive person
within the company. Many of my colleagues are nodding in the audience at this point in
time. And one of the things that, I think, I've been repetitive on for several years is the
returns. It should be expected to reduce. So with a low-claimed environment and with
rates under pressure across many lines, the underwriting margin should reduce.
Announcing a 20% return on equity, which is higher than last year, obviously counters that.
It is to some extent the balance of the portfolios, so we're doing as much as we can
within that. But it is claims being below normal. And claims at some point, we would
Page 8 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

expect to take up back to whatever the normalized levels are but higher than they
currently are. And on the back of that, returns should reduce.
Still, rate pressure. And while the industry is continuing to make good profits, I think there
will be continuing rate pressure as people enter the new lines of business with the excess
capital they generate. We're continuing to focus on the cyber market, the smaller lines of
business which are less volatile and our U.S. business. And as I mentioned earlier on, M&A
gives us an opportunity to attract more talented individuals in.
So, if you look to the rest of 2015 and onto 2016, we're hoping for mid single-digit growth
if we can. We're just beneath it in the first half, although it has been impacted by foreign
exchange, aiming to this 5% growth into 2015 and the first Q of 2016 is to continue to do
that. The main aim is to try and to protect margin rather than go for all-out growth. And I
think historically, we have been very good at rebalancing the portfolio to deliver the best
return to our shareholders that we can.
And on that note, we'll open to questions. There is a microphone, I think. Maybe there
isn't, then you can shout.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

I had two questions sort of related on the specialty business. The combined ratio there is
kind of improved quite nicely to the mid-90s. I just wonder whether there's certain
releases aside (28:37), there's any sort of one-off in that or whether you can expect price
increases you've been guessing or that combined ratio should improve going forward.
And the second question I had was in terms of the onshore growth in the U.S., the 25%
that you talked about. If you strip out the greater savings in cyber, where is the growth
coming from and who are you winning – taking the business from?
Okay. So, if I do the first one, I think one of the reasons the combined ratio in specialty
lines has come down is we're opening at a lower loss ratio than we were post-recession.
We feel more comfortable with that in the new (29:15) years. The other element to why
it's coming down is a lot of Mike's class, certainly the data breach business, is shorter tail,
and we opened that at a low loss ratio and we settled claims more quickly so we can
recognize exactly where the cyber business is settling quicker than we used to with the
Tech E&O, the blue bar that Mike was showing. So I think the combination of those is
bringing the specialty lines business down. So we hope the overall business of specialty
lines have been writing since 2012 (29:41) release more reserves going forward. So that's
driven specialty lines down.
The second on the U.S., we've seen growth in the life, accident and health I will guess
(29:50) and health part of the U.S., as I mentioned, that's a (29:53). But actually, we're
starting to see some growth in some of the more traditional, more difficult businesses
such as architects and engineers which has had a tough time post the recession.

Page 9 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

Property market (30:04). We're looking for growth in property on both the pure property
play and construction. We continue to grow the environmental. So it's been a combination
thing that's been adding more people, more offices and products which historically we've
had few resources, adding more resource to it and getting deeper penetration of those
markets in the States. And the markets were also large, but you don't need to grow that
much proportionately for us to actually increase the Beazley numbers in the States.
Where are we getting from? It does come from a variety of the specialty competitors. I
mean probably, most of them, don't have them inside the market where we've got the
premiere (30:42) position. But we don't notice (30:43) we're already taking business
away from them, so it's not that we're attacking one insurer. The great feature about the
U.S. is there isn't one dominant insurer. There are many insurers and therefore we're
nibbling away a variety of insurers over there.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Morning. It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. Really interesting kind of points on the breach
products. Just had a few questions on it. You mentioned European regulations. Could you
just talk about if the EU does bring in kind of similar kind of breach regulations, the ones in
the U.S., how big that market might be, first of all? The second question is what's your
market share in the U.S. at the moment and kind of where do you see that going? And
then thirdly, if these are so (31:32) the enormous potential for growth there, do you have
enough capacity at Beazley to actually write that business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

So, what's the third one again?

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Do you have enough capacity to kind of to (31:45) that growth come in to Beazley?

A - Mike Donovan

{BIO 21247195 <GO>}

I can take the first two. In the EU, we do hope that developing regulations in the EU will
create more of a marketplace for cyber insurance and data breach products. We're
already starting to see some increase in demand, where just the expectation that it is
actually going to happen. This was something that's been talked about for years, and it
does now appear much more likely than it will happen. And so, we're actually starting to
see a bit of demand increase just in the expectation of that. So, I do believe that there will
be definite growth in the EU over the next few years. We have a team that's been working
very hard to build distribution channels and be ready to take advantage of that when it
occurs, very hard to predict exactly how big it will be. But certainly over time, it could be a
marketplace that could (32:42) the U.S. in size.
And the second point was the U.S. – what market share it is. It's very hard to know. I've
seen all sorts of different numbers as to what the cyber market is in the U.S and so, it's
very difficult to say. I do know that where we focus on in the mid market and particularly in
some of the areas, such in the healthcare space, we do have a significant market share.

Page 10 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

It's hard for me to say how much. But it's in the areas that we've really focused on, we
have become a very strong leading insurer in those segments. And that's the last...

FINAL

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

(33:26) I hope I'm answering it correctly. I mean from a U.S. and UK perspective and
elsewhere, we're building the infrastructure on people to be able to write more business,
and Mark has gotten the piggybank enough capital to ensure we can grow. So I think we
have enough of the resources to continue to grow across most of the lines we want to
grow in. So we're not short of anything, and we've become quite an attractive place to
join. So, we seem to be able to attract more good people.
Two question on capital. Your capital requirements increased around 4% for the half year.
Your premium growth is around 2%. Can you break down the ingredients of the growth of
capital requirement?

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I need to come back to give you a detail though. So I mean I think the capital is set using
the internal model, which it does get updated at economic scenario generators and
things like that. So, there's been no step change in capital requirements for the Lloyd's of
London. What would have happened over that six-month period is there will be slight
adjustments to the portfolio and slight changes to the output of the internal model, but I
think that's sort of 2%, 4% growth is what you should expect as the – going forward will be
a little bit of volatility in those numbers.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

I mean I think the key point Andrew (34:53) is we're going to see volatility in the internal
model and then we hold our buffer to manage that volatility. And we're pretty going to
see more volatility over the Solvency II model than historically we did. And that's one of
the reasons we have to hold this buffer at 15% to 25% above it.
Okay. Thank you. Maybe a second question just on the 2% increase in the casualty rates.
Which lines of business with specialty we're driving those rate increases? Was it across the
board, or were there some lines which showed significant rate increases in other lines or
slowly sort of softening?
I think Mike's large info sec (35:27) would have seen roughly major rate increases on the
back of breaches, so that will be one of the main drivers. A lot of the lines are close to
zero. So, a lot of them are sitting really as expiring. I guess the line is probably close to
flat. So, most of them have small movements, plus or minus a few percent, and the cyber
is the one that's had the largest increase.
And I think we've also seen on the EPLI some...
Yeah, losses post the recession including perhaps its liability as they continued to see rate
increase on that.
Page 11 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

A - Mike Donovan

{BIO 21247195 <GO>}

FINAL

We're definitely in the U.S. not seen the rate pressure that we were seeing a couple of
years ago. Rates tend to be either flat or a lot of the teams are able to get some rate
increase. So, the rates across the board have been stronger than they have been over
the last couple of years.

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Just one quick question, sorry, if I've missed it in the presentation. What are our current
type of premiums, how big are they as a proportion of your specialty lines portfolio?
So the cyber premiums?
Yeah.
That was what we were showing on the chart. So, it'd be on the chart 16.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. Chart 16 is an underwriting year vision. So, it's probably roughly $200 million of
Beazley's full-year GAAP premiums this year are going to be coming from Mike's team.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Donovan

{BIO 21247195 <GO>}

Yeah. The chart there shows just the TMB portion. And if you add in the cyber premiums
from the other lines of business in the small account space, then it would come out to
about $200 million or 10%.

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Hi there. Johnny Owen from UBS (37:15). Two questions please. The first on expenses.
Can you just talk a bit about what's going on with the expense ratio, what you can do to
lower it going forward? Obviously, there's been a lot of stuff in the press about what
lawyers can do generally to take out a bit of cost to make things more efficient, maybe a
levy to raise the restructuring charges needed. Talk a bit about that please, that'd be
great. And also, I saw that the talks are still ongoing with regard to a decision to (37:46). I
just wondered if you could tell us a bit more about that as well.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, thank you. It's great to get a question on the expense ratio. It's actually gone
down. The reason for that is primarily that the dollar is stronger against sterling. The real
dynamic in Beazley is that we're building an infrastructure to support much bigger
business. We are controlling our expenses very carefully. Our biggest expense by far is
our people, and we've just passed a 1,000 mark and we like every single one of them
and want to retain them all.
So, there's not an area of our expenditure that is inefficient that we are going to cut. So,
the real question of how our expense ratio will evolve is our ability to grow the top line.
Page 12 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

FINAL

We believe that we could support a significantly larger portfolio with the current team of
people and infrastructure. So, what you should expect in terms of the evolution of our
expense ratio is really dependent upon how we can grow the top line.
As far as the discussions in the London market about investment to make the market
more efficient, those are clearly going on, and I'm sure that Beazley will pay its fair share, I
should say, of those initiatives. Even though the headlines are quite large numbers,
they're not going to be very significant expenditures for us. So I would not expect the
London market modernization efforts to cause a step change in the overall Beazley Group
expense ratio over the next couple of years.
Then your final question kind of was on the (39:34). We believe it's certainly feasible for
Beazley Plc to return to the UK and we're looking very carefully at that to make sure that
we have analyzed it for more angles and there's nothing we haven't thought of. That
process I would expect to complete over the next six months or so months at which point
you should expect some firm comment from us either we are going to make a change or
in fact we've concluded that staying as we are is the best thing to do.

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

May I ask what the strategic reason is behind the increase in the reinsurance portfolio
where you've put more one-third of the growth of the insurance premiums back to
retrocession? Is it de-risking or are you taking advantage of weakness in the reinsurance
rate?
So, it's increasing reinsurance spend, John (40:39).

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah, in the reinsurance account.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

In the reinsurance account, yes. So we have taken a view to reduce our risk appetite in
2015, and therefore we've ceded more of our reinsurance out this year. So rather than –
we have the choice. That means (40:53) if we want to reduce our exposure, we're
actually taking a smaller position in the marketplace or taking – writing less. So as you
know, we will continue to write what have been as good business and see more of a
doubt (41:04) to reduce our overall risk budget down to $560 million and a one in (41:08)
$250 million.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Morning. It's Barrie Cornes, Panmure. A couple of questions. First of all, Solvency II, I
wonder if there's an update, give us any flavor for how you feel ahead of the 3rd of
January. Secondly, M&A. Andrew, I think you mentioned that M&A opportunity – given your
opportunities for picking up people, which is good, what about your own staff ? Just
wondered if there's going to be any pressure on expenses, what you're going to need to
do to retain some of your key staff which could be looking to be poached.
Page 13 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Are you going to pick Solvency II?

FINAL

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. So, Solvency II. Beazley is applying to have its internal model approved. That
application went in on the 1st of April to the Central Bank of Ireland. And we await – we
remain in close and continuous discussion with the Central Bank. That's been the case for
last three years our four years. I mean we believe we got an excellent model and
excellent risk and capital modeling team. But at this stage, we just wait and see what the
feedback from the Central Bank is once they've concluded.
As far as our – we are already setting capital using that internal model. So, we're relatively
comfortable with our capital levels. Obviously, the other important model application
that's going on is that of Lloyd's of London to the PRA, and that question needs to go to
(42:43) as to the status there. But clearly, that product set also is very important for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Barrie, on the people front, I mean, another key point, we're touching around it before. I
think while most organizations want to grow, one of the ways of growing is doing M&A
and (43:03) with that. And the other one is poaching people. The aim of Beazley, as we
are very people-centered organization, is to continue to create an environment where
people want to join and want to stay. And I think it's key that we continue to focus on that,
while we continue to add new product and continue to grow. Our profitability is good. I
think we create the right environment. We don't (43:24) we're obviously going to lose
some people as we do each year. Interestingly, turnover for the first half has been one of
its lowest halves for a while which is great.
Morning. Just a quick question on pricing. There's been a step down, another step down
in energy, property and reinsurance rates this year. Could you just give us a feel for how
you're responding to that? All lines of business still viable. Are you conceptually happy to
carry loss-making segments through a downturn?
So, is that your one question? I thought you were (44:04) another one next to that. So it's
a great question, so I think, as I mentioned, we lowered our risk appetite this year. And
our expectation based on the rating environment for next year is to lower risk appetite
further. So in other words, we still think there was some profitable (44:18) in there, not as
many as they were. And therefore, we're not going to write as many as we did.
Now, not surprisingly in a falling environment, that means there are people who are more
optimistic than us who are willing to write it at lower prices. So, our aim is to stay through
the recruited great people in those lines of business, and we have to wait for the margin
as to fall to such a point when they then return. But our aim is to lower exposure on those
lines this year or next year.

Q - Eamonn M. Flanagan

{BIO 14018002 <GO>}

Page 14 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

Hi, it's Eamonn Flanagan at Shore Capital. Morning. Can we just come back to the Barrie's
question, Solvency II, if I may? And Martin, you're referring slide 13 to your surplus capital
including Solvency II adjusted. Were those Solvency II adjustments material, what were
they, and was it net effect positive or negative with regard to that surplus capital position?

FINAL

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

Yeah. So in Solvency II world, capital sought (45:16) about what's called a Solvency II
balance sheet, where you make a number of adjustments to compare to a normal GAAP
balance sheet. The most important one is that you strip all margins out of reserves and
you discount them. So, viewed in the Solvency II world, Eamonn, there's more capital than
on our IFRS GAAP balance sheet. And then as I said a few years ago when we just started
this journey, in the Solvency II world, you have more capital and you have a higher capital
requirement than in the old-fashioned ICA well.
So, yeah, those – when you restate Beazley's balance sheet to a Solvency II basis, capital
is quite a lot larger than it is on an IFRS balance sheet, as is the case for the Lloyd's
market as a whole, who do occasionally presentations to show that effect, and it is stating
reserves on a discounted best estimate basis. That's the primary driver of that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you. (46:27) from KBW. If I just – can I ask a couple of questions on
premiums from life, accident and health? You are quoting that you are growing your GAAP
protection for a large part. At the same time, we are seeing that gross premiums are
actually coming down. Why is that and should we expect a double-digit growth that we
have been seeing in the past there? And the other is again on capital. If I look at your U.S.
insurance company, which is flat year-on-year, is that because you are calculating that on
an RBC basis, so is it an equivalent Solvency II model? Thank you.
Okay. So, the life, accident and health has been impacted by two things. One is the
growth in the U.S. and one is the shrinkage in Australia to some extent by dropping
unprofitable business and to another extent by the fact the Australian dollar has fallen
through the floor in terms of the exchange rate. So the growth in the U.S. has just been
compensated by shrinkage in the other part of it. The London book is relatively steady, so
it's a three-pronged business.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

And as far as the capital for the U.S. insurance company is concerned, the amount we
carry in the company is the amount we require to get the A.M. Best rating that's necessary
for the company. So, that's actually significantly in excess of its regulatory or risk-based
capital requirements. And until our U.S. business gets a lot bigger, that $107 million is
sufficient capital, so that's why it's stable because we have an A8 A.M. Best, and we need
to be in a three-figure capital position to get that 8 (48:10) size rating.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Fahad Changazi from Nomura. I'm sorry, we're just focusing on
Solvency II on UK life. But for non-life, so what discount rate will you be using? (48:28)
Page 15 of 16



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2015-07-24

determined to discount the liabilities back?

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

FINAL

In a Solvency II world, you discount the liabilities using the market...

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Risk-free.

A - Martin Lindsay Bride

{BIO 15458196 <GO>}

...market curves. I mean the sort of discussions between the swaps and the risk-free rates
is sort of irrelevant given we're talking one-and-a-half years and – yeah.

A - David Andrew Horton

{BIO 5697110 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Anything else? Great. It's great to see you all today. Thanks a lot.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

