Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alistair Hargreaves, Head of Service
Cristina Nestares, Head of Product-UK Motor
David Graham Stevens, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Martin Coriat, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
David A. Bracewell, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Olivia Brindle, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Seidl, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Good morning and welcome to our First Half 2016 Results. I'm David Stevens, the CEO.
It's my ﬁrst set of results. I took over from Henry in May of this year, Friday the 13th, to be
precise. And it's lovely to be able to stand up in front of you and talking about such a
good set of results, and the company is in such a robust state of health.
My colleagues and myself are going to talk about that in more detail. Geraint will start
with an overview; then Alistair and Cristina, two of our key managers from the UK
operation, will talk about the UK; Martin and myself will talk about price comparison in our
international operations before I do a wrap-up.
Over to you, Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, David. Good morning, everyone. Okay. I'm going to cover the results, then move
on to talk about solvency and the dividends, and ﬁnish up brieﬂy on investments.

Page 1 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

So, we're very pleased with the ﬁrst half's results. You'll see strong top line growth, both in
the UK and outside. A record ﬁrst half proﬁt, a record interim dividend, strong solvency
ratio, albeit impacted by big moves in interest rates, and good progress in our operations
outside the UK.
This slide shows some of the highlights. At the top, very strong growth in customers and
turnover. We had 15% more customers as of 30th of June 2016, 4.8 million in total. We're
going to move past 5 million customers around the group in the next couple of weeks.
And that growth came from all over the group, notably in the UK where we added 0.5
million customers over the past 12 months. Turnover results were up strongly, (01:40) 20%
higher or £1.3 billion, double-digit growth in all segments. Both of those ﬁgures are new
records for ﬁrst half.
Pre-tax proﬁt and EPS both up to record levels, and return on equity, still a pretty enviable
49%, which is in line with 2015 as a whole.
And ﬁnally, as I mentioned earlier, an interim dividend of £0.629 per share, that's a record
for interim. The big increase compared to 2015 results from a second installment
additional capital return of £33 million which we'll cover shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's take a look at that top line growth in a bit more detail. So, the left hand side of this
chart shows turnover by segment and the right hand side shows customer numbers by
segment. Very nice to see lots of upward arrows on the slide.
UK Car Insurance ﬁrstly. Cristina and Alistair are going to talk about this in detail, so I'll just
say that favorable market conditions meant we were able to grow in the UK to nearly £1
billion of turnover in the ﬁrst half, and add 340,000 customers over the year to move past
3.5 million customers. It's 11% year-on-year growth. That's the fastest rate of growth since
2011.
Outside the UK, our insurance businesses grew their turnover by 44% to £159 million.
That's a big step up on the 2015 growth rate. We also added about 125,000 customers
over the past year to move past 0.75 million, that's 15% of the group's total customers.
Household Insurance and Van also growing strongly, adding 160,000 customers.
Household is approaching 400,000 customers at the end of June, continuing its strong
growth. And last but not least, good growth in price comparison turnover, 16%, including
a very good ﬁrst half results from Confused.com, which Martin will talk about shortly.
Let's move on to proﬁt. This slide analyzes how the diﬀerent business areas contribute to
the overall results of £193 million for this half year. No surprise, of course, to see that the
dark blue, which is UK Car Insurance results, continues to dominate with a slightly higher
proﬁt in H1, £223 million, more on which later. The proportion of the total is down slightly
as you can see, and that's due to a better result from price comparison and lower other
charges.

Page 2 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

International Insurance is in the green. Combined loss there was a touch under £13
million, which is a bit higher than the £11 million in the ﬁrst half of last year. That result
includes a further proﬁt from ConTe in Italy, that's oﬀset by continued investments,
particularly in the U.S. and France. Positive combined ratio trajectory that were in those
operations continues, especially in Europe.
Price comparison in total made a loss of about £1 million, which is better than the £4
million in H1 last year, and that's largely made up of continued investments in
compare.com in the U.S., where our share of the loss was steady at about £10 million in H1
and a good proﬁt from Confused.com, which improved to £8.3 million from £4.8 million
last year.
Finally, in the yellow, that's the other segment which includes household, which made
another proﬁt whilst growing very strongly and also includes other costs such as share
scheme charges, debt interest, and there are also some gains on forward foreign
exchange contracts in there in the ﬁrst half amounting to about £5 million. Those gains
will reverse over the next year or two.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to our capital position and then on to dividends, this slide sets out the
current solvency position. Just as a reminder, our capital requirement is currently based
on the Solvency II standard formula plus the capital (05:20) add-on that we agreed with
the PRA towards the end of last year. The position remains strong as you can see. The
post-dividend solvency coverage of 180%. I'll cover the dividend you see in the light blue
very shortly.
Now, up to the Brexit vote, the solvency ratio would've remained basically ﬂat compared
to the end of 2015. Capital generation minus the interim dividend minus the eﬀects of the
pre-Brexit moves in interest rates have basically netted oﬀ to pretty much zero. A further
signiﬁcant moves though in the yield curve since Brexit have negatively impacted the
ratio.
Just as a quick reminder, the yield curve is used to discount technical provisions notably
actual and set on potential PPO claims and the risk margin on our Solvency II balance
sheet. So, lower interest rates means higher long-term liability valuation, and bigger risk
margin, an increased capital requirement, with some oﬀsetting moves in ﬁxed income
asset values. So, the combined impact of the post-Brexit moves in yield curve is a
reduction of around 20 percentage points in the solvency ratio.
We currently use the standard yield curve in our calculations, but we have applications in
both our European regulators to use the volatility adjusted curve, which allows a more
appropriate discount rates.
As you can see on the slide, that adjusted solvency ratio is at even stronger 196%. So, we
expect those applications to be reviewed shortly and hopefully approved during H2. In
the back of the pack, we include solvency sensitivities including further yield curve
movements.

Page 3 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

No change on our plans for the partial internal model and the program progresses well
and we're on track to make our application during 2017. Once the model is approved,
we'll conﬁrm our targets to solvency coverage though, as you see on the slide, no change
currently in our expectations where that target might sit.
I'm sure you'll remember that with our 2015 results, we reported that we moved into
Solvency II with surplus capital, and that we intended to return that surplus to our
shareholders in the form of additional special dividends over the ﬁrst two years to three
years of Solvency II being in eﬀect, and that's broadly up to the point where our partial
internal model is approved and in use. So, just to update things six months on, we still
have surplus capital as you saw on the previous slides, the adjusted solvency ratio of
196%, or 180% on the standard yield curve, and our commitment to return surplus capital
also remains.

Bloomberg Transcript

Though the market conditions in H1, notably interest rates moves, means that we now
project that the total of additional special dividends will be in the range of £100 million to
£150 million, which is down from the £150 million to £200 million that we talked about six
months earlier based on market conditions at that point in time. Those ﬁgures include the
£33 million we're declaring today and the £33 million that we paid earlier this year with
the ﬁnal 2015 dividend.
Now, based on what we see today, we envisage that the ﬁnal 2016 dividend in six months'
time will include about £20 million of additional capital return based on that new range.
And just to reiterate, this is something we'll continuously reassess as we move through the
next 12 months to 24 months. And, of course, if market conditions, notably interest rates,
they change or business plans change or other circumstances change, then these
numbers could change. Also important to repeat that are our expectation for the
foreseeable future is to carry on paying underlying dividends in the order of 90% to 95%
of earnings. That doesn't change.
Turning next to the interim dividend. So, like six months ago, we split our interim dividend
into three parts. First up, the normal dividend, which is 65% of post-tax proﬁts. And the
ﬁrst part of the special, which, combined with the normal, gets us to the familiar 90% to
95% level. And then the additional capital return in the light blue, which sits on top. The
actual amounts you see it on the slides, £0.359 (09:12) per share for the normal part,
£0.151 (09:15) per share for the ﬁrst part of the special. Add those two together, you get to
£0.51 per share, which is a H1 payout ratio of 91%. Then the additional return, that's the
second installment in the £33 million, that's £0.119 per share. Grand total of £0.629 per
share, which gets paid on October 7 and the dates that you see there on the slide along
with our dividend policy.
Just quickly, this slide shows our dividend history. As you can see, a pretty impressive
record of growth, slightly moves in line with earnings over time. The ﬁrst two installments
of the additional capital return you see in the yellow on the top of the ﬁnal two bars. And
in the box, we've updated the totals that we've paid out since ﬂotation back in 2004. It's
£2.2 billion with the dividends in total, split broadly evenly between the normal and
special parts.

Page 4 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

Final slide for me is on investments. So, on the left-hand side of the slide, we show credit
quality and the allocation between category of our assets at the end of last year-and-ahalf, middle half of this year. And as you can see, there's basically no signiﬁcant change in
either since the end of 2015.
On the right-hand side, you see how investment income has moved over the past few half
years. And as we ﬂagged over the past year or so, 2015 number particularly, it was
distorted by negative adjustment relating to withheld quota share reinsurance funds, that
accrual has now been fully released. The negative £5 million in H1 2015 being replaced by
a positive £9 million in H1 this year. The current period also beneﬁts from the £5 million or
so of foreign exchange gains I mentioned earlier. Happy to discuss that with anyone later
on, if you'd like more detail.
That's it from me. Next up, we're going to hear about the UK insurance business from
Alistair and Cristina. Thank you.

Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone. My name is Alistair Hargreaves. I've been with Admiral for
around eight years, working in a number of diﬀerent areas of the UK business. I'm
currently Head of Service, responsible for Operations, Claims and Marketing. I'm going to
talk about the UK Motor market and our performance. And then Cristina will talk about
some exciting aspects of Motor and also Household.
So, let's start with the results for the market as a whole. Here, we see the market net
combined ratio for 2015 at 102%. Compared to the last 30 years, it's one of the most
proﬁtable, but it's driven by a 12% reserve release. By adding back the reserve release, we
get a gross combined ratio for 2015 of 114%. And let's use this to see the overall
proﬁtability of business written in 2015. If we start with the gross combined ratio of 114%
and take away an estimated ancillary proﬁt of 10% of premium and investment income of
3%, we get an all-in combined ratio of 101%. Basically, without reserve releases, the market
is only just breaking even.
Now, history suggests that in 2016, reserve releases will be lower so market proﬁtability
will be dependent on current year business. Or in other words, there's plenty of
motivation for increases in premium.
So, let's take a look at what's happening with premiums in the market. The ABI index
shows increases in premiums written of 6% year-on-year. Earned premium, which is what
ﬂows through to market proﬁtability, is also up 6%. Now, earned premiums are still 11%
below the ﬁrst quarter of 2012. But 2016 is the ﬁrst year in ﬁve years that we'll see an
increase in earned premium. We expect to see more premium increases in the second
half.
The volume of increases and the 2016 market results is dependent on three factors: ﬁrst,
the amount of reserve releases still in the tank; second, large BI inﬂation; and third, the
rationality of the market as a whole. As shown on the last slide, historically, the Motor
Page 5 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

market cycle has increased well beyond the gross combined ratio of 114%. This time, we're
seeing premiums increase already, earlier than was the case at previous turns, is this an
indication of a slightly less volatile cycle going forward.
Now, the price increases are leading to more people shopping for their car insurance and
increase in new business volumes for the market as a whole. Here, you can see changes in
our price competitiveness as measured by Times top on price comparison indexed to 100
in December 2013. Our competitiveness dropped in 2014, then we regained it, and we've
maintained it for the last 12 months.
To maintain our competitiveness, we've been increasing prices in line with the market.
This, combined with people shopping, helped us grow new business volumes. At the
same time, I'm pleased to say we've maintained our customer retention and renewal
volumes. The end results is our 11% vehicle growth.
So let's look at loss ratios. Here, we're comparing the reported results for the market on
an accident year basis with Admiral's ultimate loss ratios. You can see some very positive
movements in ultimate loss ratios on our back years. The 2015 year is at a similar level to
2014 at the same point. It's a relatively conservative early pick, reﬂecting the inherent
uncertainty around large BI.

Bloomberg Transcript

But why is the gap between the two lines narrowing? Well, there are two potential
answers to that; the ﬁrst is that our competitors are becoming more disciplined, and this
has led them to improve faster than we have; the second is conservatism within our
ultimate loss ratios. These have historically improved over time.
Here you see that 18 months after the start of the accident year, our 2015 ultimate loss
ratio is 6 points better than the market. This is comparable with previous experience. For
example, at the same point, 2013 was 7 points better than the market. 2013 is now 11
points better. Only time will tell how 2014 and 2015 mature. We don't publish the loss
ratio for 2016 this early, but we've been increasing premiums and seen moderate claims
inﬂation, so a positive start.
Now, how do those loss ratio improvements translate into reserve releases? On the lefthand side, we're looking at releases on our retained share. The positive developments on
our back years have contributed to substantial reserve releases. In addition, the buﬀer we
hold against best estimates also remained strong and at the top end of our range.
What are the prospects for releases in the second half? Well, they should remain
signiﬁcant partly because the 2015 ultimate loss ratio is relatively conservative. The chart
on the right-hand side shows retained and commuted reserve releases. We typically
choose to commute our reinsurance agreements two years after the start of the
underwriting year, when we're conﬁdent in ﬁnal outcomes.
In the ﬁrst half, we commuted the 2014 underwriting year. This was booked to the
combined ratio of over 100%. Upon commutation, we wrote oﬀ reinsurance recoveries
relating to 2014, which reduced commuted reserve releases. However, on an ultimate
Page 6 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

basis, 2014 is proﬁtable or in other words, we expect future commuted reserve releases
from 2014.

FINAL

Our key piece of the puzzle is our expense ratio. We've increased our new business
volumes resulting in increased payments to price comparison sites and an increase in the
expense ratio from 16.2% to 17%. Overall, this graph shows we've continued to maintain
our expense ratio advantage, which is very important to us.
So, how does all of this come together? On this slide, you can see the increasing
customer numbers, it's ﬂowing through to increases in premiums and other revenue, and
resulting in a 16% increase in turnover. We have a strong combined ratio due to
improvements in our loss ratios, which more than oﬀset the slight increase in expense
ratio.
As Geraint explained, we've also beneﬁted from a positive investment return. These
positive impacts are reduced by lower commuted reserve releases due to the 2014
commutation. But overall, proﬁts are up 2%.
That's all from me. I'll now hand over to Cristina.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. I have been here presenting the results of our European
operations a number of times. But this time, I'm going to focus on a few aspects of our UK
operation, namely telematics, our new IT system, Guidewire, and the Household book.
(18:30), a year ago, and now I am Head of Product, (18:33) pricing, analytics and devices
(18:36), but also ancillaries, telematics and Household.
Now, we have been asked a number of time, what are we doing in telematics? How big
our book is? And I'm very pleased to say that Admiral has the largest telematic book in
the market. We have around 190,000 policies, followed by Insure the Box, Direct Line and
Hastings.
Telematics is still – is quite a niche product. It accounts for about 5% of total market share.
Because we have to take into account that the telematics policies have a very high
expense ratio, due to the fact that the cost of the device is still very signiﬁcant. You have to
pay for the box, for installation, and for data cost. But there is also now a very important
cost, which is the discount we give to the customer to show these policies.
So at the end of the day, we have these higher expense ratio which is compensated via a
better loss ratio. And Admiral has a strong interest in understanding telematics better
because we think this is a very important technology that is going to play a bigger role in
the future. So having the largest dataset in the market allow us to understand it better,
allow us to price it better and understand how to sell this product in the future.

Page 7 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

So, let's move to Guidewire. We have been quite busy during 2016, basically continuing
the roll out of our new IT system. And today, almost all of our policies are still using
Guidewire. One of the main advantages that this system brings is that we can add new
products more easily to the system. It also makes cross-selling, the process of selling
diﬀerent products to the customer much easier and faster.
Guidewire also brings operational eﬃciencies. Today, many processes are faster than with
our old system, I90, particularly mid-term changes and renewals. And the system also
allows for faster development of changes in the future and it makes easier to train the
staﬀ.
Let's take a look now at the Household market, the market continue to be proﬁtable in
2015, that the combined ratio deteriorated due to the bad weather events during the last
part of the year. 2016 also started with bad weather events which had an impact on the
loss ratio, and there is also pressure in the expense ratio due to the (20:53).

Bloomberg Transcript

The market remains quite competitive, but after a few periods of premium decline, we are
starting to see some signs of market stabilizing. And also, we're getting very good news
coming from distribution, (21:06) year-on-year, and now they account for about 50% of
total new sales.
So in this contest, our results have been quite good. We have continued growing our
book, and we now have about 380,000 policies, which represents a growth of 23% since
the end of last year. Also the combined ratio continues to improve. We ﬁnished 2015 just
over 100% and during the ﬁrst half of 2016, we have continued improving our combined
ratio.
Our loss ratio, remains stable despite the bad weather events, and our expense ratio
continues to improve. We're getting more eﬃciencies and we're also getting a larger
proportion of renewals. You don't have it in the graph, but in the ﬁrst half of 2016, our
expense ratio ﬁnished at 30%, very similar level to 29% for the full year 2015. But when
you take into account that this 30% includes 5 points for Flood Re, our underlying
expense ratio is 25%, which is a signiﬁcant improvement from the last year.
So, we're very pleased with the progress of our Household books. We have our combined
ratio very close to breakeven. And we have our expense ratio which are already much
better than the market. And our loss ratio is higher than the market, but this is partly
explained from the fact that we acquire most of our business from aggregators. So, for the
future, we expect market – for the market an upward trending prices, more shopping and
more growth for the aggregators. And for the Admiral Household book, more growth
coming.
So, this is all from me, and now I'll pass you to Martin.

Martin Coriat

{BIO 20266744 <GO>}

Page 8 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Thank you, Cristina. So, my name is Martin Coriat. As you probably already noticed, I'm
French. I joined Admiral Group eight years ago and spend my time in the pricecomprising business line, both in France and the UK. And since 2013, I've been the CEO
of Confused.com based in Cardiﬀ. I'm here to present the results of our diﬀerent price
comparison operation. As you can see, we have business up and running in several
countries; in the UK, Spain, France and the U.S. And we're working towards the launch of
the new operation in China. We also partnered with big name for this internationalization
and that's the reason why Admiral does not always own 100% of these businesses.
As you can see, we have now a nice portfolio of price comparison operation in a variety of
countries in term of maturity and size. UK is probably the most mature market as far as
price comparison penetration is concerned. We still see a big potential in some
underdeveloped markets where price comparison is still a very new concept such as the
U.S. or China. So, let's have a look in more detail of the performance of these businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, after few years of slow and limited growth in the UK market, the market is growing.
This growth that can appreciate at the bottom left of the slide is mainly driven by two
factors. First, the turn of the insurance cycle as indicated by several indexes including our
own Confused.com index, and (24:27) market. But on top of the insurance cycle per se,
the increase of the insurance premium tax at the back end of last year gave another push
to the aggregator market.
Second, car sales, it's an all-time peak in the ﬁrst half of 2016 for both new cars – and new
cars. As you can imagine, car buying is a natural trigger for insurance shopping and that
deﬁnitely fuels the aggregator market. So, overall, it's very pleasing for me to see this
market growing again. However, you should not jump to the wrong conclusion. The
aggregator market remains a very competitive place. If you're watching TV, you know that
the main aggregators are spending a lot to grab customer attention, to grasp customer
attention.
In the ﬁrst half of the year, we estimate that the industry have spent just short of £70
million in media. That's the second biggest amount in history. So, media spend is one out
of many drivers of the level of competition in the market. Another evidence of the
toughness of this market is the diﬃculty for new entrants to succeed in the market,
whether the name Google or Tesco.
Overall, the industry remains very competitive and challenging, but at least this
competition occurs in a growing market.
So, how did Confused.com perform in that environment? It was a good ﬁrst half of the
year for Confused.com, and we have pleasing numbers to report in term of customers
and proﬁt. So, a number of customers recorded on the Confused.com website in the ﬁrst
six months of the year has grown in line with the markets with an 8% growth compared to
last year. More importantly, proﬁt has risen signiﬁcantly to reach £8.3 million for the ﬁrst
half of the year. So, we're talking about a very pleasing 73% increase in proﬁts compared
to last year.

Page 9 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

Looking at the drivers of the Confused.com proﬁts, there are two main factors to highlight
on top of the customer growth. First is a better acquisition cost as we experienced lowerthan-usual media inﬂation and we used smarter online acquisitions strategies. And
second is a better conversion on the back of the several and diﬀerent promotion ran on
Confused.com.
Looking at what the future has in store for Confused.com, we have decided to focus our
marketing eﬀorts on the Motor-related product as it remains, by far, the biggest market for
aggregator. It's also an area where Confused.com has probably more legitimacy and
expertise. This current products, driver-centric positioning is supported by a new
advertising campaign, featuring Mr. James Corden, and it positioned Confused.com as a
car specialist in the category.
Moving to operation in Continental Europe. We have seen good some performances from
operation in both France and Spain. We have indeed seen some healthy numbers, in term
of volume, with quote numbers up by 7% to reach 4.4 million quotes combined.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turnover has grown by 10% explained by the launch of new products as well as
continuous improvements in our customer experience. In Spain, Rastreator has
experienced strong growth in the ﬁrst half of the year across several product lines,
insurance, telephony, and ﬁnance. So, they pursue a clear multi-product strategy and
expands the product range. In France, LeLynx remains the market leader for car insurance
and continues to educate the consumer to the beneﬁt of comparing insurance prices.
So, overall, it was a very positive start of the year for both to Rastreator and LeLynx. They
continue to successfully build strong proﬁtable, market leading businesses and by
capitalizing on their expertise and solid brands in their respective countries.
We now go across the pond to look at our U.S. Price Comparison operations that we
launched back in 2013 in this huge but underdeveloped market in term of price
comparison adoption.
As you can see on the graph, their operational metrics continue to improve dramatically.
Let's take three key metrics for this business: volume, acquisition cost, and panel
development. And they all – and see how they developed. The volume, measured in
quotes, rose again and we reach a symbolic milestone earlier this year with more than 2
million quotes since inception. If you compare it to last year, 2016 quotes volume have
already exceeded 2015's totals. Acquisition cost measured by the cost per click for
insurers has been reduced dramatically in the year. Panel development, as were
committed to grow a panel of insurers, it's also going in the right direction. We have now
partnered with more than 80 car insurance brands, including 13 of the top 25 carriers.
And that includes well-known brand name such as MetLife that has just joined our panel.
So overall, we see a substantial and promising improvement to the metrics in our U.S.
operation. It's also interesting to note that in states where we operate for longer, we have
better than this average metrics and economics numbers. That give us conﬁdence in the
success of our operation, but it still requires time, patience, and long-term investments.
Page 10 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

And as a result, we expect compare.com to incur losses in 2016 in the range of $30 million
to $35 million.

FINAL

So, this concludes this very rapid tour of our Price Comparison Operation. Overall, a very
positive ﬁrst half of the year with encouraging developments for all of Price Comparison
businesses. That's all from me, and I'm happy to leave the stage to David who will present
the latest results of our International Insurance Operation.

David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Martin.
When you look at the international insurance operations on a regional basis, the Europe
which is Italy, Spain and France; and there's the U.S. It's been a year of accelerating
growth, our direct insurance operations. The European operations account for 80% of the
policyholders, about 50% of the premium, and the U.S., about 20% of the policyholders
and 40% of the premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

The European operations are tantalizingly close to proﬁtability, making a loss of €2 million
in the second – in the ﬁrst half 2016. The U.S. operation saw an increased loss from €8
million to just under €11 million and I'm going to expand on each region separately.
So ﬁrst, looking at Europe, we saw here a growth in customers of 19% and the growth in
premium of 30%, and this country-by-country breakdown shows you that Italy dominates
that growth. It has beneﬁted from a 20% growth in the price comparison market in Italy,
and it's managed that growth of 21% in customers while also delivering its third successive
proﬁt, third successive reporting-period proﬁt.
The other striking feature of this exhibit, I think, is the growth in the French operations,
74% in customers. You may recall that we initially outsourced our operations and claims in
France, and over the last 18 months, we've been in-sourcing. We've held back on growth
until that's been completed. That has been completed, and we are, in a sense, taking the
shackles oﬀ in France and are looking to grow the business to its potential.
I want to focus on one key priority for each of the regions. Not the only priority, but a key
priority. In the case of Europe, it's to expand our share of sales coming from price
comparisons. So, take a bigger share of all the price comparison sales that happened.
And there are three things we're doing to achieve that. We're widening our footprint
where that's possible, and that's – the biggest example of that is France. We're improving
our operational eﬀectiveness to make sure that when someone does click through from a
website, from a price comparison site, or when they phone as a result of a quote on a
price comparison site, we are maximizing our eﬀectiveness at turning that into a sale, and
that's a key skill in these markets.
And lastly, we're investing behind marketing, TV marketing and sponsorship to build
some brand awareness. We spend 2% to GDP in the ﬁrst half of – GWP in the ﬁrst half of
2015 and 6% in the ﬁrst half of 2016 on TV and sponsorship. And the goal there is not so
Page 11 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

much to drive direct traﬃc. It's to persuade the customer that sees our price at the top of
a price comparison list of prices, to persuade them to accept that pricing go with us and
to drop their insurer, often a traditional insurer, or alternatively to persuade them if they
see our price second or third to buy us rather than to buy the ﬁrst price. And part of that is
about brand awareness.
So, moving on to the U.S., also a period of rapid growth, customers up 23%, premium up
very substantial, 46%. The half had a one notable event which was an unusually dramatic
hail season in Texas. Texas accounts for roughly half of our business in the U.S. And there
is a hail season typically in the second quarter of any individual year, which had it been a
normal level of hail, it would have cost us roughly £2 million. And in the event it costs
substantially more, cost around £8 million, because there were a lot more events and the
severity of events, the location of events, unfortunately, was rather more urban.
What are we focusing on in the States? Well, one of the things we're focusing on is
improving our loss ratio. We've seen some rapid price increases in our U.S. operation, 15%
in Texas, 8% in Virginia. We've also decided to reduce the generosity of our renewal
capping. What we have seen in the U.S. market this year is a very good outcome in terms
of acquisition economics. And those improved acquisition economics have given us a bit
more space to be less generous in terms of trying to maximize retention.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've concentrated more on increasing the renewal loss ratio. And we've invested in
the size of the team and in our rating software to accelerate the rates of pricing reﬁnement
in the U.S. market as we get more and more experience as the business grows.
Other notable feature of the U.S. market is our expansion out into Tennessee and Indiana,
two new states. So, we've gone from four states to six states. Two advantages to this, it
gives us a route to faster scale, and the other advantage is it gives us a blank sheet of
paper where we can trial diﬀerent marketing approaches. Both of those have
considerable value to the long-term health of the company.
So, that's the direct insurance operations internationally, rapid growth, good progress. It
seems to me appropriate, given this is my ﬁrst set of results, to attempt to bit of a big
picture overview. And this is the big picture. It's – in our case, the value of our shares
predominantly built around the value of our core business, our UK personal lines
business.
And our strategy has two legs to it. One is to ensure that we maximize the value of that
core business in the long term, realize its full potential, and the other is that we create
future sources of additional value.
And I hope from the presentation today you gain conﬁdence that we are doing what's
necessary to maximize the value of our core business. I think that points to our telematics
leadership, our better understanding of a key technology. I'd point to our renewal of our
core systems laying the foundation for the next 10 years or 15 years of growth. And I would
point to the fact that the franchise still has signiﬁcant room for growth. 0.5 million new
customers put on over the last 12 months, third of the million from the Car Insurance
Page 12 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

business, and 150,000 from the Household Insurance business. So, signs of health and
progress on the core business.
In terms of creating future value, the opportunities you're familiar with are the direct
insurance operations overseas, and our price comparison business is notably our price
comparison businesses overseas, which are on an early-stage of development. All these
businesses, we feel, have a very manageable downside and a very substantial potential
upside.
Lastly, and perhaps a bullet point you wouldn't necessarily see in the past, all the rest you
have seen in the past is UK new products. We do believe that the skills we have and the
assets that we have may allow us to develop a competitive advantage in some products
beyond insurance. And one of our objectives for the next two years or three years is to
test whether there are such products, particularly in the UK; products that play to our
strength, that fulﬁll certain characteristics, that likely to be business-to-consumer Internet
products, that likely to be products with hedging element (38:09), have an element of risk
selection involved, that likely to be in markets which are experiencing or likely to
experience disruption. And ideally, although not necessarily, we'd also like them to be
products that we can readily sell to our now 4 million Admiral customers in the UK.
The ﬁrst of these products, and one I think that very much ﬁts those criteria is personal
lending. So, from quarter one of next year, we will be trialing an Admiral loans product,
primarily a car ﬁnance product, initially focused on our – primarily on our own customer
base but with the potential to expand beyond that. And we'll be going through a process
in a very Admiral way of testing and learning and understanding if there is an opportunity
to create something interesting, to create a competitive advantage, to create some
diﬀerentiation in a world, which we think may well be changing quite rapidly over the next
10 years to 15 years, and these are indeed long-term plays. There might be another one
coming along behind it, maybe two. And those will be part of our focus for the next two
years or three years.
So, all in all, very glad to be reporting very rapid growth, bigger proﬁts, a sustained
phenomenal return on equity and continued evidence of the amazing cash generative
powers of this business. And lastly, I think I have to say with some pride as a sort of parent
looking on a child, Italy has achieved second best work place to work in 2016, eclipsing
the UK performance, which is still very creditable of sixth best work place. And I think also
demonstrating how those cultural aspects of Admiral, which have been key to our
success, are being diﬀused throughout our operation.
Thank you very much for your attention, and we'll open it up to questions.

Q&A
Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(40:09-41:14) A couple of questions. Firstly, could you tell us what the duration of your
assets and liabilities (40:20-40:43).

Page 13 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Thirdly, in terms of U.S., is there any operational (40:47-41:02)
And lastly, you mentioned that the results (41:05-41:15)

FINAL

Do you want to take the ﬁrst of those? Alistair, you take the reserving buﬀer. Martin will
take the compare one.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The assets and liabilities, (41:26) the duration of our assets or liabilities over the past six
months. The liability side is the number of claims, obviously, dominated by relatively
short-tailed stuﬀ, but a growing proportion of the reserve over the past ﬁve years is now
coming from PPO claims and have, obviously, got a much longer life.
If you just look at pure straight average of asset and liability durations, it's not that great a
diﬀerence. But clearly, we don't have any part of our asset portfolio that's out into 30-,
40-, 50-year (41:53) duration territory, hence, the impact on solvency ratio we saw.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the asset side is two years or three years. The longer stuﬀ we've got is UK (42:03) as
you know. So, there's not a particularly big mismatch. We'll look at whether it makes sense
for us to move some of our assets out into longer dated (42:13) stuﬀ over the current
months and years without rushing into anything clearly. And we'll update you should we
do anything.
The next one was volatility adjustment and sensitivity. So, the sensitivity, I think, remains
basically the same. It just starts from a higher level.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

On the reserve releases, I don't think we've disclosed the actual range. But the stock there
is slightly down on the full year, but it's still towards the top end of the range. I think we
have said that reserve releases will average out to about 14% over time and that's not
changed.

A - Martin Coriat

{BIO 20266744 <GO>}

Regarding Compare.com and the result of U.S., it's true that U.S. is a big country and as
far as insurance is concerned, it's more juxtaposition of states, than one-third (42:57)
country. So, we see very – a lot of diﬀerences from one state to the next level of
performance. But we still continue to see U.S. as one country and one operation, and
we're to grow and succeed on the other country, country level, not state level. So, we only
report the ﬁgures at a country level.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. Three questions, please. The ﬁrst one is on
pricing and claims, and you've made a reference to – or you'd alluded to the 2016 outlook
and prices tracking a little bit ahead of claims inﬂation. I was just wondering on an

Page 14 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

average premium basis, it looks like premiums were up about 3%, presumably because of
de-risking of the book. And I'm just curious; A, How far along are you in that kind of
bordered de-risking journey; and B, once adjusted for that, what is the pricing claims kind
of dynamic look like in terms of 2016 on that basis?
Second question was on reserving buﬀer. And again, the comments around it being at the
top end of the range, in the last six months here, you'd obviously changed your prudency
reserving policy on kind of – on new business on accounts of the fact that the reserve
buﬀer was up at the top end of the range. I'm just wondering whether there we should
assume there'll be implications for how you book policies going forward, given the buﬀer
is still at the top end of the range?
And the third question is just on the Solvency II ratio. When the £150 million (44:39)
Solvency II and dividends, but when the £150 million to £200 million dividend guidance
was originally set, I'm just wondering what were the kind of underlying interest rate
assumptions that that was predicated on, please?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll just make one comment and then hand it over to Mr. Alistair and then Geraint. I don't
think we have changed our initial reserve prudence on new claims merging. I don't think
(44:59) that's a misunderstanding on some of the agreement we may have said (45:02).
The reserve improvements that we put on our initial claims and what the levels we book
on our initial years are very much in line with previous experience. Alistair?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

So, in terms of pricing, yeah, average premiums have gone up by about 3% and I alluded
to the fact that our price increases are similar to the ABI. And so, the diﬀerence between
the two is a change in mix. It's – the change in mix isn't a long-term plan. We write
business according to what is most proﬁtable as we always have done.
In terms of claims inﬂation, the other side of that, I think if you look at the industry data,
the ABI data on frequency looks fairly benign. The MOJ portal information suggests that
claims registered in ﬁrst half of 2016 was down about 5% from the ﬁrst half of 2015. So,
frequency looks reasonably positive and we're fairly consistent with that.
In terms of severity, there is some inﬂation that I think others have commented on the
repair side, which we're also seeing some of as well. But the big thing is bodily injury. I
don't know about the market, I think we've probably seen its very early days. But for 2015
and the ﬁrst half of 2016, we've seen some positive trends in terms on what we're seeing
on the large BI, which hopefully links back to that slight shift in mix we've seen. But it's
very early days, so we'll have to wait and see how that comes through. And...

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The ﬁnal point was UK. So, six months ago, we said that we expected to pay £150 million
to £200 million in additional special dividends, that was based on what we saw at the

Page 15 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

time. So, it's based on our business plans and our projections and the yield curve, at the
date of that report, which is eﬀective at the end of January. (46:58)...

FINAL

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

No. That was all (47:00). Can I just maybe follow up on just the very ﬁrst one around – it
may well be my misunderstanding, but I understood that you were booking your loss
ratios closer to ultimate going forward than you have historically on the basis the reserve
buﬀer was at the top end of the range? But I may have misunderstood.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Do you want to comment on that, Geraint.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So, one way, we certainly move our range – our position in the range down from the top
end to the middle end, there are a couple of ways you can do that. You can obviously
reduce the level of conservatism on the back book or you can book a lower ratio on the
current year. And to us, we think about the margin as a whole across all the years, it's not
particularly important which part it comes from. Naturally, we might hold a bigger buﬀer
on the most underdeveloped years which tends to be the most recent years. So, it's quite
likely that there'll be (47:46) initial margin will remain pretty consistent (47:48) on the most
recent years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(47:52) keep in the same place and then we'll move it around a bit.

Q - David A. Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Hi. It's David Bracewell here of Redburn. A few questions. One, you've reiterated the
range for solvency, the 125% to 150%, when you get your internal model approved. I'm
just wondering, given the sensitivity that you've published today were quite large in some
of the scenarios, I just wonder why you could – if you could conﬁrm why you're happy with
that kind of low buﬀer, whether or not those sensitivities will change under an internal
model basis?
Second question is on the European operations. Growth is fantastic, but I was expecting
to see larger growth from Spain rather than the Italian operations. And equally on the
price comparison, I was hoping to see the Spanish price comparison website doing a bit
better there given the changes that's going on in that market. So, I wonder if you can
comment there about your thoughts on what's happening in Spain.
And the third question, just really on cross-selling ability. On the Home Insurance, I'm just
curious, you have mentioned a few times now, the new systems cross-sell will be a lot
Page 16 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

easier going forwards. And you've also mentioned there the price comparison for the
home insurances is increasing signiﬁcantly. I'm just wondering if you can give me an idea
of where you expect policy growth to come from? Will it be from cross-sell or will it be
from the growth from the price comparison?
And then equally, just on the new products you've mentioned. I'm just wondering what
your ability really is to kind of a cross-sell a car ﬁnance loan to your customers and then
what your expectations are there for kind of marketing developing that product?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll do Spain, and I'll do new products and then hand it over to Cristina for household.
Spanish operation has been held back over the last few years because of the economic
situation in Spain, the premiums falling and frequency falling, the numbers of cars
uncovered are falling. We are looking forward to a time when that changes. It has partially
changed in the sense that the economic activity is picking up, car sales are picking up. But
the actual premium changes are being relatively modest so far, maybe 1% or 2%, and that
hasn't yet set through to a substantial increase in shopping. So, although we have grown
the business somewhat, it's not growing very rapid at this stage, simply because the price
comparison market and the shopping market isn't growing very rapidly at this stage.
In terms of new products, don't get me wrong, it's not easy to cross-sell household to
motor. It's not easy to cross-sell loans to motor, there's an interesting interaction that we
have with customers around their change of vehicles, which means we are very aware
when a customer is considering or making a change. And we also have an awful lot of
information about the car they currently have, how long they've had it, or things like that.
And one of the big things we will be testing is part of the loans operation in 2017 is can we
leverage that knowledge into a cost-eﬀective, cross-selling operation?
Household, Cristina?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So, similar to what you were saying, I think the new system allow us to cross sell much
easier. First, because we cannot – product, we can change them, but also because it
makes the customer (51:04). So, instead of having to ask all the questions, we can start to
give an indicative price after just asking ﬁve questions. And if you imagine after you have
been the phone for a while talking about your motor insurance, it makes it very easy if you
can say, ﬁve more questions and we'll give you a price.
So, with now almost all new sales on Guidewire that allow us to start doing a lot of sales
and cross sell, the cross sell is quite a diﬃcult technique to achieve although they have
done it in the market. So, for us, it's a beginning of a journey. We're going to start to do it
in diﬀerent ways, start to oﬀer diﬀerent promotions. But I wouldn't want to overpromise
that it's going to be a signiﬁcant growth in the next few months. It will be just be a journey.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Page 17 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

The ﬁnal one was the guidance of the solvency coverage. I think what we're saying is that
we haven't ﬁrmed up a range, and we'll do that once we get the internal model approval
in a year-and-a-half's time or whatever that will come. I think your challenge is fair if we
just started the start of the year with a 125% solvency ratio and then saw a 1.23% (52:04)
move in the UK downwards, that would've been an uncomfortable situation. We won't
comment on how things might look under the partial internal model. I think it's too early
to do that. And we'll continue to look at ways to dampen our sensitivity to interest rate
moves over the next months and years.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you. We'll go into the right and then we'll come back to the front and over to the
back. Thank you.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi there. It's Olivia Brindle from Bank of America. Two questions. One again on the target
solvency range. Just wondering when you originally gave that guidance, what was your
thinking around this whole volatility adjuster issue because obviously as you said, the
base starting point would then be higher. So, it's unchanged. How do we think about the
whole volatility adjuster issue within that?
And secondly, just in terms of conditions in the UK, obviously, expectations are for a
recession, certainly a downturn in the macro environment, which we haven't seen yet. Just
wondering how you think about what the market does in that scenario, and you've talked
about maybe competitors being a bit more rational, maybe responding to trends a bit
more quickly. And how do you think pricing and competition looks if we do go into a
much worse environment?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

So, the volatility adjustment ﬁrst. The volatility adjustment application is something that
we would have done anyway. It's accelerated clearly as a result of the interest rate
movements we've seen. And what occurs is basically gives a more appropriate discount
rate, the purely risk-free rate, which is in our view wholly appropriate.
Our view of the target solvency range doesn't really change that much, and the volatility
adjustment improves our solvency position by about 15 percentage points. So, the start
point of where we go from here, but hopefully these 16 points are also higher. Doesn't
really change the endgame, I don't think.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Alastair, do you want to talk to the impact of the recession on...

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Yeah. I think we went through recession through the sort of 2008 and after the crunch and
beyond, and the current insurance cycle seemed to have been fairly independent of
those wider macroeconomics. And I think there will be impacts in terms of maybe people
Page 18 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

drive less, claims frequency. But last time, I think what we saw was those things were oﬀset
then by other dynamics within car insurance. And so, I think we'd expect something
similar going forward.

FINAL

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

What we certainly did see also is even in the depth of the recession, people really didn't
give up on their cars. They largely kept them and just drove them less. And that's not the
end of the world from a car insurance point of view. We're coming forward now. Okay.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. I've got three questions. The ﬁrst one is
just coming about Alistair's comments about commutations. So, obviously the ﬁrst half
came down a fair way from the level we saw last year. (54:54) I guess, for the second half
of this year? And then, let's think about the, I guess, your loss ratio pick for next year. It
looks about in line with where you are or where you were for 2014. So, should we expect
commutations next year to be equally high?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question is on U.S. price comparison. Do you think you need to invest more in
that market? And I guess what's stopping the 60% of the top 10 that aren't on your
platform joining you?
And the third question, just on the loan – well, about the potential loan book. Just a quick
question. Is that going to be on your balance sheet or is that – or would the model be –
you'd ﬁnd the loan, take your fee and then pass on to someone else's balance sheet? So,
those are my three. Thank you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

In terms of commutations?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

In terms of commutations, there aren't any commutations in the second half. The next
commutation is going to be 2015, which would likely be in 2017. The 2015 underwriting
year is booked at a lower loss ratio than 2014 was at the same point in time. And for that
reason, we expect the – if then, that ﬂows through as anticipated, we'd expect it to be
lower the impact of the 2015 commutation in the ﬁrst half of 2017.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(56:22)

A - Martin Coriat

{BIO 20266744 <GO>}

Yeah. I think regarding compare.com in the U.S., I think it requires still more investment
because it's a huge market that requires marketing. Price Comparison is still a relatively
new concept for insurance in this country. And I think the results we have achieved so far

Page 19 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

support an ongoing investment because we see this dynamic and we'll continue to invest
in this; operations have a huge potential given the size of the market.

FINAL

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think it's very rational also for the – for – at this point in the developments of Price
Comparison for some of the top players to hold oﬀ as they did in a number of markets. In
a sense of what we – the hypothesis is going into compare is that there's a large number
of U.S. players that ﬁnd competing against GEICO and Progressive and Allstate and State
Farm increasingly challenging. And the U.S. market is concentrating towards those players
and that's partly because these are brands that people migrate to, it's a big TV spend.
And so, in that context, it makes sense for the other players to come in supportive of
compare. And that's the growing evidence that that's the way the world is growing. But it
will have to be a much bigger player and a much bigger part of the market before some
of the biggest brands decide it makes economic sense to go on board.
In terms of lending – when it's very small, it will be on our balance sheet. It's not worth the
eﬀort to try and go very complicated in terms of funding. As it gets bigger in the same
way that we, for example, you have the reinsurance capital to help fund our insurance
operations, we certainly will look at a number of diﬀerent ways of building the business
capital eﬃciently.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's coming forward to – go on the front, please. Sorry.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thanks. It's James Shuck from UBS. I have three questions, please. I wanted to just return
to the Solvency II issue again, and just looking at the sensitivity. So, the slide you gave at
the full year I think kind of indicated about 6 points of sensitivity based on the January
experience.
And I think the January experience would have been around 25 basis points. So, in the
ﬁrst half we probably had closer to 100 basis points of reduction in the wake of Brexit,
certainly looking at the ﬁrst year, which would have been consistent with about 20-point
decline that you've indicated. The slide you give at the back of the pack now is
suggesting that a 50-basis-point reduction leads to 25 points of the Solvency II ratio,
which indicates sensitivity about twice as much as previously indicated. So, if you could
just discuss the drivers of that, that'd be helpful.
And then, if I update the Solvency II ratio for now, so ignoring the VA application for the
time being, but 180% would go to just updating for what's happened since half year, I
mean, about 155% now. I mean, how do you view that in the context of your 125% to 150%,
which I appreciate is on a partial internal model basis. But I know you don't really want to
comment on where that partial internal model is going to end up versus standard
formula, but are you able to give some guidance on, at least directionally, which way it
might go?

Page 20 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

And then, secondly, how you'd actually view that volatility in general? I mean, is it just a
quirk of interest rates and risk margins and discussions with PRA, et cetera, or is it
something you're actually going to take into account and to reduce that volatility and,
perhaps, bring up some of your insurance excessive loss, for example?
And then, two quick extra ones. Just the accident – if I look at the combined ratio ex the
prior-year development in the UK, we actually kind of improved by about 60 basis points.
So, just given the comment at – this is the H1. Just given the comments around pricing and
claims inﬂation, I'm just interested to know why wouldn't see the accident year combined
ratio improve more than that? So, I appreciate there's a number of moving parts. But if
you help me understand that, why that didn't get better.
And then, ﬁnally, just on claims and experience at H1. Just a little bit more, I mean, you
gave kind of indicative kind of directional things, but are you actually able to give a
number about what your claim experience was and how do you think it compared versus
the market, and any insight on large BI experience would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Solvency II to start. So, the sensitivity point is it's a fair observation. I think the
sensitivity reported at the end of the year was December to January yield curve. It was
uneven moves across the yield curve, so it was 20 basis points, some points less than the
other points.
What we're showing here is a ﬂat 50-basis-point move across the curve, particularly in the
later point of it. So, the sensitivity is, as you know, bigger. Obviously, our post-Brexit was
about 40 basis points to 50 basis points move from the 20-something basis points from
June to the end of July, and that's consistent with this 25-ish basis points, 5 percentage
point movement here in solvency. So, I think it's partly an issue of having gone through it.
We understand it, 50 basis points is ﬂat across the curve, as it's consistent with what we
saw post-Brexit pretty much.
The second point was partial model guidance and trajectory to our 150%-ish, 125% to
150%. We're not giving guidance on what we expect, the partial internal (01:01:43) model
to deliver. I don't think you should expect game-changing solvency capital requirement
changes from the partial model approval. And in the absence of other guidance, there are
lot of moving parts in the projections of these things over the next couple of years. So, a
growth in the capital requirement, have capital generation moves or we pay out some
dividends. And I think you should take £100 million to £150 million (01:02:02) as guidance
based on what we see today in terms of the (01:02:05) to get us then to that range in two
years' or three years' time. Well, two years time.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Alistair, do you want to pick up the...?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Page 21 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

So, sensitivity in general, we'll look at obviously whether we can dampen our sensitivity to
interest rate, we would see in general. But at the end of the day, we're a car insurance
company. We have PPO claims on our books. The way the Solvency II mean that – apply
means you use very low or a punitive discount rates to value those claims on the balance
sheet. Hence we are sensitive to interest rates.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

In terms of the accident year loss ratio, I think you were asking about the movement from
2014 to 2015 for our...

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

H1 actually.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

In H1, okay. So, we haven't disclosed our accident year for H1, our accident year loss ratio –
oh, you're looking at the account. Sorry. Okay.
So, as at H1, what we've written in the ﬁrst half is it's very early days. So, what we'll be
putting in there will be driven by – very much by our conservatism and the ﬁrst pickup
because of uncertainty of large BI. And I think that feeds through into your follow-up
question on claims experience. I think I've talked about frequency and on large BI, I said
that we had seen improvements. It's hard for me to say what that is relative to the market
because we don't really have insights into that. And we've been cautious in terms of
quantifying it because we won't know what the large BI experience will be for 2015 and
2016 for a couple of years yet.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

So perhaps if I could just follow up on that. If I look at other peers that recently reported,
some of those have reported quite strong improvements in the accident year loss ratio,
i.e., the calendar year, the accounting metric ex-reserve leases at H1. And you haven't
seen that coming through in your numbers. Is that because – I mean, is the implication
that the ultimate loss ratio pick for H1 2016 is actually ﬂat to slightly up on the 2015
number?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Can I comment on that by saying that the price increases we've put through in the last 18
months to 24 months. We would anticipate the loss ratios would improve. But we don't
take credit for those improvements, and so we've got strong evidence of them and
reliable (01:04:34). In the case of our move to de-risk, as Alastair mentioned previously, a
lot of what we were expecting as an outcome is lower big bodily injury claims. We have
seen that on 2015 and in the ﬁrst half of 2016, but we're reluctant to take credit for it yet,
because we've seen in the past the timing and the size of the claims has a high degree of
randomness. So if you want to take credit for, then make sure it's true. And that tends to
leave us to be very conservative on current years. Is that all right, James?

Page 22 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Thanks. Thomas Seidl from Bernstein. Three questions. First, on Compare.com, so are you
sure there's linear improvement in growth? My question here is, number one, assuming
this continues to – are you conﬁdent that you'll reach breakeven by end of 2017?
Second question, if you don't reach or come close to breakeven 2017, are you continuing
with this investment of some £30 million?
And third question with this mix at shift to lower-risk business, does this allow you to earn
the same underwriting margin, or is it – you have lower opportunity in lower risk business
to earn the same margin as in the higher risk business?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll do the ﬁrst one, and then maybe Alastair will do the last one. On Compare, I think a
key issue on Compare is that you cannot say that evolution is going to be linear. And
therefore, it's impossible for us to say exactly when the revenue and the expense line
might cross. We are making good progress on both of those lines, but they haven't
crossed yet. And we do anticipate continuing losses in the second half of 2016 and into
2017.
Do we give up if it's not making money at the end of 2017, which I think was your
question? Because I think if that's too simplistic a question, if someone else has asked
about state experience, if we were seeing a number of states where we were seeing
positive outcomes and particularly if you were seeing proﬁts in a number of states. That
would certainly give us a lot of conﬁdence to say ultimately this model can work and we
should persevere and make the investment to try and realize the opportunity yet.
Last year, the U.S. car insurance market grew from $188 billion in GWP to $198 billion in
GWP. So, $10 billion of growth in one year. So, it is a very big price if we can actually
capture material proportion of the shopping. And we would only give up, if we thought
the numbers were telling us that this operation does not have the potential ultimately to
be very valuable to our shareholders.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

And are you sort of – how do you do versus competitors? So, do you see progress versus
competitors taking market share?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Well, we're actually pioneering a diﬀerent approach to price comparison in the U.S. And
so although there are operations which are similar, are trying to generate "in a similar
space" and sometimes even can run the risk of looking a bit light compared to the

Page 23 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

consumer. The actual delivery of a number of truly accurate immediately acceptable
prices is only really currently being oﬀered by Compare in the price comparison model.
There are few Internet brokers that look – who do something similar, but it hasn't got the
same breadth of oﬀer. Can I go back? And then we'll move across the other side who are
probably feeling very neglected.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(01:07:47)

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

So in terms of mix, the reason why we're shifting mix is because we're driven by
proﬁtability, and so we're looking at the margin and we're shifting that average per unit
because of the attractiveness of it. And I think it's worth saying that the reason why we've
come down is because in 2011, 2012, we were very high premium business, and that was
the exception rather than the rule. I think David showed a graph at the full year. And if you
look back further than that, the diﬀerential between our average premium and the market
now is similar to what it has been that makes points in our history.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Can we move across to – sorry, to Greig (01:08:24) long time. This may be the second last
or maybe the last. How much time we got? Okay. Greig, make it short, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Yes. No chance of that. Greig Paterson, KBW. One is clariﬁcation. You did make some
comment about your rates in the – average rates in the ﬁrst half (01:08:43). Could you just
explicitly state, what was your base rate increase year-on-year to June? So, there's no
ambiguity for what you're saying in terms of the rate increases.
The second question, in terms of 2014 underwriting year which you have said has
experienced elevated, probably, injury claims. If you listen to what Hastings said, and
they've recently increased the loss ratios on 2016, they said it was about notiﬁcations they
received in the ﬁrst half of this year. I was wondering if your increase in 2014 over 2013 BI
was to do with increased IBNR or increased extra notiﬁcations that you've had.
And then, the third question is China. Should we pencil in the same amount of marketing
spend as we've seen in the U.S. for the next few years on China? If you can give us some
kind of guidance. There were, obviously, signiﬁcant losses in the U.S. and we need to
factor a few in for China.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay. I'll go backwards and I'll start with China. China is a new price comparison site that
we're looking to launch under our Preminen joint venture with Mapfre, looking to launch it
with a number of local Chinese partners. The dilution of ownership that results from the
joint venture and the involvement of Chinese partners means that our share of the
Chinese operation is in the 20%. And it's at a very early exploratory stage in terms of how
Page 24 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

FINAL

much the appropriate investment is, really, initially as at a provincial rather than a national
launch. So we will use that opportunity of working alongside local partners and a fellow
investor in the form of Mapfre to understand the Chinese market before we make any
decisions which would allow me to answer that question, I think, accurately.
In terms of 2014, before I hand it back to Alistair for premium inﬂation. I'll just refer you
back to our previous presentation where we show you the market data that said 2014 was
just an unusual year with like I think 10% higher level of big claims and a much bigger
average value to those big claims. So, I think 2014 was just – it was a surprisingly unusual
market. And I'm very happy to refer back to that paper and that presentation (01:11:11).

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

In terms of IBNR or notiﬁcation – you actually had the notiﬁcations or you're speculating
because of industry data that the notiﬁcations are a bit higher?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No. I mean, we know about big claims in relation to 2014. By now we don't necessarily
know all that ultimate values, where we're selling that without them. Alistair?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think, I've said base rate increased across new business and renewals were in line with
the increases in the ABI, and that was up 6% or so.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Just to clarify, so that's average over the period, 6% including new business, renewal
business and premium ﬁxed?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

That's the increases over the last – year-on-year?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

It's 6% and that's across new business and renewal.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Is that up to June or the average over 1H 2016? It makes a diﬀerence. It makes a
diﬀerence.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

It's year-on-year.
Page 25 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2016-08-17

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

So, that's in June?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

FINAL

As at June, yeah.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

All right. So 6% June including new business renewal, business (01:12:05)?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

The spend in June versus a year ago, yeah. Okay.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(01:12:09)

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Okay. Apologies. I'm sorry. I think I won't be able to answer – I think this – couple of
questions (01:12:15). I will catch you later.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much for your attendance. See you next time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

