Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Dieter Wemmer, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Maximilian Zimmerer, Member-Management Board
Oliver Bäte, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Johannes J. Reich, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael I. Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Seidl, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results
2015. For your information, this conference is being recorded.
At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Alex. Good afternoon from my side as well, and welcome to our
conference call. As you know, we have three presenters today. Oliver will kick it oﬀ and
share his views on the result of 2015 and our way forward. Then as always, Dieter will go
through all the details and, ﬁnally, Max will talk about our investments.
We have scheduled two hours for the call. That should give us about one hour for Q&A. In
case that's not enough to cover your questions, please come and see us at one of our
Page 1 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Analyst Meetings next week. We have scheduled one for Monday in London and one for
Wednesday in Frankfurt. That's all from my side.
And with that, I hand over to Oliver. Thank you.

FINAL

Oliver Bäte
Yeah. Good afternoon, everybody. Good evening to Asia, and good morning to those in
the U.S. that are listening in. I'm going to keep it fairly quick before I hand over to Dieter,
who, in his usual high quality, will deliver you the details of the ﬁnancial numbers.
Let me start out on page A2 of the document that you should have been able to
download or see on the net where we are giving an overview of the 2015 key ﬁgures. And
we didn't manage for that, but coincidentally we had the highest revenues ever at €125
billion in the 125th year of our existence, so that was a nice coincidence, up 2.4%, an alltime record. And we've recorded €10.735 billion operating proﬁt, up 3% from prior year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Shareholder income grew even more strongly, 6.3% to €6.6 billion, which we consider to
be a very strong result, given the environment and particularly given how peers in our
sector are performing. Dividend per share is up 6.6% based on the proposal that we are
making of €7.30, we rounded it up to €7.30. Our solvency ratio stands at a very strong
200% at the end of the year, up about 9 points.
The returns have been good for those that had invested in Allianz properly last year that
you see on the right-hand side, but that is the past. But what I would like to summarize
looking at the page, you see a very resilient company, very resilient numbers and
signiﬁcant growth potential going forward.
Now let me give you my €0.50 on the performance of the Group as highlighted on page
A3 both for the Group and the individual segments, that is Property-Casualty, Life/Health
and Asset Management. From an overall perspective, we're happy to record 2.4% growth.
Why it doesn't look like a big number? But you should remember that we had announced
last year that we would like to restructure our Life business, in particular the new business
very consistently in an environment where interest rates are falling. And therefore, you see
in the Life segment a decline in the top line.
Given that, you see strong growth in Property-Casualty, a very strong number that I've
hardly seen since I joined Allianz in 2008. And based on the strong U.S. dollar, even Asset
Management up despite the outﬂows at PIMCO. So, overall, a positive number from my
personal point of view.
On operating proﬁt, we've been careful and reached the upper end, 3.2% up. And that is
a mix of 4.1% growth in P&C, an outstanding 14% growth in Life and Health, and as
expected, the decline of proﬁtability in Asset Management in line with the outﬂows,
particularly at PIMCO.
Page 2 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

The return on equity remained strong. This is computed on average equity. I remind you,
it's down from 13% to 12.5%. On a consistent basis, it basically remains unchanged and is
the target. But it also gives you an indication that we would like to focus on earnings
growth in the future to make sure that earnings and dividends per share are growing from
three sources, underlying, organic growth, external growth and, if need be, share
buybacks or other capital measures if that is required. However, that is not our preference.
The preference is to have organic business growth and then selective external growth.
Now, when you look at the segments in terms of returns, the P&C segment is at target.
And I believe personally there is further upside in terms of managing capital eﬃciency
even in P&C. So you should see over time potentially stronger returns on invested equity.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Life and Health segment, we are at 10.8%. That is, as we discussed in the Capital
Markets Day, a mix of very good numbers in Germany and some further improvements
that are necessary in the rest of the Life portfolio. We're working vigorously on improving
the return on invested capital in the Life segment, and you can expect further
improvements. And the return on equity in the Asset Management segment remains
excellent at 15.2%. So, overall, from my point of view and the board of management, very
solid results.
In the P&C segment, driven by very strong results in core Europe where we can really play
our scale advantages where we can play our strengths across all channels, but we also
have to bear in mind that we had some challenges in the year. Number one, slow
progress in LatAm, but I would also like to mention what is not on the page that we had to
end the Fireman's Fund saga with some additional reserve strengthening in the
beginning of the year that is impacting the AGC&S results. Dieter will address that when
he gets to the presentation.
You may have seen in the press announcements that we are getting rid of €1 billion of our
long-term reserves in the U.S. That is, by the way, happening at book values which tells
you that the reserve level that we've achieved in the U.S. now are strong enough to be
accepted for transfers, which tells you we have really ﬁxed the reserve issues. And that
should give you a lot of comfort that that is under control. In LatAm, we have to make
signiﬁcantly more progress next year, but there we are also conﬁdent that we're turning
the dial.
On Life and Health, let me reiterate that we are very proud to have successfully executed
our new product strategy. There's more to come. But all the budgets in terms of shifting
business from traditional products in new business have been overperformed. Let me
really compliment our German colleagues, our Italian colleagues, and our French
colleagues. In France, we now have 50% unit-linked share in new business that was
unthinkable a few years ago. So, at this point in time, thank you to our colleagues, and
that will continue.
The second thing that we're addressing is the in-force business. And in particular, where
we have negative spreads, we're working very actively to address these books. This is not
just an issue of proﬁtability drag, but these books consume a lot of solvency capital and

Page 3 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

have a lot of interest rate sensitivity that we are trying to get rid of, because that makes
capital management more eﬃcient. And that is really the objective of us addressing our
back books, to make capital more eﬃcient, make solvency more stable and be able to lift
capital out where we can.
On Asset Management, Allianz Global Investors' operating proﬁt is at a new high. Let me
compliment the colleagues here, therefore, also supported them in the latest acquisition
of Rogge. They're, I think, doing a great job. At PIMCO, the net outﬂows are stabilizing.
We have to further work on proﬁtability, but that is underway and recent outﬂows are
more or less in line with the industry. And as you can see from the performance fees that
we were able to collect, that in eﬀect means that we're doing really well on our alternative
strategy, and we are only getting performance fees, of course, if we are over-performing
relative to investor expectations. So that is good news. And there are more performance
fees to come this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, overall, a solid year that prepares us well for this very volatile environment that we
believe oﬀers great opportunities for a stable company like us that can balance volatility
across the segments and across the markets.
Now let me also remind you on page A4 that we do have an attractive dividend policy
that is – payout ratio that we increased to 50%. Let me also remind you of the ratchet that
we have introduced, and that we will pay out unused M&A budget if we don't use it. And
just as a general comment, because there are lingering questions all the time, no, we're
not planning outside acquisitions. We're not planning to do M&A that is not accretive or
doesn't meet our return hurdles, whether that is cost of capital or long-term 13% ROE
question, in case do you have that on your mind. That is, however, a long-term average.
We're looking – if we do something for bolt-on consistently with the record that we've
built over the last few years. And therefore, we would also like to point out dividend per
share growth has been 6.6% and is proposed to be 7.30%, as you can see on the page.
Page A5 gives you the overview of where we are relative to the original ranges that we
have provided. While Asset Management is more towards the lower boundary, Life has
outperformed, and P&C is exactly in the middle so that overall, the Group was trending
towards the upper boundary.
Some people have said that historically we've always outperformed our lower boundary.
Let me remind you, the laws of physics hold. You cannot continuously just go over the top.
We have a boundary, and we have these corridors because given ﬁnancial markets and
given the economic environment, there is volatility, and we need to take care of that.
That's why our outlook for the next year is also more cautious. It would be absolutely not
prudent if we would not reﬂect in our outlook what's going on in the outside world. And
I'm going to talk about it in a second.
We are aiming at 5.5% as a middle ground for P&C, 3.6% as a middle of the band, and
2.2% in Asset Management. So, on Asset Management, given the volatility in the markets,
Page 4 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

we are more cautious. That is not a mistrust in the businesses. That is just reﬂecting
volatility and impact of lowering asset values that we are taking into account. Again,
everything else would be not professional.
Why do we believe that? Page A7 gives you an overview. If it wasn't enough that in our
industry, we are challenged through digitalization, low interest rates, the change of the
business model and increasing consumerism, conduct is a major issue that we are
debating with regulators on top of all of the things that we continuously around Solvency
II. By the way, as a side comment, it would be great if we could stop continuously
inventing new charges, new risk capital ideas, but just let – move on after 10 years and
apply the model.
But we also have signiﬁcant political and regulation uncertainty not just within Europe and
the Middle East, but in many parts of the world, tensions are rising. In particular, in
commodity-dependent countries, the social environment is not benign. Therefore, the
expectations for growth are rather moderate and we expect that volatility in ﬁnancial
markets is going to continue.

Bloomberg Transcript

While we believe equity markets should recuperate and interest rates have to go higher,
we saw an all-time low in the bond today, which has nothing to do with underlying
economics. It's just reﬂecting fear. We need to expect that markets will remain challenging
both on an interest rate perspective and an equity market perspective.
And I'd also like to remind you, as we told you in November, that is our base case. We are
not seeing this as a tail scenario. Allianz is planning and is basing its strategy on an
environment of ultra-low rates and high volatility going forward. We believe that is
providing huge opportunities for us. As you look around in the sector, you see a lot of
people that are weakened, and that should provide us with opportunities in many ways.
So, therefore, let me turn your attention to page A8. Just think about three core elements
of our strengths that are very important as you consider investment recommendations
and investment decisions. The ﬁrst one is scale. We absolutely believe this industry will
prove that scale matters both nationally but globally as well. Digitalization is the true force
behind it. The ability, however, to also command outstanding performance in investment
management – Max is going to talk about it – will make all the diﬀerence in the future.
We're outperforming our peers in terms of providing better-than-benchmark returns to
our clients. And our global lines are growing in importance with €3.3 billion operating
proﬁt in 2015, the major source of future growth.
On top of that, you have resilience. We have three segments with multi-billion euro
earnings power that is very important, as we had the boom on the Asset Management
side that nicely balanced temporary weakness we had in Germany and other places on
P&C. Now that we had the changes in Asset Management, the P&C and Life segments are
picking up. You rarely see that in other places. And now, our capital is extremely strong.
It's not just Solvency II in our rating. Please take a look at the source and the quality of our
capital.

Page 5 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

We're one of the few companies that do not need huge amounts of interestingly
computed value in force to support our capitalization. We have a very high quality of core
capital. And while we are having equivalence, we are one of the companies that have the
lowest beneﬁt from equivalence rules for our overall capitalization as compared to almost
any peer. So it's not just the level of capital, but also the quality of capital that is stronger
in Allianz and in almost most of the places that I know.
On top of that, we have really top global brands. We just mentioned in the BrandFinance
Global 500 ranking as the only one in the top 50 that is an insurer, and we are very proud
of that.
So if scale and resilience were not enough, we also outperform on skills. When we've
changed the order, historically we would have talked about underwriting claims
excellence that remains important. The number one thing we're looking at, the key
steering metric, is going to be customer satisfaction and centricity. That's the transition we
are making because in the world that is moving from a push industry to a pull industry,
that will separate the winners from the losers.

Bloomberg Transcript

We aim for a top-quartile position here, and I'm conﬁdent we'll achieve that. On top of
that, technical excellence will be at the forefront of what we do. We have very low
combined ratio volatility. And mind you, again, we have, with our [REAL] program, taken a
lot of the external reinsurance and internalized it. And despite that, our volatility on the
combined ratio has been fairly low.
And last but not least, our people are outstanding, and the motivation of our people is
outstanding, as we showed you on the Capital Markets Day. Therefore, our ambition for
the next three years remains unchanged despite all the volatility as you can see on A9,
13% ROE which means capital has to be used eﬃciently. Earnings per share growth has a
three-year average of 5%. By the way, the number for 2015 was 8%, and the health of the
business is as important as the ﬁnancials. Maybe not for you and at least for some
people's spreadsheets, but for the long-term success of Allianz, customer satisfaction to
have 75% of our business being better than market and having employees that get evermore motivated will make the diﬀerence for us in the future.
And page A10 gives you a couple of details that I'd like to reiterate both around
performance and around health. We have a strongly pronounced regional and sectorial
diversiﬁcation with a number of very important leadership positions. We have low
earnings volatility. I mentioned capital strengths not just in terms of its level but also the
high quality of its components.
A conservative yet very innovative investment policy, Max is going to talk about it. Our
ability to access alternative assets, I think, is almost unmatched. We have very limited
exposure to peripheral sovereign debt commodities, energy and banking sectors, very
unlike it was in the early 2000s. We are pushing for innovation. The Baidu joint venture,
Allianz1 and many things are coming online now and we're really moving our balance
sheet, we're changing the Life and Health business mix, and we are working on the back

Page 6 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

book. So that gives you a lot of trust that performance in the future will be even better
than in the past.
While at the same time, we are banking on strong health of the company, as a strong
brand, focusing on customer satisfaction, having performance management moving from
top down to a horizontal approach and making sure it's consistent and making sure that
leadership in Allianz is tied to how well we run our people not just our numbers and
making sure that our people stay motivated.
And with that, I thank you for listening and turn it over to Dieter.

Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Oliver. And also from me, good afternoon and good morning to
everybody on the call. The B section of the presentation that is what we use. Every quarter
starts with a qualitative page on the renewal agenda and ﬁnish with a quantitative page
on the renewal agenda. Just that you have more time for questions, I will directly jump to
page B5 and go into the numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you have already heard all the headline ﬁgures. The P&C segment certainly
contributed with a good increase in 2015 and then the stellar performance comes from
the Life and Health segment where actually Asset Management shows anticipated
reduction in proﬁtability, and the Corporate segment that is mainly an internal accounting
issue with corporate with our own pension which I will talk about later.
So, net income at €6.6 billion, 6.3% up. We had a non-cash item in Q4 to book, that is
Korean or Asian life goodwill, which amounted to €171 million, and then wipes out all life
goodwill we had for our Asian operation. That is probably the number you were looking
for and we've created the miss.
So let's look at the fourth quarter. Actually a very good quarter in total on operating
proﬁtability, despite the fact that we had some headwinds to overcome, in particular on
the P&C side with man-made losses and some cat events I will talk about later.
Let's go to page nine. Shareholders' equity, €63 billion. It's actually a new high for our net
asset value. The average return on equity, excluding the unrealized gains, a small drop of
40 basis points, more explained by the strong growth of average equity and not the
movement of the net income, which you have seen, went up more than 6%.
Sticking to our 50% payout ratio, so actually we are proposing to pay slightly more than
the 50% because 7.3% is the rounded number up. So I think we are, when you look just on
the ﬁrst pages, I would call it delivery on all promises. And I said actually in the third
quarter earnings call that I would expect a good single-digit increase in dividend and net
income.

Page 7 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

So page 11 shows Solvency II capitalization actually stays completely ﬂat compared to Q3.
Why did it not go up where interest rates slightly moved up in Q4? Yeah, that's a very
relevant reaction and also the right question. I asked the same question, and we got some
last minute changes in the calculation format driven by EIOPA technical paper.
Number one was a change in the interest rate curve for Korea, so they moved the last
liquid point earlier. The next one was the same change for the Swiss franc interest rate
curve. And thirdly, they adjusted the calculation methodology for the risk margin. And all
three changes together, it cost us about all equally the same, so in total, we lost 4 points
in our Solvency. So, the one-oﬀ who would have expected 203%, 204% were right to the
spot because that was also my back-of-the-envelope calculation.
So, sensitivities are unfortunately, on the interest rate curve, up compared to our Q3
number and that has exactly the same explanation. The uptick in the interest rate
sensitivity is driven by Switzerland and Korea life, and the change of the underlying
interest rate curves.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, probably a lot of you are now trying to guess what happened in the ﬁrst six, seven
weeks of the year 2016. When you just use all the disclosed sensitivities, you can say, well,
equity markets obviously down; interest rates down; credit spreads up on government
bonds; credit spreads up on other bonds. The only oﬀsetting element is that volatility
adjuster is also up, which oﬀsets a little bit of the impact, but still without doing anything.
So that means when you assume we are a sleepy management, then it would go about 20
points as we are working every day and not sleepy. We are working on compensating for
it. And you will then see with the Q1 disclosure how awake we worked.
So, on page 13, the internal growth ﬁgure at 2.9%. That's actually almost a 3%, our midterm strategic target internal growth of 3%, pretty great achievement. In particular, what I
think is a great start into 2016, the price eﬀects in Q4 were stronger than in previous
quarters so that even the average moved from the 0.5% we had before to the 0.8%. I
believe that is a very good start, good for most of our key markets, still not got enough for
some of the underperforming markets, which Oliver addressed already. And here, I think
Latin America, I will touch on also a little bit later.
Let's move on to page 15. The operating proﬁt of the P&C segment and the combined
ratio, underwriting results more or less ﬂat. Well, actually our underlying net and premium
is more than 6% up, so certainly a good driver for proﬁt. In particular, when you still see
that we have small upside against our 94% target in the combined ratio. Combined ratio
at 94.6%. I believe it is a very good one. The last quarter ended at 96.3%. So some of you
might have been disappointed. But actually compared to other announcements, I think
that it's a great result, and I don't want to hide behind the peer comparison. That is also a
great result on a stand-alone basis.
We had 6.4% of large losses of man-made nature in Q4, and a couple of – more than 2
percentage points in cat losses. So, cat losses are obvious, it's the Irish ﬂooding, two UK
ﬂoodings and the hailstorm in Australia. The man-made losses is one large Southern

Page 8 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

European credit loss and a Brazilian water dam and an uptick in the Tianjin port ﬁre, which
seems to become one of the largest man-made insurance events in history.

FINAL

Run-oﬀ results, 4.1%. Is this a big number? Yes, it is clearly above our long-term average of
3.2%. But we are ending the year with a very strong balance sheet, so we are not
harvesting our future. And actually, it is not so far oﬀ on last year when you compare it OE
by OE.
We had in 2014 more Fireman's Fund reserve increases, and in 2015, we had a substantial
catch-up for Brazil and Russia. The catch-up for Brazil and Russia did not repeat. So when
you actually do the negative OEs out, the other who contribute was positive run-oﬀ pretty
much same level as the year before. And as I said, very strong balance sheet on
December 31.
Also being conﬁrmed by the announced Enstar deal from yesterday, we have quotashared 50% of our long-tail liabilities in the U.S. that includes run-oﬀ from Fireman's Fund,
asbestosis workers' comp, and some other lines. And it was quota-shared at book value.
That means also the external provider likes our reserving strength. And both together in
this partnership, we hope that in our joint work we can run-oﬀ the old claims slightly
better than anticipated so that we both create a win-win out of the transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if we move on to the page showing the individual countries and their PropertyCasualty results, clearly, Germany reconﬁrming its strong last year combined ratio.
Actually, Q4 has started with or ended the year with a 90% combined ratio, which is really
positive, and also the pricing environment is still friendly.
Italy, another strong year, €1 billion operating proﬁt out of our Italian P&C shop is really a
fantastic result. But France, also catching up in size. AGCS looks, at ﬁrst glance, poor with
102.9% combined ratio. But please, remember that they have taken up the cleanup work
of Fireman's Fund. And the Fireman's Fund combined ratio standalone, actually,
worsened because we sold the stable personal lines business and we have only now half
of the portfolio in commercial.
We've strengthened reserves there. We have built a lot of restructuring charges and we
are really cleaning up. So, the old Fireman's Fund commercial business ended the year
with 124% combined, embedded in this 102.9% of AGCS. If you carve it out the AGCS
business, as you have seen it before is at a 94% combined which is, actually, a very strong
result in a very diﬃcult market, and they continue to do a great job here.
Latin America, a very disappointing result altogether, €150 million loss. The only thing
what has changed compared to the previous year, the worst country moved from Brazil
further south and it is now Argentina. Brazil is in a turnaround, a slowed down turnaround,
because of the poor economic environment. And Argentina, we are doing a reset for the
business we are doing and have really cleaned it up in Q4 very strongly.
Let me also point out that actually the worsening in Spain is explained that for Baremo,
that are the new tables for bodily injury in Spain, we have already put this in our existing
Page 9 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

reserves for all open claims, which might potentially be aﬀected by Baremo tables in
future. So another demonstration of sound balance sheet work.

FINAL

Short overview of the investment results, page 19 of the P&C segment, yes, current yields
going down as expected in the interest rate environment. However, average assets up as
you have already seen in previous quarters and the non-interest rate items are just small
or negative than the year before, so that the overall investment income is up.
Moving to the Life segment, same story as last quarter, continued progress in the mix
change of new business, hence, 5% less revenues and 1.5% less new business volumes
than the year before. However, in better quality, as I will show you on the new business
margin page in a minute. Therefore, we are happy with all the numbers, of course, for the
U.S., we would really like to see even more growth than we have. We just couldn't repeat
the great sales campaign of our FRA product. We are still running at a very high volume,
as you will also see in a minute when we look now on the operating proﬁt.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 23. €3.8 billion is a very big operating proﬁt. And in the last quarter, it was a
contribution of €1.1 billion. Well, is there actually a lot of one-oﬀ in it? Yes, but the one-oﬀ
in realized gains was pretty much in the ﬁrst quarter. Q3 and Q4 saw quite some oﬀsetting
eﬀects on trading results, on FX and other derivatives. So, when you look at the last six
months in total, it looks much more stable.
And an important driver actually of our investment margin is actually the U.S. In the
meantime, we are making in ﬁxed-index annuity alone close to $1 billion of operating
proﬁt. $1 billion of operating proﬁt that is double-digit growth over the year before and
additionally the dollar is 20% higher value than the year before. So, in our investment
margin, you see really a clear boost from our U.S. Life business. And now, you understand
even more why we like ﬁxed-indexed annuity more than other products and that we want
to continue.
The other movements in the proﬁt by source is not a lot to mention. Sure, when you have,
as we did in Q1, more realized gains, in particular in Continental Europe, you always get
the oﬀsetting impact from change in DAC, that is a faster amortization of your deferred
acquisition costs. Hence, despite the high volume of new business, we don't have a
growing DAC. We have, actually, a shrinking DAC as you can see in the table of minus
€332 million.
And, I think, that – well, probably, the next question is, what would you say is the normal
outlook for 2016? Well, when I take out the investment margin back to normal, I would
say, it probably goes down to 3.5%, then we have the year-end new business and the new
business of the year 2016, so around 3.6%, would be for me, the midpoint for the
following year, as I assume that's a strong contribution from the U.S. continues with further
growth.
Now moving to the new business margin. The value of new business in-force, around at
€1,200 and that is number post tax and post cost of capital. So, when you compare this to
the operating proﬁt number, we have actually a pretty high replacement value of our
Page 10 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

operating proﬁt. Operating proﬁt is roughly 2.5 years to 3 years of pre-tax value of new
business, so that should certainly be a strong positive outlook for the future.
If you look at the new business margin, a completely diﬀerent story between the ﬁrst six
months and the second six months. First two quarters, we are running at 1.5% new
business margin, Q3 at 3.0%, Q4 at 2.8%. So, with an average of 2.1%. And in particular,
the last six months, a very good starting point for our 3% commitment in our strategic
renewal agenda.
So, I think, overall, the Life business is in good shape. Yes, and maybe I should also have
mentioned that in the operating proﬁt, we had to consume more than €200 million loss
recognition in Korea, and that is in the operating proﬁt outside of the goodwill
impairment, which I mentioned. But that was at earlier quarter, not at Q4. Q4 had no
special elements.
Page 27 is always the demonstration that our investment margin and our current yields are
big enough to cover our guarantees because there is always the fear of everybody that
we are running out of investment income and can't service the guarantees anymore. I
think when you follow this page over the last years, we could demonstrate quarter-afterquarter that we are in very good shape here. And this fear is not justiﬁed.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as I've said before, a normalized margin, I would say, at 85 bps, higher than we said
in the past, that we had it more at 80 bps, but that is a higher weighting of our U.S.
business which provides this normalized number up.
And now, we move on page 29 to the ﬁrst step into the asset management sector, asset
management – well, U.S. dollar is compensating for the high outﬂows, altogether where
the high outﬂows, I think, are clearly going down. I told you in the last earnings call that
PIMCO had even a small positive month in October. For the full quarter Q4, PIMCO saw
€11 billion outﬂows with €3 billion to €4 billion inﬂows at Allianz Global Investors, actually
for the segments, the net outﬂows were €8 billion. Still a big number, but I think where we
started 15 months ago, great progress. And therefore, we are quite happy that we
achieved what we achieved for the year.
Now, looking at the revenue development; continuing pretty much the story of previous
quarters. PIMCO's fee margin has stabilized at the €39 billion level. We are dancing
around the €39 billion and ended the last quarter with €39.2 billion, so slightly lower than
the previous quarter. Also, Allianz Global Investors' stable between 53 bps and 54 bps.
So, resulting for Allianz Global Investors in 12% internal growth and 20% nominal and at
PIMCO, 20% drop, or corrected with dollar, a 4% drop.
On page 33, yes, the normal fee income is down almost €1 billion, just following the
outﬂows at PIMCO, and that is before currency movement. Performance fees up to €607
million, not only that we had some individual performance fees, also the payback of the
private fund Bravo I is clearly going as continuous as predicted. And with €600 million, I
think we have reached a very good level of performance fees, resulting in the overall
expected number. We probably would have expected from a timing that more of the
Page 11 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

performance fees would already accrue or realize in 2015, but, yes, they are not lost and
the rest will accrue in 2016.
As you have seen already in previous quarters, we are summarizing the whole FX eﬀect in
the last column, which gives us then the additional €300 million, and we are overall, with
the Asset Management sector, within our target range. So, the page on the corporate
segment, that was €100 million lower in the quarter than the previous two quarters now,
resulting into a loss of €945 million. That is actually more an internal accounting and
consolidation issue because the additional €100 million for pension accruals is then oﬀset
in the other German OEs across all segments, because in the consolidated statement, that
is all covered under the IFRS 19, and there is no P&L impact. So, it is more how we account
for intercompany transactions.
So, I would, hence, expect for – for the year 2016 that we are getting closer back to our
2014 number. Also, I should mention that our Indian operations, which contributes close
to about €40 million operating proﬁt, we had in the past an operating – in the corporate
segment, they are in 2015 in the Asia-Paciﬁc region.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, altogether, banking also slightly up, also I think holding and treasury, nothing very
spectacular, pretty much business as usual. Now, coming to the summary page, how to
move from operating proﬁt to shareholders net income. I think I should highlight here the
amortization of intangible assets. There is a small ongoing increase in this line coming
also from the Unipol acquisition, but, otherwise, the one-oﬀ of €171 million of goodwill
impairment for the cash generating unit, Asia-Paciﬁc Life and Health.
And that are the biggest events. Therefore, when you would have expected a tax rate of
around 30% instead of the 31%, yeah, well, a write-down of goodwill is, of course, tax
exempt, so you are not making any tax reimbursement on this one. Hence, the tax rate is
one notch higher and this explains already most of the ﬁgures and then I would like to
close the presentation with the future page we are using to give you one page of the
overview where we stand with our 2018 ambition.
Left-hand side's all the cons, right-hand side all the health indicators, and I consider the
Solvency II interest rate sensitivity, also a health indicator because that is a demonstration
of how fast we move the mix of our Life new business and how fast are we getting out of
long-term guarantees.
And with this – and then, I refer actually to page 40 with the detailed deﬁnitions. But I
think that is for your reading. We use exactly this deﬁnition to deﬁne the numbers and I
hope we can then talk in the future more about it, here that is just establishing the starting
point.
Last page and then I'm done. Financial reporting from 2016 on, we want to make use of
the EU Transparency Directive and adjust our quarterly releases. We will continue every
quarter with an analyst presentation, a press release, and, of course, the analyst call and
our call with journalists. However, we will stop producing interim reports for Q1 and Q3.
That means we will only do half year accounts then with all the footnotes and disclosures. I
Page 12 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

hope that ﬁnds your agreement, but happy to get your feedback on this, also, on the road
show.
And with this one, I hand over to Max.

FINAL

Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Good afternoon. I will tell you something about the investment side, to start with a very
boring page, that's C3, where you can see the segmentation of the overall investment
portfolio. Nearly, no changes, but there were a lot of changes behind the curtain. On the
Life business as such, grown by 4% and P&C by 2%. Debt instrument by weighting is
nearly the same, only gradual changes on the duration.
And Dieter already explained some changes on the liability side due to model changes.
Overall, there was an increase of 0.5 years. And what we did on the asset side, we go for
longer – went for a longer duration. Overall, that means we increased it by active
measures a little bit by more than half a year overall.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, going to page C4, and what you can see here that, overall, we cope very well with
the declining interest rates by extending the duration. That's a safeguarding measure for
our Solvency II position, in general, and it allowed us, in general, also, to increase our
share in alternative assets, and I will come to that in a moment. I think that's the most
interesting part on the investment side, in general, because that's the part where you can
earn some extra money. And if you think of the very low interest rates, that is very much
needed overall.
Now, getting to page C5, that is now showing the overall Allianz Investment, but not
according to IFRS, but according to the real market values. That means it includes, also,
real estate own use, the hidden reserves on the real estate portfolio and some accrued
interest on the debt portfolio, that means size-wise, it's a little bit, let's say, €30 billion
higher than the IFRS view overall.
What you can see that we have now invested €92 billion in so-called return to
investments. What do I mean by return to investments? These are all investments which
are not listed in the stock exchange, but it's important. That means it includes real estate,
infrastructure, equity, and debt renewables, but also private equity and also the mortgage
part.
What are the expected returns? You can see them on right-hand side. That is very much
important. If we do not see these kind of returns, we will not grow overall the assets. But
we can say, right now, although there are some tightening going on, it's still possible to
earn a decent extra return there and that made it possible to grow the overall portfolio by
€18 billion. Only to remind you that last year, we had only an increase of €10 billion. That
means, right now, the production is really up and running. We have very good portfolio
managers, especially on the Allianz Capital Partners' side, but also at AGI. And it means
it's now possible really to diﬀerentiate also against the competition.

Page 13 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

Going to page C6. There you can see which part of the business we have grown
signiﬁcantly. And as you can see, nearly everything. Private equity is a little bit more
diﬃcult. We invest in private equity funds. But as you know, unfortunately, there are some
paybacks over time. And therefore, it's more diﬃcult to grow that part overall of a
business then in the very long-term holdings we have, for example, on the infrastructure
side, where every new deal usually is also growing the overall portfolio.
There is a lot of work I can tell you because it's cost us around 100 transactions. And you
do them not in one second as buying an equity stock. It's more that you need a head time
of 6 months to 12 months. And that means it's really important that you start early with this
kind of business. There are some examples, as you can see, on the right hand side of our
investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Only what I would like to mention, on the renewables part, we have concentrated mainly
on Europe but now, we're also going to the U.S. It's a very interesting market for us. It's a
totally diﬀerent regime. That means you can see also some diversiﬁcation in that respect.
And that's very often possible that you will work without the subsidies from the state. If
you are a long-term buyer in the form of energy, that means you can already lock in the
prices for the energy.
Now, going to page C7. What you can see, we tried to come up with a comparison versus
our peer group, the peers which are best compared against us. By that, I mean the
European peers – Generali, AXA, and Zurich. I think that's a very interesting exercise. We
have to rely mainly on the public numbers, but also the numbers for the analysts, if we
have access to them. And because, since 2007, you are obliged to publish also the market
value of the assets, you can try to calculate also the investment performance or total
return. That is very interesting. That means not only book yields, but also changes in
hidden reserves on the assets that makes it possible at least to come up with an
assessment of the overall investment performance.
And as you can see, in the years 2007 to 2014, in the eight years, we have achieved an
overall total return of 5.2% against the competition of 4.7%. I think that's a large
diﬀerence. I can't promise that for the future, but I think this is at least very promising.
What is important that we have not achieved this wonderful performance with a lower
credit quality, we also compare the credit quality by rating and the loss ratios, which are
behind the credit rating. We are a little bit above the average of the peers, in general. Our
current year is higher than that of competition, which is also very nice.
And I see the main reason is that we have advantages due to the very professional inhouse asset management that's not only PIMCO and AGI, it's also Allianz Global Partners
and Allianz Real Estate. And what we can see and what we are diﬃcult to compare and we
are also way better diversiﬁed also for single sovereign bonds, we really worked against
these clusters in the last years. And I think that we made a lot of progress in that respect,
too.
Now, coming to page C8. This is now the yield that is measured by IFRS. It means what we
take into account is the current income of the group and then the realized gains and

Page 14 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

losses, but also the changes in the book reserves. And if you add that up overall, you
come up with a total performance of 1.2%. Is it a nice number? It could be higher. But to
be frank, the year before, we had a total performance of 11.8%. The main reason was that
in 2014, the interest rates had fallen signiﬁcantly. That means a lot of funny money from
unrealized reserves. Now, it went the other way around.
In the year 2015, there was a small increase in interest rates, especially in the longer-term
bonds that means you had some losses on the bonds as such. And therefore, the total
performance of 1.2% is okay. If we measure against benchmark indices, what we do
internally as bund is relevant for us, then you would see there was also an
outperformance, but only a small one.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, turning to page C9. There you can see the new investment yields, a little bit lower
than the year before, but still strong if you think of the current investment environment.
The P&C side on average 2.2%. On the Life side, it's 2.5%. Only to compare that to the
bund yield right now, it's 22 basis points for 10 years. Hopefully, they will go up a little bit
during the year. But if you compare again the risk-free rates, still I think these are attractive
yields overall.
Now, coming to page C10. You know this comparison very well, and we always compare
for the Life and Health business. The total yields what we achieve on the assets, but more
so on the reserves because we hold more assets than reserves, that brings us in the year
2015 to 5.1%, and that compares with a minimum guarantee of 2.3% that's still a very nice
spread. That means all of the guarantees are very much secure. And the same holds true if
you think of the new business. The new business guarantees for the business with any
guarantee is at 0.8% and the reinvestment yield, as already explained, at 2.5%. Also, they
have still a nice buﬀer.
Now, coming to page C11, that's more for the Q&A. Perhaps, that leaves me with not many
questions to that. The overall question is right now, what is our exposure to the oil and
gas sector? That is not so much interesting because of ESG, I think, but more because of
the very low oil prices and at least there's assumption that we will see more default on the
oil sector as such in oil and gas sector. And what you can see in our overall exposure is
pretty small, it's only 2% of the overall investment portfolio, that means 5% of our equity
portfolio, that's €1.6 billion. And on the ﬁxed income side, it's €10.7 billion. If lower, that
means 2% overall. And if you think of the ratings, they are pretty much okay, too. That
means, in general, no large risks on oil exposure.
To summarize it, more interesting, I think, was the development of the market this year.
We have seen a lot of volatility and this in all market segments. That means on the equity
side, the maximum was a minus – depending on the index between 10% and 18% right
now, still we are at minus 10% to 12% in most of the equity markets. And on the interest
rate side, unfortunately, very low interest rates, bund yields as I already mentioned, was 22
basis points, 10-year swap rates are 56 basis points right now. That means also very, very
low.

Page 15 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

And in addition to that, also higher credit spreads, what I like very much. But Solvency IIwise, it means all three things are working against the Solvency II numbers. That means
we have to make sure that we can stand these kind of perfect storms. And overall, I think
we implemented some measures also to lower the overall volatility. As Dieter already
mentioned, there's still something what we plan to do in that respect.
Overall, my outlook for the year is still a positive one. I think equity markets are too cheap.
Therefore, I'm optimistic that we will see some recovery. That goes also for the interest
rates. But to be fair, this can last a little bit longer because of the things that Mr. Dragi
already has announced. At least, there are some expectations around the market. But it
could also happen similar thing what we have seen last year – until April, very low interest
rates and then a big shock on the interest rate markets, where the markets went up by
nearly 1 percentage point in three months. But let's wait for that. We have to prepare for
all these scenarios, that's for sure. What we would like to do in general is to invest more in
alternative assets to also get some additional liquidity spreads. I think that's very much
important for us, too. Thank you very much.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right. Thank you, Oliver, Dieter, and Max. And with this, we are now happy to take your
questions.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. And we will take an opening question from James Shuck of UBS. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. I had two questions,
please. Firstly, could you just talk me through what your expected level of capital
generation would be in any normal year? I'm kind of thinking about the pre-dividend
accrual level of capital generation. And in particular, I'm trying to – if you're able to split
that out for me and tell me what the Life and Health contribution is in euro terms.
Obviously, we transitioned from the old Solvency I basis of capital generation, which we
can see from the MCEV disclosure, into a Solvency II world. I'm interested to see how the
Life and Health side of things in particular compares on to the new basis. That's my ﬁrst
question.
Second question is around the rollout of the digital agency. At the time when you
presented on the German digital agency, you talked about the potential for 25% increase
in productivity. And I'm keen to know where you are with that, whether those productivity
levels are holding up as you had initially envisaged? And also the status of other countries
as you rolled out the digital agency in the latter part of 2015 and into the ﬁrst half of this
year, please. Thank you.

Page 16 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

James, it's Dieter here. The expected level of capital generation, that is a very diﬃcult
question to answer, because even when we now create a formula, I bet with you there will
not be a single quarter where we can demonstrate that it works like this because there is
so much volatility for many parameters. So, actually, any number we give to you is then
always being oﬀset by the reality. And I'm afraid that, that would actually create a misled
to all of you, and that it's much better when you just focus on our 2018 ﬁnancial targets
because we are committed to manage the balance sheet and the growth of the business
in the right direction.
Maybe over the years, when we have more average quarters to produce, we can distill it
down to a more useful guidance. But at the moment, I think that would be too early.

A - Operator
On the digital agency, I think we have so far not yet a lot of experience how the ﬁrst pilots
are running. And we would give in summer when we have a Capital Markets Day about
the digital-only, we would give then some more details on this one.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will take our next question from Peter Eliot of Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I guess, you highlighted the reasons for being a bit prudent on the
growth outlook for operating proﬁts. And, obviously, the midpoint of your outlook is, I
guess, 1% higher than it was last year. So I'm just wondering if you could help us on the
translation to EPS. Obviously, any excess capital, which would help bridge the gap to 5%.
But I was just wondering if you could share your expectations on developments for the
non-operating proﬁt and also the impact of recent market volatility on the starting point
there?
Second question was just on the underperforming non-Life businesses. Yeah, you
highlighted that Brazil might take a bit longer to turn around. But on Fireman's Fund,
where you've obviously taken some restructuring charges in Argentina, where there's
been reserve increases, would it be too optimistic to assume something quicker? Just
wondering if you could share your thoughts there. Thank you.

A - Operator
Sure. On Argentina and Fireman's Fund, we look for a quicker resolution. On the outlook
and EPS growth, well, I think that is equating with EPS that it has more input parameters
than just operating proﬁt. I think I pointed already a little bit towards the tax rate, but also
Page 17 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

– look, we have promised that we will either use our M&A budget or return it. The M&A
budget unused end of 2015 is some €1.67 billion. M&A budget end of 2016, assuming we
wouldn't buy anything as close to €3 billion, when you take €3 billion and whether you
use it for M&A or you return it to shareholders, creates already an EPS enhancement of
some 4 points, 5 points. So, actually, I think we are well set to deliver the number.
And please, we said clearly, our EPS gross target is in aggregate 5% a year. That means
we are interested to move the current €14.6 earnings per share to €16 or close to €17 in
2018. We are not planning to show a 1.25% progress by quote. So, that is certainly not in a
strategic plan that you really schedule it like a Swiss claim.
And then – I think I have answered both questions.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Paul De'Ath of RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yeah. Hi, there, and thanks for taking my questions. Couple of points, please. Firstly, on
the kind of Life business and new product development, I know you, obviously, had great
success in the U.S. with the FIA product, and you talked previously about potentially trying
to build an FIA product for Europe. I'm just wondering how that's going, and if there's
anything you can talk about on how that is progressing.
And then, the second point is just on the Asset Management business and the purchase
that you've made recently in AGI of the Rogge business. I was just wondering if you could
expand a little on the thinking behind that. It's ﬁxed income, and also it wasn't necessarily
the greatest business in old mutuals portfolio. So, I was just wondering why you think it's
going to be better on the AGI if it wasn't on the old mutual? Thanks.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Hello. It's Max. I wanted to start the question on the Life side. Fixed index annuities, we do
not sell only in the U.S. We sell it's also successfully in Germany and in Austria, and the
name is Index Select. And there's also now, I think, growing interest into these products,
but right now, it's around 10% of the overall production there. And the main reason for
that is its base rates are very small and, therefore, there's a also yearly guarantee on that
one. That means it's really attractive for us to get some upside result this vigorous for the
customers.
It is not so easy to copy that product for other OEs because the main importance is you
have also a very sound back book to start with these kind of products. What we're doing,

Page 18 of 34



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

because we think most of the customers do not want only pure unit-linked products and
want to carry all the risk, what we do – is coming up with other hybrid products with some
forms of guarantees included. And also, there is a new product we are planning for
Southern Europe, it's a unit-linked product with guarantees, at least where the overall risk
per year is limited to a maximum of 10%. And because we think that is the future, overall,
of the market, in usual traditional products with pure ﬁxed-income investments and the
very low rates you have right now after costs, there's nearly nothing in it for the customers.
And therefore, you'll need some upside. That means the overall idea of ﬁxed income
annuities, we tried to copy that one and bring that also to other markets, but these are
mostly other forms of products.

A - Oliver Bäte
Okay. And then, the Rogge question. Well, ﬁrst of all, Allianz Global Investors needs to
see that they are establishing a global footprint. UK is so far one of our weakest markets.
So, with the acquisition, I think we expand in the UK. That means we see also there then
cost saving opportunities on the top line. That is maybe lesser points Old Mutual can
claim where they have such a strong footprint in the UK, so quite a diﬀerent situation.
And I think also the global ﬁxed income strategies which are being added by this RGP are
ﬁlling a right spot in the AGI's capability proﬁle. And you can be assured that the past
performance has been reﬂected in the purchase price, so therefore, I think we are ticking
all three boxes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul De'Ath
Okay. Great.

Operator
We would take our next question from Farooq Hanif of Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you. I'm assuming that you haven't been asleep year-to-date as markets have
fallen. So, I was wondering if you could give us a guide to the kinds of management
actions that you've been taking, because, naturally, what's going to happen is, as you get
into 180% to 190% range, everyone's going to speculate that, what's the risk Allianz falls
below 180%, et cetera, et cetera. So, I wondered if you could talk about that.
Secondly, in the alternative portfolio, how much of that is – can we think of being allocated
to Life and how much to non-Life? Is that important? Because – just wanted to understand
the yield implications of where the alternative portfolio is allocated in the business?
And I guess, lastly, partly to Paul's question, we've seen a deceleration of net ﬂows, sales
as well have been weak in Life, and that's understandable given what you're doing in that
business. But are we going to be facing this for a few years now as you shift to the new

Page 19 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

business mix? Or can we see some revenue, top line, net ﬂow recovery coming by the
end of the year? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Well, when I start with your last point, actually, when you see that 2015 over 2014, on
average, our Life results, that means the basis for the earnings is 8% higher. So, we have a
natural source also here of income even when the net inﬂows were very strong in the unitlinked space, but we had outﬂows in traditional which is actually not so bad.
The volatility in Solvency II that is actually – and here it simpliﬁes our organization that is
really a one segment topic. So we are only dealing with our Life and Health segment in
this question. P&C, it is really not very material, and therefore, not relevant to do it. We do
a full suite of activities. And as usual, we really like to talk about it when we have done it
and when that is the next reporting date with the Q1 results.
We are not making any announcement of what we are doing and not doing because, also,
why would we set up a ﬁnancial market on movements we might plan that it's just volume
we are acting on that would be really a bad message to the market. But I can also tell you
that we are a pretty quiet investor and not panicking over the current volatility of the
market.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Yeah. It's Max. Only to add that, at least I can give you the ratio of puts we have in place
for the equities. This is 28%, only that you know that in overall that means there are some
measures in place. That is not new. Only to say that we're always working with puts
overall, but only to prevent us if there's a real quest that we have to ﬁre sale something.
And then to the question of the alternatives, I do not have the number here in front of me.
I can give you only some guidance in that respect. If you think of the mortgage business,
mortgage business is usually long term, 10 years plus. That's mainly with the Life business.
Private placement is also the same, mainly Life business, not P&C, infrastructure, debt.
There is some shortage of debt, but most of debt is also long-dated and long-dated goes
always into the Life portfolios.
Real estate, we have both, that means on P&C and on the Life side, and that's where it's
split. Private equity, also, we do it in the P&C and in the Life business. Infrastructure equity
is usually also purely for the Life business. And renewals, it's the same, that's mainly – that
goes only with the Life business, only to give you an idea, yes?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

Page 20 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

We will take our next question from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Hi. Thank you. So, just on the Life, the ﬁrst question is on the technical
margins. It seems to me that the quarterly run rate hasn't been really going as high as the
outlook is progressing. And Dieter, I just wanted to double check, you did try to suggest
that it wasn't really investment income driven, this increase in outlook. But we aren't really
seeing the trend in the technical margin. So, I just wanted, obviously, to understand a bit
more about the outlook increase, but also whether it is technical margin-driven or
loadings-driven or investment margin-driven. That's the ﬁrst question.
Second question is just on the alternative assets, again, for Max. I remember in the
Investor Day, a slightly smaller number, maybe €86 billion was shown, and we suddenly
see €92 billion. Is it all mark-to-market or has there been a lot of activity in the last few
months at Allianz?
Lastly, if I may, just ask, on the M&A strategy, is it a fair understanding that there was a bit
more – not emphasis, but a bit more talk about it at the Investor Day when these targets
were presented? And is it the volatile markets which have caused you to tone it down a
bit? So, just a very quick comment. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I'll start with the Life outlook. Well, the technical margin will certainly grow also. I'm
foreseeing an improvement there in 2016 if everything goes to plan. However, the big
swing factor in the investment margin is, as I said before, the higher weighting of our U.S.
business, because all the proﬁts of a ﬁxed index annuity policy are showing up in the
investment margin. There is no technical proﬁt, so to speak. It's all investment income
over expenses and customer return. And that is, I think, the biggest driver for the higher
base point number I mentioned.
And the rest, we have normalized to a normal ﬂow of turnover in our portfolio, which we
had also, in the last two quarters, we had, I think realized gains of around €1.2 billion. And
that is just what you almost automatically create with the size of the portfolio and some
active management.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Yeah. Coming to the question to the alternatives, at the Capital Markets Day, I think I've
shown the portfolio in the third quarter 2015 that was at €86 billion. Now, we're at €92
billion. The €6 billion, I can't tell you whether that's only transactions or also some
additional returns coming from market and valuation.
I assume so, because, overall, for the total year, we do the evaluations for a part of the
assets also quarterly. The overall performance of the alternatives and the real estate in this
year were double-digits. That means also some price increases, not only new transactions.
But I can tell you from the €18 billion, that increase of the alternative investment portfolio,
Page 21 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

how much was performance and how much was transactions. What I only can say, a little
bit more than 10% was the overall yield on the alternatives last year.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
Let me – Oliver here, the Oliver Bäte, not Oliver Schmidt, talk a little about M&A, because
that's lingering on the minds and investors have mentioned that to us and to me
speciﬁcally. Let me reinforce the following item.
We've, I think, built nicely over the last few year a record of being disciplined on
acquisitions. We've said we want to invest in Property-Casualty, particularly in countries
where we have strong operations and want to build further scale. And that will
consolidate and reinforce our positions over time and where we have management teams
that can actually integrate. That remains unchanged.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question we get is what are the return hurdles? We have the same return
hurdles for acquisitions that we have for our in-force. We want over time to have 15%
RoRC or 13% RoE that is also the case for our acquisitions. That is, obviously, a long-term
average. And we want to make accretive acquisitions. That's also important.
And we are certainly not interested to acquire something against issuing huge amounts of
stock. So, just let me reiterate. So going out and buying a gigantic company at this point
in time is not on the agenda, so you don't need to be worried about that. At the same
time, we believe this environment will separate the strong from the weak ones. You will
particularly, I think, see a lot of conglomerates that have strong home markets, but very
weak portfolios outside of the home market disposing of peripheral operations that might
be good in the core and might be ﬁt to us. And we're systematically looking at that. We
have been looking at that.
In many cases over the last three years, prices were too high. But with valuations coming
down and companies being under pressure to clean up their portfolios, to meet Solvency
costs and all the other things, we feel we are in the position to take advantage of our
relative strength. And that is what we are intending to do. Again, applying strict discipline
on the ﬁnancial criteria, and we expect and hope for your support in that strategy. Thank
you.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver. Thanks, Dieter. Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Michael Huttner of JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

Page 22 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

FINAL

Fantastic. Thank you very much. On the Solvency, I'm a bit puzzled because you have
huge buﬀers in Germany. So, you have this 300% Solvency there, 200% at a group level.
And I just wondered why these buﬀers are not helping moderate the volatility we're
seeing with the ratio now excluding management actions at about 180%, which is at the
bottom end of your target range. I just wondered if you could talk about that.
On the megadeals, and you just said, Oliver, that you would look forward to our support
there and Vinit said yes. What does support mean? Does it mean you'd like us to write
nice things, so that's it or does it mean you'll ask shareholders for some money? And
then, if I may, a last question. So, in your presentation, Oliver, you repeated or said again,
what I understood from the Investor Day, which is that the Life business would shrink the
capital allocated or make it more eﬃcient in some way.
And I think Mr. Zimmerer presented the ﬁgures, €3 billion, which is not in the kind of
budget for the group. So, this would help EPS on top. Can you talk a little bit about that?
Sorry. It's three questions. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bäte
Michael, Oliver here. I'll take the easy questions. I'll leave the diﬃcult ones to Dieter and
Max. And let me – what I wanted to say is I assume that based also on our investor
perception study and support that staying disciplined on the things we have been doing
that that is also meeting your expectations. The reason why I'm mentioning that, we
occasionally have – get a question around, under all circumstances do pay dividends or
do share buybacks. If you take this to an extreme and say that's the only way to run the
company, you put a company into runoﬀ.
So, you need to get the balance right between appropriate returns on capital, and we've
clearly said that, earnings growth, i.e., and again the way how do you deal with capital
that is building up and that you're not using. And we're absolutely committed to not have
capital sitting idle in the company, but we also don't want to waste it on M&A.
Now, we cannot wish for the right M&A targets to come at every point in time, when it
would be perfect in terms of timing. So, we need some ﬂexibility over time. But as we
have said between now and the end of 2018, we'll not accumulate money and have it
lying around. So, that discipline, you can expect. But we – as Dieter said earlier, we're not
managing these numbers by the day, the month or the quarter. We are in a long-term
business, and we're managing for the long-term growth of the business.
So, that is what I wanted to say. If you get consecutive systems where people say, we don't
know what to do with your capital and we're, therefore, just paying it out or buying, in fact
that's short-term a great message, long-term that's a disaster, I think. Sorry to say.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

That's a very good point. Thank you.

Page 23 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

FINAL

Michael, you are fully right. There is a dampening eﬀect from the standalone Solvency of
Stuttgart, our Life business in Germany to the Group numbers. However, that is already
included in the sensitivities we have disclosed so that is, in the end, the net ﬁgure which
we have calculated for the sensitivities, and therefore, it's already all-in, so to speak.
And when you see that two midsized OEs, Korea and Switzerland, actually, with a change
of EIOPA's view how the interest rate curve should be designed, actually we have shown
with a lot of capital market material and a lot of base data that the Swiss interest rate curve
published by EIOPA is much too conservative and they are actually not following their
own rules they apply for other currencies that these two markets are actually moving our
interest rate sensitivities three points up, that shows you only how sensitive the Solvency II
models are and this calibration question.
And I really hope that we can focus on working with the model and have not to face every
now and then an interference from the regulator coming up with some new formula
because the people at the regulator have been hired to write technical papers and
otherwise they are running out of job. And that is something we have certainly to manage
going forward.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

You could, I suppose, make their job lighter by instead of letting them be employed by
EIOPA, by employing them at Allianz. Sorry about that. Just on the almost €3 billion?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yeah. That was the number which you've picked up from Capital Markets Day slides. We
have not explicitly integrated it in any of the targets but it is actually for us, a number
which we have demonstrated, that's a 5% EPS growth over the three years. It's not
completely unrealistic, and that is a view which has probably not completely transpired in
all analyst reports.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

So I take this to mean then, although we might not see any of the €3 billion this year, we'll
deﬁnitely see something next year so that it kind of boosts EPS. Is that fair?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Whenever it comes, yeah.

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Whenever it comes, okay.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I will mention it when we see it.

Page 24 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Q - Michael I. Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Okay. So that's fair. Thank you very much. Thanks for answering my questions.

FINAL

Operator
We will take our next question from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi there. First question on P&C, Dieter. I think you mentioned that large man-mades were
6 points in Q4, discreet Q4. Maybe just for the year as a whole, can you tell us where you
think man-made losses were versus some kind of normalized level where you would
expect them to be? Again, we've asked this question several quarters, is there a trend
here in large losses, is this random? Obviously it's come up for debate a bit more in 2015.
But basically I want to know where they are versus a normal year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second question, Oliver, you mentioned you're more cautious on the outlook for Asset
Management given the market. Can you just give us any sort of qualitative information as
to how the market turmoil aﬀected PIMCO year-to-date? Have there been a necessity to
build more cash buﬀers? Has it signiﬁcantly aﬀected ﬂows? Is there signiﬁcant mark-tomarket issues for some of your liquid credit? But just some color there would be useful.
And a very short question for Max. Max, just looking at the unrealized gains on corporate
bonds, even though your energy exposure is quite low, I noticed that this book of
unrealized gains fell 25% in the quarter which seems quite high when spreads didn't do
an awful lot. Did you realize a lot of gains in corporate bonds in Q4, or was there some
sort of asset shift? I'm just surprised this book of unrealized gains on corporate bonds fell
so much. Thanks.

A - Oliver Bäte
I'll start with man-made losses because I can give you here a man-made answer. So, 6.4%
were the large losses in Q4. Our average for the year was 4.4% and it's actually 0.1% lower
than 2014 where we were at 4.5%, and our 10-year average is 4.0%.
It's the trend and it's – I don't think so – we had an Q4 concentrated two losses together of
$200 million, and an uptick of the Tianjin port loss. It's seems now that the Tianjin port
loss is becoming one of the largest losses ever. Some people are talking that it could, in
total, in short losses coming close to September 11, which is an unbelievable size, I feel.
And then, our share in it is really, really small. So I think that is – and then we had – well, in
2014, we had more of this – some spectacular airline losses, which made the headings for
quite some time. So, is this a trend? No, I don't think so.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

And speciﬁcally then, for the year as a whole, man-mades were not particularly unusual
either.

Page 25 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

So, 0.1% lower as a percentage. It is slightly up in absolute number. But our net earned
premium grew by more than 6%. So when you divide man-made losses by net earned
premium, it moved from 4.5% to 4.4% in 2015.

FINAL

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Okay. Coming to the question about unrealized gains and losses and also how you
manage this kind of volatility, especially on the Asset Management side, it's true, for
example, for PIMCO, it's not so easy to cope with that one, if you have a large mutual fund
and there's outﬂows and especially driven by markets developments, you have to hold
more cash than usually necessary. And that's a drag on your overall performance. But
what I can tell you at least at PIMCO, although if you think of your total return fund, they
had these outﬂows managed it very well because they had last year a strong
outperformance in that respect.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now coming to the unrealized gains and losses, I can't tell you the split of the minus €17
billion in change and unrealized gains and losses in that number, there's also €3 billion
coming from the U.S. business. So, let's say, €14 billion. But I can't just show you. We
haven't sold a lot of corporate bonds in the last quarter. There was no necessity to do so.
Overall, if you think of the corporate spreads and also of the interest rate movements, the
last quarter of 2015 was a pretty quiet one. That means no special actions in that respect.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Which is why I'm surprised the unrealized gains fell so much on your corporate bond
portfolio.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

You say in one quarter. Where did you pick that number?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Just looking at the disclosed unrealized gains on corporate bonds that you give in your
appendices every quarter.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Okay. I have to look it up, and then let's see whether I ﬁnd something special in there.
You're right. It can't be only the oil exposure, that's for sure, because our exposure is not
very large.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Page 26 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

And just on 10-K, I'm just trying to understand, the additional caution, is that because of
the experience to-date in Q4 or is it more...

A - Oliver Bäte

FINAL

No, it's...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

...to do with for the year as a whole?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

No, it's just for the year as a whole. The markets are down 10% whether they're due to
AUM in the active Asset Management piece, you know how we're being compensated. So
that is a general caution. If volatility goes up and markets go down, that has an eﬀect.
Now we have counter eﬀects on bond portfolios and are having increase in value. And we
believe that the precision with which you can make forecast is just lower in this
environment than we've had in the past. Nothing in particular about the ﬁrst six weeks.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. And so, Max, the reference is slide C18 that I'm interested in a follow-up on.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Sorry. You mean C18 that's a complete year?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

The stock of unrealized gains on bonds?

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Have you compared – you take only the numbers from C18 or you take also some
numbers from the Capital Markets Day? Otherwise, it's only...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I'm judging versus the Q3 reported results.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

No, it's a little bit complicated.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. I can follow-up. It's ﬁne.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}
Page 27 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Yeah. The Q3 results, at least I need some time to check it, okay?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Sure. Okay. It just looks like a big move. But I can follow-up.

FINAL

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Oliver Bäte
Thank you.

Operator
We will take our next question from Thomas Seidl of Bernstein. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon. Three questions. First two on the targets. I come back
to the €3 billion Life capital release target. At the Investor Day, I think, you showed us,
because of derisking that the required capital had fallen, yet when I look at the numbers
now, year-on-year has grown by 9.5% from €20 billion to €22 billion. So my ﬁrst question
is, what keeps you conﬁdent that with management action, you can really produce a €3
billion given the headwinds from the macro side?
Second question is on the combined ratio on the P&C, the target is 94%. It seems like it's
creeping up now 94.6%, pricing at one, claims frequency up and slow turnarounds in
LatAm. Can you give us a ﬂavor or color on how these actions you presented at the
Investor Day are coming through in terms of impact, in other words, is the combined ratio
of the next two years actually more arising, and then also only towards 2018 falling or what
is sort of the dynamics you have in mind there?
And the third question is, on the asset side, you showed the relatively modest exposure to
energy, but I think you still have quite some exposure to the ﬁnancial and the bank sector,
and I wonder, given the weakness of the bank sector in Europe, what do you think about
the contingent risk Allianz has to some of the weakness in European banks via bond and
equities?

A - Oliver Bäte
Okay. I'm starting with all three, and then my colleagues might just end and complete my
answer. Yes, for sure, this capital consumption for the Life segment increased Q4 over Q3.
And I gave you already the explanation with the changes driven by EIOPA technical
Page 28 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

changes, which we did not expect when we prepared our Capital Markets Day. However, I
believe that our de-risking plans over the years should still hold up. And on something
like this, in the end, we can only prove it by delivery and not by – now showing you a list of
action we might consider. So it is really proof-point-dependent and that is what we are
continuing to do.
On the 94% combined ratio, I mean this 94.6%, you can say overall we are not this far
away. Latin America is the ﬁrst place to pick, but we are working in general on every subportfolio, which is above 100% combined. And when we tackle all of them and are only
halfway successful on these, then I think you'll see already enough improvement in the
combined ratio. So I would not be concerned about these targets. And actually I also
would argue that dependency on combined ratio improvement in our industry looking at
a recent announcement of big competitors. They are all under pressure to improve
combined ratios, which should help from a market competition point of view.
On the asset side, yes, it is true that we have a bigger number against the ﬁnancial sector
banks. But you have to subtract from this all the covered bonds which I would exclude
from a direct exposure to the quality of the bank balance sheet and our exposures on
subordinated against banks, also equities are fairly modest in relation to the size of our
portfolio. But maybe Max can add to this one.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Perhaps I would ﬁrst come back to the unrealized gains and losses on the corporate
portfolio. It was the number from September 2015 was €4.7 billion as hidden reserves,
and it went down to €3.5 billion. That is not very large. If you see the overall size of the
portfolio, this was mainly driven by interest rate hikes in the U.S. because we have the
long-term corporate bonds and due to the interest rate impact in the last quarter, some of
the hidden reserves went out of all the portfolio. It was nothing special that we have sold
something or something like that. Banking?

A - Oliver Bäte
Banking.

A - Maximilian Zimmerer

{BIO 2557503 <GO>}

Yes, banking – coming back to the banking, 16% of our corporate exposure is in the
banking side. This is €32 billion overall, and if you think of the quality in general, it's
mainly, what is it, 95% is investment grade, 17% is in BBB and 52% that means the bulk of it
is single A. The main reason for that is that most of the banks are in that bracket. And
therefore, there's nothing special in that.
What I really can say and I'm really proud of that you're continuously really decreasing our
banking exposure. That means within the Corporate segment, we try to reduce the
banking exposure as such. The main reason of that is not that we do have trust in the
banks, but that banks seem to be some kind of cluster risk.

Page 29 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

All right. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
We will take our question from the line of Nick Holmes of Société Générale. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much. Two questions. The ﬁrst is realized gains in the Life
business. Your policy of extending durations this year has obviously generated a lot of
gains, really boosted your operating earnings. Now, I know you've already guided that
you don't expect Life segment grow very much. But I wanted to ask, how should we
expect you to manage the realized gains this year? I mean, the comparative obviously is a
very diﬃcult one, which you must therefore bear in mind for your investment strategy.
The second question is, looking at your energy exposure, I noticed that most of it's in the
Life segment. I wanted to ask, what sort of guidance would you give to us as to the
shareholder exposure? I mean, a lot of that is going to be on a 90%/10% basis, but would
it be unwise of us to take something like 90%/10%? Should we be taking more like
50%/50%? Just your thoughts on that would be very much appreciated. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Okay. Coming to the last question, next – no, it's the same split as usual, there's nothing
special in that one. And if you think of the 2% on the quota of the overall portfolio, it
would have a minor impact in general. And that means there's no reason why we could
not pay any guarantee because there is a default on an energy stock or bond. But that is
not what I expect. I provided you also with the rating numbers. That means there's
nothing special.
And wanted to remind you, there are very large players in the bucket, take Royal Dutch or
Exxon. And I do not see that there's real default risk in general, I only wanted to say that
the overall impact of the energy crisis on our portfolio will be a very, very small one in
general.
Now, coming to the question, and that is more diﬃcult to answer. How much we would
usually realize on the bond reserves, the hidden reserves on the bond side? And it's true,
usually this is not driven by, let's say, going for higher operating proﬁt numbers. It's more
driven by actions on the ﬁxed income portfolio.
And as you do a duration lengthening, usually you have to sell some bonds. There's no
other possibilities. We do not hold so much cash. And because we did that last year,
lengthening by 0.5 to 0.6 years actively, you have to sell some bonds.

Page 30 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

FINAL

And as you know, we have still high hidden reserves on the bond side. I would not expect
the same amount for every year, only to say that. But I cannot exclude it in general
because what we are usually very much hearing is the current yield on our portfolio. And
we do not want to spoil the current yield. Overall, every year the current yield on the Life
side goes down by, let's say, around 0.1 and, I think, that a steady pace. And we would not
like to increase it by taking too much hidden reserves out of our portfolios.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Thank you very much for that. Just a very, very quick follow-up. So, would it be right to say
that your policy of extending durations is sort of still happening? It's not something that
was an event that took place last year. It's still something that you're looking to do as
appropriate.

A - Oliver Bäte
In general, we would like to have a mixed approach for the new business. You know that
that is our overall target. But it doesn't mean that we close every time the duration. It's
very much depending on the situation of the companies as such, and what are the risks
from the duration gap. And it's also depending on our interest rates outlook. Therefore, I
can't say or make a general judgment on that one.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

And, Nick, it's Dieter here. You have also to remember that we have also a lot of normal
maturities in the Life portfolio, that means duration lengthening. You can also do with new
investments. You don't need to sell all these old papers to achieve it. And the guidance I
have given for the average investment margin is assuming a normalized ﬂow of realized
gains. That means also no special action that you would get more realized gains due to
lengthening activities.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator
We will take our next question from Micheal Haid of MainFirst Bank. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Micheal Haid, MainFirst Bank. Good afternoon to everybody. Three
questions. First question, on the operating proﬁt target 2016. As you mentioned, it
includes some degree of prudence also owed to the low-interest rate environment. I

Page 31 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

wonder how much have the ﬁrst six weeks of this year aﬀected this operating proﬁt target,
the recent market turmoils?

FINAL

Second question, on AGC&S, the combined ratio of 94%, in a very competitive
environment, to what extent is that driven by reserve releases or abnormal reserve
releases, and why can you perform so well in this competitive environment?
Last question on the ﬁxed index annuity, you mentioned close to $1 billion of operating
proﬁt come from the ﬁxed index annuity book that is very strong in my view. How resilient
is this ﬁgure to lower sales? Not that I expect this, but I would like to get a feeling for the
sensitivity of declining sales to this operating proﬁt?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, Michael, let's start backwards. The proﬁt in ﬁxed index annuity we make on the
reserves, so accumulated investments, and that is more than hundreds of billion dollar
portfolio, mainly corporate bonds, BBB, that is maybe also an additional answer to the
question why the unrealized gains on the portfolio that move because it's a 10-year bond.
I would say, it's a very stable source of operating proﬁt, only when the customer would all
run away, then the proﬁt falls apart. As long as the customers are staying, and we don't
see any movements in surrender or lapse rates. So it looks to be a stable portfolio where
we have more net inﬂows and then maturity, so it is still a growing number.
AGCS had indeed quite some run-oﬀ but we had the same run-oﬀ in previous years. So it
is a very stable number. Why is it better than the competition? Well, I think we have
maybe missed some growth opportunities and with the missed growth opportunity, we
missed also chances for some higher man-made losses. So it is an underwriting and
bottom line-focused approach And I think AGCS has delivered since it started a year-byyear improvement in its underwriting discipline. And it is certainly within the Allianz
organization one of the leading organization, or the leading organization providing
complex and commercial business.
Is our OP targets 2016 aﬀected by the current volatility? Yes, for sure. We have increased
the range around it because we feel that the year still might have more surprises than the
ﬁrst six months, when it's getting back to a more stable environment, then we have
certainly plenty of time in the upcoming quarters to reﬁne the outlook for the year.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

But not the absolute level. It's more the volatility of the operating proﬁt, which has been
aﬀected.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Well, I would say both. I think we have left the upper end stable.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.
Page 32 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

Operator
We will take our next question from Johannes Reich of Metzler. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.

FINAL

Q - Johannes J. Reich

{BIO 1808084 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I have just one question on digitalization. Could
you provide a ﬁgure for online distribution in your German operations in 2015 as well as
the comparison with 2014? That's my question. Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I think Oliver will get up and then send it out because I think it takes a minute to ﬁnd it.
Correct? Yeah. We are digging it up. It will come to you in a few minutes.

Q - Johannes J. Reich

{BIO 1808084 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe it's a good time before we get to very much the ﬁne details of the numbers that I'd
like to give you a little bit of a top-down view reﬂecting on your very good questions and
thank you for those. I think the question we just had on the outlook and the level and
volatility is nicely summarizing really the questions that you may have looking at our
disclosure. Maybe we could give you the following feedback.
Allianz had had a very strong year, and we're looking to capitalize on the number of
strong years and a very strong balance sheet. We believe the volatility in the markets
around us, as I said a little earlier, will create signiﬁcant opportunities for us. And we
would like, if I may say so, point out to the fact that we want to keep our powder dry for
the opportunities that are coming. And if you are to interpret the way we are
communicating today and the way the numbers have come out, please keep in mind that
we are taking a measured approach to earnings per share growth that we want to make
sure that nothing we are doing is threatening the stability and the strengths of our
balance sheet. And we want to be able to move when the time is right.
Maybe that helps you in an environment that is increasingly getting nervous and
concerned about where to put the money. Max have said it very nicely. If you can get zero
for investing an abundant 5% minimum dividend yield in Allianz, I have my money here if
that is of any consideration for you. That's the better investment.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right. Thank you, Oliver. I think, with that, we should close the call. Thank you very
much for your time and for your interest. We wish you a very nice remaining afternoon,
and we hope that we will see you next week on one of our analyst meetings. Thank you.

Page 33 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2016-02-19

A - Oliver Bäte
Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen. You may now disconnect

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 34 of 34

