Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Eilard Friese, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to the NN Group
Analyst Conference Call on NN's intended offer for Delta Lloyd.
The telephone lines will be in listen-only mode during the company's presentation. We will not
offer the opportunity for questions-and-answers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before handling this conference call over to Mr. Lard Friese, Chief Executive Officer of NN Group,
let me first give you the following statement on behalf of the company. Today's comments may
include forward-looking statements such as statements regarding future developments in NN
Group's businesses, expectations for its future financial performance and any statements not
involving any historical facts.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Any
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. And NN Group assumes no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information or for any other reason.
Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to
buy any securities. Any offer will be made only by means of an offer memorandum. Any offer and
the dissemination of information on the offer may be restricted by law or regulations in certain
jurisdictions including the United States, Canada, and Japan.
Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the security laws of that
jurisdiction. Neither NN Group, nor any of its advisors assumes any responsibility for any violation by
any person of any of these restrictions. Any shareholder who is in any doubt (02:10) should consult
an appropriate professional advisor.
Mr. Friese, please go ahead.

Eilard Friese
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for dialing in to this call. My name is Lard Friese, CEO of NN
Group; and I'm joined by Delfin Rueda, CFO of NN Group. This morning, we have announced an
intention to make an offer to the shareholders of Delta Lloyd at a share price of €5.30 per ordinary
share.
In this presentation, I will outline why we believe that this is a compelling opportunity for
shareholders and other stakeholders. We have not taken a decision to make this public
announcement lightly. We have repeatedly, over a longer period of time, invited Delta Lloyd to
come to the table. We have shared our proposal with the Delta Lloyd's Executive Board and
Supervisory Board and invited them to discuss our proposal and to negotiate our recommended
transaction. To-date, they have not accepted our invitation to do so.



FINAL

I need to clarify that we will not be hosting a Q&A at the end of this call. As I am sure you
understand, there are limitations on what we can say regarding this transaction at this stage.
Let's turn to slide one. NN Group has a history that stretches back more than 170 years with strong
Dutch roots and leading positions in many European markets and Japan. Since 1845, we have been
involved in the lives of our customers doing what we do best to help them secure their financial
futures. Looking ahead, and given today's highly competitive markets, scale and diversification are
essential to deliver an attractive and sustainable customer proposition in the long-term.
Combining the Dutch and Belgian activities of NN Group and Delta Lloyd is a logical step to take.
We believe it is financially and strategically compelling and fully consistent with our equity story and,
in fact, will accelerate it. Through this transaction, we will create significant value. This will be
realized through the combination of improved efficiency of our combined operations and capital
base. This will require execution, but we are confident in our track record in this respect.

Bloomberg Transcript

We intend to finance our offer using existing cash resources and new debt. And therefore, we do
not anticipate issuing new shares. We expect significant accretion of earnings per share, free cash
flow and dividend per share. We will maintain a strong balance sheet and solvency position, and we
will continue to have sufficient cash resources available to us to withstand and manage
uncertainties.
Strategically, this deal will accelerate our propositions in the Netherlands and Belgium. It will
consolidate two major players in the Dutch market, and as a result, we will achieve greater scale,
better allowing us to deliver attractive products to our customers. The combination will enable us
to better capitalize on the growth opportunities in the pensions market. We will roughly double the
size of our non-life business, facilitating improved selection of risk and underwriting capabilities. We
will accelerate the strategies of our bank and our asset manager. While in Belgium, we will bring
together two similarly-sized businesses that operate in different distribution channels, and thus,
create an overall more balanced and sustainable business.
Finally, we, of course, recognize that successful acquisitions rest on integration. Since our IPO, NN
Group has outlined its priorities and equity story and has delivered on what it has promised. This,
combined with the fact that this is an in-market transaction with businesses that we know and
understand, gives us confidence that we will continue to execute going forward.
So let's move to slide number two. In terms of the details of our intended offer, it is an all-cash
offer at a share price of €5.30 per ordinary share for all outstanding ordinary shares of Delta Lloyd.
It represents a significant premium over the market cap since Delta Lloyd's rights issue and offers
certain, immediate and attractive value to Delta Lloyd's shareholders. We continue to seek to
actively engage with the Delta Lloyd management team. We see this as being highly accretive,
while at the same time maintaining a strong balance sheet and solvency position.
Turning to slide three. The combination of our activities in the Netherlands and in Belgium will
create a very strong position with significant scale across segments. This will continue to be
supported by high growth and profitable international markets. We have elaborated in the past on
the trends we see in the Dutch pension market and we think that the additional scale in pensions
will enable us to capitalize even more on the opportunities. Doubling in size in non-life will allow us
to drive further underwriting improvement and cost efficiencies.
The combination will also accelerate our asset management and bank strategy with the addition of
around €60 billion of assets under management and €6 billion of bank assets creating substantial
scale benefits. It will create a more sustainable Belgium business through the combination of two
similarly-sized companies operating in different distribution channels.



FINAL

As this is a in-market deal, combining the activities of NN Group and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands
and Belgium will remove existing overlap and achieve cost, capital and revenue synergies. The
combined business will continue to have the high cash-generative characteristics that NN Group
currently has.
Turning to slide four. This transaction is fully aligned with our acquisition criteria and will bring
significant benefits to both NN Group and Delta Lloyd stakeholders. As I mentioned on the
previous slide, our combined strategic position will strengthen. Financially, we see a significant
accretion occurring through the combination of in-market synergies and efficient use of excess
capital. We expect cost synergies from making a more efficient company, given the overlapping
businesses including the head office. We would also anticipate over time revenue and capital
synergies through the combination.
The expected return of this acquisition will exceed our cost of capital and will, therefore, be
consistent with our equity story of allocating capital to achieve attractive returns. We will remain
strongly capitalized afterwards while maintaining significant financial flexibility. We will be a highly
cash-generative set of businesses, but with more diversification to those cash flows and we
believe more sustainability.

Bloomberg Transcript

The creation of a better, stronger, more efficient and dynamic business will be beneficial to
customers. We will be able to create more compelling propositions and offerings and further
enhance our customer services and experiences. We can and will execute on delivering the
benefits of this transaction. We have been dealing with the realities of the market and have an
operational track record of reducing costs, so we know how to do this. This transaction is more of
the same. This is an in-market deal. We understand the market and we understand the risks.
Let's turn to slide five. Our all-cash offer will provide immediate, certain and attractive value to
Delta Lloyd's shareholders. Our offer will be subject to pre-offer and offer conditions, customary
for transactions of this nature. We are well prepared and have considered all aspects of the
proposed transaction. We are able to move quickly and are in a position to conduct a confirmatory
due diligence and at the same time negotiate a transaction with Delta Lloyd in a short period of
time.
The transaction between our two companies is in the interests of all NN Group's and Delta Lloyd's
stakeholders. As such, we have made a proposal to the Delta Lloyd boards and we continue to
invite the Delta Lloyd boards to sit down with us to discuss our proposal and negotiate our
recommended transaction.
We will give the market an update within the next four weeks. We are excited about this
transaction and are confident in our ability to execute on it. This transaction underpins our ambition,
which is to be a company that matters to all our stakeholders.
I want to thank you and I want to wish you a very good day.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the NN Group conference call. You may now disconnect your
line. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

