Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Gesellschaft in Muenchen
AG Strategic update on ERGO Corporate Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Christian Becker-Hussong, Head of Investor & Rating Agency Relations
Christoph Jurecka, CFO, ERGO
Jorg Schneider, CFO
Markus Riess , CEO, ERGO, Chairman ERGO Versicherungsgruppe AG

Other Participants
Anasuya Iyer, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Frank Kopfinger, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jochen Schmitt, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael Hyde , Analyst
Olivia Brindle , Analyst
Sami Taipalus , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst
Xinmei Wang, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day. Welcome to the Munich Re conference call update on ERGO strategy. Today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Christian Becker-Hussong.
Please go ahead, sir.

Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Page 1 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, to everyone. And a warm welcome to our call on ERGO's
strategy program. Today's speakers are Markus Riess, CEO of ERGO; Christoph Jurecka,
our CFO of ERGO; and Jorg Schneider, CFO of Munich Re. Markus will kick it off. And
introduce to you the details of the program. Christoph will explain the most important
financials, before Jorg will conclude with a few remarks from the Munich Re perspective.
After approximately, let's say around 40 minutes, we will start with the Q&A. And intend
to close this call by approximately 5:00 PM at the latest. So Markus, please go ahead.

Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good day. I will limit myself to 20 minutes. Because I understand
that the financial impact of this program is of the utmost importance. And that's why I'd
like to leave the floor to Herr Jurecka and Herr Schneider by this point in time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me basically tell you where I believe ERGO is starting from. I think you are all very
much aware of the industry changes that we have. And I don't want to allude to them. But
based on these industry changes, I believe that ERGO has a good starting position. We
have quite a significant position in Germany. We have market-leading position in health
and in legal protection. We are well-positioned in P&C. We have challenges in life,
because of the closure of the classical book. And I will refer to that in a minute.
In addition to the German footprint, which we are very well known for, we also have a
significant international presence in over 30 countries, with top 10 positions in a couple of
significant countries. And obviously being part of Munich Re gives us access to know-how,
capital. And an innovative-oriented group.
Now one of the questions I often get is, what are my key findings. And you will find them
on page number 4. I believe it's fair to say that ERGO has a track record of a
disappointing development of top and bottom line, in this way lagging behind
expectations. Their cost structures are clearly above the market. On the infrastructure and
digitalization side, we have to see the effect in the eye that we need more reliable IT
platforms to run the business efficiently. And also to accomplish the digital transformation,
which will become increasingly more important in the way that the market is digitizing
itself. And that's why currently I have to come to the assessment that the opportunities of
digitalizations are not yet fully realized.
On the product side, it's very important to master this challenge, to have modular product
concepts, which we currently have not yet fully integrated into our offering. And also on
the life side, we need a convincing new strategy for new pension products with a basically
stronger focus on financial products. And thus the realization of synergies with MEAG, our
asset management company.
Lastly, I believe that given the fact that we have now embarked on a route to close the
classical business more or less entirely, the organizational separation of the traditional life
back book and new business is in order. Thus on page 5, the key aspects of our strategic
measures are that we would like to achieve a situation in which we strengthen the role of
Page 2 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

being a leading primary insurer with a strong domestic market, by really creating a
comprehensive offering of products, advice services across all distribution channels. And I
cannot emphasize this enough that we really want the cost channel approach here. And
we also are determined to transform our business model digitally.
We want to create promoters out of our customers, people who refer to us actively. We
want to become a modern and attractive partner for our employees and sales partners.
And we commit to maintain a sustainable contribution to Munich Re results of EUR500
million and more, starting 2021 at the latest.
We will need will EUR1 billion of investments. And the figures here are net figures that I
refer to. We will invest this EUR1 billion until 2021. This will translate into EUR280 million of
net cost savings. And given the fact that a lot of our competitors always use gross figures
in this regard, we also translated them for you in EUR540 million gross figure. And again,
this translates into the EUR500 million net profit as of 2021 onwards.

Bloomberg Transcript

On page seven you see sort of the general architecture of the program. And it falls into
three categories. We want to be fit. We want to be digital. And we want to be successful.
And the general idea is on the fit category that we want to create a lean structure. And an
effective (governance). On digital, we want to create the basis for the change of the
business model transformation into a digital age. On the successful side, we want to have
convincing solutions for all of our customer segments.
The EUR1 billion that we invest, a little shy of 40% go into the fit category, a little more
than 40% go into the digital category. And 20% go into the successful category, which
shows you that this program is quite balanced with regards to all of the pillars that it
addresses.
I will now in the remaining 10 minutes very briefly touch on the most important of these 13
separately run initiatives, which however will all be tying into the picture that will ultimately
create the new ERGO. One of the major changes that we undertake and with that I am on
the following page, number 8. We will basically have to improve the effectiveness of our
sales organization.
And with our previous strategies, we have almost semi-integrated the five sales
distribution agency channels into one. But it's really only semi-integrated. So we put them
into one legal entity framework. But process-wise, they still operate quite independently.
With this move, we will now really conclude the creation of one ERGO. And transform
those five agency channels into one ERGO agency channel.
In the same context, we will retain the regional presence and the customer proximity. But
because of overlapping structures that gives us efficiency gains of 54 regional directions,
which basically means we (restore) from 18 locations. And I could say in bracket, only.
Because the rest is just a redundancy figure. And realistically this gives us a much more
efficient structure than we currently have. In addition to that, in order to be more
successful on the sales side, we would like to take the broker distribution out of the

Page 3 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

agency distribution management. And position that with what we call the product provider
that is the risk takers of P&C and life.
On the administration side, on page number 9, we basically just have the goal of even
further lean and efficient processes and structures. And given my assessment that I
believe our costs are too high and I think that can be easily demonstrated when we do
competitor comparisons, we believe we just have to become more efficient. I spare you
the process on how we dealt with this. But after the end of the program, we are very wellpositioned amongst our peer group of our competitors. And we will then basically have
cost structures which we believe are medium-term sustainable in order to future grow.
Page number 10 refers to your third work stream, which is the international organization, in
which we have basically only now decided two things. The first thing is that we changed
the governance model. And basically moved the regional management out of Dusseldorf
into the regions, which I believe is a more modern approach. And obviously we are then
closer to our businesses. And we use this to establish an even more thorough governance
of our Group CFO, who will comment on that when he has basically the floor in a couple
of minutes.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to this governance change, we come up with a cost savings program in the
order of magnitude of EUR30 million, which basically gives us the confidence that we also
become more financially efficient in the international organization.
Work stream number four is with German life and the separation of the traditional life
business from the new life business. As you are very well aware, ERGO already
announced the exit from traditional life business with regards to its new sales. Following
this decision, organizational changes, namely the separation of the traditional back book
and new business, will now be implemented.
We have the concentration of our future product strategy, which is a capital market
related and biometric product range through our risk carrier, ERGO VORSORGE, which for
those of you who know us on a detailed level, will have to be renamed into ERGO
VORSORGE. Because currently it's just called VORSORGE.
We will then secondly establish an effective and separate organization and entities with
optimized processes for the traditional life business, which basically means the legal
entities ERGO Leben and Victoria Leben. And ERGO Pensionskasse will be closed for new
business. New business will now be only generated from portfolio due to legal or
contractual obligation. A new setup will basically retain or give us significant management
advantages, including a higher financial transparency.
Page number 12 gives you a little more detail on this, where you basically see what I've
just alluded to in graphics. I think this is something which I can jump over now.
Work stream number five and work stream number six deal with IT. And they both
basically say in a nutshell that we are going to fundamentally renovate all of our IT. It's
going to be a very big task, which we very diligently are going to manage. And it will
Page 4 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

basically start to come to bear fruit when we try to come up with more standardized
software in our classical basis IT, with new testing methods, just basically to become more
state-of-the-art in our basic foundational IT.
Based on these developments, which will take place in the next 18 to 24 months at least
lying the groundwork for this, we will also in parallel grow a more digital and more agile IT
structure. So for example on the digital IT, we will come up and build in cooperation with
leading digital companies who will then come up with digital labs that we will jointly either
own or operate, in order to retain a flexible IT digital infrastructure. And that should help
us to have a much faster reaction time. And these will be the two key infrastructure
ingredients in order to become very prepared for the business digital transformation.

Bloomberg Transcript

And let me just basically point out that once this program is over, it is our ambition to have
real state-of-the-art IT throughout the entire value chain. And it's very obvious to me that
once this is completed, we will be able to achieve more growth opportunities. And to
basically take new client groups in an order of magnitude that is not yet fully reflected in
the plans that we currently have. But it's too early to say on a serious level what kind of
direction this will take. Because we first have to do our homework before we contemplate
that more seriously. And I would like to point out that we can transform the fact that we
are now at a point in the investment cycle in which we now have to fundamentally invest
into IT. We can transform that into an opportunity, which will be the basis for many more
growth initiatives going forward.
We will work, on page number 15 and work stream number seven, in terms of automating
and stabilizing our processes. That's something I'd like to flip over. Because it's really
some sort of homework. So with that, I would like to move to the third pillar, which is being
successful. And this itself falls into three categories.
Work stream eight is basically digitization of the product portfolio. We already have a very
good basis for this product portfolio. Because we are quite successful in various areas of
our business. We can, however, even accelerate this level of success if we truly digitized
that. That means that we will develop products exclusively for the internet age. And for
the digitized age, which will then-- and that is quite an often misunderstanding-- not only
be available digitally. But these products are also able to be sold offline via sales agents,
because the client behavior is changing. And they don't want these complicated products
anymore. And we can also use this as an opportunity which will cross-fertilize into the
classical offline sales, which is another growth opportunity.
Also-- and I would like to restress that, because it's such an important synergy-- we would
like to embrace the opportunities that we have with MEAG. Because the asset
management competence of our asset manager is not yet fully reflected in our product
range, first and foremost on the old-age provisioning product offering. That's why I
believe that it will be another very important way forwards.
Modularization and providing a (pricely) attractive basis product, which will then be
augmented by various modules; that is another strategy which you are very well aware of
from the market. And obviously we will adopt that as well.

Page 5 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

We will then, once we have-- and we start now-- once we have a more modern, more
digitalized product range, we will then go into client segments. The first client segment I
believe it's the most important one, is the hybrid customer. Just for reference purposes,
the hybrid customer and the way we look at it is the customer who seamlessly wants to
be integrated between sales agents, internet approaches, call centers, et cetera.
That obviously requires significant investments, not only in the IT, which I've already
alluded to in work stream number five and six, which again cross-fertilizes this opportunity.
Because it gives an opportunity for us that once we are investing into these kind of new
ITs, we can already have the product offering for the hybrid customer in mind. So these
customers really do not fall into the category either sales agent or internet. They really do
both.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that is a very much growing segment. And we are very well-positioned. Because in
order to succeed in that market, you need one, regional salesforces. Because these
people do really want sometime a human interaction. And here we have a very large sales
organization in the future even more efficiently run. And secondly, they need a convincing
direct presence. And with ERGO Direkt, we have as you know, one of the most successful
direct players in our group.
So a combination of the growing segment, the regional sales, ERGO Direkt in our group,
plus the IT investments, I think, gives us sort of a pole position to take advantage of this
market trend. And that's why I believe this will be a very important growth opportunity.
And I would also like to say that this is something which also carries further beyond 2021.
And will give us further growth opportunities over and above the current planning going
forward.
In addition to those hybrid customers, there is a group of pure online customers. And the
way I like to define that is that pure online customers differentiate themselves from hybrid
customers that they are pure online only. This is a smaller segment. But it's something that
we don't cover as ERGO. And in some areas, it has a significant market share, not that
much. But still significant. So 5% to 10% of the new motor market, in my judgment, is easily
be found in this category. And I would like to take advantage of that as well. That's why as
of 2017, we plan to establish a pure direct player, no telephony, no sales agents, just
internet approaches, very lean, very price competitive, very efficient processes; however,
very customer-oriented for this target group.
We will do sort of a network approach. And try to collaborate with other providers that can
be startups, that can be IT platforms, that can be other providers. We will try to partner
with them, come up with an efficient platform. And use a new brand and put that in the
marketplace first with a motor product in (2017). And we then plan to expand that both in
terms of product range and diversify internationally as soon as 2018, if everything works
out as we plan currently.
I will then very briefly only touch on work stream number 11, the industrial and commercial
business. That's basically business as usual, just taking advantage of the competencies
that we have on a more international area.

Page 6 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

On number 12, ERGO Mobility Solutions, is something which we will use to increase our
initiatives in the B2B2C segment. You are all very well aware that B2B2C is a growing
segment. And we have been lucky enough to hire somebody who has a very good set of
experience in the B2B2C automotive segment, is Karsten Crede. He will lead that. And I
think, given his personal background plus the market (opportunity) plus the experiences
that we already have in ERGO in this context, will give us a very strong position.
Like with the hybrid customer and the pure online customer, I believe there is growth
opportunities in this area, which gives even more (fantasy) compared to what we have
already put in the plan. But it's too early to tell. Because Herr Crede will only join us on the
1st of January. But again, in these plans we lay the foundation for further growth in this
regard.
Last but not least before I hand over to Herr Jurecka, the international expansion will be
revisiting in H2 2016. As you see, we have-- as you have seen, as we have just announced
that we now a stake in the Thai operation. I would still like to say for the moment we focus
on the operations that we have. And try to improve their profitability and the way going
forward. We will obviously commit anyway to selectively grow our portfolio, especially in
Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia, if and when opportunities arise. But our main focus
for the moment is to invest and improve the current operations, which we already have,
as I said, the significant franchise in.

Bloomberg Transcript

And however, we have currently focused primarily on the domestic part of the business.
And the international part of the business will then be revisited between now and
November. So you can expect a new strategy statement in this regard by the end of 2016.
That was my brief 20-minute run through the strategic context. And I will now transfer to
Christoph Jurecka, who will tell you something more about the financials. Thank you.

Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

I'll take it from here. And give you a quick overview of the financial impact of our program.
I'll start on page 24. And the headline of page 24 could be that our ambition is to grow
above market starting from 2019.
When we start on the left-hand side of the page, this sounds rather surprising. Because in
life, actually there is no growth at all. But this clearly has to do with our decision to go out
of the traditional life business. And therefore clearly we can't expect any over-market
growth at all in that segment.
But what we can expect is of course that in the sub-segment of capital-market-related
product and biometric products that there we also aim at growth above market average.
But this won't be enough in order to compensate for the reduction of our business in the
traditional back book. And therefore there's overall a reduction of premium to be
expected in the segment life.

Page 7 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

In health, we have the expectation that we will have a growth of 2%. This is very much
driven by the omni-channel approach Mr. Riess was just referring to. And this is something
where, depending a little bit also on the price adjustments we are going to see in the
market, this will be in line with market, maybe slightly above, or maybe slightly below
market. But that's something where we will for sure be on the market level.
The focus of our growth also will be in the P&C and the direct segments. And those are
the segments directly connected to what we call our strategy tackling the hybrid customer
from a more digital and consistent approach.
And there you can see that in direct, we have plus 4% growth, especially from the hybrid
customer segment. Then in P&C Germany over the full period from 2016 until 2020, 2%.
But this growth is going to be increased until the end of the planning period. And
therefore from 2019 onwards, we expect a growth above market. So you see that also in
those figures there's a clear footprint of the growth initiatives Mr. Riess was just referring
to.

Bloomberg Transcript

On page 25 you'll see the investments we are going to invest until 2020, the overall
amount of roughly EUR1 billion was already mentioned. Here you see the split over the
years. And to start with in 2016, we are talking about roughly EUR300 million of
investments. I would like to highlight that around EUR200 million of that are restructuring
expenses, net, all net figures, which we are going to book in Q2. So those are included in
those EUR300 million here.
Then you see a reduced amount of investments going down from year to year until 2020.
And in 2020 still has a substantial amount being there. And you also can see that the
major amounts in later years are in the digital segment, which shows that the IT
investment is something which takes more time and Mr. Riess was referring to it that it's
the basis IT and the digital IT. And both are included in those figures here. And digital in a
certain sense builds on base. Though it's clear that it takes a little bit more time. Overall
EUR1 billion net effect of investments. So I think a sizeable investment to strengthen our
competitiveness in the market.
Page 26 you'll see the total cost savings. You'll see on across space in 2020 and onwards,
we have roughly EUR540 million. So EUR536 million of cost savings. The net effect would
be EUR279 million. And this has went up over the years from 2016 until 2020. So year by
year, the cost savings increase.
On the right-hand side, in the upper corner, you see that the cost savings are primarily
driven by the pillar fit, EUR340 million. And digital also contributes by EUR96 million. And
successful of course doesn't, because it's mostly about growth initiatives. So I wouldn't
expect something here. Then we have EUR100 million of an overall channel productivity
enhancement also included in our figures, coming up with EUR536 million across overall.
To achieve that we'll reduce our FTE number. So full-time equivalents, by roughly 1,900 by
2020. And the net effect, I mentioned that already of the cost savings, is EUR279 million.

Page 8 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

On page 27, you'll see the overall net income impact of the strategy program. And you'll
see that in 2020, the positive impact is EUR203 million. And what you also can see here is
the major contribution is from fit. So basically the cost savings is basically mostly driven (by
driving) the positive result impact. But also the growth initiatives. So the successful portion
is already contributing substantially in 2020. And as Mr. Riess was pointing out, we expect
the growth to further accelerate after 2020.
In the former years, you see that the profit impact is burdened by the investment, of
course. And they are also very much driven by fit. But not only. And you see the split here
over the year. Over all years, the sum is minus EUR49 million. So that's a positive impact in
this five-years' period of the program is not fully. But nearly compensating, the impact on
the results.
With that, I'd like to go to page 28. And this is a very central page from my perspective,
because it sums up the impact of our program from various perspectives. First of all, I'd
like to mention that the assumption behind the planning we are showing here are the
usual assumptions we take for planning. This is primarily that we take interest rates as
they are of today. So no interest rate increases or any other positive capital market impact
here. But really a stable market as a planning assumption behind all figures.

Bloomberg Transcript

You'll see that after 2021, we expect-- or after 2020. So in 2021 we expect at least
EUR500 million, based on that EUR450 million in 2020. So why do we expect that? Well in
2020 the figure still includes some investments. Then as mentioned before, growth
initiatives should further accelerate until 2021. So be that it we clearly can expect a figure
above EUR500 million in 2021.
You also see that in 2016 that's something we communicated already some weeks ago,
we expect a slightly negative result, which is of course driven by the investments in 2016.
And basically very much driven by the restructuring provisions we are going to book.
On the right-hand side, you see the split of the figures onto the different segments. Let
me start with P&C Germany. P&C Germany continues to be the main earnings contributor
for our group. So EUR250 million in 2020 is a very strong signal of an increased
profitability by 2020. And we then have international at EUR110 million contributing. And
with that, we are back to levels where we already were in the past. Then life and health
Germany, here health and direct included here, are stable or let's say a positive earnings
contributor, whereas life is putting this figure under pressure. And life in itself is a negative
contribution, double-digit negative contribution on the result here. So this is clearly a
burden for the overall earnings level of ERGO.
Having said that, I'd like come to the P&C Germany combined ratio. You see the
development in the lower picture on the slide. We start with rather high values also
compared to where we were in the past. But this is clearly driven by the investments.
Because major parts of the investments are also to be booked in the technical results. So
they will affect our combined ratio.

Page 9 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

Then from 2018 onwards, the cost reductions and also then the reduced level of
investments clearly will drive down-- the combined ratio down to 92% in 2020. And I'd like
to emphasize that this improvement of the combined ratio is only driven by the cost
improvements. So there's no impact of the technical-- on the technical side. So we
continue to have a stable and very profitable book, like what we had in the past.
On the German GAAP level, the cost ratio will be 29.8%. So below 30%. And this brings us
in the range where our competitors also are. So that's something-- a target level which is
acceptable from that perspective in the market as well.
I'd like to conclude my section of the presentation with a remark that with that earnings
level in 2020, we are going to earn our cost of capital. And from 2020 onwards, there's a
fair chance that we exceed our cost of capital in earnings. And maybe coming back on my
remark on life, if we take out the traditional life book from our earnings perspective even
much earlier, our earnings would be clearly earning the cost of capital. But even above
that. So all the segments except life are exceeding the earnings thresholds we are usually
having within Munich Re group.
With that, I'm finished with my part of the presentation. I'd like to hand over to Jorg.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jorg Schneider
Thank you, Christoph. What Christoph described is for us the clear answer to the question
why Munich Re fully supports ERGO's strategy program. Because it pays off. We do
significant investments in ERGO's infrastructure, product, employees. But we get decent
return over time be it based on IFRS earnings or from an economic point of view.
And I can also anticipate the last statement on the slide 29, ERGO is for Munich Re more
than just an earnings contributor. It provides the group with multiple options with synergy
potential between ERGO and reinsurance, which has not been fully leveraged yet. And
currently there are many business initiatives, common initiatives underway, especially in
the most innovative areas like cyber insurance, data analytics, digital customer front end
solutions, digital health, development of financial products; all that areas where a pure
reinsurer in the traditional sense would not be able to compete with Munich Re in its
combination with ERGO.
What I also want to emphasize is that the new management team of ERGO brings new
ideas, best-in-class expertise. And a good blend with the experienced core team at
ERGO. Whenever I had the chance to participate in the project work in the last couple of
weeks on the strategy program, I was excited and encouraged to see the strong
momentum and passion of the new teams of old and new colleagues here. On this great
spirit we can build. And we are very confident about a good future of ERGO.
As Christoph said, the profitability will cover the cost of capital from 2020. And there are
also upside chances which haven't been reflected yet in the, in my view, rather realistic
business plans. From today's perspective, ERGO is able to finance the program by itself.
And there is no need for downstreaming of capital as part of this strategy program. But
Page 10 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

this is based on the current shape of the capital markets. And there is a potential
downside, especially from a further decline of interest rates, for example.
During the duration of the strategy program, it would be unrealistic to expect a dividend
payment from ERGO to Munich Re. Short and medium term, this is a drain for Munich Re's
local GAAP earnings. But according to our current estimate, we have sufficient
distributable funds to continue with our strong capital repatriation policy, including share
buybacks and the very high dividend, which we have paid during the last couple of years.
So on balance, ERGO's strategy program is a big plus for ERGO itself. And for the group
as a whole. And with that, I hand back to Christian for the Q&A.

Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you. Nothing to add from my side. Happy to take the first question. Now, just my
usual housekeeping remark before we get started. Please limit the number of your
questions to a maximum of two per person in order to give everybody a fair chance to
raise questions. Thank you. And please go ahead.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Operator Instructions) Sami Taipalus, Berenberg

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. The first one-- I've got two
of them, actually. The first one is on economic capital. I was a bit surprised to not see
anything in the presentation or in the sort of broader discussion about what the impact of
this program will be on the economic capital requirement and the sensitivity of the
economic capital ratio of ERGO.
I mean I guess I'm thinking about this from the perspective that roughly one third of the
group's economic capital requirement relates to ERGO. And that of, I guess, most of the
interest rate sensitivity also relates to that. So some more sort of exploration on that
would be very helpful.
Then my second question is on the efficiency improvements in the distribution. You
mentioned about improving the organizational structures there. Is there also something
that you can do on the commission side here? I mean it just seems to me that an awful lot
of things have changed in the market. But that the commission structures haven't changed
very much yet. Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Page 11 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

It's Christoph. Yes. I'll take the first. Economic capital is-- yes, you're right. That's
something we did not really cover in the presentation. Economic capital calculations are
based on projections of future earnings. So Solvency II, for example, is based on that.
Then as you see that long term, we benefit from cost savings. So long term, there will be
a clear improvement of our economic position also by that program. We therefore expect
also a positive impact on the economic capital. And this is true for all our companies. But
also for the very often discussed life companies.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

But just if I look at your plans there, you're doing a quite a lot to change your new
business mix. And you're also talking about some work on the inforce business. And if I
just looked at another company based in Munich, they've kind of linked those things to
quite significant improvements in reductions in the interest sensitivity of their capital ratio.
And also reductions in the required capital. Is that something that we can expect from you
guys as well? Or am I missing some other impact here?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No-- I wouldn't-- I mean there will be-- as I said, there will be a positive impact from the
program rather long-term improvement of economic earnings. And thereby improving the
capital position of our companies. But the nature of the program we are proposing here is
more a strategic one really to bring ERGO back into shape. And to improve the situation
that we are really going forward are a very strong player back in the German and
international market. It's more operational (inaudible).

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Should I take the commission question? Yes. Markus Riess here. What you observe, Sami,
is absolutely right. The environment for high commission has changed. We see both
regulatory pressure as well as pressure from the customer protection groups on that
scenario. And that's why I believe medium term provisions in commissions will have to be
lower than today.
Now we are in a situation in which legally we have legal contracts with our existing agents.
We are not in a position. And we don't have any legal basis for unilaterally adjusting these
contracts to, let's say, the new economic reality. So we have to basically argue with the
existing agents. And that's not an ERGO-specific issue. That's an industry-wide issue.
And we have, for example, just renegotiated with the agents a new package on the life
insurance commissions, based on the LVRG, which is the
Lebensversicherungsreformgesetz in Germany. And which we basically transform upfront
commissions into a longer-term retrocession kind of commission, which then obviously
retains different responsibilities for the agents to retain the business for a longer side,
which in turn translates into a lower commission ratio de facto.

Page 12 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

However. And that is a very important however, for new agents we are at liberty to
change something. And one of the nice effects that we are going to have one
homogeneous ERGO agency distribution going forward. That gives us the opportunity to
contract new agents on one homogeneous new level. And that new level for the first
cohort of sales agents that will come to us as of 2017 will clearly see a lower commission
structure.
However. And I have to repeat that for legal reasons, we have to take the time to let this
new commission structure grow into our base of agents. But medium term, there will be a
lower average commission than there is now. But it will just take time. However, all of the
necessary preparations will be in place by the beginning of 2017.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Vinit Malhotra, Mediobanca

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Oh, hi. Thank you very much. Just if I can ask on slide 27 please, if I just back out these
restructuring or net profit impact of strategy, the underlying net income seems to not be
moving much. For 2017, for example, your EUR130 million, you add back EUR110 million to
EUR240 million. At EUR203 million, you add back-- it's whatever you subtract, it's (EUR250
million) or something like that. So the underlying trend in earnings is not really changing. So
if you could just remind us what is driving the sort of stable outcome, excluding the
strategy program, what are you doing as well?
Next question is just a clarification on slide 28. The combined ratio comment that the
improvement on this chart is coming more from the claims-- sorry-- improvement is
coming more from the expense ratio. Now that seems to be quite a lot. Because on the
one hand you mentioned a 3-point sort of improvement between 2015 and 2020. But the
improvement in the reported combined ratio is much larger. So if you could just comment
on both these.
If you would you like me to repeat question one on slide 27, I'm happy to repeat. Because
I think the line was breaking a bit.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Okay. I'll start with the first one. Yes. You're right. If you deduct the impact of the
investments, the impact of the strategy, you come up with a rather stable earnings
development. That's correct. First of all, I'll have to remind you that the interest rate
assumption we are taking here is a stable one. So stable also means that for new
investments we invest at this very low rate every year. So the average return on our book
already reduces year by year. And therefore, let's say the natural development you would

Page 13 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

have been expecting without any measures would even be a negative one, not even a
stable one.
Then I have also to say that in this base case here, which you are here having as a
comparison to the case including the strategy, there are also investments required which
we need for regulatory purposes or regulatory reasons. And then also for life cycle
reasons. That's also something which is included here. And those two reasons are enough
in order to even if you have some improvements which are also included in the basis, you
still do not really move ahead and stay at this stable level for (EUR250 million).

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, sorry. Can I just follow up? So the whole purpose of so much digital investing should
have been to increase that, isn't it? Because it's a long term. And there's so much
investing going on.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. But I mean I think we mentioned it. First of all, the digital investment is part of the
strategy. So it contributes to the EUR203 million. But having said that, I mean what you
were saying is right. I mean the digital development is something which has also a more
long-term character than, let's say, the more short-term initiatives like cost reductions.
And therefore we expect an additional benefit from the digitalization far beyond the year
2020. And this is clearly not presented yet in our figures. Because we just had to stop the
planning period at some point in time.
Then the other question was on the improvement in expenses in our combined ratios.
And yes, I mean you're right. The driver for the improvement of the combined ratio is
really more or less only the expense ratio. It's roughly 4% improvement compared to
where we stand today. So if you compare it with combined ratios we are currently
achieving or we are currently at. And then deduct 4%, I think you end up with the level
which is fairly in line with what we are showing here. And on page 28.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Can I just follow up? The 2015 combined ratio is 98%. It goes to 92% in 2020.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yes. But in 2015, we had a year which was also very much burdened by one-offs. So the,
let's say the more average level, average claims and not cut, it would be more around
96% today. And therefore the 92% is something where we could at with the cost
measures.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Page 14 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Michael Huttner, JPMorgan

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic, thank you. Just on the-- you spoke about capital-- both CFOs spoke about
capital. But you didn't give us any figure. And there was a question. And you didn't answer
it. And I just wondered why. Could you give us the figure please? What is the capital
allocated to ERGO at the moment. So we can judge the numbers you said about clearing
costs of capital and everything. Even if we have to-- you have to provide a trajectory for
the capital. That would be really, really helpful. To me, I agree with my predecessors that's
missing from the presentation.
The other point. And it's related exactly to the same issue. Because to me, Munich has a
huge pile of cash. And I do wonder about all this investment. But what is the risk, Mr.
Schneider, of a capital addition? You mentioned low interest rates. I mean what are the
assumptions you're making at the moment that there is no risk for capital addition? And at
what level would you say, no, actually now we do-- we are in the territory where we have
to consider it? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider

Bloomberg Transcript

Herr Michael, thank you. With regard to capital, you could use the IFRS capital, which is in
the order of EUR5.4 billion of ERGO. Or you could use the economic risk capital, the
Solvency capital requirement. And here it's a bit difficult to allocate the diversification
effect. But it's somewhere a little bit below EUR5 billion. So it's a big number. And it's
driven by the market risk. And the life risks from the German life business, as you know.
So this is something where you can-- you can't do a lot about it. And therefore, I can only
fully underline Christoph's answer before when he was asked, what do you do about
economic capital. This program is not about dealing with the low interest rate and its
consequences. Here we just capsulate the back book, which is an important step. And a
very beneficial step. But everything else one can do here has not been implemented in
this program, which is rather about operational efficiency and about growth potential
And what you could also hear is that we do no longer sell the traditional classic life
products. This is also an enormously beneficial contribution going forward.
Risk, risk for capital or for the self-financing of ERGO here, as things stand today and
taking into account current investment markets, including the current very low interest
rates, we can finance-- or ERGO can finance a program by itself. But it's at the edge here,
as you can imagine. Because there are capital requirements in the life companies. We
have been dealing with that, with a bunch of measures. But we are not on the safe side
with regard to future interest rates. They can go further down, even more. And that is the
biggest question mark on it all at the moment. So we must be realistic about it.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Could you-- is there any way of giving a figure around this?

Page 15 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

A - Jorg Schneider

FINAL

It doesn't make a lot of sense. Because there are so many parts of the equation which are
uncertain. So for example, at the moment we very moderately invest in credit risk. And we
have some assumptions with regards to default, for example. So as long as capital
markets remain as benign as they are at the moment with regard to the credit risk, it's
fine. When we see drastic adverse movement here, then this would hit us to some extent.
Therefore it's difficult to quantify here.
But as things stand at the moment, we are confident that we do not need any capital
injection.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

(inaudible). Thank you very much.

A - Jorg Schneider
Thank you.

Operator
William Hawkins, KBW

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you very much. First of all, I think this risks echoing Vinit's question. But with
regards to your 2020 earnings guidance, I'm trying to make sure I understand the
numbers correctly on slides 25 to 27. Because if I take the middle of your original guidance
for this year, which is EUR300 million. And then subtract the EUR99 million of investments
still going on in 2020. And add the EUR279 million and EUR203 million of cost savings and
strategy benefit, I get closer to a figure of EUR680 million, which is more than EUR200
million higher than your actual guidance. So I just wanted to be clear. Am I misusing one of
those numbers in a certain way? And if not, is the drag the issue of low yields and that
kind of thing that you were talking about to Vinit, or is it something else?
Then secondly, Jorg, what's the near-term risk to Munich Re's earnings, not the dividend,
when we think about 2017 and 2018? On a normal basis, this year you were going to be at
EUR2.3 billion to EUR2.8 billion. Other things equal, the ERGO guidance is now something
like EUR100 million to EUR200 million lower than we were kind of thinking about
previously. So that's about 10% of what your 2016 guidance would have been. Are you
kind of thinking that nevertheless this all gets lost in the rounding? So the overall Munich
Re group can continue to maintain the 2016 level in the near term? Or is this actually
incrementally hurting 2017 and 2018 earnings for Munich? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
Let's start with the second question. William, yes. It may sound arrogant. But it is true what
you said. So it's in the rounding. It doesn't make our task easier to fulfill our EUR2.3 billion

Page 16 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

target. But we are confident that we can make it, especially based on the strong balance
sheet.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

FINAL

And to the extent my question was about 2017, you're also-- this is not going to disrupt
2017 or 2018 (visibility)?

A - Jorg Schneider
Yes. And even in 2017, we would be negatively affected. Because we are still working with
a very low number coming from ERGO. Nevertheless, we are confident that we can deal
with it. And that you wouldn't see a lot of an impact in the IFRS result. On a like-for-like
basis, each euro which is missing from ERGO is negative, which is (inaudible)? Christoph?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I'll take your first question. I'm not sure if I fully understood what kind of calculation
you just did. But let me maybe explain page 27 what really is shown there. What you see
there is the overall net profit impact of our program. And this includes investments. This
includes cost savings. But not only. It additionally includes also net profit impact from
growth strategies from other cost factors and various other topics, which are not
disclosed in the presentation here. So you won't be able to calculate the net profit impact
of the overall program, given by other information you find in the presentation here.
That's not possible.
To explain the figures, you see in 2020 the EUR203 million. And we discussed it before. If
I take those out of the EUR450 million we're showing on page 28, then the baseline
would be around EUR250 million. So somewhat below the midpoint of the range you
were just referring to. And this is correct. Because until 2020, as I just said before, interest
rates stay low in the projection here. And also we have to assume some investments in
regulatory projects and also in life cycle topics, which we just have to do. And they are
also part of let's say the base case underlying the page 27.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. So I think I was misunderstanding. So just to be clear, the EUR279 million cost
savings for 2020 is part of the EUR203 million benefit from synergies.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

That's right.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

And the reason it's high, is because you've got to deduct the restructuring costs into
other stuff, yes?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

That's right.
Page 17 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you for that. Thanks.

Operator

FINAL

Kamran Hossain, RBC

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Can I just firstly come out with a very high-level question?
Why was now the right time to-- I guess-- to get (investable) in ERGO? Was this simply just
kind of recognition of, I guess, the organization that Mr. Riess previously came from was
running very, very differently to the way that ERGO is now. So I guess that's question one.
And the second question, just on the German life separation of the two books. Is this
preparation for a sale or anything else? Or am I just reading too much into that? Thank
you.

A - Jorg Schneider

Bloomberg Transcript

Jorg here. Let me take both questions. Right time to invest in ERGO, I would say
absolutely yes. We decided to really make a new huge step in the right direction by hiring
top-class people. And by managing it with a totally new approach, an approach which is
oriented to best-in-class practices. And that needs investments. And I'm sure that these
investments will pay off. That is the very simple answer.
Second, German life, to capsulate it is important for running the business efficiently, for
using opportunities we have to make it, let's say, less of a burden to some extent. We
have further options. But they are not on the agenda at the moment.
Does it answer your question, Kamran?

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

That's perfect. Thanks very much (inaudible).

A - Jorg Schneider
Thank you.

Operator
Olivia Brindle, Bank of America

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Oh, hi there. Two questions. First one just in terms of your thinking on the timeline. One of
your slides says EUR500 million from 2021 at the latest. What is your confidence level of

Page 18 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

maybe being able to achieve that a bit faster? I'm just thinking that it's quite a long,
drawn-out process to get to that level. So how are you thinking about the confidence on
that?
Then secondly on the international side of things, obviously the market conditions there
remain pretty difficult, pretty challenging. How does that factor into the targets that you've
given today? And how conditional are your numbers on things at least not getting worse
in those underlying markets? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
Olivia, Jorg again. This is in my view a very realistic plan. That means it is neither based on
an unrealistic ambition, on a lot of optimism, nor on worst-case scenarios. We-- as Markus
described before, we are aware of the challenges we are faced to. Also not only in our
own book. But also from market forces. He mentioned regulatory pressure. He mentioned
consumer protection pressure. We tackle them. And we are confident that we can give
good answers to it. Therefore, I would regard the plan as being absolutely achievable. But
it's ambitious. It's not unrealistic. But it's ambitious.
Okay, Olivia?

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you. I'm sorry on the international?

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Olivia, would you please repeat your question on the international business?

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Yes, sorry. So my question was just around the fact that market conditions are still pretty
difficult in some of those markets. So wondering how you thought about that within your
plan. And how conditional some of these numbers are on those underlying market
conditions at least not getting worse.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

I mean of course we have planning assumptions behind the whole plan. And I think I
mentioned before already that we have some kind of a naive prognosis. So (inaudible),
it's a best estimate. Take market conditions as they are. We do not factor in any situations.
But neither improvements also in the respective markets. So from that perspective, it's
just what Jorg was referring to. It's realistic in a sense, with ups and downsides. But we
wouldn't bet on any improvement in any of our international markets.
And maybe on top of that, anyhow, Mr. Riess was pointing out already that the growth
strategy will be reviewed in the second half of the year. So there's also the chance to look
into the things again for us.

Page 19 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Thomas Seidl, Bernstein

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. First question on life. Clearly you are not alone with the
issue of running off German life businesses. So my question is, is in that chance an idea
that you combine forces and run it off together more efficiently, like we have seen in other
countries. Is that the best way forward, rather than each company dealing on its own? I
wonder what your thoughts are on this.
And secondly, again on life, can you give us the breakdown or the impact on the cost side
for the life business. And a comment maybe how beneficial that is for the life capital
situation?

A - Jorg Schneider

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll take the first one, Thomas. We are open to any idea at the moment. But that sounds
interesting. But I haven't seen any concrete plans on that. So I can't say more at the
moment. Christoph?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

The question was the split on life. And then how beneficial it could be for life companies
from a capital perspective. Yes. You're right. I mean cost improvements and in general the
improved result situation of our life carriers clearly helps also from a capital perspective. In
Solvency II we look at projections of the earnings into the future so that's exactly the right
way to look on it. We think it will help us. But it's not the main driver for the topic. So it will
help. Actually I can't give you the split of the cost savings on life. But it will be a substantial
amount which will hit life. So it will help. But it won't be-- it's not the main driver.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

It's not the main driver. But what would be the main driver then?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

The main driver for life separation was what Jorg was just referring to it. It was that it's
much better from a management attention perspective. Prioritization is much easier. We
can concentrate of running off the book, versus new business in a separate entity. So
management can concentrate on the respective topic. That's the main reason why we're
doing it.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Page 20 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Sorry. I'm not talking about the capsulation. I was talking about the cost cuts you're
planning; are any of those cost cuts accruing to the life back book? Or is it basically P&C
and the life new business benefitting from that?

FINAL

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

No. They accrue also to the life back book. That's what I meant before. So the capital will
benefit from it. But as I said, this benefit is the main driver. We do it for operational
reasons. But of course, it's a benefit also for the life companies, both on capital as well as
on earnings.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
Xinmei Wang, Morgan Stanley

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good afternoon. My first question is on the net profit in 2020 by segments on slide 28.
Could you talk about the shape of that from 2015 to 2020? I know-- so in 2020 the
majority is coming from P&C Germany. Is that (going to be the case) throughout the
years? That's my first question.
My second is just a follow-up a previous question. I'm not sure if you answered the one
about potential sale or considering a potential sale of your life back book. Is that
something you've discussed as part of the strategy program? Thank you.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

For the first one, that's something which actually does not make too much sense to talk
about. Because the main flavor it, for the split over the years will just be how quickly will
we be investing. And the quicker we invest, the more burden we will have earlier years.
And the less in later years.
So from that perspective, we decided just to say 2017 EUR130 million, we are back to
positive levels. I think it's an important message. And then 2020-2021, at the target level.
But in between, it's still very uncertain, given the fact that we will have to decide when to
invest, how much. And therefore it just doesn't make too much sense to talk about it.

A - Jorg Schneider
Yes, Xinmei. And it's also difficult because the cost allocation is to some extent arbitrary.
So there is some estimation (around) here. On your second question about a potential
sale, it is not in the agenda.

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}
Page 21 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Andrew Ritchie, Autonomous

A - Jorg Schneider
Andrew?

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello. Are you there?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

We hear you, Andrew. Andrew? We are courageous about your question--curious.

Operator
Andrew appears to have stepped away from the phone. We now have Thomas Fossard
from HSBC.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon. One remaining question on my side for Markus. And that would be
related to the product side of the program today and on the life business. Regarding
potentially the need to-- will they be able to manufacture, I would say, attractive asset
management product, something like that. And I think that in your presentation you
alluded to working more closely with MEAG. Do you believe that currently MEAG has, I
would say, enough strength on third-party asset management if and if potentially you're
contemplating an acquisition in that field in order to strengthen the value proposition of
your life product and to support your ambitions? Thank you.

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you very much for that question. I believe that for the purpose of this strategy, we
do not need to consider an acquisition. Because realistically, MEAG is a very good asset
management company. And one of the key success factors in coming up with this strategy
that incorporates asset management products and know-how into old-age provisioning
products.
It is really key that these products have a good quality, low cost. And a low complexity. We
have to be very careful with over-complex products in this regard. And I believe that
MEAG is actually in its current state perfectly prepared for being a very important product
provider and success contributor in that issue.
So I believe cooperating with MEAG is very beneficial. As it is, a further acquisition would
not add any value in this context.
Page 22 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thanks for this very clear statement.

Operator

FINAL

Michael Hyde, Commerzbank

Q - Michael Hyde

{BIO 2054985 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Michael at Commerzbank. Two questions, first on-I'm sorry again-- term and life. The organization or separation of the new business and the
back book seems to me that you create kind of a bad anchor, kind of a bad life insurer.
What measures do you want to take to improve the profitability of the life back book? Is it
only cost savings? And I assume you have a negative expense result in the local GAAP
accounts. And so here you have significant leverage when you improve costs. Because
you can give it fully to the shareholder.
Second question, the net profit impact of your strategic program. To what extent have
you factored in the competition in your targets? Other insurers have similar initiatives
regarding IT and digitalization. And I think it would be kind of naive to assume that in this
process of industrialization, prices remain unaffected. So it would be more reasonable to
assume that some efficiency gains are competed away. And what are your assumptions
regarding this?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

I'll take the first one on life. Basically there are a couple of positives we see. First of all, of
course, what you were also mentioning, cost is very important. So the idea is to really
concentrate the back book management. And by doing so to implement a more-- let's
say a leaner administration and more efficient administration of the back book. That's the
first thing.
The second thing is that we think that we could organization our IT more efficiently. Then
we will also continue to invest in the IT there to have a platform which allows us to really
efficiently serve the contracts we are still having in that back book. And they will be lasting
for a very long time. This back book is clearly running off very slowly.
Then, of course, it's also management attention and the dedication of the people
working in that particular area. Because we're currently in the situation where you still have
to serve the requirements of new business as well as the back book. You're always
somehow in between two things. And you neither concentrate only on the one or the
other. And we think that it's also beneficial to have people really concentrating on the
back book management. And specializing in that. And then building up expertise in that. I
think that is really something which will benefit a lot also going forward.

Q - Michael Hyde

{BIO 2054985 <GO>}

Page 23 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Maybe an additional question on the back book. You mentioned new IT for the back book.
I mean you are basically winding down this back book. And you have the IT in place to do
that. Is it not more efficient to just leave the IT for the back book as it is. And wind it down?

FINAL

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

No. It's really a question on efficiency. But also I mean the systems, they have a life cycle
anyhow. Then if you look at the back book, I mean, duration of a back book. We're talking
about decades. And if you look, for example, decades back from today, you would never
have the idea that it would have been a smart choice 40 years ago to just maintain on the
systems you were having in those days. So the need to upgrade systems and to renew
them over time will remain also for work for an organization which is focusing on back
book management. Because we are just living in the world where life cycles tend to be
quicker and quicker and shorter and shorter.
And so we see the need to invest. And we will invest. And of course the target will be a
more efficient administration and a leaner management of the back book overall. But this
will involve IT investments.

Q - Michael Hyde

{BIO 2054985 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

On your question with regards to the competitive landscape, I think your observation is
fully right. A lot of other competitors are targeting the same groups as we are. And I
would like to say the devil is in the detail. I mean just having the ambition of addressing
those targets (inaudible) is not necessarily already a convincing success factor.
I believe that ERGO brings a couple of important elements to the strategy which makes
its success in this regard more successful-- more likely. First of all, we have ERGO Direkt.
ERGO Direkt is currently the direct insurer with the highest number of clients.
Secondly, we are in an investment cycle. And I alluded to that when I talked about the IT
investments, in which we have the obligation to really thoroughly investigate and renovate
as well our foundational IT, as well as the digital IT. That gives us an opportunity not to
work with systems going forward that are 5 or 10 years old. But really very modern
systems coming up. And they're already engineered towards digital clients. Now I am fully
aware that this is strategy going forward. But I'm very confident also from my market
expertise that this will create a competitive edge.
Thirdly, in the plan we accounted for that factor. Because on page 26 you have a category
called productivity enhancement, which is exactly addressing the point that you are
making. And fourthly, if it wasn't for that strong competitive environment we would have
been more ambitious in our plans. So realistically we believe that this already takes the
competitive landscape into account.

Page 24 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - Michael Hyde

{BIO 2054985 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

Andrew Ritchie, Autonomous

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Oh, hi there. Can you hear me this time?

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Yes. We can here you.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thanks for that. Sorry about that. Two questions; one is you described the
restructuring costs, or you described it as restructuring costs and investments or
investments overall. I guess my concern is that particularly for digital, these aren't really
one-off investments. And how much confidence have you that that digital investment
really winds down? Isn't that just becoming part of ongoing running costs? Is there really
enough visibility to say beyond 2020? I think you've still got EUR60 million or thereabouts
that we should just assume that isn't recurring. That's my main-- my first question.
The second question for Christoph, I think you said that the discrete life business was
double-digit loss-making in the projection, where you give the profit by segments for
2020. I guess I just want to understand what's driving that. Obviously it's a low-rate
environment. But is this reflecting-- there's a complex interaction between local GAAP and
IFRS on the ZZR edition. Is that impacting IFRS profit more by that point? Or what's the
main driver of the double-digit negative? Thanks.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Okay, first of all, I'm happy to take both questions. Christoph here. The restructuring costs
and investment, yes, you are right. I mean building up the digital IT will lead to the fact that
of course we have to pay for the digital IT as long as you have it. Although there will-some costs remain with us. But on the other hand, we'll renew our platform overall. And
we expect cost savings beyond that also going forward. So there might be a
compensating element on that.
The second question, double-digit loss, I would even say high double-digit loss. Then
what you said was just right. I mean we are talking about mismatches here between local
GAAP and IFRS. Then Solvency II is different again. So it's really a nightmare in explaining
those figures. Let me try at least.
In local GAAP we think over the next four or five years, we'll get through without a major
loss, maybe a minor one. But without a major one. In local GAAP, you know we have the

Page 25 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

ZZR which is a burden on our liability side. On the asset side, we compensate that by
realizing unrealized gains.
And we do so in two ways. One way is doing-- just selling bonds to the market, which is
just what we would expect. But we have a different-- a second way how we can do it,
which is more efficient. And this is we sell bonds from one company within our group to
the other. And clearly has the advantage that we get the midpoints, we don't (bid-outs)
for it. So it's much cheaper. We don't have to pay any fees. And so it's efficient to do it
that way.
And so being the CFO, I love the way. But the huge disadvantage is in IFRS you don't see.
Because you just consolidate them out. So there's no benefit from realizing those gains in
IFRS. We have the benefit in local GAAP. So it fits toward the need for the liability. But you
don't have the benefit in IFRS. And that's why IFRS looks worse than local GAAP regularly.

Bloomberg Transcript

But the good news with that is that is-- I mean realizing gains always means that the future
return of your bonds is lower. And this affect is also something which is not there in IFRS.
So earning in IFRS should be more stable going forward compared to local GAAP. That's
the flip side of the coin. So that's one reason.
And the second reason is that we have the ZZR in local GAAP. And we have a related
animal in IFRS which is called liability adequacy test and (DAC depreciations). And those
are, let's say, at heart they are similar. The idea behind them is similar. But the detailed
calculation is differing a lot. So that from one year to the other you couldn't say if the ZZR
is higher or the DAC on the liability adequacy test are higher. And this gives you an
additional mismatch between local GAAP and IFRS.
And therefore we primarily (inaudible) local GAAP with the effect that we do the
realizations of bond unrealized gains to the level we have-- that's another requirement.
But in IFRS we have two reasons why this deviates and can deviate drastically. And one,
just as I said, is the difference between ZZR and DAC and liability adequacy test. And the
second one is that we usually do not have the realized gains in the IFRS result for a major
part of the realizations, because we just sell them once from one company to the other.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. That's complex. But clear. I think the bottom line is that there's a bit less scope to
keep the IFRS profit as resilient as it has been, I think. Is that a fair very quick summary?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

I mean in the end, the life insurance business, I could comment that in the end it's all
about distributing earnings over time. And you as a management team have a lot of
freedom how to do it. I could realize easily enough unrealized gains in order to
compensate for it. It just wouldn't be reasonable from an economic perspective. Because
it costs money. And going forward it reduces the earning base for the future. So it's all
about timing in the end.

Page 26 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

And as there is so much freedom in there, also for the planning assumption here, we've
been just conservative for the planning assumption. (With the) local GAAP and ZZR, there
will be no major loss in local GAAP. And IFRS is just resulting. And those two mismatches
we're having lead to the effect that the IFRS result is (burdened). But that's nothing to be
worried about. Because it is just accounting gimmicks, I would call it.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Great. Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks very much.

Operator
In-Yong Hwang, Goldman Sachs

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Thank you very much for taking my question, just two from me as well. Firstly, I think Jorg,
you mentioned on the Munich Re German GAAP result, it will be a drain as well. But would
the investment cost of EUR1 billion, would that be a one-on-one effect? I feel like maybe it
would be slightly less than that on the German GAAP accounts.

Bloomberg Transcript

And my second question is on the-- again on slide 28, when you have the 2020 net
income forecast by segment. I think Markus, you mentioned for the international business
there's-- I think early in the presentation-- EUR30 million cost cutting assumption. Does
the EUR110 million net income assumption for the international business, does that include
that EUR30 million in there as well? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
In-Yong, thank you. With regard to German GAAP situation, it's a loss of the ERGO
dividend, which (inaudible). And how one could quantify that that is somewhat arbitrary at
the moment what would we expect from ERGO. From ERGO in the final stage of the
program, I would say something like EUR400 million or so per year. At the ERGO before
the strategy program, with a lot of problems, perhaps EUR200 million. And therefore for
us, we can't quantify it precisely. But it's a sacrifice by Munich Re. But a sacrifice which is a
very good investment too.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

And the answer to the second question is very easy. Yes. It's included. So the EUR110
million include the cost savings as well.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much.

Operator
Vikram Gandhi, Societe Generale

Page 27 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon. Can you hear me?

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. We hear you well.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. I've got two questions. The first one is now that the traditional life book is
closed to new business, can you please share how much of the existing technical results
would have run off by 2020? Let's say taking the end of 2015 number as a starting point,
which is about EUR1 billion.
And the second question is, does this program on ERGO restructuring change your
thoughts about applying the transitional rules under Solvency II? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
If I understood your question well, Vikram, only a small part of the business runs off by
2020. Because we haven't grown so much in traditional product during the last couple of
years. So in other words, there was very little new business on that. Christoph, do you
want to add something here?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe it's important to mention that I mean closing it for new business and sales
does not mean there's no new business at all. Because we have legal obligations in our
book to take new business in our books for existing policies. And so there will be still
some new business. Because we just can't avoid it. We are legally obliged to take it. And
this, of course, lengthens the duration of the portfolio. And so as I said before, it will take
decades until this portfolio will be decreased substantially-- it will have decreased
substantially.

A - Jorg Schneider
On your second question, we haven't used a transition as yet. And it's open whether we
could use them in future. It's an option. But it hasn't been decided to go that route. At the
moment, we do not need them.

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Anasuya Iyer, Jefferies

Q - Anasuya Iyer

{BIO 18981555 <GO>}
Page 28 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. My first question is on international, just a clarification
really. With the second half of 2016 when you revisit it, can we expect any more cost
there, or is any cost related to that revisit already in the plan?
And the second question, I guess, is broader and it might be at the risk of repeating
some of the earlier questions. But in sort of 2015, early on the guidance for ERGO was
about EUR500 million. Now we have EUR1 billion of investments, a full program (inaudible)
strategy just to get back to that EUR500 million in five years. And I guess I'm just trying to
understand in the plan now, what downside risk you're allowing for. And I guess another
way to phrase it is do you think the risk is-- you will hit less than EUR500 million. Or is the
risk that it will take up until 2023 or something? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
I start with the second question. Yes. It's disappointing. I agree. But with Markus Riess
entering the boat, he made a very clear analysis of where we stand. And especially also of
market challenges. And circumstances have not improved since, because interest rates
went down even further than they were before. And therefore it's now a mixture of
realism on one hand. And of ambition on the other hand. And ambition comes along with
the investment. So in my view, this prognosis now, this ambition of EUR500 million in 2020
is much better founded than the EUR500 million which ERGO should have achieved in
2015 before. And so I feel much more confident that we can reach it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Is it still at risk? Yes. It is, like always. Like every entrepreneurial activity, it is at risk. But I
think it's well founded. And there is upside and downside in a very balanced way at the
moment.

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

On international, I mean as we mentioned before, we did not really look into it. So this is
something we will do in the second half of the year, except one thing. And this is
expenses. And so expense reduction is already part of that program. And of course, I
mean some of our investments of course you're seeing in this overall program are related
to costs. So at least for that part, it should already be in our figures. But for other topics, I
can't really (inaudible). I just don't know. So it's a little bit too early. We'll look into it. But I
wouldn't expect large figures here.

Q - Anasuya Iyer

{BIO 18981555 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Jochen Schmitt, Metzler

Q - Jochen Schmitt

{BIO 4227302 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good evening. Why are you creating an additional online carrier by
2017 rather than optimizing your existing carriers to boost online distribution? I'm aware

Page 29 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

that different levels of services might require different pricing. But to me, this seems to
me not streamline the ERGO group structure, nor does it give a clearer picture about your
key target products or key target clients in my opinion. That's my question. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you very much for that question. It gives me the opportunity to basically pronounce
a contradicting view to what you have just said. Because I believe it is of utmost
importance that we differentiate the pure digital part of our offering from the integrated
digital part of the offering. And maybe you allow me to talk a little bit about my previous
experiences here. The way I have come to see the insurance marketplace is that the
traditional marketplace, traditional customer behavior is very, very vastly evolving into this
hybrid customer segment.
And that means people who are part of the agent salesforce only 10 years ago, they are
now part of this integrated community who researches everything online, who buys online
and offline at their leisure. And they don't do that consistently. They might buy a motor
product online. Because it's so easy to compare it. And they might buy an old-age
provision offline. Because they believe that there is no alternative to physical advice.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now having said that, the proposition of this offering needs to be absolutely distinct from
the proposition of a pure digital player. Because the pure digital player has totally different
key buying factors that's basically convenience in the (inaudible). And there is ultimately a
price proposition.
Now the price proposition, you can realistically not achieve by leveraging the existing
business model. Because it comes with still the telephony. It comes with more or less
mandatory services. And if you were to basically use a marginal cost model and put it on
the same platform, you always run the risk that people buy your cheap digital products
and still call your agent. And basically arbitrage their product offering against us. So to
speak.
And I'm telling you this from experience. So the organizational separation is very
important in order to coherently address the pure digital segment, as opposed to the
integrated segment. And that does not only hold true for the product proposition. It holds
true for brand. It holds true for the entire services that you adjust for that. And you can do
it as effectively as possible by really separating it as much as possible. And there is, I think
from my market intelligence, very clear indication that these two groups don't mingle.
Those people who really buy online but want some sort of agent or telephony services,
they go online. But they do it under the ERGO brand in the ERGO system. And that is
totally assured.
Now you could you argue that this might hold true in the front end. But not in the back
end. And there's a grain of truth to that. But for that, you would need a very modular
absolutely state-of-the-art mass retail platform. Because on those pure digital players,
you have between September and October, have to calculate hundreds of thousands of
prices per day. And we have to be very honest that our platform is currently not equipped

Page 30 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

of doing that. So we need to find a way to leverage existing platforms. That's why we
adopt partnerships.
I am totally with you that if we were to build this platform on our own, the synergies that
you imply, these synergies that you imply in your questions would materialize. That's why
we intentionally set up sort of a partnering network, where we basically license other
people's platforms who have some sort of this business model in other countries. And
then basically have a mass retail platform at marginal cost in a partnership structure, put a
new retail brand on it. And really put it visibly and organizationally away from our overall
business.
And let me finalize by saying we are talking about 5 to 10percentage points of new
business in only limited areas of product offerings. However, in those areas it's very
important. We all don't know if it's growing. It's possible. Because it creates a different
price position. But we need to be in that market alone for a strategic hedge. I also believe
it's a growth opportunity. But even if that wasn't the case, we need to strategically hedge
our position. And this can only be done convincingly from my experience if it's done in a
way that we suggest. And not in the primarily, I think, more intriguing way of saying just
leverage your existing platform, because of the reasons I just stated.
I hope that convinces you at least to certain degree.

Q - Jochen Schmitt

{BIO 4227302 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well I still have to think about it. But thanks for the answer.

Operator
Frank Kopfinger, Deutsche Bank

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. I have two questions. My first question is on
your local GAAP accounts. Do you see any risk of a potential write-down of the ERGO
book value, as obviously once you created ERGO-- this restructuring program had not
been within the plans.
And my second question is on the sensitivity on your overall group targets on your P&C
combined ratio target in Germany for 2020. The 92% seems very low. How confident are
you in reaching this as the sensitivity is very high. If you don't reach it and you, let's say,
have only a 95%, which would be still good in historical context, you have 40% of your
P&C Germany net profit target to be shed off. And 20% of your group profit target.

A - Jorg Schneider
Thank you, Frank. First on potential depreciation in local GAAP on ERGO book value in
Munich Re's account, the value of the share for the purpose of German GAAP accounting
is subject to impairment testing, which is based on what we call a flow-to-equity approach,

Page 31 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

which discounts expected future cash flow. And this program improves ERGO's position.
And it also improves in this calculation the benefit for Munich Re. Therefore it is in
tendency positive, in spite of the high investment.

FINAL

That means it improves our situation also with regards to the book value. I cannot exclude
further depreciation, subject to a deterioration of the market. And a deterioration of
ERGO's performance. But (isolately) seen, this program is beneficial. Christoph?

A - Christoph Jurecka

{BIO 17223019 <GO>}

Yes. Sensitivity on P&C, yes, you're right. I mean that's a very relevant question. And yes,
of course, there's no plan without risk. But we are confident. And let me explain why. The
reduction of the combined ratio is primarily cost driven, or only cost driven I might say. And
the cost development is something you have much better under control than compared
to your claims development. And therefore we are rather confident to achieve that.
The portfolio in itself will stay stable. And the balanced portfolio is something we will
maintain. But as I said, the cost will improve. And therefore we are very positive that we
can achieve that 92%.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
William Hawkins, KBW

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi. thanks very much. I'm very sorry to drag the call out. So hopefully these are quick.
Markus, this is a Herculean task you've got. Could you talk a bit about how you're going to
be rewarded for succeeding? I appreciate it's a grubby subject. But is your performance
going to be measured annually? Or have you got a three or five-year assessment period?
And what exactly, from what you've presented today, is the key deliverable? I mean is it
hit the profit. And everything else is detail? Or will you get rewarded if you've achieved on
the investment side, even if the profit turns out to be poor?
Then secondly, can you just confirm what you think about the key risks here? Presumably
you've had the green light from the trade unions and sales networks by now. But I just
wanted to confirm that. And where else do you see the risks? Because I've got to say,
without knowing anything about this, I've been told by other people that a company that
tries to completely rebuild its IT infrastructure is normally going to end up in quite a
challenged place. So I would assume that's a pretty material execution risk. Thank you.

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Yes. I'm very grateful for the question on the rewards. I have the same question myself I
think. No, no, just kidding. Well actually, I have been currently working without asking my
Page 32 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

colleagues from Munich Re and Nikolaus von Bombard and Jorg Schneider in particular,
about a detailed question-- about a detailed answer to this questions in terms of what the
KPIs ultimately will be. You are very well aware of my compensation system. Because it's
published in the Munich Re (inaudible) annual report. And basically it's made up of a yearly
component. And a multiyear components, three-year component that is-- a certain
proportion of this compensation then ultimately goes into Munich Re shares, which have
minimum holding periods. But that's the basics. So to speak.
In terms of the KPIs, I think we will have to negotiate that by the end of this year. If you ask
me. And that's really something prior to any discussion, my primary goal would be the
EUR500 million net income. Because I believe that ultimately is the one figure that sums it
up. I would also like to volunteer that below 30% cost ratio on P&C. Because I just happen
to believe that if you get this right-- and we had the issue about sensitivity-- the likelihood
of achieving that is higher.
And thirdly, I think that also gives us the opportunity of being in the market on a long-term
sustainably competitive basis, which also is then the future basis of further growth. So
realistically, I believe that will be along those lines. And obviously when we meet next, I will
know more about it. And Herr Schneider will be jumping in here.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jorg Schneider
Yes. Just quickly to interrupt Markus on that, there will be an element of economic
earnings too. And this is our basic elements everywhere be it for the annual
compensation, be it for midterm. But when we talk about major acquisitions, for example.
And even more when we talk about such a complex program that wouldn't cover the
realities. And therefore, I assume without being actively involved too much, it's a matter of
the supervisory board in the end that it's along the KPIs of this program and the
achievements, especially as Markus Riess said, with regard to the cost also of this
program.
But you can rely on us that we are very consistent with that. And it's always midterm
oriented. And not based on short-term success. May I hand it back to you, with regard to
the challenges of the program?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Then again, you can rest assured that I'm self-motivated enough to make
this happen. So that's another comment in this regard.
Now the risk. And I appreciate you saying it's a Herculean task. I believe that is very well
said. I still think it's worthwhile doing it. I also believe that the management team and the
employees at ERGO, they are capable, willing. And motivated of undertaking this
Herculean task. Because it's by no means my task. It's our task. And we really have to
stand together those next five years in order to accomplish that. But I think it will assure
the future-- profitable future of ERGO. And that's why it's a fight worthwhile fighting. And
actually that's why I came here. Because I wanted that kind of fight. So realistically, I'm all
for it.

Page 33 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

FINAL

Now with regard to the risks, I think there are various risks. First of all let me clarify. I'm not
sure whether I understood you correctly. But clearly there is no green light from the trade
unions at this point in time. Because we are obviously, as of today. And that's the way the
German systems work, as of today my colleagues responsible for HR has been starting in
negotiations with the unions and workers representatives in order to achieve a consensus.
And I'm very happy that we have this kind of culture. Because ultimately it's in our selfinterest to achieve consensus from the workers representatives on this context.
And this usually takes between three to six months plus. So today is not the right time to
give any indication on that. I would, however, not consider this as a risk to the program.
Because I believe that our program is convincing. The more important risks are basically
twofold.

Bloomberg Transcript

One risk is all around the sales organization. Because I have just been very frank about
telling you that we do the-- that we integrate the five semi-integrated agency sales
organizations into one. This will create a certain disruption. And this might lead to a lower
productivity in those transitional periods. That's something that a lot of companies see if
they undertake an effort like this. It's usually temporary. So it's also not something that in
my judgment jeopardizes the overall potential of the program. But it has to be taken into
account. And we are very well advised to mitigate that accordingly. And you can rest
assured that we have already in preparation, a lot of mitigating measures in order for this
to be avoided.
The second big category of risk is all around information technology. Your judgement is
right. We'll be investing over-proportionally in the IT in the foundational IT. And in the
digital IT. And that is both a big opportunity, like I have been stressing. But it's also a
potential risk. Because we don't want to underestimate the complexities and the
challenges in this context.
However, we have to take this risk anyway. I mean there's no way around for us investing
into information technology. So it really is, in terms of marginal risk, really something more
in terms of do we envisage having too much too soon. And that's something that I have
personally very much on the radar screen, as you are maybe aware. I have hired a new
Chief Technology Officer who has transformation experience. And that's why I believe we
are very prepared. But I will obviously have to make this one of my priorities to observe
that this information technology improvement is really done fast enough. But also careful
enough. Because we don't want to jeopardize the existing quality of the technology.
These, I think, are the two major risks that we see. Then obviously there's the capital
market risk that Jorg Schneider has already alluded to. There are various other risks in
terms of losing know-how area. So you could basically, if I was a risk officer, I would use an
hour to discuss potential risks in this regard. But I believe these are the major managerial
risks. They do exist. I feel confident that we can mitigate them. But we have to be very
observant not to be too self-assured. But really have to question ourselves all the time
again, are we doing everything to mitigate these risks? And since I have already had the
opportunity of completing transformational programs like these, I hope that given this
experience, I can calibrate this mindset in an appropriate fashion.

Page 34 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. Best of luck.

Operator

FINAL

Michael Huttner, JPMorgan

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thanks very much for giving me the opportunity. Two questions, one, why today? Because
it was weird that you kept saying beginning of June. But never gave a date. Then suddenly
on Monday-- oh, actually it is the 1st of June. What happened that today was okay. I
thought it was the unions, clearly not.
The other-- I'm still a little bit unsure. So for me the elephant in the room is the interest
rates. And we've kind of said, oh, actually the program doesn't address the interest rates,
or it's not designed to address it. It's designed to address other stuff. And I mean, what is
the risk that-- I don't know-- interest rates go negative? Then we have to have-- we are
given the opportunity to revisit the program maybe in six months' time and have-because negative interest rates would change things quite materially. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jorg Schneider
I start with the second, or perhaps I try to cover both. And Christoph and Markus will
correct me. 1st of June, we tried to do it as thorough but also as quick as possible. And
this was now the time to inform the staff there are no holidays here. So people are
present. And the team have done tremendous work in the last couple of months. And this
was in a way, the earlier possible moment. And from now on, there's a very, very long and
intensive work phase. But it's important now that we could inform the staff. And that we
could inform the public and the investors.
Second, with regard to interest rates, there is some protection in place that is that we can
offer long-term guaranty measures that we can go for transitional-- for valuing according
to the transitional rules. We did not draw that option. And we are hopeful and confident
that we do not have to. But we could. Therefore, short and midterm, there is no major
challenge from that side.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fair enough. That's very kind. Thank you.

Operator
As there are no further questions in the queue at this time, we will now hand back to our
speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Page 35 of 36



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-06-01

Thank you. Not that much left for me to say. Thanks for your participation and for joining us
this afternoon. And for further questions, please don't hesitate to get in touch. Thank you
very much. And hope to see all of you very soon. Bye-bye.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. That will conclude today's
conference call. You may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 36 of 36

