Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Amanda Blanc
Andrew Wallace-Barnett
Gérald Harlin
Thomas Buberl

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean
Andy Hughes
Blair Stewart
James A. Shuck
Jon M. Hocking
Michael Igor Huttner
Nick Holmes

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul De'Ath

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So, good afternoon, everybody, and good afternoon, everybody here in the room. Good
afternoon to all of the people joining by webcast and by telephone. We're really happy to
have your here on this summery August 3. And we're delighted to be able to present to
you our Half Year Results for 2016.
I'm joined by Thomas Buberl; and Gérald Harlin today. And if you would like to ask
questions by telephone or on the webcast, then please don't hesitate. Follow the
instructions you've been given, but priority will be given to questions from people in the
room.
And I, with much pleasure, would like to hand over to Thomas to make the introduction.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Andrew. Good afternoon. We are very pleased here and present
the half year results to you.

Page 1 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

In summary, the results that we will be presenting to you are very resilient earnings, given
a market environment that is diﬃcult and characterized by quite a few headwinds. The
second message I would like to get across is that if you look at the balance sheet, you see
that despite those headwinds, the balance sheet remains very strong with a very strong
Solvency II ratio.
The third message I would like to pass is that we have a clear focus on proﬁtable business.
We want to remain this focus even though the market is diﬃcult, and you will see very
clear drivers of this proﬁtable growth, be it in P&C, be it in capital light, or in the Health
business.
If you look at the overall results on the underlying earnings, you can see stable underlying
earnings of €3.1 billion. This, again, in an environment that is diﬃcult and that's also where
you see the diﬀerence. Life & Savings is up by 4% to €1.9 billion, so a very good
development given the interest rates development. Property & Casualty is down by 6% to
€1.2 billion, the main reason being that natural events have been signiﬁcantly higher this
half year than they were compared to last year. Those natural events are clearly ﬂoods but
also terror attacks, if you remember, the Brussels terror attack which has cost us €24
million.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at the adjusted earnings, you'll see a drop of 2% to €3.4 billion, the main driver
being that we have realized lower net capital gains. And on the net income, a very
positive message, plus 4% to €3.2 billion.
If we go into the balance sheet and the Solvency ratio, you see that despite the diﬃculty
of the environment, the Solvency rate is at 197%, Solvency II ratio, very strong, slightly
down from the 200% last year, but that's clearly explainable due to lower interest rate and
due to higher volatility in the markets, but well in our target range. And if you see the
sensitivities of the balance sheet, be it on interest rates or on equity markets or on
corporate spreads, it's a very solid balance sheet. And we really would like to maintain this
resilience on the balance sheet going forward to have a stable business but also to have a
clear follow-up on the dividend policy that we have put in place.
If we look at the businesses, I would like to give three highlights. The ﬁrst one is on the
Life & Savings business. Despite the diﬃcult environment, we have been able to keep a
very attractive new business proﬁtability at 37%. It is not obvious in such a market, and we
have continued to move the business mix in a favorable position.
The second point I would like to make is on Property & Casualty. We are showing a good
growth, 3.7%; 4% on the private business, 3% on the commercial business, a very good
development. And certainly this is one area where we want to put a focus to do more. We
have particularly seen in the U.K. that on the commercial side this has been a success, and
we want to copy these success recipes and secrets into other markets.
On the Asset Management side, again a very positive result on ﬂows despite the diﬃcult
market conditions. €19 billion net inﬂows in the ﬁrst half, there of €9 billion in the second
quarter. It's a good result. And if you look, this is where it comes from. It shows that AXA is
Page 2 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

well diversiﬁed and beneﬁts from the global footprint, because the majority of these new
assets do come from the joint ventures in Asia.
If we make a speciﬁc zoom on Health, because Health was one of the priorities that we
have clearly put out as a growth opportunity at the Investor Day, it's the ﬁrst time that we
are splitting it out, because in the past, Health has been either in Life or in P&C unless it
was separate, like in the U.K. or in Germany. What we see there is that we have very strong
geographic footprint; six strong footholds, one of them being in the U.K. here; a very
clear strategy of growth in ﬁve markets, one being the Gulf and then four Asian markets,
China, Thailand really upcoming markets. We see that the revenue growth has been
attractive, 3%, and at the same time we have managed to have a good combined ratio at
95.5%, a business that we clearly want to continue growing in.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we then look at the resilience also from an investment perspective, we are very fortunate
that the investment margin has been very high at 74 basis points. This is the higher end of
the guidance that we have given at the Investor Day for 2016 and 2017. We are also very
proud to see that the investment yield funds the portfolio, and we take the example of
P&C is at 3.5% and that our reinvestments, given the very diﬃcult environment, is still at
2%, and we have not changed our risk appetite. So we are well in line with the guidance
that we have given you at the Investor Day on the 21st of June.
Going forward, this makes us very conﬁdent that we will deliver the plan and that we want
to put all our eﬀorts on delivering this plan. And one of your questions could be, are you
still in the plan you have given us because markets have changed? The reason why we did
the plan the way we did it was exactly that. We wanted to diﬀerentiate what is in our hands
and what is not in our hands.
In our hands is clearly the question, what can we do on growth? What can we do on cost
savings? What can we do on margin improvement? What can we do on capital? And what
can we do on M&A? Here, we have given you a very clear guideline with the measures
that we have, we are fully committed to this, to deliver those 8% out of what is in our
hands.
On the other hand, we have the eﬀects that are not in our hands, which are clearly in the
interest rate markets, the equity markets, the FX markets. Here, it's clear that the interest
rate markets have the biggest impact on us and we have given a clear guidance that
depending on which scenario we are in, we are between minus 1% or minus 5%. After
Brexit, so the world has changed, but we have anticipated this change in the world
already in this scenario, even though we didn't want to. But we are still well in line within
those boundaries, which makes us very conﬁdent that we will deliver those 3% to 7% over
the plan period and so we will do everything that you can judge us by the 31st of
December, 2020, whether we have fulﬁlled these targets or not, for us it's clear, we will
fulﬁll them.
Thank you very much, and I would like to pass on now to Gérald Harlin.

Gérald Harlin
Page 3 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

Thank you. Good afternoon. So let's move to Group earnings. Underlying earnings are
ﬂat. Life & Savings, plus 4%, P&C is down 6% and it's due to higher Nat Cat and lower
investment income. Asset Management, minus 3% due to lower average assets under
management. International Insurance, minus 32%. We had some signiﬁcant positive result
development last year in AXA Corporate Solutions and that's explained the minus 32%.
Holdings, plus 14% due to lower interest rates. We are beneﬁting from lower interest rates
on our debt and lower expenses.
Adjusted earnings now, and starting with the net realized capital gains and losses. Lower
than last year, €301 million versus €382 million, explained by the same level of realized
capital gains, €479 million, but higher net impairments. We were at €194 million. We had
an impairment level of €194 million in the ﬁrst half, of which €154 million in equities. So it's
mostly equities. Keep in mind that the equity markets in Europe were roughly 12% down.
At the same time, adjusted ROE, we were at 14.6% versus 16% last year, so we are above
the 12% to 14% range that we ﬁxed ourselves and that we shared with you at the end of
June when we presented our plan. The decline is mostly due to the higher average
shareholders' equity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to net income. As far as net income is concerned, it's a bit more complicated.
Let's start with the middle line with the exceptional, €626 million corresponding to the €1
billion gain on the two buildings, the U.S. building that we sold. We had a €0.4 billion loss
on the disposal of the U.K. Life business and with a positive €0.1 billion on the disposal of
Portugal. So as a whole, it's €0.6 billion positive in the net income.
This is oﬀset by minus €647 million with three diﬀerent items. As you know, it's pure
accounting, but we had ﬁrst minus €357 million corresponding to the freestanding
derivatives and all the swaps that are in front of our long-term debt, so €357 million. On
the forex, we had minus €160 million corresponding to the currency swap in front of our
Tier 1 debt, but also on the currency swap in our investment portfolio. All of these are
mark-to-market, where the underlying assets are in OCI. That explains the volatility. And
last, minus €130 million corresponding to the mark-to-market of funds, mostly equity
funds.
Again, I insist on the fact that it's pure market eﬀects. It doesn't mean that it's realized, and
it could reverse extremely quickly. So as a whole, net income is plus 4%.
Let's move to the new business sales, and starting ﬁrst with the total. So new business
APE's down minus 2% and new business margin is stable at 37%. Let's move to mature
markets. So, mature markets are down – I'm sorry. Mature markets are down 5%, that's the
ﬁrst column, down 5% due to the decrease in the Unit-Linked sales. New business margin
is up from 35% to 37% concerning the fact that also our sales in Unit-Link were down. We
are focusing, as we'll see later, on the most proﬁtable products.
On high-growth markets, plus 11% on the top-line. I should highlight the fact that it's
explained by plus 28% in Southeast Asia and China. May I remind you that China is
growing quite fast, because last year it represented 2% of our APE. In the ﬁrst half, it's 6%
Page 4 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

of the APE. In China, as you know, we sold high volumes of single premium with the
Chinese New Year, I mean during the two ﬁrst years – two ﬁrst months of the year. Since
then we are selling regular premium, which means that as I told you in the Q1 phone call,
that I told you that in H1 we would have a positive NBV.
At that time in the ﬁrst quarter, we had a negative NBV coming from China, so it's positive
now. It's positive due to the accretion of regular premium with the higher proﬁtability.
Nevertheless, the strength of China and the size of the Chinese business makes that it's
dilute NBV, as you can see here. But nevertheless, it remains at a high level.
And the last point I wanted to share with you is to tell you that the regulation should help
us because the regulator in China wants to curb and to decrease the single-premium
business. So, all should go in the right direction. So that's it for the Life & Savings new
business sales.

Bloomberg Transcript

More detail by line of business, ﬁrst starting with Protection & Health. So Protection &
Health is totally, I would say, in line with our strategy, with the strategy that we exchanged
with you when we presented our plan, plus 6% growth in APE. I could say across all
countries, 54% NBV margin, plus €3.8 billion of net inﬂows. So, positive.
On G/A Savings, we have a growth of 22% with a 16% NBV margin on average, but we are
growing our G/A capital light. May I remind you that the G/A capital light is products,
correspond to products which create more AFR than the capital they consume. A few
examples of products, some savings products with term guarantees only, some products
with market value adjustors, all these kind of products which are capital-light because
they're under Solvency II, the level of capital is quite small.
So, plus 26% on this category of products, with a plus 16% change, which is quite strong,
conﬁrming the fact that although we had a poor start to the year on the Unit-Linked
business. We sold a signiﬁcant amount of capital-light G/A products. And you can see that
also we have a minus €0.4 billion G/A savings net inﬂows. As far as capital light are
concerned, it's plus €2.3 billion, conﬁrming that on the capital-heavy products, we have a
strong decrease in net sales.
Unit-Linked, I mentioned it to you already, minus 18% growth in APE, mostly coming from
three countries. Minus 59% in AXA-MPS for two reasons; the poor equity market and the
ﬁnancial strength of the bank. And in Hong Kong as well, because you remember that we
had very high sales in Q1 last year, following the regulatory change, and in France, minus
14% due to the global environment and the poor environment of the equity markets.
Net ﬂows positive €0.8 billion and even if we would exclude the €0.7 billion from the
[James] buyout that took place at the beginning of the year, we would be at plus €1.5
billion net ﬂows. That's mostly it.
Moving to underlying earnings by product. So total Life & Savings products – total Life &
Savings post-tax underlying earnings increased by plus four points. And on the pre-tax

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

basis, we are at minus four points. But, we should say that this is minus four points, but we
have two exceptional negative elements, which are shadowed.
Starting ﬁrst with Protection & Health, because maybe you remember that one year ago,
in the ﬁrst half of 2015, we had an exceptional positive reserve development in France of
€0.1 billion. So, second is on the Unit-Linked side, because we had lower management
fees in the ﬁrst half because the market declined signiﬁcantly in the mid of the ﬁrst half
and recovered since. At today's level, management fees would have been €0.1 billion
higher.
So, excluding these two elements and excluding also the last one, which is the negative
one-oﬀ impact coming from the positive – sorry – excluding the higher positive tax one-oﬀ
which also makes €0.1 billion, makes that excluding the three elements, we would be at
plus 4% as well. So that is that where from the outside we could consider that the minus
4% Life before tax could represent a drag on our normal course of business, it's not at all
the case, because eliminating these three one-oﬀs, we are at plus 4% pre-tax and post-tax.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the P&C business, on P&C, we have a growth of plus 4%, with plus 4% on the
personal lines and plus 3% on the commercial lines. I propose you to give you more
detail, and as you can see here, you are familiar with this slide. First, I would like to say
that H1 conﬁrms the good absorption capacity by the market of price increases. That's
what it means and U.K. starting ﬁrst with personal lines. You can see here that we have
plus 6% price evolution and revenue growth are at plus 4%. U.K. and Ireland, you can see
that we have the price evolution of plus 6% and revenue growth of plus 6.5%
corresponding to a good cycle and improved cycle in the motor business.
In MedLA, plus 19.5% and plus 6.2% in term of revenue growth. It's due to Turkey. As you
remember, we had problem in Turkey. Since then we had signiﬁcant reserves negative
development last year and since then we increased our prices on MTPL and we increased
our prices by 160%, which is quite strong, and this translates of course in the revenue
growth, but we have also some increases in other countries.
In Direct, you will notice plus 6% in price evolution and plus 6.8% on revenue growth as a
whole. For personal, plus 6% on price evolution, plus 4% revenue growth. On commercial
lines, it's almost the same story, plus 3.5% price evolution, plus 2.6% in the revenue
growth. There is one negative ﬁgure on the ﬁrst line corresponding to France. That's the
construction business is the last – we pruned the construction business and we ﬁnalize this
exercise mid of the year. That's why we are at minus 2%, but nothing willing at that side
and we can consider that's really covered.
The trends we could say that the – there is a hardening in countries like U.K. and Spain
and there is some price softening in countries like Belgium, Italy and Germany.
So, let's move to the proﬁtability by business line. So, in mature markets, plus 2% with
revenues growing by 2%. You can notice that current year combined ratio is going up
from 96% to 97.3% mostly explained by Nat Cat that I mentioned before. So we can
consider that natural catastrophes plus the terrorist attack correspond to a bit more than
Page 6 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

€100 million. That's the terrorist attack in Belgium. That was a cost of €24 million for the
ﬁrst half. And as a whole, that explains the increase of 1.3 points of the current year
combined ratio.
In high growth countries, we have the top line at plus 11% with plus 14% in Mexico, plus
38% in Turkey and also in Asia, like in Malaysia, so plus 11% on the top line. We mentioned
the plus 13% on an economic basis because we have some JVs and it's a way to take – it's
not captures with the revenues but it's important to notice that on an economic basis we
are growing by 13% and not 11%. As far as current year combined ratio is concerned, we
move from 99.9% to 102.3%, explained by Turkey because the price increases were
spread over the ﬁrst half, which means that we didn't get the whole beneﬁt that we will
have in the second half, and we have also some increase in acquisition costs.
In Direct, plus 6% revenues and more or less a stable current year combined ratio. As a
whole, plus 4% on the top line and plus 1.3% on the current year combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going into more detail on the underlying earnings, so underlying earnings are down by
6% and with two reasons; the ﬁrst one is a combined ratio that's more or less what I
explained to you, which is the Nat Cat. You can see – sorry. You can see in dark blue that
the Nat Cats moved up from 0.1% to 0.8%. Current year, the prior reserve developments
moved from 1.8% to 2.1% and all-year combined ratio moved up from 95.1% to 96%.
Investment income at the same time, annualized investment yields were at 3.5% versus
3.7%, so quite in line with the guidance that we gave you.
Asset Management now. Okay. Asset Management with net ﬂows of €17 billion for AXA
IM, plus €2 billion for AB. Average AUM have been hit in both case by the market
evolution, minus 5% as far as AXA IM is concerned with a drop in equity market plus the
exit of France Life. As far as AB is concerned, it's more a positive market eﬀect on ﬁxed
income, but a negative in equity, and this translates into revenues, minus 7% for AXA IM
and minus 8% for AB.
On the underlying earnings, minus 3% in underlying earnings for Asset Management, with
AXA IM, plus 3% and AB, minus 9%, in line with the minus 8% on revenues. We had some
performance fees in AXA IM explaining this positive underlying earnings growth.
Let's move to ALM. The assets under management went up from €552 billion to €598
billion. No big change, except that the mark-to-market is going up due to the decline in
interest rates. You can notice slides that the ﬁxed income assets duration slightly
increased. We are now at 8.3 years on Life and 5.4 years in P&C and yield decrease
absolutely in line with the expected dilution coming from investments in lower interest
rates at 3.4% in Life and 3.5% in non-Life.
Moving now on the asset allocation and the asset, starting ﬁrst at with the govies. We
could say that govies as well as on corporate bonds, we have no change on both
categories. What is important to mention is the fact that we have an average rating of
government and related bonds which is maintained at AA and for corporate bonds, it's
maintained at A.
Page 7 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

Let's focus on the H1 investment. We have been investing at an average rate of 2%, in line
with our previous exchanges, so we beneﬁted from quite attractive returns from some
illiquid but high-quality assets like ABS and CLOs like corporate real estate loans. And we
expect to invest in the second part of the year due to the declining interest rate, let's say
between 1.6% and 1.7%.
Let's move to investment margin. As you can see here, in the middle, we have a resilient
investment margin, which moved down from 78 basis points to 74 basis points, well within
the guidance that we gave you at the end of June for the strategic plan presentation. And
this is explained, just the resilience of our investment margin is explained by the spread of
the guaranteed rate which remains quite strong. And it's 140 basis points, which conﬁrms
the ﬂexibility that we have. That means that policyholders are contributing to the drop of
interest rates.
On new business, it didn't change since last time, so we have only a very low average
level of guaranteed rate on new business at 0.4%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to shareholders' equity, shareholders' equity's up from €68.5 billion to €74.1
billion. You can see on the right, the main elements, starting ﬁrst with the change in net
unrealized capital gains coming from the drop of interest rate, €6.8 billion, net income for
the period, €3.2 billion, and the dividends, minus €2.7 billion, is the dividend of €1.1 that
we paid in May.
Let's move to the debt and to the ratings. Our debt went up from €17 billion to €18.6
billion, and at the same time our debt ratio went up from 26% to 28%. This is completely
explained by the €2 billion debt that we issued in H1 in order to reﬁnance some maturities
that will be at the end of the present – in the second part of the year and also at the
beginning of next year. So it didn't change I would say the strength of our balance sheet
and the fact that we have a low debt ratio.
As far as the rating is concerned at Moody's as well as Fitch, we had a conﬁrmation that
we were the equivalent of AA stable, we are still A+ with a positive outlook with S&P.
As far as Solvency II ratio is concerned, as explained by Thomas before, we are moving
from 205% at the end of last year to 197%, which is a strong level. You can see on the
right, the key sensitivities, and you have the roll-forward between the end of 2015 and the
end of June 2016, operating return, plus eight points, dividend, minus ﬁve points, market
impact, excluding forex, of minus 16 points, and we have all the other elements, plus ﬁve
points, of which subordinated debt of €1.5 billion that we issued in March.
I hand over to Thomas now.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Gérald. I would like to come to the conclusion and would like to go
back to our Ambition 2020 again. On June 21, we have presented to you the new
Ambition 2020. We are fully out, as the French would say. We are in the implementation.
Page 8 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

Ambition 2020 is about two things; one, focus. How do we make sure that in an
environment of low interest rates, of volatile capital markets, how can we really catch up
and compensate for the negative eﬀects? We have looked at three levers. One is selective
growth. We want to accelerate growth on the commercial P&C. We want to accelerate
growth on the Health business, and we want to accelerate on the capital light Life
business.
Second piece is around eﬃciency and margins. We have clearly stated that we want to
launch another eﬃciency program of €2.1 billion. We are in the implementation of it and
we will also focus on improving the margins particularly where we still have gaps to the
competition. And thirdly, we are clearly in a new environment of Solvency II. Capital and
cash are playing a diﬀerent role with diﬀerent mechanics. We also want to further work on
the optimization of capital and cash in this environment. This is about focus.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time, we see in the market that our customers are changing. Expectations are
changing in terms of the way we interact with them, the way the relationship is going with
the customer. We want to actively transform AXA to this new reality. Transforming means
that we need to look for a new customer experience. A new customer experience
particularly means that we blend the direct access and the physical access more together,
so the customer is experiencing one AXA and not diﬀerent AXAs. We have started with
this successfully in Spain and we'll roll it out from there.
The second piece is around how do we bring the relationship for the customer to a
diﬀerent level? How do we become from a payer to a partner? A partner meaning that we
not only focus on paying the invoice when a claim has happened, but that we also look
how can we prevent the invoice by engaging diﬀerently with a customer on reducing the
risk and are really working together of being a better risk proﬁle. All of this means that we
also need to move ourselves. We need to adapt to our capabilities. We need to invest in
our workforce to really be ready for tomorrow.
Therefore, we have also launched, as one of the very few companies, a program to really
transform the workforce to really adapt to our capabilities and invest into ourselves and
the people. This is linked to very clear guidance on key KPIs. The one is the 3% to 7%
increase in underlying earnings per share over the period which I mentioned earlier. The
second one is clearly to deliver cash ﬂows between €28 billion and €32 billion over that
period. The third one is to have an adjusted return on equity between 12% and 14% and
the last one is around the Solvency II ratio. We want to stay in the corridor between 170%
and 230%. You've seen today that we are well in this corridor.
What are the strengths and what makes us conﬁdent that we will really achieve the
strength? If you look at our balance sheet and look at AXA, it's a very, very resilient
balance sheet. The big challenges of the ﬁnancial crisis are behind us. We have a weatherproof balance sheet and we have a very diversiﬁed portfolio. No other insurer has such a
global footprint with these positions, which leads us to the fact that we are conﬁdent to
really develop these cash ﬂows necessary to provide an attractive dividend story.

Page 9 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

The second one is that we have moved very early. We have moved early on the question
around Life & Savings away from the traditional G/A business, and we have also moved
early when it comes to eﬃciency gains because the program of €2.1 billion is the second
one after we have already reached €1.9 billion in the last phase of Ambition AXA.
The third big element for me is the clear vision, how to move from a payer to a partner,
how to transform our business towards the diﬀerent relationship with the customer. There
it's extremely important that we have the right people who can do this, and I'm very
happy to have assembled a renewed and dynamic management team to go together with
me on this journey of Ambition 2020.
Thank you very much, and we are moving now to the Q&A session.

Q&A
A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Diﬃcult to choose. Let's start with Jon.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

This is Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. First, on the
investment margin, you're at the top end of the range. Just wondered how we should
think about the buﬀer you've still got above the [grossing] rate there? And how we should
think about the speed of decline in the investment margin versus the speed of decline on
the running yield on the Life portfolio? That's the ﬁrst question.
Second question, on the reconciliation of the opening and closing Solvency II ratio, I
wonder if you could just break out a little bit some of the key movements and the 16
points of market movements, how much was rate? How much of it was spreads, et cetera?
And then just ﬁnally, could you just update us on the ratio sensitivity to 100 bps decline in
the UFR rate? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, I think these are all questions for you.

A - Gérald Harlin
I'll start with the last one, Jon, on UFR. We said that we already mentioned that it would be
a decline of 19 points. It's still true. Nevertheless, what we have noticed is that in the
meantime since we presented this, we got the tape of the UFR and the UFR is much more
thinking about limiting the drop to 20 points per year, that's the ﬁrst point, which is quite
positive. But at the same time, maybe you are aware of that the commission doesn't so
much agree about the revision of the UFR. So that means that I cannot say that we are on
the safe side, because there could be some changing, but I don't expect that UFR will
move very soon.

Page 10 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

So, second, the ﬁrst point is investment margin. So the investment margin, remember, we
said that at the time we presented at the end of June, our plan, we said that we would be
at 65% to 75% in 2016 and 2017. I'm still doing exactly same assumption. Why? Because
we are at 74% for the ﬁrst half, and we can expect to have a decline roughly of 10 points.
So, where? Why? Because we are managing a relatively long duration. I said also that for
the next year, it will be between 55% and 65%. So it's still true, and I conﬁrm this element
even with the new environment it's something that should be in line.
So, movements, the market movements. Yes, you are referring to the 16 points of market
movement. I remind you that at the end of 2015, we presented a sensitivity analysis that
said that with an interest rates minus 50 bps, we would have a drop of the Solvency of
minus eight points. You know that in the meantime, and especially in Europe and in
diﬀerent countries, we had a drop of more than 70 bps. So that means that most of it, let's
say 10 points at least, correspond to interest rates. And equity markets, you remember
that it was minus six points. So equity markets in Europe went down by – it was minus six
points. I should be more precise, minus six points for minus 25%. So we had minus 12
points on the Euro stocks. We were up and ﬂat in the U.S. So let's say that it's maybe two
times to three times coming from the equities. So that's mostly it. And then we have
residual elements like correlation and so on. That's more or less what this minus 16 points
correspond to.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move next to Tom there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks so much. It's Andy Hughes from Macquarie. Three questions, if I could. The ﬁrst
one, just want to double check, the UFR's not – so the UFR change is not aﬀected by the
100 bps drop in yield in the ﬁrst half of the year. That's basically I think what you said.
The second thing is one the reinvestment rates, so obviously we've got 2% for Eurozone.
You've got 2% for Life. Where we don't have 2% is on slide B60, which is the Life
reinvestment rates. So we can see that all the Life reinvestment rates are much lower than
2% across the Eurozone. So, it is what's happening. You've got a higher reinvestment rates
on the P&C in the ﬁrst half of the year and can you explain, please, why the Life
reinvestment rates are much lower than the Eurozone reinvestment rate? Are you taking
less risk in Life and more in P&C?
And, sorry, the third question from the U.S. Obviously, interest rates impact the value of
the GMIB beneﬁts. And you can see the AXA Arizona GMIB reinsurance asset sort of
jumping up from the year end to Q1 in the statutory ﬁlings from $10 billion up to $12
billion. So I'm just wondering, ﬁrst of all, how do you think about AXA Arizona in the
context of the underlining of captives? And secondly, I guess, does this mean there's
more pressure if the policyholder assumptions go against you, the losses could be much
more material given where interest rates are. Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin
Page 11 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

Okay. So, let me start with your last point about Arizona. So, you are absolutely right. That
means that in the U.S., the whole Solvency regime will be revised. We don't know exactly
when, so that means that there are some quantitative impacts to this that will take place.
We should know in the fall what could be these rules and then all the entities will, all the
industry will have, I believe, 90 days in order to answer these points that have impacts to
these. To be clear, we don't expect any new regime to be in force before maybe 2017,
2018. Normally it was 2017, but we don't see how it could be possible. So most probably it
will be 2018.
As you know, for the time being, as far as we are concerned, we are using a captive which
correspond to a bit more than 50% of our reserves in the U.S. And the advantage of this
captive, the amount of reserves, the level of reserves corresponding to the IFRS reserves,
which means it's quite strong. And when you compare ourselves with all our peers, it's
much, much stronger in terms of reserves level. Nevertheless, we could imagine that this
regime will lead us to positive. Nevertheless, if we were using these IFRS reserves, it was
in order to allow us to have the hedging, because if we were using U.S. GAAP, we would
have a mismatch. And as you know, we are hedging especially all the equity risk is
hedged which is a positive.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the objective of this new regime is really to move towards something which is much
closer from the European regime, and the European Solvency regime. So we don't know
what will be the rule. We are one of the best reserved companies, and we will see. It
might end up for us with slightly higher capital needs, but I cannot tell you, and nobody
knows exactly what will be the rule. And there will be, I anticipate, a lot of debate,
because again, the local companies are not so well capitalized and reserved.
As far as UFR, if I well understood your question, your question was does it mean that the
minus 19 points would change a lot? I don't anticipate that it would change a lot. Yes,
there are some diﬀerentials. I refer to the previous calculation, but I don't anticipate, no.
What is the most important element as far as UFR is concerned is really the fact that
apparently it will be delayed. And anyway, that it would be spread over a relatively long
period of time. That's it.
Your second question was about?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Reinvestment rate.

A - Gérald Harlin
Reinvestment rate.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

...Life.

A - Gérald Harlin
Page 12 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

P&C, Life. There is no big – I would say that the biggest diﬀerence between P&C and Life
is the duration, meaning that the duration is the mix of business in P&C are mostly in
European countries, whereas in Life, keep in mind that we have reinvestments
denominated in yen, denominated in Swiss francs, which makes that we have an average
lower rate in Life than in P&C. So that's purely a currency – for currency reasons that you
have this diﬀerence.
Nevertheless, I could say that presently we are – what is important is the spreads over the
risk-free rate in each currencies, and the spread, if we were to compare it, it's more or less
consistent, so that means that we apply the same type of asset allocation more or less in
most countries. In countries like Switzerland, where you don't have so much Swiss
denominated assets, what we are doing is that we are investing in foreign assets, like
denominated in dollars for example, which are swapped into Swiss francs but swapped
on a long-term basis.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much..

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

...on these investment spreads, speciﬁcally with regards to German Life, you showed that
that's now at zero basis points eﬀectively. Just wondering if you could sort of comment on
your thoughts about whether you're concerned about that at all. Secondly, on the prior
year developments, you're tracking I'd say the quite clearly a trend where the half year
releases are always much more than the full year. I was wondering if you could comment
on the seasonality or the drivers of that.
And perhaps thirdly on the Solvency, the sensitivities as well as reducing the downside,
you seem to have removed the skew that was there to the downside before. The interest
rates falling was much more sensitive than interest rates rising, so just wondering if you
could comment what you've done there around that.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Let's start with the investments. So, roughly speaking, you remember that I just told
you that we have been investing €45 billion at an average of 2% in the ﬁrst half. The
question was that in your – we invested that 2.1%. In U.S. dollar, we have been investing at
2.6% and in other currencies; Japanese yen, Swiss francs, on average, 1%. And we can
expect to have the same type of diﬀerential for the second half of the year.
As I told you, we have been quite successful in achieving on average 2% because for sure
the corporate debt is lower. Everything equal, we have been investing on average at 2%
and the corporate debt average rate has been 1.6% only. But we have been investing in
ABS, in mortgage, in infrastructure and so on, which are each time relatively small
elements but adding together, it's quite in the end it's increasing the average rate.

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

Last but not least, we have been investing in high yields, but you notice that I said that we
didn't deteriorate the average portfolio. The only high yield investments that we made
were in short-term duration yield. May I remind you that this type of asset is short-term
asset, less than two years, which means that we have a good visibility in it. And just look at
the spreads. Those spreads compressed a lot over the last – at least in the ﬁrst part of the
year, which conﬁrms that there was a strong appetite for this type of asset.
Last, third part of your question was about the sensitivities, but I'm not sure I understood
the question.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

The full year sensitivities, your sensitivity to interest rates declining 50 basis points was I
think minus eight points then plus 50 basis points .

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Or even now.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. But it's a matter of convexity. So that means that it's after – when rates are going
lower, you can imagine that in our projection, we don't assume that rates could go as low
as minus 10%, so that's more or less this. That means that in the model, generally
speaking, you take the lowest level, minus 50 basis points roughly. So you understand
that at one level you are not very far from the lowest point. That's something quite easy to
understand. I tried to summarize it, but that's the way it works. That's why we moved
down from minus eight points to minus ﬁve points on the decrease of 50 basis points.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Another question was on prior year development, half year, full year.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. Prior year development, half year, full year, we were at – you can see we have maybe –
it's interesting to go to the slide, which is on page B36. Thank you. You can see here the
development and you have the historic trends. There is no fundamental diﬀerence
between half year and full year. You cannot – in fact, last year, we had plus 1%. But keep in
mind that we have the negative mainly coming from Turkey. We are at 2.1% I would say
that's more or less. We told you that we were between 1% and 2%, so we are still within.
You can note this as well that in the second part – in the lower part of this slide, that we
still have a high level of reserving ratio and conﬁrming that our prior year reserve
development are not at the expense of a sound level of reserve.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}
Page 14 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

First part on the sensitivity question, if and when you were to move to modeling negative
rates, would that have an impact on that?

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
It would. First of all, okay. First of all, let's emphasize two things. In the numerator, for sure,
Solvency II, there is numerator available ﬁnancial resources and the short-term economic
capital on the denominator corresponding to the requirement. As far as the numerator is
concerned, we model the negative rates. That means that if rates are at minus 70 basis
points, like in Switzerland, we take minus 70 basis points. So as far as the denominator are
concerned, we don't take yet the negative rates because it was a discussion, a
complicated discussion at the beginning when we put this in place with the regulators,
and look I believe that it is the same for Allianz.
But at the same time, if we would model such type of negative rates, it would widen the
duration gap. In such a case, we would shorten the duration gap, which would aﬀect
some part of the negative impact. So I don't have any calculation, but I could say that it's
few points, but I don't anticipate that it would be something major. We don't plan to do it
this year, that's what I can tell you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move to the other side.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of SocGen. Two questions, please. The ﬁrst on P&C, wondered your expense
ratio has gone up to 27%. Wondered if you could give us a bit of color on that or even for
that? And whether you think that you can move it back down to 26%?
Second question on Life, and wanted to ask about Unit-Linked and your outlook. Clearly, I
mean to be speciﬁc, do you think if markets move sideways, this is going to be a
constraint on your shift to capital light? And how are you going to deal with that? Thank
you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, I'll give Gérald a quick pause, and I'll take those two questions. The ﬁrst one on the, in
large, on the expense ratio, if we look into the detail, it comes from a few geographies. It
comes from emerging geographies in the old MedLA region, particularly on Mexico, the
Gulf, and some in Italy. It is mainly related to acquisition costs, and it follows the old logic
if you want to grow, you have to invest, and if you want to invest, you need to invest in
distribution.
So your second question was around will the expense ratio come down? If you remember
what I said earlier, we want to save €2.1 billion through 2020, and we want to grow
selectively. By that deﬁnition, yes, the expense ratio will come down.

Page 15 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

The second part is on Unit-Linked. When you look at the market, today it's a very diﬃcult
market obviously. But the underlying trends of people wanting and needing to save for
the retirement have not changed. And this is often a very long-term view. Given those two
components that people want to and have to save, that people do not like volatility, and
that people still want to have a yield for their retirement savings, the extremes of the
markets are not in fashion anymore. So pure guarantee with no upside is not what the
customer wants, but pure risk for the customer is also diﬃcult often in these diﬃcult
markets.
So we expect a shift to the middle, where you have Unit-Linked with guarantee, partial or
full guarantee on the premium, so that the customer has both a certain guarantee but also
an upside on market changes and you've clearly seen that in the numbers that the biggest
increase in the new business production was on the capital light general account and it is
also where we put all our eﬀort in terms of innovation of Life products and where we steer
the market because that's what the customers want.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Thomas, can I just have a very quick follow-up, which is the expense ratio you say that
should reduce. Can you give us any feel of a timescale and what your target would be? I
mean, 26% you achieved over a period of something like ﬁve years. Do you think you can
get it down to 24%, that sort of thing, over the next ﬁve years?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Look, I mean, the €2.1 billion is a gross ﬁgure. So in this you have an avoidance of increase
of expenses, so with normal salary inﬂation and extra reduction in expenses. We are not
doing this in a way that we were till 2019 and then deliver all of it. It's a program that is
year-by-year. Gérald, I don't know if we have ﬁgures where we show exactly how the
expense ratios move.

A - Gérald Harlin
No. But, anyway, keep in mind that we have roughly – the €2.1 billion is roughly a bit more
than €400 million per year. In the ﬁrst half, you remember that we started the program in
mid of the ﬁrst half. We are already at €150 million out of, let's say, a bit more than €200
million. So we will comply with it. I remind you that we announced that our combined
ratio should be between 94% and 95% as a target in 2020. And Thomas told you that we
conﬁrm absolutely these ﬁgures.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's stay on this side and move one to the left or right from your side.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi. So, James Shuck from UBS. I had three questions, if I could. The ﬁrst one was on the
organic capital generation, the Solvency II capital generation. You show eight points at the
ﬁrst half, which is obviously annualizing at the bottom end of your recently lower target,
which is the 15 points to 20 points you've indicated. But my question on that number is
Page 16 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

that has that been updated for current economic assumptions? Or is that based on 2015
year end assumptions? That's my ﬁrst question.
Secondly, I'd also like to return to the German Life margin spread issue, please. You've
got 3.5% guarantee, so the current yield is at 3.5%, so the spread is zero. So obviously, the
reinvestment rate is going to come down. So could you just comment on whether you see
the spread turning negative, what the size of the RFB reserve is, and where you are in
terms of the duration matching on the German Life book, please?
And then thirdly, just a more conceptual one; one thing about the Solvency II ratio is, and
the sensitivities up here that strikes people is clearly the credit spread sensitivity, which is
de minimis. There are reasons for that. Obviously, U.S. equivalence is one, and the
application of the volatility adjuster is the other. At the end of this year, you'll have to
disclose the legal entity Solvency II ratios without any kind of dampeners at all. So my
question is kind of how do you think about credit risk in the context of your Solvency II
ratio? And can you tell us what that number is excluding volatility adjusted, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So the ﬁrst one is on Solvency, and your question was about the organic growth of
the – organic generation of – capital generation. And remember what we said when we
presented it, it was in December. We said it would be between 15 points and 20 points.
Here it's two times eight, it's 16 points, without any doubt in the low end of the range. And
taking into account the low interest rate environment, you can take this as an update. That
means that we said that it would be between 15 points and 20 points depending on the
outlook of the interest rates, while the low end of the interest rates, so presently we are
roughly in the low end. And you can consider that seven points and eight points
correspond to the level for the ﬁrst half, and that for the full year it could be around 15
points.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Just to be crystal clear, so eight points is based on interest rates prevailing at H1.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin
So, second question is about Germany. Yes, about Germany, we said that yes, without any
doubt, yes, we are 3.5%. You notice in the past presentations that Germany was the
tightest margin, I could say. But we are well matched. Like all entities in the Group, I can
tell you that in Germany we have a duration gap, which is lower than one year, and we
don't make a lot of margin on it. Why? Because the margin is coming from elsewhere. The
margin is coming also from the protection product. So that's the way it works. So I have
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

absolutely no fear on Germany, on that side, on the ALM side. The last question is about
the VA.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

Are you able to tell me the size of the RFB reserve, please?

A - Gérald Harlin
Which one, sorry?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

RFB, RFB from Germany.

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

The RFB reserve, we don't communicate on the individual reserves in the – we have global
reserves and at the Group level we should be at €10 billion. But we don't give this
individual number. And the questions on the Solvency II ratio and the credit spread.
Anyway, the VA, the VA I'm seeing which exists. So I remember that we had the question,
at the time it will be mandatory, we will communicate on the Solvency II result without the
VA. But the VA is not something which will disappear tomorrow. And I believe it's quite
interesting. We have a lot of companies who ask for the – who didn't apply on the one, the
Solvency II. That's what we call the transitional.
So imagine that the VA will disappear. One second. Immediately, what would happen with
all the entities? That means that you would have two regimes; the one who applied, who
asked for a transitional and the other one, which will be considered as virtuous or
relatively virtuous, applying from day one Solvency II, they'll be penalized. So that's
something that is worthwhile being analyzed. That's why personally I don't have so much
fear that VA will disappear so quickly. That's my view.
So your question, as you said, it's a bit philosophical. My answer is extremely practical,
because I believe that it wouldn't make sense. And remember, it was in the spirit of
Solvency II when two years ago, three years ago, we were discussing about Solvency II,
maybe you remember that at that time we said look at the matching adjustment, the
matching adjustment in the U.K. which is not limited to the U.K. It mostly applies in the
U.K. but also in Spain. And the objective was really to match and to have the same spread
on assets and liabilities. And I don't believe that it's in today's intention of the regulator to
change this.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Maybe just looking in addition to the German Life business, if you remember at the
Investor Day, we have also put one big eﬀort around inforce management in the chapter
focus on capital management. Germany was one of the ﬁrst markets where we have
implemented this in a very strict manner. So this is where we will continue as well to move
ahead. And the RFB, we do not publish. But the RFB quotes have signiﬁcantly increased in
the time when we have been working on inforce management.
Page 18 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you. Mike Huttner from JPMorgan. I had two questions, please. One is on Turkey,
whether you can give us some ﬁgures today so we can judge how much improvement
could come still there? The second is on cash ﬂow. I still feel I'm very new to AXA. There's
no ﬁgure here, and you clearly published it at the year end and it's a main target and I just
wonder if you can give a bit of feel for how it's developing? The same for embedded
value. Now you might say, well, it's not relevant, and I'll accept that. But if there's any
indication, that's quite nice. And the reason I ask that is just to tease you a little bit. Your
peer at Allianz has written a nice big book where he says MCV, that's the ﬁgure.
And the ﬁnal point is on non-Life, and this is a bit philosophical. So your competitor on
Friday reported better numbers in non-Life combined ratio. They have a shrinking
business. Yours is expanding. And conceptually, one always thinks, well, if you grow nonLife, you tend to initially capture the more volatile drivers of AXA SA. And so your
business gets a little bit worse. How do you think about that, combining growth which
may not be great with a targeted combine ratio which at the moment is going a little bit
the wrong way? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
As far as Turkey is concerned, I would say that we didn't increase past results over the ﬁrst
half. You remember that we had a drag in our earnings which were more than €20 million
last year. I mentioned to you that we increased our prices by 160%, which is quite strong.
We can continue, but now pricings are at the right level. We have a market share which is
15%, which dropped, and it was a move that was absolutely voluntary. And as far as the – I
could say that in the ﬁrst half, we had a combined ratio of 110%. Why? Because we could
not increase prices on the 1st of Jan, unfortunately, so it's been spread over time. And we
can expect that the second part of the year will be better.
Last but not least, maybe you noticed that there has been some relaxation of the rules,
because as far as all these price increases are linked to MTPL and the MTPL business we
had a signiﬁcant part, majority of policyholders with bodily injury, or the family went to
court. And there have been some relaxation of the rules that should be applied to what
we see in the future, what will happen. So that's what I can tell you.
About cash ﬂows, no, as you know, we don't publish cash ﬂows in the ﬁrst half. What I can
tell you is that nothing for the time being in terms of dividend, in terms of remittance ratio
and so on and so forth makes me feel any problem. We don't publish embedded value as
well and unfortunately publishing on the 3rd of August it would be diﬃcult with
embedded value on top. But who knows, in the future. So that's it, but no, without any
joke, I encourage you to go to the embedded value report of last year. We can go
through it oﬄine and you will see the sensitivities, and with the sensitivities I believe that
you will have a good approximation of where we are today.
On Life, I would say, yes, that's quite obvious, but that's why I mentioned looking Direct
we're at plus 6%. And nevertheless in Direct at plus 6% we have a current year combined
ratio which is quite stable, so it's quite good. But for sure I believe it's quite obvious, many

Page 19 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

times we mention this Group is not managed like a run-oﬀ and tomorrow, it won't be a
runoﬀ.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Run-oﬀ is the most proﬁtable activity. Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Two questions. Firstly, as you get into Solvency II,
can we expect any capital optimization plans to improve the coverage ratio in the second
half? And also could you discuss a little bit about any dividend blockers in any of your
subsidiaries other than in the areas where you ﬁnd it diﬃcult to get capital out? And then
secondly, the tax rate was 21% in the ﬁrst half of this year versus 25% ﬁrst half, last year.
What is the long-term tax rate which we should plug in for you? Because that's what
delivered the ﬂat performance this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So capital optimization, yes, we are always working on capital optimization, Andrew.
Remember, I believe that remember what I got this question in December when we
presented our Solvency II ratio and I said as far as Europe is concerned, at least Europe,
what we want is to limit, as much as possible, the level of solo capital between 130% and
150% at the local level. We are not there yet, but you can imagine that in an environment
where rates are low, that supervisors are not extremely quick at answering positively to
such items. Nevertheless, we have diﬀerent ways to deal with it. It will take time for
reinsurance and so on and so forth. So it's a never-ending move. And we will do
everything that is possible in order to optimize it.
About your question on capital, yes, there are some countries where the capital
consumption is quite strong, starting ﬁrst with Japan. Japan is a very nice business,
extremely proﬁtable because it's mostly on Protection & Health. Nevertheless, capital
requirements are quite strong. Why? Because we have a regime which is not at all linked
to Solvency II. As you know in Japan, when rates are going up, the level of capital is going
up as well, which is a bit counterintuitive. So, in Switzerland as well, as you know, is a Swiss
Solvency Test, the requirements are more strong than in Solvency II.
So, yes, and we are working on it and working on diﬀerent solutions in order to optimize
it. And when time will go, we'll share with you and exchange with you on all the initiatives,
but there is no big bank. There is no initiative that will be taken in the fall. No, it's
something that will be progressive but you can be sure that it's everybody's, I'm seeing on
top of my mind.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Tax rate.

A - Gérald Harlin

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

The tax rate, tax rates are decreasing, at the same time, we should take normally some
time ago very often we said it should be between 24%, 25%, but keep in mind that tax
rates are declining in diﬀerent countries. I believe that it's not ﬁnished yet and that we will
have other countries where rates will go down. So, 21% is not a one-oﬀ. So, that's taking
into account what we discussed before on the tax one-oﬀ excluding this, no, it's the
normal rate. But we can go into more granularity with you if you want.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Sorry, it's Andy from Macquarie. Couple of follow-up questions on reinvestment, still
trying to get my head around the 2% rate. I think you said that the bond reinvestment rate
was 1.6% in the half year. And if I look at the chart and obviously see the government
bonds probably yielded less than that, given they're AA, so the 16% that's ABS and below
investment-grade to get you to 2% from the 1.6% and a bit less on the other bit, it's got to
be around 5%. Is that kind of around right, those sort of maths?
And on the CDS increase in the half year, so obviously, at the end of the year, you're at
€4.4 billion of net CDS position. At the end of the half year, it's gone up to over €8 billion.
And I'm just wondering, is that already reﬂected in this chart? So, obviously, you use that
as synthetic, a bond investment, say? Or is that a kind of additional overlay? Because
that's almost 10% of the reinvestment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
No. It's not an additional overlay. We understand that when you have a – it's a way –
eﬀectively, you are right to invest in a synthetic bond. So the way it works is that when you
have an existing sovereign, for example, instead of selling the sovereign, realizing a huge
capital gain, and then which would not represent, because when we don't have any
mismatch, it won't mean anything. So it's better to sell a CDS, so that's what we do. But it's
small at the scale of our Group. When you compare it with the €600 billion investments,
collectively, it's collectively small.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

I think the increase is surprising because....

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes, it increases why, because you have – we are optimistic. When you have an
investment, when you have sharp moves in the interest rates, people ﬁrst invest in cash –
ﬁrst in futures, next in cash, and CDS like this one. They are not so much arbitrated. So
from time to time, when it's an opportunity for us to gain 10 basis points or 15 basis points,
I take this opportunity. We take this opportunity. That's what it means.
And let's be clear, it's not leverage at all because it's just a way to optimize it, taking into
account and keep in mind that we have a signiﬁcant part of our – 83% invested in ﬁxed
income, which are still in sovereign bonds and high-quality sovereign bonds, including
bunds and so on and so forth. So don't expect this ﬁgure to move at a very high level
because it won't make any sense. At the same time, there are some shortcomings. You

Page 21 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

have to pay the collateral, you have to pay the margins and so on and so forth. But from
time to time, when there are sharp moves in the market, it's an opportunistic move.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

FINAL

And on the 5% reinvestment math? On the...

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. On the reinvestment trade, so you were surprised by this, by the investment in the
ﬁrst half, that we have been investing – we don't invest in – we have on average, I said in
corporate bonds, we are A. So it's not AA. It's an investment in corporate bonds which are
more in A, BBB+ and A. What we try to avoid is investing in BBB- because there would be
a risk of downgrades. And in such a case, the cost of capital would be huge.
And I believe that I shared with some of you already on this, we've been – in the
investment team, we have a Group Credit Team, which is separated. And it's not at all part
of the two Group asset managers. And this team of roughly 20 people, they are working
on underlying the risk. So that means that we have 75% of our corporate bond risk which
are analyzed on a periodic basis, re-assessing with internal ratings. Why internal ratings?
It's also part of our governance, part of the Solvency II approach. And that's why. And as
much as possible we try to optimize it, so consider that the investment in corporate debt
in the ﬁrst half was more in the A, for some of them in BBB+.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul De'Ath
Hi, there. Paul De'Ath from RBC. A couple of questions, please. Firstly on M&A, obviously
forms part of your Ambition 2020 strategy. Would you be able to give any kind of update
on how things are going on the M&A front? What kind of things you're looking at? And
also whether you're seeing much competition from some of your peers who are also
potentially out there looking at some of these targets?
And then the second question is semi-related, just your recent deal with Alibaba, it was
announced a couple of days ago, are you able to give any more color on that in terms of
how it works? Have you had to pay in order to get that distribution? Or essentially how the
ﬁnancials of that might work going forward? And how much of a big deal it might be for
you in the future? Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

I'll give you a break again, Gérald. So on M&A ﬁrst, we have clearly said we want to invest
in M&A. Our budget is €1 billion per year. And we want to focus our M&A activities on the
areas where we want to grow. We expect this to be smaller to medium-size deals, not
large deals anymore like it used to be in the past because our global scale is there. We
don't need the big deals anymore. This market is however very diﬃcult because it's very
competitive and you see premiums being paid where, yes, one can ask oneself if that's
reasonable or not. We are actively looking all the time. We are actively screening ﬁles. But
we will be very selective on what we are engaging and what not.

Page 22 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

The second question on Alibaba, Alibaba has obviously looked out for a global insurance
partner and has addressed us. Why us? Because we are, as I said earlier, one of the most
diversiﬁed insurers with a very, very global presence. The issue Alibaba has at the
moment is that there's many of their customers that are traveling outside of China, they
desire protection for their travel which we can provide.
The second issue with Alibaba obviously has a lot of trade relationships with SMEs, both
inside and outside of China. And they are also looking for protection. This is the initial
stage of this agreement. You were asking this question, how does it work? What is the
business model and what's the ﬁnancial outcome of it? A little bit too early because as
you might have seen in the press release, it's a memorandum of understanding which for
us is a very big step because as you can imagine it was not easy to get to that deal. The
next phase now is about the implementation. How does it work? Who is doing what? And
how does the business model work? As soon as we are a little bit further, I'm very happy
to answer your question when we are at this stage.
Blair?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you. This is Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. I've got three questions too. The ﬁrst is
Hong Kong, can you give an update as to when the new product is up and running and
the impact that that might have. Secondly, you talked I think in the past, Gérald, about
some debt restructuring around possibly buying in some higher growth and issuing
senior. Has the environment put that on the backburner for now or is that still a plan? And
I guess, thirdly, we've not had a question on Brexit. So that's the one thing that has
changed since you announced your plan. How does that impact your thinking of those
aspects that are not under your control that you talked about earlier? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Good. So let's do a shared response. So, I will take Hong Kong. Gérald, you take debt
restructuring. And luckily we've got the CEO of U.K. and Ireland here, Amanda Blanc, who
will comment on the immediate eﬀects on Brexit, given that she represents the U.K. and
Irish business.
So on number one, Hong Kong, maybe to give you a little bit of context, Hong Kong is a
very big market for us in Asia. We used to be very successful in Unit-Linked business. As
you know, the regulation has changed at the beginning of last year, which led us to a fact
that we need to reposition ourselves into a world of a more capital light business. You also
know that the competition is very high in Hong Kong.
And we have already introduced the new product, if you meant by the new product was
the new Life product, which is in direct competition against the other market runner,
provided by Prudential. We see success in the sales of this product but as you can
imagine, it takes some time to readjust our agency sales force from a very focused on
Unit-Linked sales force to a sales force focused on general account in a capitalized way.
But we are on the way, and we are very pleased with the initial results that we have seen,

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

which means also that we are going to continue product innovation in the Hong Kong
market. Debt restructuring.

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
On debt restructuring, maybe you can go to page B61, which is the appendix on the
maturities. So we have in 2016 and 2017 altogether €3.3 billion roughly of debt maturing.
Most of them are sub-debts. In the ﬁrst half, we have been starting this reﬁnancing, as I
explained. We did it €1.5 billion in Q2 at quite an attractive rate, we were at 3.5%. And the
point, we did €0.5 billion in senior recently in June. For the rest, I cannot tell you. Really it
will be opportunistic, it will depend on the market, and it will depend on the opportunities
these days. There is such an appetite for high quality bonds, including subordinated
bonds. There might be opportunities that won't be missed. So really it will be
opportunistic. I cannot tell you exactly what we will do, but going back to your question,
Blair, yes, we put in place what we said since 20%, 25% of the reﬁnancing of the ﬁrst half
were done in senior and not in sub.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Amanda, on Brexit?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Okay. So I guess three points. They're points that we've already discussed around market
volatility and interest rates which I think have been well covered by Gérald and Thomas
already. The second point is around the industry issues around passporting and freedom
of services and all of that sort of stuﬀ and we obviously have to be involved with the
association of how we interact on those points and get our points across to government.
And the third point, I guess is the most important point which is the potential impact on
the business of a revived economic assumption.
What does it do to our customers? The businesses, the businesses, the import, the export.
And I guess we're working through the various assumptions in terms of that from a more
positive economic growth assumption to a slightly more negative economic assumption
around the conﬁdence that businesses have to invest in their businesses, in people. And
things which in terms of buying things and we're actively working through that at the
moment. But I guess the biggest worry is on the things that we can try and control which
is what are the economic impacts for us as a business.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Amanda.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. I guess the question was also directed at the kind of wider knock-on eﬀects. Interest
rate is lower for longer. Does that lead you to be at the higher end of the drag on interest
rates or even worse than that? And in an environment where your earnings are growing at
a lower base than perhaps expected or hoped, does that make managing the dividend
pair more important for you?
Page 24 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

I mean, as I said in my introduction, when we did the plan and when we looked at the
ﬁnancial scenarios we did include the possibility of Brexit even though we didn't want to
think about it. Now it is reality and therefore we are still in the range of the plan, which
means we still feel very comfortable and do everything to deliver the 3% to 7% growth in
underlying earnings per share.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

I sneaked a question of dividend in there. I don't know if you heard it but you didn't
answer, anyway.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

The dividend question is related to that where we also made a very clear guidance. Not
clear enough. No, I mean to be very clear, we have said that the dividend payout range
will be between 45% and 55% when we are, if we are in the range of the plan. Today last
year we were at 47% so at the lower end of this range. There's still potential, upside
potential. And we will clearly make sure that we have an attractive dividend story,
particularly given that we have a very good cash ﬂow per ton between €28 billion and €32
billion over the plan period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Any more questions in the room before we maybe go to the webcast questions that there
might be? No questions. Ah, there's one.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

So, it's Andy at Macquarie again. Sorry about this. So when I look at the JV AXA Equitable
ﬁlings for Q1 and the year end, they in the 10-K basically showed a utilization of withdrawal
beneﬁt assumption in the start reserves, which was a range of 0% to 30%. And it's also 0%
to 16%, it dropped to 0% to 8% at Q1 and so far. So what kind of utilization rate are we –
are you assuming in your reserves for the GMIB ﬁxed product that hasn't gone through
the buyout process, that remains on the balance sheet? Is it that kind of range? Or is it
signiﬁcantly higher than that? Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin
It's the same. So that means that it's in line. Your point is there is on [IV], and if I well
understood, it's on the annuitization rate. So the annuitization rate has been low, it's still
very low. It has been indeed a slight adjustment at the end of last year because we were
assuming the annuitization rate that was higher than the reality. What I can tell you is that
for the time being we are still extremely conservative on the way we assumed our
annuitization rate. But you know these types of elements, so we – very often we spoke
from the policy behavior because -but it is long run.
And as far as [IV], we are doing well. And we are – we consider that we are extremely well
reserved. But let's wait and – in order to see whether we'll drum up consequences in
terms of preserving or not.

Page 25 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And this is also – I mean related to customer behavior. If you look into the customer
studies, they are very stable over time because the typical pattern of somebody who is
retiring is let's get the cash, let's divide the cash, and then let's plan what is the annuity I
want or what is the freedom on cash, be it for my holiday, be it for the children. So this
pattern has not – has been very stable over time. And since customer acts, the customer
behavior and customer patterns move very slowly over time, we feel conﬁdent to stay at
where we are today.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So still trying to ﬁnd a little bit more about the dividend. So, Gérald, I think you said, I
can't remember if it was the Solvency or full year, you kind of said one of your ideas would
be to reduce the intergroup debt and so to use part of the cash ﬂow for that, which would
lead possibly to lower progression of the payout ratio. I just wondered if you can give a bit
of an update on that. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Look, yes. I remember that we said that maybe we could reduce the internal, debt but it
would lead to a payout ratio that would be lower. That is that – I cannot – I will repeat what
I said just before by Thomas. We committed on €28 billion to €32 billion. So that is
sustained level. If we published it and we said that we conﬁrm our plan, it's because we're
comfortable. We're comfortable with this. So that means that in the end you remember
what we presented at the – a few months ago. We said, okay, the ratio will still be within
the 75% to 85%. I even said that we could imagine to have also a bit more capital
reduction in line with the previous question that was raised by Andrew. So it's still true.
But there is no direct link between this and the payout ratio. If your question is do you
believe that there is a risk that repaying some internal debt you would impair the capacity
to improve the payout ratio? No, because it's something completely diﬀerent. It's
managed on the long run and so on and so forth. There is no threat on that side.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Any further questions?
It doesn't seem to be the case. In this case, I would really like to thank you for coming
here today, for participating actively with your questions. And I wish you a great summer
and hope to see you soon. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
Page 26 of 27



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-08-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

