Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, CEO Group and CEO of Helvetia Switzerland ad Interim
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andreas Frick, Analyst
Daniel Bischof, Analyst
Guilhem Horvath, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
Stefan Schürmann, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome to the Half Year Results 2016 Conference
Call and Live Webcast. I'm Sarah, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that
all participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the
presentation, there will be a Q&A session. The conference must not be recorded for
publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmür, Group CEO. You will now
be joined into the conference room. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, please hold the line. The conference will begin shortly. Thank you.
(00:55-02:38)
Ladies and gentlemen, please hold the line. The conference will begin shortly. Thank you.
(02:42-05:49)

Philipp Gmür
...one of the most signiﬁcant occurrences (05:50) in the ﬁrst half of this year.
Page 1 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

First of all, I would therefore like to thank Stefan for his highly successful contribution to
Helvetia, not only as the CEO over the last nine years, but for his nearly 20 years working
for our group. I wish him all the best for his future. Under his leadership, Helvetia Group
has experienced the highly positive development and can also look back on a successful
ﬁrst half 2016. I will go into the details in a moment. Stefan has handed over to me a
company that is well-equipped to meet the upcoming challenges, therefore, I'm very
encouraged to push ahead with the successful course Helvetia Group is pursuing.
I would now like to give you detailed information on the key aspects of our half year
ﬁnancial statements during this presentation.
Let us move to the agenda. Following my introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will explain
the key ﬁnancial ﬁgures, report brieﬂy on the highlights of the business performance in
our Swiss home market and then present our investment results. I will then provide you
with a short update of the helvetia 20.20 strategy and our new organizational setup.
Following the presentation, Paul and I, as well as our colleague, Ralph Honegger, Chief
Investment Oﬃcer, will be pleased to answer your questions as always.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let us now turn to slide three, and let us begin by discussing operating proﬁt, which
achieved a pleasing increase of 7.9% to CHF 238 million. The improvement was driven by
the Life business and the other activities. In the Life business, the savings result underpins
the earnings performance. The business area, other activities, beneﬁted from a better
technical results from group re-insurance.
The Non-life result showed much better technical results with the net combined ratio on a
group level at an excellent 91.9%, thanks to realized cost synergy. We were therefore able
to outperform our newly set strategic combined ratio target of 93% in the ﬁrst half of 2016.
Underlying earnings in Non-life were below the prior year level due to the weak
performance of the equity market which impacted gains and losses from investments.
Paul will give more details on that within his presentation later on. Thanks to the very
good progress of the integration of Nationale Suisse, underlying earnings already
included synergies of CHF 51 million on a half year cost basis.
As you can see, we are well underway to achieve our synergy target. I will provide you
with more details on the synergies in a moment. Business volume increased by 3.4% in
original currency to more than CHF 5.5 billion. Life business volume grew by 5.3% in
original currency.
Let me highlight that the modern, capital-eﬃcient Life product showed very satisfactory
growth, resulting in an increase of 8.4% in original currency compared to the ﬁrst half year
2015. The Non-life business volume was impacted by portfolio optimization
measurements as we have already announced at the full year results 2015 in March. This
had a negative impact on volume growth which was therefore only 1%. Despite the
challenging environment and the very volatile capital markets, our rates are still wellcapitalized. Our Swiss Solvency Test quota was within the range of between 150% and
200%.
Page 2 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

I will now continue on the current status of the integration project on the next slide. As I
have already outlined before, the integration of the two acquired companies, Nationale
Suisse and Basler Austria, is well underway. Once again, in the ﬁrst half year 2016, we
made immense progress and reached further important milestones.
In our home market, Switzerland, the operational part of the integration is almost
completed. Following the successful migration of Non-life policies, we are now migrating
the Life policies into the Helvetia system. Also, in Europe, we are well on track. In
Germany, organizational restructuring measurements have been initiated. Furthermore,
approval for the legal mergers from the regulator has been obtained so that we can now
start the implementation phase without any delay.
In Spain, the new organization is already eﬀectively installed and we have started to
optimize the former National Suisse portfolio as previously announced. In Italy, the Nonlife entities and subsequently also the agent networks have been successfully merged. We
are also operating with an integrated product range under a single brand in all country
markets.
To summarize, integrations have largely been implemented. Thus, we are conﬁdent to
ﬁnish the respective tasks by the end of 2017. This brings us to an update on the status of
the realization of synergies on the next slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

As of half year 2016, Helvetia had 590 full-time employee equivalents fewer than it is as of
June 30, 2014 when we started synergy tracking. Of these employees, 451 left the
company due to the acquisitions and can therefore be counted as net staﬀ synergies.
At the same time, however, investments in our business that were made to support our
strategy in particular in IT and to expand functions that Nationale Suisse have outsourced
have had a slight counter-eﬀect. The staﬀ reduction corresponds to around CHF 40
million in personnel cost savings on a half-year basis.
We also generated non-personnel cost savings of roughly CHF 12 million on a half-year
basis in 2016. In particular, synergies were achieved here through a reduction in
redundancies in areas like IT, logistics, marketing and corporate. Overall, we realized
synergies of CHF 51 million, meaning that we make great progress in achieving our target.
With that, I would now like to turn over the presentation to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will
present to you the most important information about the key ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd also like to welcome you to
this analyst conference. And within the next 20 minutes, I'd like to give you more detailed
information on our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of 2016. I'd like to turn to page
seven, the results by business area. Our underlying earnings for the ﬁrst half of 2016 are
above CHF 238 million, an increase of 7.9% compared to previous year. This increase was

Page 3 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

partly due to the Life business and the signiﬁcant improvement of results of other
activities.
Before I go further, I know from Susanne that one or two of you have asked about the very
low tax rate. This is a one-oﬀ tax rate. It is not sustainable. It is not expected to continue.
There were a series of individual items which make up the reason for this, including many
to do with the integration post-merger of Nationale Suisse. But as I said, don't take that as
a sustainable tax rate going forward, expect to go back to normal either in the end of this
year or in certainly next year.
We increased underlying earnings in the Life business to CHF 88 million, which reﬂects a
growth rate of 4.2% compared to the ﬁrst half of 2015. The improvement came from a
better savings result, which mainly beneﬁted from the decrease of the minimum interest
guarantee rate in the group Life business in Switzerland and the one-oﬀ tax eﬀect I
mentioned, partly oﬀset by additional reserving related to the low interest rate
environment.
We'll have a closer look on the Life proﬁt by sources in a few minutes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Results in the other activities improved from minus CHF 22 million in the ﬁrst half of 2015
to minus CHF 1 million for the period under review. This is mainly attributable to the
technical results of our Group Reinsurance which improved signiﬁcantly compared to the
previous year.
In the ﬁrst half of 2015, the technical result have been impacted in particular by an
unfavorable claims development and the fact that the European entities were able to
cede many claims to Group Reinsurance, mostly out of the portfolio of the former
Nationale Suisse.
Alongside the improvement in the technical result of Group Reinsurance, the previous
year have been massively impacted by currency eﬀects and also gains and losses on
investments, which attributed primarily to the SNB's decision in January 2015 to move the
Swiss franc peg to the euro. In the current reporting year, we have had several one-oﬀ
positive tax eﬀects here as well.
The Non-life underlying earnings amounted to CHF 151 million and were, therefore, CHF 7
million lower compared to the ﬁrst half of 2015. Although the technical result improved in
comparison with prior year, the decline was attributable to lower gains and losses from
investments, mainly as a consequent of the weak performance of the XT (17:10) markets
and also decisions we took to realize investments in 2015.
I'll provide you with details in the proﬁt by sources of the Non-life business in slide 11. I
would like to quickly point out again that this unusually lower tax rate you see in this half
year due to one-oﬀ positive eﬀects, these mainly come from various aspects of integration
of Nationale Suisse.

Page 4 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

Let's turn to the segment result on slide eight. In the ﬁrst six months of 2016, we achieved
robust results in all segments. The Swiss segment again proved its credentials as a stable
foundation for the group by posting a proﬁt contribution of CHF 173 million and a growth
rate of 2.2% in the ﬁrst half of 2016. In the Life business as well as in the Non-life business,
underlying earnings increased compared to the ﬁrst half of 2015. In the Life business, the
improvement was driven by a better operating result, margin after cost, partly oﬀset by
reserve strengthening related to lower interest rates. The Non-life business improved,
thanks to better technical developments and realized synergies.
The segment result for Europe, which comprises the market units Germany, Italy, Spain
and Austria, was stable and in level with the previous year. Thanks to favorable
development of the operating results, underlying earnings of the European Life business
increased. Higher expenses for interest-related reserve strengthening had a slight
counter-eﬀect. These are primarily the (18:53) in Germany and Austria.
Non-life underlying earnings in Europe by contrast were lower. Apart from a slightly
weaker technical performance due to the fact the prior year materially beneﬁted from the
reinsurance, the main reason was a lower investment result due to lower net capital gains
and losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Specialty Markets includes the business lines Marine, Engineering and Art in the Specialty
line Switzerland International Market unit. The French market unit specializing in Transport
and Marine and the global active reinsurance. The segment result for Specialty Markets
was CHF 14 million which is below the previous year. Also here, the decline was due to a
lower investment result and currency ﬂuctuations.
The Corporate segment includes the Corporate Center and Group Reinsurance, in
addition to the ﬁnancing companies and the holding company. Its contribution result of
minus CHF 1 million signiﬁcantly improved against the previous year's ﬁgure of minus CHF
22 million. This was driven by a strong result from Group Reinsurance and lower currency
eﬀects compared to ﬁrst half of 2015, as well as some one-oﬀ tax eﬀects.
I will continue with that growth in business volume on slide nine. In the ﬁrst half of 2016,
Helvetia Group achieved a business volume of CHF 5.5 billion. This equates to an increase
of 3.4% over the previous year in original currency.
In the Non-life business area, we achieved an increase in premium volume of 1% original
currency despite the fact that we were forming (20:31) portfolio restructurings in order to
improve proﬁtability in some country markets. This growth was mainly due to the active
reinsurance business in line with its strategy.
Life business increased by currency-adjusted 5.3%. In particular, I would like to emphasize
that in Individual Life business the volume of the so-called non-traditional insurance
products, investment-linked insurance solutions and deposits increased by 8.4% overall,
while traditional insurance solutions declined in line with our strategy. The ﬁrst country
market posted the biggest growth by segment with increase of CHF 164 million or 4.7%.
I'll come back to that in the next slide.
Page 5 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

In the Europe segment, we generated slightly less premiums compared to the ﬁrst half of
2015 in original currency. As I've already mentioned, we have performed targeted
portfolio optimization measures in the former Nationale Suisse portfolios in Germany, Italy
and Spain, in order to improve proﬁtability. Alongside portfolio restructurings in Italy, the
motor business suﬀered from a very price-sensitive competitive environment which
resulted in the decline of average premiums in line with the market.
In the Specialty Markets segment, we also achieved a 7.1% increase in volume over the ﬁrst
half of 2015 in original currency. Growth was almost entirely driven by our active
reinsurance, resulting from targeted diversiﬁcation by region or business lines, as well as a
selective expansion of existing business relationships in line with the previously agreed
strategy for active reinsurance.
I'll now turn to our home market on slide 10. In the ﬁrst half of 2016, the domestic market
once again emerged as a solid foundation of the group. In Non-life, we increased
premiums by 1.8% to a stable (22:36) CHF 1 billion. The main growth driver was motor
vehicle insurance which beneﬁted from a change of the invoicing period.

Bloomberg Transcript

The former Nationale Suisse motor portfolio partly had a diﬀerent invoicing sequence
which has now been aligned to the Helvetia portfolio. However, this positive impact on
growth, top line growth that is, will be reduced in the second half of 2016. To make it
clear, this has no impact on the net earned premium, just a top line growth eﬀect.
Business volume in Life business increased by 5.8% with the biggest growth contribution
coming from the group Life second pillar business. Here, demand for full insurance
solutions remain consistent. Helvetia continue to pursue its strategy of being very
selective about the new business in this low interest rate environment. Nevertheless,
single premiums increased by 14.6%. The increase was due to a single transfer of
policyholder bonuses into retirement assets booked as premiums and should therefore
be regarded as a one-oﬀ. Eﬀectively, what happened was that customers bought
additional cover using their bonuses. And for accounting purposes, that has been booked
as a premium. On the proﬁt and loss account, it has no net impact.
Regular premiums, which are important for assessing business performance, increased by
CHF 11 million or 1%. In Individual Life business, premium volume increased by 2.6% to
CHF 450 million, whereby the main contribution came from modern capitalized insurance
solutions increasing by 29%. The guarantee plan has demonstrated a positive trend in the
sale of modern insurance solutions. Also, sales of the tranche product issued in spring,
were again very strong. Traditional Life, by contrast, decreased in line with our strategy.
I'd now like to look at the proﬁt by sources in the Non-life business on page 11. In the ﬁrst
half of 2016, we can again look back on a very strong technical performance in the Nonlife business, which is reﬂected in the technical resulting 10% above the prior year.
Looking at the proﬁt in the Non-life business by source, we can see that the gross
technical result that is before reinsurance increased by 58%, thanks to a much better
claims development in the ﬁrst half of 2016 compared to the previous year.

Page 6 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

In 2015, we had several large losses predominantly coming out of a former Nationale
Suisse portfolios in Europe. The recoveries from reinsurers in 2016 fell below the previous
year's results due to the fact in the ﬁrst part of 2015, European entities were able to see
the large proportion of the claims of group reinsurance, which led to an unusually good
seeding result of those units.
Nevertheless, the net technical result grew by 10%. This increase can be attributed to a
better cost development, mainly driven by synergies. The investment result – the net
investment result was lower compared to the ﬁrst half of 2015. As a consequence of the
higher volatility and the corresponding weak performance in the equity markets in
particular, as well as the fact we made large realizations in 2015, we generated lower gains
and losses in investments this year. From an accounting perspective, a signiﬁcant part of
our equity portfolio is qualiﬁed as trading, so that volatile equity markets can have a direct
impact on the P&L.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to move to the net combined ratio slide on page 12. The net combined
ratio improved over the prior year by 0.5 percentage point to 91.9%. The net claims ratio
increased by 0.8 percentage points. As already mentioned on slide 11, despite benign
claims environment in 2016, net claims ratio increased compared to the previous year
because the 2015 ﬁrst half-year result materially beneﬁted from recoveries from group
reinsurance. However, with 28.2%, we achieved an excellent cost ratio, which was 1.4
percentage points down the prior year. This was due to the realization of signiﬁcant
synergies. All the market units achieved a combined ratio of below 100%.
We move to slide 13, on the Life business. The operating result increased by CHF 23
million or 14% against its prior-year level. The improvement came from a better savings
result, which beneﬁted from the decrease of the minimum interest guarantee rate in the
group Life business in Switzerland in the mandatory, as well as in the non-mandatory area.
However, the risk result fell mainly due to weaker claims development, which is actually in
line with normal volatility that is expected.
Proﬁt before tax was down CHF 5 million or 5%. High interest rate, related reserve
strengthening and lower capital gains and losses in consequence of the weak
performance of the capital market negatively impacted proﬁt. These eﬀects were also
consequently reﬂected in a lower allocation to policyholder bonuses which had a counter
eﬀect. I'll now continue the embedded value on slide 14. As you can see on slide 14,
Helvetia Group's traditional embedded value was CHF 2.9 billion at the end of the ﬁrst
half of 2016. The Life units acquired from Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria in the
second half of 2014 were only included to the extent to the adjusted net asset value in the
ﬁrst half of 2015.
Since the second half of 2015, the new portfolios and all the burial insurance products in
Spain, the models for the ﬁrst time are therefore included, all their components in the
embedded value of the current reporting year. The main reason for the decrease in
embedded value compared to the end of 2015 was negative economic deviations due to
the low interest rate environment, as well as dividend payments in the ﬁrst half of 2016 out
of the Life units to the holding company, which reduced the shareholder value of the Life
Insurance portfolio.
Page 7 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

The embedded value nevertheless produced a positive operating return, and there's also
a positive contribution despite the low interest environment from new business. Under
diﬃcult economic circumstances in which life insurance fund service, our new business
continues to cover its cost of capital. New business volume was down in the ﬁrst half of
2016. In Switzerland, Helvetia took a conscious decision to reduce the sales of full
insurance solutions like occupational pensions, individual life business. Growth of new
business volume from modern insurance products was higher than the traditional saving
products in line with our strategy. Also, in Europe, new business volume grew. In all
country markets, traditional life products are only selectively being distributed or they're
being modernized.
The value of the new business written in 2015 increased from CHF 5 million in the
previous year to CHF 7 million. In Switzerland, the value of new business declined year-onyear due to the lower volume generated in Group Life business. The ﬁrst full inclusion of
the proﬁtable burial insurance in Spain in embedded value helped increase the value of
new business in Europe. As a consequence, the proﬁtability of the Helvetia Group's new
business based on development of volume and value of new business under the
traditional embedded value methodology improved from 0.3% in 2015 to 0.5% in the
reporting year.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you are aware, we're one of the few groups still using traditional embedded value and
whilst there are considerable changes ongoing in ﬁnancial reporting for insurers, with the
new market and solvency measures in the forthcoming IFRS 4 Phase II, we do not believe
it would be a good use of resources to introduce MCEV across the group in the
immediate future.
We have, nevertheless, calculated an MCEV for our Swiss Life portfolio for the ﬁrst time as
you can see on the lower half of this slide. These ﬁgures are as of end of December 2015.
We aim to update this ﬁgure on an annual basis and publish it in September with our halfyear results. As you can see, the MCEV and the new business margin calculated on MCEV
basis for the Swiss Life business, which obviously makes up the vast bulk of our business,
are higher compared to traditional embedded value results. With the MCEV new business
margin of 2.2%, we're actually very much in line with our peers. I can also say that we do
listen to analysts request for further information, as you can see.
If we turn to slide 15, dealing with our direct yield and guarantees in the Life business, the
direct yield increased in Switzerland in the ﬁrst half of 2016 while the EU countries, by
contrast, direct yield declined as a result of the lower interest rates. The increase of the
interest margin in Switzerland was closely linked to the higher generated direct yields in
the asset side and lower average technical interest rates on the liability side. The higher
direct yields result to a large extent, out of higher yields from equities. The lower average
technical interest rate is to be attributed to extra capital through the additions of the
reserves and the fact that maturing interest insurance contracts with high guaranteed
rates are being replaced by lower guaranteed rates.
Adjustment of the guaranteed interest rate for BVG retirement assets on January 1, 2016
from 1.75% to 1.25% and the corresponding adjustment to non-mandatory rates however
have already been reﬂected in the average guarantee rate calculation in 2015. On the
Page 8 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

right-hand side of the slide, we've introduced a graph showing the interest rate buckets
on guarantees on a group level, whereas in the ﬁrst half of 2015, only some 25% of groupwide life reserves had guarantees lower than 1.5%. This year, some 60% at average
guaranteed reserves below that level. After lowering the BVG minimum interest rate in
Switzerland played a signiﬁcant role here, it also shows how much we have done to
structure our portfolio, to improve proﬁtability and capital eﬃciency.
I'd now like to move to the investment performance on slide 16. The current income in the
ﬁrst half of 2016 was CHF 523 million, which is CHF 20 million higher in the ﬁrst half of
2016, due to the higher investment volumes. Direct yield was an annualized 2.3% and
therefore unchanged compared to the prior-year despite the much more challenging
environment. In addition to current income, realized gains and losses amounted to minus
CHF 58 million. This ﬁgure came mainly from book losses and equities since the
signiﬁcant part of our equity portfolio is held as trading, with market movements being
booked in the income statement. The weak and uncertain economic situation and political
uncertainties, not least the Brexit vote caused very volatile equity markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In total, the investment results in income statement was CHF 466 million, CHF 56 million
down on the ﬁrst half of 2015. By contrast, investment performance increased to 3.3%
against zero in the prior year. Unrealized gains and losses recognized in equity
signiﬁcantly increased, pushed by declining interest rates, which had a positive eﬀect on
the bond's performance. Finally, we earned CHF 4 million less on assets backing
investment-linked solutions for our customers, which can also be attributed to the weak
performance of the capital markets.
On slide 17, you can see investment result broken down by asset class. Just under twothirds of the current income of CHF 523 million come from bonds and mortgages has
contributed CHF 288 million and expect to be CHF 43 million in absolute terms.
Dividends accounted for CHF 54 million and investment property, CHF 180 million. Gains
and losses on investments were minus CHF 58 million, mainly caused by equities which
suﬀered from the volatile capital market. The development in non-realized gains and
equity came from the previously mentioned low interest rates. The unrealized gains on the
bond portfolio increased signiﬁcantly by CHF 1.1 billion.
The lower half of the slide shows return on new and recurring investments. Around CHF 3
billion in total were reinvested or newly invested in the ﬁrst half of 2016, 78% of which
were allocated to bonds, primarily U.S. dollar bonds in the corporate sector, as well as
long-term U.S. treasuries. We had to contend with high-hedging costs to cover our
foreign currency exposure. But on a net basis, we earned a yield pickup which allowed us
to mitigate the negative and very low bond yields in Swiss francs to some extent. Investing
in mortgages and investment property and, to a small extent, also in equities also
contributed strongly to mitigate the impact of the low yield environment. Direct yields on
new and investments totaled an appealing 1.7%.
I'll continue with page 18. Slide 18 brings us back to acquisition-related temporary eﬀects.
Our outlook up to 2017, which we announced following the acquisition is basically
unchanged. However due to the very pleasing progress in integration, we increased our
synergy target above CHF 130 million when we presented the full-year results in 2015. As
Page 9 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

Philipp Gmür already mentioned at the beginning of the presentation, we achieved
synergies of CHF 51 million on a half year basis mainly from Switzerland and the
Corporate Center. But also our European entities made a contribution to achieve
synergies. Integration cost were CHF 25 million in a half year basis. As we already
emphasized, we are well on track to achieve our synergies and even to slightly exceed
them.
Financing costs booked in the ﬁrst half year came to CHF 7 million and the amortization of
intangible assets of CHF 30 million were at the level we previously announced as was the
planned depreciation on the revaluation of interest-bearing securities. I will ﬁnish my
presentation on – with capital. Even after two acquisitions, Helvetia still enjoys a solid
capital position, business pay ratio was within the target range of 150% to 200%. At a CHF
5.5 billion, the group's equity capital was up 3.5% due to an increasing gains and losses
recognized in equity for the AFS ﬁnance and investments driven by the decreasing
interest rates. The higher value of pension liabilities were also as a reduction of the low
interest rates through reduction of the discount rate.
On that note, I would like to hand bank to Philipp Gmür.

Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Paul for the details of our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of 2016. I would
now like to come to the last part of our presentation, and to give you an update on our
strategy and on our new organizational setup on group level.
We will start on slide 21. Helvetia 20.20 makes us ﬁt for the future. In March 2016, we
announced the new helvetia 20.20 strategy. The strategy will also remain unchanged
under me as the new CEO. We want to push ahead with the successful course Helvetia
Group is pursuing. I want to emphasize again that the new helvetia 20.20 strategy will
make us ﬁt for the future. That means that our product oﬀers and sales channels will
become more digital and modern. Fit also means that we will become more agile and
eﬃcient as an organization.
To achieve this, we will combine our traditional strength with new opportunities that arise.
The new strategy will also enable us to achieve our well-known ambitious targets that will
also remain valid shown on the right part of this chart. One thing is very important to me
in this context is by this evolution, Helvetia will remain personal and reliable.
With that, I would like to move to slide 22. The implementation of the strategy is based on
the three key concepts of integrate, innovate, and increase. By pushing ahead with
integration and innovation, we will be creating growth. In order to implement the new
strategy in a targeted and eﬃcient manner, we will establish a new corporate structure as
an initial fundamental setup and step. The new structure will be eﬀective as of January 1,
2017. Following the successful integrations of Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria, which
have been already implemented to a large extent, we will now intensify collaboration
within the Helvetia Group whilst focusing on our customers and market development.

Page 10 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

Let us move to slide 23. With eﬀect of January 1, 2017, Helvetia will have a new integrated
executive management with well-focused tasks. This will result from the merger of the
Swiss market executive board with the existing group executive board to create the new
Helvetia executive management. Under the new structure, in addition to the existing
market areas, Europe and Specialty Markets, the executive management will be
completed and complemented by adding the market area of Non-life Switzerland,
Individual Life Switzerland, Group Life Switzerland, as well as Sales Switzerland. As such,
the new corporate structure will ensure that all the relevant market areas contributing
most to growth and proﬁt will be represented in the executive management team.
Furthermore, a new actuary department will be established on a group level. In view of
the increasing importance of IT in terms of digitization, a fully integrated IT department
responsible for all IT across the group is also going to be implemented. In addition, a
newly created organizational unit called Corporate Development will support the
executive management to further develop Helvetia in a targeted manner.

Bloomberg Transcript

The new corporate structure has an impact on the body of the actual Swiss market
management team. Herman Sutter and Angela Winkelmann are going to retire next year
whereas Andreas Bolzem and Uwe Bartsch remain in the company by assuming new roles
in Helvetia. To summarize, the new corporate structure will focus on the following three
key areas. First, give innovation a higher priority in order to ensure the digital
transformation of our core business following the changing customer behavior and
expectations as well as taking advantage of the opportunities of targeted business model
innovation. Second, maintaining the focus on the growth markets, Europe and Specialty
Markets for diversiﬁcation purposes apart from the home market, Switzerland.
And third, strengthening our already well-established asset-liability matching concept by
optimizing collaboration between the asset and liability side mainly the Investments
Department, the Actuary Department as well as the Finance Department. I will now move
to slide 24. The new corporate structure clearly boosts the implementation of our strategy
helvetia 20.20 as our key strategic points, agility, digitization and innovation, as well as
customer centricity are now also anchored in our organization. An integrated corporate
structure with well-focused tasks helps to streamline the organization and to reduce
management level.
By bringing together or merging support functions such as Human Resources, Corporate
Development, Finance or IT which currently are represented on group level as well as in
the Swiss market area, we are eliminating unnecessary duplication. Executive
management can therefore operate in a more focused manner and is, at the same time,
closer aligned with markets development. This makes Helvetia more agile.
There is no doubt that digitization is a key catalyst for the further development of our
business model. By representing IT in the executive management as a separate division,
we strengthened our IT capacity and take into account the increasing importance of
digitization. In order to continue providing our customers with ﬁrst-class customer
interaction and experience, one of the key pillars of our strategy is the digital
transformation of our core business.

Page 11 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

At the same time, the Corporate Development Department supports us to take advantage
of targeted business innovation. This organizational set-up secures an intensiﬁed dialogue
across all areas and the comprehensive view on important strategic subjects. Exchange of
experience and knowhow transfer from the support functions into the market areas has
also been intensiﬁed. The new structure, therefore, ensures that Helvetia as a group will
become more digital and innovative.
Furthermore, the new corporate structure secures that all the relevant market areas
contributing to growth and proﬁt are represented in group management. This helps us to
be closer at our customers and therefore, become more market- and customer-oriented.
Also, by representing the actuarial function in the executive management, we continue to
optimize coordination between the product development side in Life or Non-life, the
investment department that provides the underlying assets, actuary that controls the
liability side, and ﬁnally ﬁnance that is responsible for the balance sheet and risk
management

Bloomberg Transcript

This helps us, for example, in the Life business, to intensify our eﬀorts to focus on capital
eﬃcient modern life product across all business units. The new corporate structure,
therefore, ensures that we implement helvetia 20.20 in an eﬃcient manner. Ladies and
gentlemen, as you can see, a lot has happened in the past six months. We are driving
forward the implementation of our strategy and I must say that I'm proud that we are well
on the way. Helvetia is well-positioned for the future. We will give you the next update
within our full year results in March 2017.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. And now, my colleagues and I would be
pleased to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Q&A
Operator
A - Philipp Gmür
I suggest that we are starting with the questions in the room.

Q - Andreas Frick

{BIO 1883910 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Andreas Frick form Bank am Bellevue. I actually have three
hopefully short questions. The one is on page 13, the proﬁt by sources in the last business.
Actually, I mean, it's great to see that savings result is so robust and so resilient for sure.
But on the other hand, I would – we should see happen which goes more away from the
savings result, more into the risk and fee result. So, please can you again, elaborate on the
reduction of the risk results? I know that Paul said something, but I think I missed that on
page 13.
Then, on page 19, which is the asset fee ratio, ﬁrst of all, you do not specify more on the
asset fee ratio, right? In this regard, I know that you won't say something on the dividend

Page 12 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

policy, but for me it looks like the visibility regarding earnings and other cash ﬂow has
improved a lot now. And therefore a – nevertheless, I ask you whether you can elaborate a
little bit on the dividend policy going forward? And then last question, on page 23, the
Corporate Development, the new unit which should help the executive management
board. Is it only about new products and digitizations or maybe new lines of business? Or
is there also something to say on M&A or external growth? Is isthe new Corporate unit
also responsible for developing strategy regarding M&A?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thanks for those three questions. I suggest that Paul is starting with answering
questions number one and two. And I'm then ﬁnally answering to question number three.
0

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So, we go back to page 13. And you're right, the savings result is robust. It has been
clearly helped – signiﬁcantly helped by the sensible decision to reduce the minimum
interest rate guarantee, and also as we said by our ability to change the non-mandatory
part and also on Individual Life products. The risk result has previously been – and we
expect it to continue to be very strong. It has suﬀered a little bit this half year from a
slightly higher claims pattern but actually (51:26) very certain that its within the sort of,
boundaries of our normal volatility on the risk results, mainly Invalidity business. So, that
will ﬂuctuate. It's been very strong in the past. We've managed to get away without any
major claims from that, but again, it remain reasonably strong.
The fee result for us was only introduced as a separate category. I think it was last year
and so its relatively new for us in terms of splitting out the various products that have a fee
analysis on it. So, I would ask for little bit of, sort of, patience until we develop the actual
bookkeeping to make sure we get the right numbers out of it. It won't be massive but
there will be some changes there.
On the SST, yes, you're right. We don't specify more. We certainly have not done at the
half year. Even at the full year it's going to be diﬃcult to specify more information,
because as many of you are probably aware FINMA has now decided to change the
whole modeling process for the BVG second pillar and are basically saying they're
probably not going to publish any numbers, any more detail until that's been stabilized.
So we're once again in a state of ﬂux regarding the BVG – I'm sorry, the BVG modeling
and the overall SST modeling. There will be the new bridge -ﬁnance market, which is
equivalent to the SSTR report under Solvency II. That is due for publication next year.
Given these uncertainties, we're not quite sure what's going to happen. There's no clear
disclosure concept from FINMA. And until that is clear, we won't give any more details.
In terms of the dividend policy, there has absolutely at the moment no impact on
dividends. I've mentioned several times before and we published it for the full year results
detail, the biggest factor on the dividend capability is there are statutory equity position,
which is the statutory equity and the statutory proﬁts are somewhat lower, considerably

Page 13 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

lower, actually, than the IFRS ones because they're not blown up by unrealized gains
because they deal diﬀerently with technical reserves and so on. And SST at the moment is
not a restricting factor in our ability to pay dividends. Our dividend policy will remain the
same and we set out the targets under the strategy of paying at least CHF 1 billion every
ﬁve years and there's nothing at the moment which would indicate that we need to
change that.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Let's turn to the question number three concerning the corporate development
department. Of course, there are two diﬀerent streams we would like to follow. The ﬁrst
one is to realize organic growth in order – by establishing new ideas. We want to
transform our existing business from our traditional set-up, if you will, in a new digital
world. Apart from that, we would like to establish a couple of speedboats, but they will
not have the same impact, of course, as if you can move the big ship, the tanker. And the
third point of course is our M&A strategy. We will not probably achieve our CHF 10 billion
company target by the end of 2020 without any acquisitions. And thus, we are looking for
acquisitions outside of Switzerland, be it in Germany, be it in Spain especially. But as you
well know, acquisitions are diﬃcult to be planned. So, either they come or they don't, but
we want to play an active role.
Other questions? Stefan Schürmann from Vontobel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Stefan Schürmann
Yes. Good morning. I have two questions. The ﬁrst one on the Life part, just to give you –
can you give a bit more color on the reserving, also in Switzerland, you said the (56:00) in
Germany has an impact. Maybe can you elaborate how much that was and how much you
added to reserves in Switzerland? The second one on Non-life, Italy was quite a nice
combined ratio. I mean, is there any lagging impact on the national portfolio included or
is that in the group reinsurance part? And the second one in Germany, the combined ratio
is up. Is there any extraordinary one-oﬀs in there or is that underlying development?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you. I suggest that Paul is answering those two questions.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

The Life reserving we disclosed at the year-end in detail because the Life business needs
to develop every year. You can't just do it every half year. So, it's almost like a provisional
ﬁgure. So I'd rather not go into how much we've reserved, particularly in Switzerland, it
will vary. In Germany and Austria, the Life (56:51) is a mathematical formula, which you
can't escape from. I don't have it in the top of my head, how much fees we're talking
about low-digit millions that we have to reserve. Since Spain don't have a (57:04) reserve,
they have a mathematical formula which is very volatile because (57:11) the supervisor
every half year.
On the Non-life side, the combined ratio has been really pleasing. They are under
pressure from the motor business. But they have basically put behind them the problems
Page 14 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

of the Nationale Suisse (57:30) and that's why you're seeing it come through now as a
kind of market conforming combined ratio, the non-motor business – also for the motor
business.
In Germany, the gross combined ratio actually is extremely good. The current year ratio is
very good. The net looks bad because it's really, they have had couple of large weatherrelated claims at the end of the half year. But you have to look at it as a relationship with
the reinsurance. And last year, they basically got a very, very good deal out of group
reinsurance. That's why you saw the losses in our group reinsurance segment. And this
year, eﬀects with the gap between gross and net is quite large because you're seeing a
reversal of that eﬀect. But on a gross basis, they're doing very well. They've cleaned up a
lot of the portfolio both from Nationale Suisse and from our own industrial portfolio. And
once the reinsurance stabilizes, we expect that to improve within that basis too.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. There is a next question, with René Locher, I think.

Q - René Locher

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It's René Locher with MainFirst. So, ﬁrst question on slide 18. You mentioned that the
integration of Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria is almost completed. It's interesting to
see that you have fully expensed the integration cost. So, more or less, I think on
synergies, there is still quite a gap from 51 to about one-third. So, I'm wondering if almost
completed and still there is a lot of synergies coming. So, that's my ﬁrst question.
And then (59:20) simple question, how serious you are about this CHF 10 billion growth
target because – yeah, this might be a little bit too naïve, but when I'm looking at slide 8
and slide 9, for example, we see that specialty line, top line plus 9%, our proﬁtability is
down by 30%. So I think there is a good reason for this. I'm wondering a little bit – what I
would like to hear is you keep your focus on proﬁtability and not on these CHF 10 million
top-line growth. And yeah, again, perhaps a little bit of stupid question. That's what I got
out of the press. Simple question, do you believe that an investment in (01:00:11) would
make strategic sense for Helvetia? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thanks for those questions. Paul will answer question number one regarding the
synergies tracking, and I'm going to answer the other two questions. Paul, please?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. Simple answer, René. The CHF 51 million is in a half year basis, so for this half year.
So, you can basically double it at least to get there. Okay. Simple one. So, we are
deﬁnitely well on course, no question.

Q - René Locher
Okay. Regarding the CHF 2 billion volume target, I would like to mention that's a...

Page 15 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

CHF 10 billion.

Q - René Locher

FINAL

Sorry?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

CHF 10 billion, not million.

Q - René Locher
CHF 10 million. What did I say?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

CHF 2 billion.

Q - René Locher

Bloomberg Transcript

CHF 2 billion. Oh. We're not talking about proﬁts, but the volume. The CHF 10 billion
volume target is set as a strategic ambition. And I think there are more than four years to
go until the end of 2020. So, we really want to set forth a high ambition. Now, of course,
we are not wanting to realize growth which is not a proﬁtable growth.
If we have to question between proﬁtability and growth, then we will go for proﬁtability.
That's why for instance, we do not have any growth targets for Specialty Market lines – for
diﬀerent Specialty Market line for the moment because we see the margins to decline. So,
we are there pursuing a rather opportunistic way of growth in the Specialty Markets
department. Then the third question, Leonteq. I mean, if they can Leonteq be on tech, it's
out of discussion for Helvetia.

A - Philipp Gmür
": Can I just add... "
Question?

Q - René Locher
one point to the growth thing and Specialty Markets fee. Decline in proﬁtability in
Specialty Markets is purely to do with investment results. It's not to do with the combined
ratio. The combined ratio is good.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Daniel Bischof from Baader-Helvea. A couple of points. The ﬁrst one for Mr. Honegger. I
mean on the investment side, the share of BBB and lower rate bond increased now to 17%
compared to 10% a couple of years ago. Also the sensitivity to credit spreads increased to
Page 16 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

28% versus 20% a couple of years ago. Also a little bit about the ﬁxed income stage you
have? And also whether you have the appetite to rerisk further, where you have more
appetite to rerisk?
And the other question is for Mr. (01:03:40). First, I mean, you're long time with the group.
The strategies laid out, but still I mean what do you think can Helvetia still look back from
here? I mean where is the biggest upside in Europe? And then also, I mean we have to
comment in the press about a closer cooperation between (01:03:39) and Helvetia. What
are your thoughts about that? And then the last one just a small one, I mean when you
made the acquisition, you talked about CHF 500 million proﬁt target. Does that target still
stand or would you rather fully focus on the ROE?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thanks for those questions. I ﬁrst ask Ralph to answer the investment question.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yes. I mean, we opened the BBB segment for investment about 18 months ago, and
basically we talked to terms in 2015 and also in half year or two sort of build on, on this
BBB investment, where we really put an emphasis on corporate bonds, which gave us also
the terms to diversify more between the diﬀerent sectors to move a little bit out of the
ﬁnancial sector to end the corporate sector which we make on a perspective of
diversiﬁcation. Obviously, the BBB segment has become a necessity for us, since you now
it seems like the whole scale shifted down. That's what we know (01:05:05) market.
Looking at today's interest rate environment, obviously it's still the corporate equity
segment which (01:05:15) in our view that the best terms or this might go up slightly. They
have to emphasis though (01:05:29) sector was only due to our Italian business and the
Italian government bonds downgraded some years ago. So there we have an important
move, obviously. The same holds for Spain about the position, that is much smaller since
we don't have such a big life obviously.

A - Philipp Gmür
Yes, okay. Now talking about the upside, potentially, you were asking. I think we've had a
strong track record during the last few years, I mean, with regard to growth and
proﬁtability where we wanted to be, more or less, ﬁrst class. I think we achieved what we
promised. So, that's why we're conﬁdent that we have further upside potential. First in our
home market, we have a strong position as we're number three in this country which gives
us new opportunities. And apart from that, we have promising positions abroad, be it in
our markets, Austria, after now the integration of Basler (01:06:52) Austria, we are a stable
goods (01:06:57) provider for insurance solutions in Austria where we were struggling for
years now. We are really on a robust fundament.
Then we have promising positions, we are sure, in Italy. We are among the biggest 10
Non-life insurance companies in Italy which gives us a good position for further growth. In
Spain, we have been writing excellent technical results for years which gives us a good

Page 17 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

position. And in France, of course, with our number two position in Marine, we are a wellestablished insurance company.

FINAL

We are conﬁdent that we can even better leverage our know-how across the company
and across all business units, be it know-how which exists in the – outside Switzerland in
the diﬀerent business units abroad, be it the know-how we have in Switzerland. And this
makes us conﬁdent that we are still in a position to have further potential looking ahead.
With regard to our cooperation with Raiﬀeisen, we have a new contract or we prolonged
the contract in January 2 of 2015 for another ﬁve years. This cooperation is wellestablished. We are pretty happy about the development in the Life segment. And we are
still conﬁdent that there is potential to enlarge this cooperation with regard to Non-life
products in the value chain of Raiﬀeisen and its clients' advice journey.
Question number three, the CHF 500 million proﬁt target. What we published was a
target with regards to our dividend we are providing for the market. And apart from that, I
would like to give to Paul if he wants to add some other points.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

There was a broad estimation, yes, CHF 500 million based on the then situation of the two
companies and the synergies. As you can see with CHF 238 million on an underlying
basis, we can't say whether we're going to double them up. We don't give that guidance
(01:09:46). We're obviously getting towards that. The problem is that since then, the last
two years, the investment environment has declined signiﬁcantly. And whilst on a speciﬁcbasis, we said the synergies is – a large part of that synergies we will reach. I think it's
pretty certain. And the overall broad CHF 500 million is very diﬃcult to say, given the
current investment plan with lower interest rates.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. I would now like to give the opportunity for questions for all those who are
following us on the phone. Is there any question?

Operator
The ﬁrst questions from the phone is from Guilhem Horvath, Exane BNP Paribas. Please
go ahead.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got four, actually. So, the ﬁrst one is on Life and
going back to something you answered earlier. I'd like to understand how much is
sustainable on this savings result because you mentioned lower interest rates, higher
reserves and then, I think you mentioned that's one-oﬀ as well? So, can you tell us a little
bit what you expect to be sustainable? And on this, what do you expect the normalized
proﬁtability in Life to be in the future? So this is number one.

Page 18 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

FINAL

Second is on P&C, I think you provide for the ﬁrst time the prior-year developments, so
year-on-year, and I'd like to understand and to know what the absolute level of this prioryear developments. I think you mentioned the minus 10 bps eﬀect. Maybe you can give
the absolute amount.
The third one is on synergies, and maybe – I think I didn't (01:11:24) understood that with
your answer to René earlier, so the CHF 51 million here is a cumulative number, right? So,
the year-to-date synergy is CHF 6 million additional, is it right? And then on that, I think
that last year you had CHF 15 million, so is it like a deceleration and what would be the
reason?
And the last one is on the Switzerland sales new entity, and I'd like to understand how this
will be articulated with the other entities, so the Non-life, the Individual Life and the group
Life. Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. I would directly like to hand over to Paul for the ﬁrst three questions. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As you are aware, we don't give guidance on numbers going forward. When you look at
the – the announced (01:12:20) proﬁt of the Life business on page 13, you can nevertheless
see certain trends combined with a knowledge of these as a market and how they're
developing. The savings result, it's particularly dependent on the decisions of the Swiss
Federal Council on the BVG second pillar minimum interest rate.
If that is sensible, which it wasn't in the prior year, but is this year – if that is sensible, then
that is pretty sustainable. And as we pointed out with our other slides, in particular, one
which shows the reserves and the buckets which is in (01:13:21) slide 15, we've made a
great deal after (01:13:01) ourselves to improve the proﬁtability (01:13:06).
And the risk result, as I've said there's a blip this year, but we don't expect that to continue
for longer term. So, based on those indications, I think you can probably work out yourself
where the sustainability is going. We have said that on our investment portfolio, we
roughly see a 10 basis point to 20-basis-point deterioration on the yield every year. So, a
longer-term sustainability in a business which is heavily dependent on interest rates, you
can see gradually how it changes.
On the P&C, you're right. Again, we listen to our – what the analysts ask us for. We have
introduced a slide showing the developments, it's on page 31, so it's in the appendix of
the combined ratio. I think you can work that out yourself, the 0.1-basis point. What it does
show is that it's not a material amount. I mean, people have often said to us, you're
releasing lots and lots of reserves and our point is no, we're not. We're generally
conservative with reserving. And then you'll see a small development which will vary plus
or minus, but will not be any signiﬁcant from year-to-year. (01:14:19) to the overall
combined ratio. But it does show that it's not a – on a net basis, a decisive element in the
combined ratio.
Page 19 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Just coming back on this, if I may. On this 0.1% (01:14:39), we see that the evolution is not
a material amount, but I think we don't have a view on what's the absolute number, right?

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

No. But you can work that out. I mean, 0.1-basis point on a combined ratio when you know
what our value is. And at the moment, we don't want to get down to lots of details about
the absolute amounts of reserving and where it comes from and so on (01:14:59)
complicated.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

On the synergies, if we go back to slide 18, I don't think (01:15:11) to be heard. I think you
said maybe a deterioration, did you say in the synergies...?

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

No. Deceleration. I'm sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Deceleration. Well, yes, there will be a deceleration because obviously as you've
harvested most of the synergies, as you come towards the end of synergy period, it
doesn't accelerate. But then, we started in 2015 with CHF 15 million, and we're now at
CHF 51 million from its (01:15:32) equivalent half year. So, all in all, we're on target for that,
well over CHF 100 million. And that's obviously by the end of 2016. And then, we still got
2017 to go. But yes, it will decelerate. I mean, I wouldn't expect to see that increase in, say,
2017. It will be just the last little jump to get to the CHF 130 million.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. So, I would like to turn to question number four. What's the reason and the
collaboration within Non-life Switzerland, Individual Life Switzerland, and Group Life
Switzerland to have that represented in the group executive management? First I would
like to emphasize that we wanted to have all those business units and lines of business
which represent the key drivers, be it for proﬁtability or growth within the executive
management.
The second point is, having those key drivers represented in the executive management
helps the executive management to be closer to the market and to have a closer look on
what's going on out in the ﬁeld.
And the third point is, we do not want to establish a matrix organization, but what we
would like to establish is to have a better know-how transfer, be it from all those country

Page 20 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

markets outside Switzerland into the home market and vice versa. This helps us to
establish a know-how transfer across the group and to diﬀerent business units.
With that, I would like to hand over to the next question.

FINAL

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

On – just, if I may, on the Switzerland sales strategy, speciﬁcally?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. I mean, the sales department in Switzerland has not only the highest number of
employees within our group, but also much know-how with regards to all diﬀerent kinds
of sales channel, be it agents, networks, be it all those broker networks, be it the
cooperation we have with the two bank networks, Raiﬀeisen and Cantonal Banks. Then,
we have an online channel in Switzerland. We have a direct insurance company,
smile.direct in Switzerland. There is a huge know-how in this channel, and we would like
to leverage this know-how for the other country markets.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

That's great. Thanks so much.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

Next question.

Operator
The next question is from In-Yong Hwang, Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I've got two. Firstly, on the Life new
business margin is 0.5%, is still below (01:18:25) the target you set out at your 20.20
strategy of over 1%. Is that 1% target still realistic in the current interest rate environment?
And I mean, what would need – what change would you need to see either on the macro
side or in your business point of view (01:18:47) achievable?
Secondly, on the reinvestment rate. The real estate yield – the new (01:18:57) yield of 5.5%
seems very high. So, I was just wondering how that is being achieved? And I understand
the 1.7% is average over the ﬁrst half year. Could you give us an idea of what kind of rates
you're investing – you're re-investing, sorry, at the moment? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. I would ask Paul to answer the ﬁrst question and Ralph the second one.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}
Page 21 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

Okay. The 0.5%, as you say, is below the 1% new business margin that we indicated in the
strategy. We're clearly in a very, very low interest rate environment. We have deliberately
not reset the strategy at this early stage. We have ﬁve years to go and things may change.
At the moment, because it's above zero, so 0.5%, it's half way there. It is obviously
meeting our cost of capital. And if you look at the Swiss market unit, which makes up 80%
of the Life business on a marketing system (01:20:04) basis, it's obviously very
comparable with our peers. So, at the moment, I don't think it's really sensible to reset the
strategic aims.
In terms of what drives it, it's clearly interest rates. And from a macro perspective, interest
rates need to go up. As we've shown on the other slides, we've had considerable success
in reducing the liability side or the exposure on the liability side by reducing our
guaranteed rates. So, that will obviously help quite a bit. But it's a catch-up. As soon as we
start reducing guaranteed rates in the liability side, we certainly ﬁnd that interest rates go
even low on the asset side. But long and short of it, yes, it's interest-rate-driven. Two,
we're not going to change the strategy at the moment. And three, we're certainly keeping
our head above water.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Ralph, what's going on with our investment yield?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. First, maybe to the old investment or new investment yield of investment property, I
mean, this is because we don't usually acquire a tough (01:21:17) real estate which is
ﬁnished, which is standing there normally, and that's the way the majority of our
investments we acquire a project.
So, at the size of 0.5%, you see here, is basically projects that we acquired three years,
four years, ﬁve years from today, so – which came to the market, which we ﬁnished this
year and which we marketed this year. So, the good thing of the story is that we really
could keep up the (01:21:53) investment return with this new project that we saw three
years, four years or ﬁve years ago. So, the market is still pretty good in Switzerland.
To the reinvestment yield overall, it's kind of hard to say. So, you all know that interest
rates came down, again, spreads narrowed. So, it probably won't be low for the second
half year. We know exactly (01:22:24) it will stand at the end of the year (01:22:27).

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Other questions?

Operator
Page 22 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

The last question from the phone is from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thanks for taking my question. Just two from me, please. Firstly, just to go back to the
prior-year development points from earlier, it is helpful that you're showing us the
development now. But really for it to be of any use, we need to know the starting point.
So, I don't want to get into too much detail, but if you could just give us a rough range on
the percentage point? Are you raising 12 points (01:23:00) on your combined ratio
(01:23:07) for example?
And secondly, the disclosure around the guarantee breakdowns was super helpful on
page 15. Could you just give us the average for the level above 1.5%? That would be very
helpful. Thanks.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thanks for the questions. I turn to Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

On the prior-year developments, I'm sorry, Jonny, at the moment, we have no plans to
increase the disclosure on that one. And on the buckets, I'll have a look and come back to
you what that is.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

All right. Thanks.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions?

Operator
There are no further questions from the phone.

A - Philipp Gmür
One last ﬁnal question in the room?
If there's none, I thank you for your attention. I thank you for your interest in our company,
and it goes without any saying that we are happy and ready to answer all the questions
you might have between now and March 2017 when we'll see one another again here...

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

(01:24:15).

Page 23 of 24



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-09-05

A - Philipp Gmür
Enjoy your day. The conference is closed.

FINAL

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Good-bye.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

