Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Y 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernhard Kaufmann, Chief Risk Officer
Christian Becker-Hussong, Head of Investor & Rating Agency Relations
Joachim Wenning, Member of the Board
Jorg Schneider, CFO
Markus Riess , CEO ERGO, Chairman ERGO Versicherungsgruppe AG
Nikolaus von Bomhard, CEO, Chairman
Torsten Jeworrek, CEO Reinsurance

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Daniel Bischof , Analyst
Frank Kopfinger, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael Huttner, Analyst
Olivia Brindle , Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst

Presentation
Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Munich RE Annual Conference to all our guests
here in this room. And thanks for making your way to Munich and welcome of course to all
of you following this conference from their offices via Internet. Sorry for the late start. We
had to wait for a delayed plane, some people arriving late in Munich. But I think we should
be able to manage here on time.
Today, the usual set of six presentations. There will be a first Q&A session, followed by a
break after the third presentation. And after the second round of presentations, there will
be another round of Q&A. I will make a separate announcement on the further time
schedule just before the break.

Page 1 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

The formal part of the conference should then be finished by approximately 6:00 PM or
hopefully even earlier. So thank you for dedicating that much time for us. Afterwards, as
always, plenty of time for informal discussions with all speakers. Looking forward to
meeting you on this floor in a function room.
I'm sure all of you have taken a very close look at our preliminary key figures for fiscal year
2015 a few weeks ago. Today, we disclosed the full set of financial results and this
afternoon, beyond discussing these numbers in more detail, we aim to look ahead
together with you on in Munich RE's future prospects. So please let me introduce today's
panel, starting from my very right, Bernhard Kaufmann, our Chief Risk Officer then Jorg
Schneider, Chief Financial Officer, next to him, Nikolaus von Bomhard, CEO of Munich RE
Group, then, Torsten Jeworrek, CEO Reinsurance and Joachim Wenning responsible for
Life Reinsurance on the Board of Management. A special welcome goes to Markus Riess,
ERGO's new CEO, who joins us for the first time today in order to present Munich RE's
primary insurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Markus will have to leave the conference after the break. So other than provided in the
presentation booklet, we've changed the order of speakers and we'll present ERGO
before the risk management section. I'm sure you understand that Markus will today
comment on last year's performance. Forward-looking statements will be part of the
ERGO's strategy update to be provided in the Second Quarter.
I would also like to introduce three other gentlemen sitting in the first row of this
auditorium, (Christian Brown) heading up our central reserving function here at Munich Re
for the Group, Christoph Jurecka, CFO for ERGO and (Stephan Cosman), who is part of
our Solvency II reporting team.
So far from my side and now I would like to hand it over to Nikolaus.

Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

Thank you, Christian. Good afternoon. And good day. Good day to those who are listening
over the Internet. It's a pleasure to be here with you. Strong track record, new ideas; as
regards to strong track record, I think this room is appropriate, when it comes to new
ideas it may not be felt as an appropriate room to get across the message that we are
highly innovative and pushing things. But the comments hopefully in the presentations will
convince those who are not as of now.
Let me quickly go into my slides right away, starting with (you back). You know that we
have a tradition to come up with what we consider or expect as a profit, it's not the
prognosis of the profit but what we do expect. Here we have compared to our last official
statements. And it was I think early in February, a slight change because the span of the
expected results we moved south EUR200 million in parallel and you would get -- may ask
why. The reason is relatively simple. We have experienced tremendous amount in
accumulation of uncertainty all over the world in every regard and certainly also in the
capital markets. So we felt we should be cautious there. We don't know what is coming
up.
Page 2 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

Two. And we took out all the luck factor. Of course, that had been done previously
anyway. Competition in reinsurance unfortunately. And Torsten may come quickly to that
point, is what it is. We may see some dampening. But no signs as of today that we turn
the corner. And we also readdressed the result expectation for ERGO. These are the key
reasons. One would not have been enough, the most relevant one was the first.
Well the balance sheet is strong. This is an obvious one since we published also now the
300% ratio for solvency. And sometimes we present to you the term strong balance
sheet close to reliable results. What I would like to avoid is the shortcut that we take out
substance out of whatever balance sheet of the Group as a whole to sort of pep up the
result. So if you take reserves, the reserving level of the reinsurance on the P&C side is
not less or worse or of lesser quality compared to last year, even though we did release
quite tremendous amounts.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the same goes for other reserves, as long as we can keep them, as long as we can
stick to the conservative approach we will. Tax reserves, of course, there is an end to it.
Once the tax has been checked and set, these reserves, if there are any, have to go. It
does not mean that we do set new reserves. But the span of the time, the distance for
the periods where the tax is being set are shorter because the tax authorities certainly
here in the area try to come closer and we now finished tax assessment until and
including 2011.
So accordingly, the reserves cannot be what they used to be in sheer absolute numbers.
But the key is, we do not do any pillow fluffing. We do not push reserves around to make
the result more acceptable. It is not taking up substance to prepare results. A strong
balance sheet rather means no backlog, all bad news is out. And we take and continue to
take a conservative approach when we set up the reserves.
The same goes for the asset side of the balance sheet. You have seen of course the
EUR26 billion of unrealized gains sitting on our balance sheet. Of course, not all of this is
shareholders' money. A good EUR7 billion is shareholders' money, the rest is
policyholders' money, driven to quite some extent by low interest rates. But the good
news is we have it. And since interest rates came down even further in the beginning of
the year, this reserve right now, as of today would be even higher.
We will not do yield hunting, even though I admit to the difficulties to invest sensibly grow
ever bigger, not the least for a policy of one huge central bank on this continent. But
these assets where we will not chase for yield -- hunt yield. Of course, we did increase
slightly. But you can see that even with the risk capital numbers our risk position. But very,
very moderately. And also the goodwill, we did write down goodwill again you may say.
But this goes to what I said before. If there's bad news anywhere we will act immediately
and swiftly and the goodwill now in relative terms is relatively low.
The next slide will of course be deepened both by Jorg and especially by Bernhard later
on. The only message I would like to leave with you here is it is not so easy in today's
environment to deploy the capital at a profitability level that we have reached over the
years. Since we are where we are and don't need as much, of course the money flows

Page 3 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

back to the shareholders. And here you see the last six years the flowback we think is
quite tremendous. If you take a longer-term view, even the cash yield over the last 10
years is around 8%. And we have returned to our shareholders two-thirds of our market
cap over the last 10 years, today's market cap in comparison to buyback and dividends.
The dividend is, as it always was, very close to our heart and we will only increase it if we
are convinced we can hold on to it going forward.
This is an old slide, now it's 10 years we can show you, slide number 5. This is an old slide
in a sense we present it pretty much every year now for a couple of years and start from
the right side. Of course, we always wanted to be as high up as possible in the left corner
of that graph. We are left -- the most left that means we are less volatile than anyone else
out of our peer group. We're not the highest. There is one higher. But we're working
towards that. But as I said, not by taking big chances or even big bets.
On the left side, you see what -- and this is an obvious number because this is accounting,
the ROE over those 11 years -- close to 11, right 11, because 2015 is over, is 11%. Those who
are with us for long will remember in 2006 and 2007 when we came up with the
Changing Gear program, at the time of the then interest level, we said we go for 12%.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the time, I guess also our cost of capital was around 8% because the maths at the time
was 50% on top of the cost of capital. Interest rates have changed dramatically since
then. But our target of course stayed and it's more of a stretch today to 12% also because
our ROE is so big. But I would say overall we are not entirely unhappy with the result
beating the 8% that again today we would argue are our cost of capital beating that by
3percentage points.
The volatility, we will try to keep as low as possible going forward because we think there
is a value proposition in not being overly correlated to the capital market. I must admit the
market risk, if you look at today's numbers, is a little higher than I would like it to see. But
that's what it is, the interest rates to some extent. But also markets and volatility
specifically drive market risk to some extent. But you can rest assured we will try to keep it
within reasonable limits in the future.
This is a summary of the accumulation of uncertainty (as where it is). Of course, you could
add even further items to that list. It's a horrible list. It's a list that I in all my life term in
insurance have never experienced. The only good news for an insurer or a reinsurer is that
some of those risks lend themselves even to turn them into business. It could be
something very specific like terrorism risk, the climate, everything related to climate
change can turn into business. But also uncertainty in general, solvency issues stemming
from the regulatory side. There is some upside for us. And as a reinsurer more even than
a primary insurer, obviously we try to be so solid. And if you ask why the solvency ratio is
what it is in times like today where the uncertainty is all over the place we think we should
be obviously for everyone out there, whoever may need help, we consider and have the
perception of the last man standing. So if need is help -- if help is needed we are there.
Of course we do hope that not either government or central banks bail out people too
early because otherwise our value proposition is of not so much value after all.

Page 4 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So there are opportunities out there for us. We want to be resilient in this uncertain
environment and our risk management of course is ever more important. It is in that -- if
you take that angle, that perspective, you could call it very much also enabling business by
making sure we are around when needed.
On the next slide number 7, it's just a sort of shortlisted version of some more relevant
activities or management actions on the risk management side. Nothing here is new to
you, I would guess because we have always been steering the companies over the last 10
years in what we call a risk-based economic view and accordingly we have tried to hedge
whatever we thought should be hedged and can be hedged. And of course the most
relevant three, as always are, interest rates or duration, inflation and foreign exchange.
And we did that at a cost and of course if inflation doesn't kick in yet, it comes with quite a
higher cost. But we pay for it because we are convinced we should hedge it and this is not
for the shareholder -- not a risk that the shareholder should bear.
Diversification is the name of the game that goes not only obviously for the liability side of
our balance sheet. But it also goes for the asset side of our balance sheet. As I said, we
have some issues in finding appropriate ways to invest our cash flows. So far we did
succeed. In the morning we mentioned very briefly only that what you do know of course
that we did buy gold some time ago. Now we are considering and testing whether or not
it may make sense to even take cash and put it not here in the Company also not the
gold because someone wrote that and store the money physically to some extent. This is
just a test to see what banks, what those specialists can offer to us in pricing also because
that of course is one possible benchmark to say this is where we actually should rather
stop investing. We know of course that with the amount of assets we have that is not
possible for more. And we should not forget liquidity issues and certainly not
governments who will do everything if things get really ugly to make our life, with physical
money, miserable. We are aware of that. But we think a test will not do any harm.
Next slide is on Solvency II. Now we have it effectively. Some say now you have what
you've always wished for and are you happy, question mark, this is a rhetorical question of
those who never thought this is the right system. I must admit here or there I also
sometimes feel that the cyclicality which is in the system to some extent is maybe not all
over the (inaudible) universe addressed appropriately by the regulators yet, because you
have to have some courage to not take a specific day with this high volatility and maybe
low interest rates and say this is the day and you have to have the capital in place every
day, every hour and every minute. If you take that approach then of course cyclicality is
obvious. So even there remains some, let's say, discretionary room for regulators. But I
must admit that we also know some who do that very well.
Here you see some of what we consider consequences or even upsides for us in the
Solvency II world. We are very happy and you know that internal model has been certified
without bells and whistles. So we just got the sign that we were ticked off the way we
wanted it. And for the rest, we are not ready -- not everything is where it should be yet.
We just recently had our discussions also with our auditors who are very close and
following our latest steps in making sure that we are fully compliant with what it takes to
be then able also to present the numbers next year. There is still some work to be done.

Page 5 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

But I would dare to say that in the overall comparison we are quite far. So far rather, I
would call it the regular stuff and usual presentation.
There is some part today hopefully, not only for us but also for you listening about future
and about innovation and within innovation of course also digitalization. This is a very highlevel picture on two dimensions, products and markets. What can be done, what could be
done. And it's then split into four colors pretty much of different activities more on the
traditional side. It means more or less slightly different of the same and the extreme other
part of the spectrum or place in the spectrum would be changing even the entire
business model.
For us here at Munich Re everything is thinkable as we do not limit our way to looking at
the developments in the markets and say this can't be for us. We first want to think it
through before we take it out of the auction room. So a lot is going on in the Company. In
the morning I said, I am quite euphoric about the momentum we have built and it's a joint
momentum, it's a group momentum. This is not left hand -- right hand, don't know what
the other one does.

Bloomberg Transcript

Those who cover us for longer Changing Gear was first sort of attempt to get the house
moving. It was not overly successful for an obvious reason because the markets were so
firm that the fruit was hanging low and we rather picked the fruit that were hanging so low
instead of getting people distracted and trying to be super innovative.
Now since the fruit is moving up, it's a lot easier and this is a lot more important to make
sure that we take all the intellectual potential out of the Group and connect the dots in
terms of people who should and are speaking to each other. And I give you one example
here on the traditional front and that this is an obvious one.
Insurance penetration, I'm on slide 10, is such that you could say we are far from covering
the obvious even and many people do complain that we don't even cover anything else
beyond the obvious. And I'm afraid they're partly right. But in, what I would call, the bread
and butter daily business of either insurance or reinsurance, there's a lot to be done still
just for the mere fact that the world is developing. We have some crisis areas, as I said
earlier on. But we have other prospective, say, insurance markets in the sense that
insurance almost starts from scratch. It has to do with middle class and affluent parts of
the society. But also with entire societies having to live up still to the concept of insurance.
Take China as a huge example where they have moved fast. But the idea of ensuring
yourself against the consequences of natural catastrophes is not widely spread yet.
There's a lot to be done and of course in terms of diversification also for us as a player,
this is very, very interested business. But this is an easy one. The things get a little bit
more tricky if we move to the front end of innovation. Here is a slide. This is a typically
Munich Re slide, you really need a couple of minutes to really understand what we want to
tell you. But the idea here is pretty much getting across to you that reconsider what goes
on on the digitalization front today and it's changed a little bit, not so much anymore as a
pure challenge and then being afraid of disruptive movements. It is today rather for us an
opportunity. We understand it much better than we did in the beginning and we feel that

Page 6 of 55



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

we have so much to offer to those either start-ups or those who are trying to reinvent the
business model as a whole that we should rather partner with them. The most obvious
always is regulation on all these boring and (other) parts of insurance. Of course, we are
very versed with those issues and can help. But it goes way beyond that, because many
of those young kids around the block of course do not even want to carry the risk. They
just have the idea, maybe the technological side of it, which we think we don't. So let
them do it and maybe they have ideas how to address and get closer to the client. But
from then on almost the entire rest of the value chain is rather with us. So there is
tremendous opportunities out there. But also for the existing business of our Group.
Be it processes, be it how we focus on the client, how we address our clients, how we
administer the business, there is so much to be done. So the only message is don't think
even we sit in this wonderful old -- 100-year-old hall, that we are sitting on our laurels, if
any. No. It's very different -- very different these days and the next slide tries to structure it
a little bit around key, let's say, thrusts. And in all modesty we think on some angles even
we have now, at least in our industry, we would consider a leading position.
Torsten is sitting next to me here is the one that the data analytic group reports into and
this group, we know it from others, is really right up to it. They are really very good. Even
outside people from the software industry who we partner with confirm this is really the
top level. And this is not the only group in that regard that we have built. The good news
here is is it was not about money. It is about putting together what we have, it's know-how
within the Company. And then calling in from the external world those experts that can
make the difference. We have made that experience in cyber insurance, we do it to some
extent in data analytics. And we will not keep our fingers out of all technological questions.
Quite the opposite, we want to fully embrace it, understand it. We don't have to invent
everything. But we want to understand it.
Never put it on a high level, I tend to say. If out of 10 relevant trends, we miss three or four
while we can buy our way into two or four we may miss completely. But three or four, we
should understand ourselves right from the start. So with that kind of a mix having -- or
understanding pretty much half of what's going on, I think we're probably way above
average anyway.
Partnering is another key, wouldn't call it the challenge, it's a change. I just read in the
English version that will be published soon, Munich Re history, the first 100 years. And it
was interesting to see to what extent the management -- the strategic management of
partnerships was relevant for the Group to become what it is today. Then we had a
couple of years where the understanding including mine was what we can't control
ourselves, 50% plus golden share cannot be really good because we should, also maybe
sometimes for governance reasons, be in full control. We have and do change our
attitude in that context here.
Here it is rather about building partnerships, maybe exclusive partnerships, maybe buying
all way into them on the strategic -- for strategic reasons. But it is not about majorities. We
probably would kill those little flowers if we own them all.

Page 7 of 55



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

My last and way more tangible now and then coming close to my end is about the
reinsurance, at a very high level. I think what paid off with the benefit of hindsight one can
say that now that we in time that was actually in 2003, in four years changed our strategy
in opening up for feedback, then called primary insurance auto reinsurance today risk
solutions. We added on also with extra solid growth and built over time what I would call a
decent group of companies and businesses. Now it's equal to EUR5 billion of turnover
with very, very pleasant combined rations, pretty much, not all of it, Torsten is going to talk
about it, not correlated to market cycles, delivering around about 90% combined all
through the last years.
Life reinsurance, of course we had some issues in the last years because we had set up
the EUR400 million technical result target. And you could say -- you asked also why don't
you change it, then you asked us to up it. And you asked us to down it, stubborn as we
are. And you know us, we kept it and now I dare to say I can put my head on the block
here easily now, a little easier than before. And say we will deliver, Joachim won't
disappoint me on this one, we will deliver because last year -- I think the most important
message of the last year was no bad news from the US, no bad news from Australia. And
if we don't have those two bad news, we may have a single loss as we did last quarter
too even in North America but they should not occur to every quarter. They can. But it is
not very probable. And if they do not we are well and comfortably close to the EUR400
million.
ERGO, of course, the big issue. I'm not yet at a point where I will try to summarize what I
think went well and did not went so well over the last 13 years, actually it's 12 only right
now, next year 13. But there is a couple of challenges out there. If I summarize them on a
high level, we were doing -- saying all the right things about life business. But we did not
resolve it. We did not act with enough resolve to really walk our talk. Of course, we didn't
know what the interest rates will do. But the concept was right, the thinking was right. But
the execution was short. That, of course, is a problem. Even though today just Fitch said
that we did pretty well on hedging, our liabilities and the duration gap is manageable and
of course, they said the reserves are there and so forth. But if you have the right thought
and don't execute on it that is painful. The other one is of course that IT in general and
maybe everything around sales wasn't great. It can be better and with Markus Riess we
have the man to do exactly that. Unfortunately today is not the day to develop on those
thoughts more deeply. It is rather a little bit more of a looking back and we will have to go
into more detail in the Second Quarter.
One thing is also for sure, the fact that Markus Riess is now sitting also on the Board of
Munich Re here in Munich will also give a further push to everything that you could label as
synergy, be it value synergy, be it cost synergy. I am personally way more interested in
value synergy. One obvious thrust is innovation. But there's many other things we can do
better together and him and Torsten will probably refer to that here or there in their
presentations.
The international book, you could also put into that basket. I'm a little bit more hesitant
there. Next year, except for one company in Turkey, everyone out there have promised to
deliver less than 100% combined. We know that if you add all those ambitious targets, you
will never get the average. You get something less normally. We'll see. But as we also
Page 8 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

said, even though there was no kitchen-sinking, one thing is for sure that the reserving of
ERGO after this year is of a better quality than it was last year and we should and could
not add much to that anymore. I always tend to say one more year and then we are
where we should be. But not kitchen-sinking. But conservative reserving.
A short word on Munich Health before I come to the end. Here I would say we are a year
behind in comparison to what we wanted to have achieved by today. So it is a little bit
more groundwork still than it should be. So the eye still is focusing on the existing
businesses rather more than anything new, some may even say like that. But I would say
that we have of course the strategic appetite to do more. But we have not done so well in
the first round specifically everything that had to do with the US. This lesson has been
learned and the institutional memory will not forget it, I promise. But we cannot put our
eye yet on the future as much as we would like to. It's still about getting things right that
we have. But we start to change and of course innovation and digitalization will also play a
key role here in contact with the other colleagues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last is the outlook. I already briefly circumphraced the net result and the expected or the
target spend that we gave out. On the other, I would briefly only comment on not on all,
when it comes to turnover premiums written, we never focus on that number. It fluctuates
these days between EUR48 billion and EUR50 billion mostly in fact driven so far by
currency changes or in foreign exchange rather than business. It should over time certainly
go up. But you will never hear anyone here in the Group giving or handing out targets on
this overall number. Of course reinsurance is very different here from primary insurance. In
primary insurance, this is more relevant. But even there we will take a cautious stance.
Return on investments, you could say, while this wasn't at the target last year pretty much
and since interest rates come down, why not less. Let's not forget we hold a lot of US
dollar assets too and there the interest rates did not -- well, they came down. But overall
they are on the upward movement. So that's why we think 3% is a solid return. But it is not
unreachable. The combined ratio already is considering or taking note in account of the
fact that the first two months were again benign in terms of single large losses. So we
work that into the number, otherwise you would have a 99% here.
The ERGO result is what it is. Markus Riess will comment on what he thinks about that
result soon. So I can jump that and with that I'd stop here and hand it over to you, Jorg.

Jorg Schneider
Thank you, Nikolaus. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is our capital position.
Our economic solvency ratio seems to be one of the highest in the industry. It is based on
realistic assumptions that is something what Bernhard will tell you after the break in a little
bit more detail and it is somewhat above our business needs, a solid foundation for active
capital management and profitable growth.
In local German GAAP, the equalization reserves serves as a solid protection of our
technical underwriting result, even against very adverse loss scenarios. And in 2015, we
even gained ground for our distributable profits.
Page 9 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

First, the overview of the various earnings metrics and the very rough reconciliation
between them, starting from economic earnings of EUR5.3 billion plus-minus goodwill and
intangible movements plus-minus valuation adjustments and non-realized movements in
IFRS balance sheet we come to the IFRS result.
When you then adjust for accounting differences and equalization reserve effects, this will
lead us to the local GAAP result. Let us have a closer look on each of these metrics. First
and most difficult, economic earnings. What is it? A short repetition from what we talked
about in November last year. We've set up under Solvency II an economic balance sheet
with the excess of assets over liabilities, deduct and add some items including tiering
effects to calculate our eligible own funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the end of 2015 we compare that with eligible own funds at the end of 2014 and the
difference adjusted for opening adjustments, capital measures and other minor items are
the economic earnings. First column the actuals, second column an indicative
normalization. We can divide the economic earnings into operating economic earnings
and economic effects, the latter, economic effects, being the impact from change in
capital market data and FX movements, the impact on our existing book of business. We
had very strong operating earnings in 2015 as well as positive above-normal economic
effects.
First, operating, the high value of new business must be seen in the context that the new
business is measured as at the end of 2015. That means taking into account the factor of
good luck means low major losses in reinsurance. The positive variance on existing
business in reinsurance is dominated by the release of claims reserves. So this is part of
the experience variance because it refers to business which had been in the book at the
turn of the year 2014, 2015.
For the economic earnings, you can see here that this was above the normalized level.
What is normalized here? This is the difference between normal expectation of real asset
performance and risk free rates on the replicating portfolio of liabilities. This is an
expected spread we earn on our risks in the order of 1.3% and this is based on the
mismatch of assets and liabilities. And last but not least, the other non-operating earnings,
these were dominated by the very low tax burden of last year which was clearly below the
normalized level.
The normalized level of economic earnings was EUR2.6 billion by chance. This is equal to
the average of the last eight years and close to the EUR2.5 billion we earned adjusted
also for one-off items in IFRS. So you can adjust so long that you end up everything to
EUR2.5 billion in a way. And for 2016, we would expect economic earnings which are
somewhat below EUR2.5 billion. This is due to the ongoing pressure on reinsurance rates
and to the lowering of interest rates. We can also adjust that a little bit and add back what
we had as good luck in January, February, exactly the same what Nikolaus explained for
the combined ratio prospect. So far with this.
Now I move on where -- to the strong Solvency II capital generation. When we take this
EUR5.3 billion and deduct what's -- increase it by the change in capital requirements in this

Page 10 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

time that means our capital requirements were reduced by EUR0.3 billion. Other, that is
the impact from the sale of our ERGO Italy subsidiary. Then you can see a capital
generation of EUR5.3 billion compared to the capital repatriation of last year and so we
end up with a Solvency II excess capital generation in a way of EUR3 billion, which was
particularly strong. And this is one aspect of our distribution capability, the other one is
local German GAAP of the parent company.
The difference between economic and IFRS earnings, you can see on that slide, this is
composed of goodwill and intangible asset movements which are part of the IFRS
calculation. But not of the economic earnings calculation. The differences in valuation, that
is the third part here, it is dominated by the different valuation techniques on the technical
liabilities, discounting in economic growth and risk margin in economic growth unlike in
IFRS. And by the valuation of investments at market values whereas under IFRS loans and
real estate are not valued at market values.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we then adjust for items which are part of the IFRS balance sheet. But not of the IFRS
P&L then we come to the IFRS result. As you know it's EUR3.1 billion and now I am on a
more familiar territory. On the next slide you can see the overview of the IFRS result. I can
be very short here because you know all that already since 4th of February with our
preliminary results. Let me point your attention to the fact that our operating result
increased by 20%, although the investment result declined by 6%. So the technical
operating result went up by 24%, basically driven by low major losses and release of
claims reserves.
By the way after only 62 quarters or so which I had already -- where I had already the
pleasure to disclose them to you, we will now downsize the format of the Q1 and Q3
results, which means we will somewhat cut back the volume of disclosure not the
transparency. And I hope that you will like that new format which we will start to present in
beginning of May. We have a strong balance sheet. Nikolaus mentioned it. And this refers
especially to three items; unrealized profits on our investments which make up for 11% of
the market value of these investments, a relatively strong figure; claims reserves, which
are more difficult to quantify how much of a redundancy is there; and to a minor degree
also tax reserves.
So let me repeat what I firmly believe that is we have long term very good growth
prospects, prospects for profitable growth, we have short-term pressure on the
reinvestment yields and from reinsurance rates especially, we have some homemade
challenges in addition. But the very strong balance sheet has and will translate into
additional earnings which can partially compensate for the temporary decline.
Moving on to the investments, especially here the level of reinvestment rates, the 1.9%,
this is the lower line here. For 2016, I would rather talk about 1.7% or so. So we've already
gone to an even lower territory than here and the reason is what you can see on the right
hand side we are not prepared for a risky hunt for yield. We will stick to our policy of
evaluating chances and risks and willingly accepting some declines -- some more decline
in our investment results.

Page 11 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

Looking at our investment portfolio here, especially on the fixed income portfolio,
EUR203 billion, of which only 3% are made up of bank fixed income securities and loans
and 10% of corporate bonds. This is relatively low and then when you look at the middle
with our exposure to perhaps the more worrying area of oil and gas, then you can put that
into perspective. This is a minor item, a minor issue for Munich Re and the quality of these
funds is relatively high.
So we have also meaningful exposure to equities. This comes along with some
impairment risk for IFRS and even more for local GAAP and you will see some of that with
our Q1 numbers, at least if capital markets stay where they are at the moment. So you
should take that into account when looking at our IFRS and German GAAP results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to reserves, what we put here on that slide, these are the hotspots, which are
currently discussed for the property casualty claims reserves and you can see our
comments, how we are positioned. Let me summarize. We have strong controls in place.
We react to adverse indications immediately and let positive indications manifest over a
longer period of time. Therefore, nobody should be surprised to see the next two slides,
which may look already familiar to you because they are almost equal than for the
preceding years that actually reported losses are consistently below the actuarial
expectation and this has been the same picture for a very long while. And this applies for
almost all exposure yields and all lines of business; exposure yields on the left hand side,
line of business on the right hand side. So we have a very strong reserve position and this
can also be seen in the usual triangle on the next slide with reserve releases overall of
more than EUR1.5 billion before effects coming from the commissions. But also on an
adjusted level in reinsurance it made up for 7.2% of our net earned premiums.
German GAAP, next slide from IFRS to local GAAP of parent company in the middle, the
dividends of subsidiaries were higher than the sum of the IFRS results. If you just take into
account the impairment of goodwill of minus EUR430 million for ERGO Life. Therefore this
explains a lot of that -- or more then that difference in the second part here.
Minus EUR0.4 billion accounting differences -- minus EUR0.4 billion for strengthening of
the equalization reserve. So this equalization reserve, which you can see on the right hand
side, almost EUR10 billion close to its legal cap for 2016, hopefully flat if we do not have
major losses and we still expect a substantial release for the business year 2017.
And closer look on local GAAP numbers on my last slide, 31, on the right hand side the
development between 2014 and 2015. You can see here the very strong impact of -negative impact on the investment result by the write-down on ERGO shares held by
Munich Re parent company minus EUR1.1 billion. And this explains the decline in the
investment result and we had an enormously strong underwriting result driven by the
benign major losses and the reserve releases and that led us to very a good HGB,
German GAAP number of EUR2.6 billion for 2015.
On the left hand side you can see the development of our distributable earnings. The
equalization reserve should protect our distributable profits and should even, as I said,
decline in 2017 as repeatedly described. We remain exposed to investment losses under

Page 12 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

local German GAAP. One should have that in mind when looking at the very volatile
markets. But in a nutshell Munich Re has a very healthy balance sheet which will support
solid earnings going forward and attractive capital return for shareholders.

FINAL

With that, I hand over to Markus Riess for ERGO.

Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you, Jorg and Nikolaus. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen for listening to
my presentation. I'm very happy to be part of the Munich Re team now and look forward
to addressing you in my new function for the first time.
Let me very briefly give you an overview before I go into the numbers. I have now been
this ERGO and Munich Re for pretty much six months to the day. I have found a lot of
challenges and I think Nikolaus has put together very well on page number 14. But I also
see with everybody in ERGO locally and globally a very positive spirit and a considerable
openness for change, which I find remarkable given the changes that the employees have
already gone through over the last couple of years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I also found highly competent people. And I'm lucky enough to have been able to
complement those highly competent people this I think high performance from the
market who consider ERGO in this position supported by Munich Re as an effective
opportunity to contribute to changing ERGO into a higher-performing company.
Now the results. And I want to be very explicit about this our disappointment. And I look at
the results on a disappointing scale even if it was not for the impairment. And I'll come to
that in a second. Nikolaus has put up the ERGO range of EUR250 million to EUR350
million. I think that fairly reflects the ERGO potential as it stands today that is higher to any
additional strategic considerations hence the appropriate investments and I believe this
potential is not sufficient. I believe that we can increase the potential going forward based
on the strategic thoughts that we're going to formulate in Q2.
Now those thoughts I will only address in Q2 and not today. I will not hint into the direction
of these results and we will contact you then probably in May or June in order to discuss
the results in more details. So for now, I reflect as it is include in the pic on the year 2015
and I would like to draw your attention to the next picture, number 33. And present you
the key financials for 2015. And I'd obviously try to make that very brief.
I see a decline in the gross premiums primarily due to life and health and in that segment
primarily to life. This decline in premiums is basically a factor of the reduced focus of the
traditional business which is still popular all across Europe, primarily in Germany. The health
result is comparatively stable. The P&C growth which primarily comes from the branch in
the UK and the associated exchange rate effects do not over compensate the
comparative losses in life/health Germany. We have pretty strong growth in the
international segment and that is also quite diversified. So that's sort of a positive on this
chart and I'll come to that in a second.

Page 13 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

My second message on this chart concerns to net result, which as you can see there is
EUR227 million quite negative. And as I said before, this is primarily due to the goodwill
impairments on the life/ health segment. But again I repeat myself would still be
unsatisfactory otherwise.
The third message goes to the lower left hand corner of the chart and touches on the
combined ratios. Here you see that we have a deterioration of technical profitability both
in Germany and international for various reasons. The reason is primarily summarized in
one strengthening of the reserves that's primarily true for the international business and
here especially in Turkey. But also in terms of large losses. This is primarily true for
Germany. But also true for Poland. And lastly, an increased level of competitiveness, which
has an adverse effect on the margin also true for Poland.

Bloomberg Transcript

The economic earnings are pretty strong. Jorg Schneider has alluded to that factor with
EUR1.3 billion from the ERGO segment. And obviously you see on the lower right-hand
side of the chart the lower yield environment hits into the return on investment quite
significantly decreasing the ROI now to 3.1% from 3.9%.
Next I'll draw your attention to the next chart that is page number 34. And here you see
that the low interest rates really left a mark on the German life business. I can only detail
the comments that I have already made. We have decreases in life and direct due to the
fact that we pushed the traditional business further out. As you see out of the EUR346
million lower premiums, to give you one example, EUR177 million decline come exclusively
from the closing of the immediate annuities business, which was traditional. And that gives
you an idea on how only one decision to close products is ultimately affecting this top line.
However, I would also be very honest with you, ERGO at the moment does not have the
sales strength to over compensate these closes into an area that had intern effect that
you can see here in this chart.
On the health side, first direct, because it's also connected with the traditional business.
On direct we've a lower single premium capitalization business which also clearly is even
though not that traditional business. But has the same origins with EUR50 million. The
classical dental insurance remains a very strong growth driver in health on the direct side.
So basically the decrease of business you see in the direct segment basically comes from
the same steering algorithm that we have in the other lines of business.
On health, there is a mixed picture. We see a decline in the comprehensive insurance due
to two factors. First of all, we have again with the old book that we have there, we have
again lost roughly 20,000 risks. But also we had a very low below the market increase of
rates, which clearly in the dimension total premiums added to the fact that we have a
negative number here. On the supplementary insurance, we have been pretty much on
target with the black zero as we say in Germany.
The net results and I again refer to the impairment looks even higher here and that is
because in 2014 you will remember that there was a one-off positive effect in 2014
because of a tax reimbursement. With that that I refocus on the fact what proportion does
the traditional life business still have. Here you see. And I assume you are familiar with the

Page 14 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

definition that the classic traditional interest rate sensitive portfolio is now down to 29% in
the new business sector. I also like to draw your attention to the fact that whereas in 2014,
we have already closed 65 products, 33 for private pensions and 32 for corporate
pensions in the classical segment. In 2014, we have again closed 24 products for new
business, 22 for private pensions and 2 for corporate pensions. And I think that underlines
quite strongly our commitment towards more new capital market-oriented products as
opposed to traditional life.
Obviously, the low yield environment also affects the back-book as you very well know.
And we had a couple of discussions outside already. First of all, let's look at the numbers.
Currently the reinvestment yield is down to 1.8percentage points, the average yield
because of the traditional book is 3.4. And the average guarantee with the (inaudible)
obviously helping us is 2.7%. But I can only repeat what Jorg Schneider and Nikolaus von
Bomhard have already said, the number looks worse month-by-month with regards to
reinvestment yield because of the low interest rate environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

In that case, obviously we have to do our homework, which we did. So we confirmed our
low bonus rate with 2.7% versus a market average of 2.8%. We have confirmed that rate,
that means we have already put forward this low bonus rate in 2014, whereas at that point
in time the market was still at 3.16%. Again underlining our commitment to new products
and basically initiating the switch away from the traditional interest rate sensitive product
lines.
The ZZR development will increase. On the left hand side, you see a projection of the
potential ZZR reference rate going forward. Obviously, you can have various scenarios. If
you go into the shorter term future rather than the long-term future, I think it's fair to
assume that ZZR will go by the end of 2016 to EUR3.5 billion for the ERGO group in
Germany. It is now currently standing at EUR2.5 billion. Now this has obviously to be
compared against unrealized gains and the terminal bonus fund, which in sum of EUR13.8
billion. So we don't have an immediate financing issue here. But obviously, we come to
even higher sizes going forward if the interest rate go down. That's why it's very
important that the interest rate hedging program stays in place and that's a group wide
initiative and obviously, I can confirm that we're going to stick to that program going
forward.
With that I switch to property-casualty in Germany. As you can see on the left hand side of
the picture, we have a pretty balanced portfolio of various lines of business. The
combined ratio, as I told you, is larger and higher than it was in the previous year. Part of it
results from large losses 2.4percentage points above budget. This has also led us to the
belief that going forward we need to increase a higher charge of net cat exposure. And
there has also been some reserve adjustments primarily in liability, which sum up to
1.5percentage points, indicating the desire to have even stronger reserves in the ERGO
group than before and I refer to Nikolaus' initial statement in this context. The net result is
overstated because it includes, as you remember, from the Q3 conference call, a positive
one-off tax effects and also some foreign exchange rate effects primarily with the British
pound. And that is over-compensating the weaker underwriting results that we have here.

Page 15 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

With that I switch to International. We have two charts for you on International; one is on
P&C, the other is on life. Here you see the P&C figures. There is some positive news in
the upper corner of this chart, basically saying that the GPWs are increasing across the
board in Poland, Turkey and in legal protection, EUR68 million plus in Poland, EUR64 million
plus in Turkey and EUR54 million plus in legal protection.
Now, as you see on the lower side of the chart, obviously, this is not such good news if
you look at the combined ratios in those countries. So the question will be will this be oneoff effects or will this be maintaining effect. Obviously, we do everything we can to lower
the effects on the combined ratio. I believe that a very high contribution of the increase in
2014 are indeed one-off effects because there are large losses in Poland, there are large
losses in other countries as well, there is some regulatory intervention especially in claims
settlement and MTPL in Poland and there is significant reserve strengthening for the big
book in Turkey, which is a market phenomenon. But it hits us as well. And you see that
especially the combined ratio in Turkey is going higher on a significant degree.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, on legal protection, there is some restructuring going on which we believe to be
much better in 2016. That's why I'm not that negative on the combined ratio in
International as you saw in the picture that Nikolaus showed you we believe we were able
to achieve below 100percentage point combined ratio going forward because we believe
it's primarily one-off figures. However, clearly the excellence in underwriting needs our
continued very high focus.
On International Life side, it's pretty much the same story that I told you for Germany and
that is again focus on new product strategies and in force management. The most
prominent example of this was the sale of ERGO Italy, which is in the closing process as
we speak. We have sold that not to lease because of the fact that this was a very
traditional life business book in a non-core region.
But if you look at our product (impluses) both in Belgium, in Austria and in Poland, you see
the common denominator of these initiatives is that we see a very high orientation
towards modern capital markets solutions. And here you see the total premiums in those
regards. I eluded to the fact, in most of these countries, in Belgium and in Austria, this
new steering has led to a decrease in total premiums albeit not that significant whereas in
Poland we have been able to increase our book of business in this context.
I would also like to point out, India, in non-life, we're now in the process with the
regulators to achieve the step up of 49%. That is obviously a very positive development in
non-life. Here, we also are in the process on initiating a 49% participation in life business.
But this is not yet started. So here we have the first set of regulatory approval. As you
know, we started with HDFC a non-life joint venture couple of years ago. Here, we
basically increased our participation to 49%. This is accounting very well. We have
9percentage points growth this year and it's profitable. So it's a very good investment.
And obviously, we try to create something like this for the life business as well and the
50% participation that we have in China, I can report that the business development is in
line with what we've planned. The economic earnings, I will touch on only very briefly by

Page 16 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

showing you this chart because I think Jorg Schneider has alluded to the fact already. You
see here that we have been able to contribute EUR1.1 billion earnings in Life/Health
Germany and EUR0.1 billion earnings in P&C Germany to the economic earnings of the
group.
Now, as you see there is light and shadow like always. But generally speaking, I believe
that ERGO has a lot of potential which we can develop further and I'm repeating myself, I
will try to discuss that with you in the Second Quarter on a much more detailed basis. But
we have already taken one decision, which I believe will be very important because it
provides so to speak the skeleton of ERGO going forward, which the structure in which
then ultimately all of these strategic initiatives will be dealt with.

Bloomberg Transcript

And let me just spend two minutes on this structure going forward, because I believe it
sends some important messages. First of all, we will create the senior board structure,
board that we called ERGO Group AG which will be much smaller than the Board that we
currently have and will exclusively focus on strategic steering and portfolio segment and
product management in this regard.
More important, for the initiatives going forward, there'll be operational and management
boards. And whereas in the past, I think it will be fair to say that we didn't have a clear
differentiation management-wise with regards to Germany and International, we now put
them eye to eye by creating a new ERGO Deutschland AG, which will be the ultimate
holding company of all of the risk carriers and other companies that we have in Germany
with the exception of ERGO Direkt, which will go into the Digital Ventures bucket that I'll
talk to in a minute. And with that, we have a dedicated management team for ERGO
Deutschland and a dedicated management team for ERGO International, which we're
primarily focused on running the business in a professional manner. That means,
strengthening the sales forces, increasing the cost structure, modernizing the systems,
improving the results, exploring cost-country synergies and identify growth areas.
And I'd also like to add, we need to explore those cost-country synergies together with
the reinsurance side of the Munich Re Group. I think, Torsten Jeworrek and I are very much
on the same page. There are couple of synergies that we can exploit to a mutually
benefiting degree. Cyber coverage would be a very good example and I know that
Torsten will discuss this later with you.
On the Digital Ventures side, we create something new, which I find to be very promising.
I think we are all in agreement and I thought that Nikolaus had a wonderful chat about the
transformation of the business and I think you said re in brackets and then insurance and I
think that clearly also other trends that will be applicable to the primary insurance as well
and it has to do with disintermediation, digitization. And a new client interface, this new
entrants and incumbents time to compete for our customers.
And I believe in order to win the battle and in order to transform our business, we need to
create an entity that is purely and exclusively focused on these area and still has
operational management capabilities. I always say in German, I'm not sure whether the

Page 17 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

English is appropriate here that I want to take the innovation away from the staff functions
and put them into the operational management.
However, by putting them in the operational management of traditional insurance
companies, I always run the risk that the prioritization can't be high enough in a traditional
business because there is one common denominator of all of these innovative thoughts
and that common denominator is that they will only pay off in the medium-to-long term.
And if you are a manager of a traditional insurance business, I think you always have the
risk to say how much energy and focus do I shift into these alternative, very interesting
subjects, which will only pay me big medium term, where I have this immediate need,
which affects my bottom line to a significant degree.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I have a very high belief that if we will be able. And I will do anything I can to make that
happen, to really create an innovative cultural environment, an environment that is not
only made up out of 20 people in project group, that's why ERGO Direkt has such an
important role. But with the 1,500 people, the risk carriers, the telephony services, the
Internet services, the SEO SEM capabilities that ERGO Direkt already has, we can put
those innovations, be it in partnering with a start-up, being by creating interesting ideas
out of the own business, we can put them into practice in this new bucket and try to
perform the acid test on whether they are successful and if yes, how successful can they
be and then but only then, there is a transformational task towards a more traditional
business and this opportunity both for Germany as well as for the International business.
So we try to look at this as a sort of ERGO internal incubator, not in a theoretical and
capital providing fashion. But really trying to provide the acid test on whether these
innovations will ultimately live up to the expectations that all of these innovations have and
that is being very successful medium term. This is the structure that we have agreed
upon. We're currently staffing the management teams, both internally and externally. And I
believe that the transformational needs that Nikolaus von Bomhard has alluded to will be
mixed with this structure in a quite positive fashion.
Let me close by saying 2016 will be a transitional year for ERGO. We will try to be as
successful as we can by in parallel developing the strategic goals going forward. I will
discuss them with my colleagues in the Munich Re Group in the next couple of weeks. We
will then enter in an intense discussion with all of our stakeholder groups and then hope
by (mid-end Q2) will be able to present them to you and the capital markets as well as to
the public. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you very much. We will now start with the first round of Q&A, for which I would like
to ask you to raise questions on the group topics that have just been presented and as
well as on ERGO only and questions on risk management and the two reinsurance parts
should be pleased only addressed in the second Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
Frank Kopfinger, please.

Page 18 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

I have two questions. My first question is on the split of your operating economic earnings.
As you mentioned, there is a slide on the breakdown on page 142 in your backup and I've
two questions on this. First, you see that the operating economic earnings within the
reinsurance segment within Life and P&C, they are see pretty similar. Obviously, for Life,
this is driven by the high new business value. And however, could you give some guidance
on how you see this developing going forward; the relationship between those two
segments?
And secondly, if you look on the new business value, then clearly, again, Life Re is the key
driver for this and however, on the P&C Re side, it was only EUR0.2 billion and just looks
pretty small. And also comparing against the ERGO Life Health Germany, new business
value was EUR0.3 billion and so the P&C Re segment looks pretty low and my question is
simply what is the story behind this and are you going to tell us that the earnings level
going forward will be pretty low in this segment?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Should I take it.

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Yes, no one else (technical difficulty).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Yes. So it's a difficult one, I must say. Let me give it a try, perhaps I have to correct it after
having looked it up. The new business value in Life was extraordinarily high. So going
forward, I would expect it to be a little bit lower. There are also some or should I say some
one-off effect in it. But perhaps later on -- later a little bit more on that.
Second, on Reinsurance Property-Casualty, this includes the margin from reserving, which
means, let's say, 4percentage points, it's over EUR600 million -- EUR700 million should be
add back, because this is a conservatism here. That means it's a little bit a kind of
understatement of this number. And when you go into the operating variances, you would
-- sorry, in operating variances existing business, there you can see the effect from the
reserve releases. So this explains that these numbers are not on a stable basis yet.
Torsten, do you want to add something?

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

No. It's exactly how as you mentioned. You will -- every year, you will see that in my opinion
that the new business value in P&C looks a bit too small, because every underwriting year,
we will, according to our reserving policy, we will set aside a new reserve buffer for the
latest year. And according to our algorithm, we say it's 4% of the premium. So that's
roughly EUR700 million. Then in the following year, if all other things remain unchanged,
you will see exactly this 4%; EUR700 million step by step in the operating variances where
we release the total for this part will look good and the other one will a bit look
depressed.
Page 19 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

So this implies that the 4% level of reserve for leases is sustainable?

FINAL

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

That is our strong expectation. And I would have highlighted it anyway. So we released
7.2% in the last year, much more than we expected at the beginning of the year without
reducing our conservatism. To be honest, I would have liked to reduce less. But
accounting principles we have to measure the reserves on the basis of best estimate
principles and therefore the 7% were a must for us. So the 4%, if we don't make mistakes
or so, should be -- can be expected maybe as a minimum for the time being.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Just coming back to my first question. Adjusting for all of this, how would you say that the
relation within the reinsurance segment is going to develop in terms of economic
earnings? Because currently it looks like it's 50-50, obviously this is distorted by the value
of new business in life. But going forward, what would you expect is the relation between
those two?

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

Two-thirds non-life, one-third life. A higher share of life would be unrealistic in my view.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Michael please and then James.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

So Michael Huttner from JP Morgan. Restructuring in ERGO, the restructuring cost which is
often the (2.50 to 3.50), are they in the 2.3 to 2.8?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

In theory no. In practice perhaps we will make it up by other sources. Said earlier on in the
press conference as well, not specifically. But on the other hand, of course, whatever the
numbers are, it will be distributed over on the timeline a little bit for the accounting alone.
You cannot push it all in the year one, we would love to do that, of course, for obvious
reasons. But not possible and some things even cannot be put into P&L right away. So
that's why it will be diluted and some part of course we will get the policyholder as well.
So I'm not saying that this number will be small, don't get me wrong here. But if you take it
over the timeline regarding it's still entirely open. But it really will be and by the end of the
day, we still think it's manageable and the uncertainty is not only out there, it is also to
some extent in our numbers, that's why we came up with the spend. And we do not see
like the 2.3, if this is the real question is now on the -- have a lot of pressure, not being
achievable because we have to add in those numbers. We feel comfortable still with the
lower end of the span.

Page 20 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Follow-up question. So when Mr. Riess comes to the board, please sir, may I have some
more money, what's the cost of capital you're setting, what's the capital base you're
assuming for his plans?

FINAL

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

The threshold he has to pass with his business case is pretty much the same you would
offer or ask from anyone else in the group. So the question is what do you have to put in
to get out what over which time? How much of certainty is in those numbers? And the
hardest threshold to beat is of course the share buyback in the first place, that's the
obvious one. But we well, let's say, firmly look at his proposal. But it is not a given, it
depends, of course, Markus knows that because we're sitting on the same board. So he
has to have spent when he comes on into the room with one and then he changes and
then he is just one board out of 10, has to make a decision. So to outvote him if needed is
easy. But he will certainly try to avoid that.

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

8% is roughly the figure we have.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

And let me add a personal remark. I'm much more likely to support Markus with problems,
which have already been known to us and where we know how we can better the
business, have a very strong leverage here than acquiring new ones in major M&A
transaction.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you. James, please.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thanks. This is James Shuck from UBS. Two questions from me please. Firstly, on the HGB
earnings, those started improving in 2016 and again in 2017. If I look at the capital you're
paying out, you pay out the normal dividend and then you go to share buyback, which has
historically broadly been quite close to that HGB number. Obviously since the HGB
number is getting better, then what's the implication for the ability to a bit further on
buybacks and kind of connected with that, I do find your guidance around the economic
capital at the target level you have is frustrating because you have a 220% target ceiling
and yet you insist on running with sort of over 300%. So either you change that guidance
or you look to do something about it, because HGB earnings have plenty of ways around
it in order to become more capital efficient. And I guess -- I understand you want to run
with more capital in the current environment. But at the moment, it's making a nonsense
of that target. That's my first question. Second one is quicker; I'm just interested in EUR26
billion of unrealized gains on the balance sheet, what's the pull-to-par effects, the drag
that will happen through the NAV please and how long will that last for?

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}
Page 21 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Let me start with the first one because the other one I couldn't answer anyway because
that is -- you have to have the numbers at hand. The first one is, on a very macro level, I
would say, let's cross the bridge once we get there. And I said earlier on that we are very
cautious in view of the extremely volatile capital environment right now. And HGB except
for those specific accounting rules where you can sort of push out a little bit on the
timeline problem, which we normally don't want to do, we are very cautious there. I
mentioned right on the book value could be -- have a low interest rate. This book value is
nothing concrete. So we might have to address that.
On the asset side of the balance sheet, there's many things also that could be pushed
down, be it interest rate development or be it the equity market and so forth. That's why
even it may look as if over time now the HGB result will be of a nature that you could do
more, we hesitate to come up with any statement as of today and say, what will happen in
2017. We actually feel quite comfortable with that kind of year hopping we have
implemented. So every year we think it through again.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let us assume we buy as we today in the morning announced publicly buyback another
billion worth of shares so there is a dividend increase of EUR0.25 relatively likely.
Everything else then we will have to stretch ourselves and think about it. And the same
goes then for the remainder of the share buyback over and above from what it takes. So
rest with us and bear with us for the time being in that environment, we're very, very
cautious in coming up with strong statements. I understand -- we understand what you
say. And believe us, we will not hold capital just for the sake of holding it, we'd rather feel
to save and as I said, if there are opportunities to be taken up any time soon, we want to
be ready for it. And it may need quite big-ton money. We don't it, frankly.

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

I can add perhaps not very encouraging news that the HGB numbers will be supported
everything going forward, as we see it now by the release of the equalization reserves.
But it shouldn't be underestimated how fragile it is to investment returns, especially to
depreciation coming from equities, for example. But also from fixed interest securities.
Also, in case of an increase in yield, in rates, what we could then do is we could immunize
the portfolio by pushing them to maturity category. But you want to avoid that as long as
you can, because then you would be handicapped to continue trading the securities. But
this is something which has to be seen that on one hand, the support from the
underwriting side from the equalization reserves, on the other hand, not only the decline
from the decline in interest rates from the reinvestment side. But also the exposure to
impairments.
Yes. You're right, we can influence it actively by group internal transactions, for example.
But we would like to keep these instruments in our tool box and use it when necessary to
bridge a gap coming from impairments, for example, in order to stick with our dividend
and as far as we can also to continue supporting the share buybacks.
Pull-to-par effect on the EUR26 billion, the net of this EUR26 billion is roughly EUR7 billion.
That means after policyholder participation and after taxes. So this figure is still big. But it's
not so enormous as it looks like at first lens. Second, it depends on what you do with the
Page 22 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

money. If we sell it all today, then we have EUR7 billion more capital and if we pay that fully
out immediately, then we have EUR7 billion less NAV. And if we keep it all, we still have the
same unchanged NAV which means the pull-to-power that everything goes back to 100
happens by realizing the interest rates or the interest income, which comes from the
higher coupons because these higher coupons are the simple reason for this unrealized
gains. That means as long as we cash in the higher coupons and use them to do share
buybacks and to pay dividends, our NAV will decline but only to the magnitude of our
distribution if we keep it, all the NAV will remain unchanged.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

We have Kamran and then Daniel Bischof I think.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. I guess, coming back to James' point from the caps, the
solvency ratio, it's kind of an amazingly high number at 300%. I just want to come to some
of the opening remarks you made about we're in a very, very risky situation in so many
different fronts. So that would seem like it's the opportune moment for Munich RE to
actually go and deploy some of that balance sheet. So I guess, the question is, is
distribution to find these risks, is that what you see or are the opportunity just not really
developed yet for you to go and deploy that capital?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Let me answer on the higher level too. When it comes to deploy the capital that we have
at hand, of course, the business feels to try everything, then Torsten probably would be
the one who can use up most of it in relative terms for the businesses he has under his
wings and that was almost impossible to use these amounts except for market risk. But
that's exactly what we can do not want to do. So for the rest of it, it can't only be
reinsurance. It could be either life and specifically non-life. But here, of course, on the cat
side, we could do more. But we don't want to be more heterogeneous.
We rather want to be more homogeneous with our cap book and it would be single deals
or it would be rescue deals. But Torsten feel free to add to it but at this level of
profitability that we have to achieve and defend, this is not just cruising out there and
waiting for us. We need to change in the market for whatever reason probably not a good
reason at first sight, may be good for us in relative terms, because we are then stronger
than the average.

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

Not much to it, you're right. You know, the segment in reinsurance which needs the
highest -- which has the highest capital allocation is the cat reinsurance per premium, per
unit of premium. So to speak here and I come to that later, when we look at the
development in the market, as the market price changes, we should go into the other
direction, we should withdraw from market step by step, which means that we release
capital or free it up, times will change, I'm absolutely sure, three years from now. And the
other business, which we are currently developing, like new products, cyber risk services
for clients also, they lead to more homogeneous portfolio and don't need high allocation
Page 23 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

of capital from our excess capital. So all the new initiatives can easily be finance this low
capital allocation.

FINAL

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Just follow up on that. And just ask, if you were to take the ratio from 300 to 220, how
much more business would you be able to write? I know it's quite a difficult thing
depending on the type of business. But how much more would you expect will be able to
write?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

I don't think that the -- don't get us wrong here. The equity we have in place for the sector
that is higher than it should be in terms of ranges that does not push prices up, it is not
that if we have more equity or solvency capital, that the pricing and reinsurance changes.
This is independent from each other. So there is some sort of effect of course in the
interest rates, of course, in the first place and we have to rethink and this is exactly what
reinsurance does all the time. Should we allocate capital difference, is the co-variance
concept right to allocate the capital, do we miss out on something there? But it's not the
quantity rather, it's the way how we allocate it. But it would not change the overall
consumption, it is rather what we have calculated in the risk model can be distributed
differently. But it would not change much of the pricing or gift Torsten the competitive
edge to now take in business that he couldn't have taken in beforehand. If I understood
the question correctly.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jorg Schneider
I think we can give an indication, on page 35, you see the split of the solvency capital
requirements and their property casualty reinsurance consumes before diversification
effects EUR6.3 billion. So we can write 2.5 times that much, when it has the same level of
diversification. But this is in a way nonsense, because it would drive our peak scenarios,
which are from a capital point of view extremely expensive and also Torsten, I think there
will be a price volume curve, which is extremely negative when we go up these risks
ladders.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay. Daniel Bischof was the next and then Will Hawkins please.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Two questions for Markus Riess, the first one on page 48. I think there is not one life
insurer not focusing on the risk and unit-linked business. Could you talk about the
competitive situation in that field? Second one on Poland, I think recently introduced a tax
of 44 basis points on financial assets. What does it mean for ERGO and also for the very
strong competition in that market?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you, Daniel. I have the number for Poland. I just need to find it. Maybe I'll start with
the competitive side. Everybody is trying to de-risk. I think we de-risk in a very consequent
Page 24 of 55



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

fashion and obviously I will refrain from evaluating the competition as such. But as just a
general observation, not every product which seems to be non-classical is clearly nonclassical because it implies still some guaranteed products. The way we are positioned as
ERGO, is basically a position I found when I came and I'm absolutely committed to
increase further because for this situation that we're in, I believe it's the right strategy
going forward, is to really try to develop a footprint in terms of the asset management
oriented old age provisioning strategy. And I believe that both in the unit links plus in the
index-oriented plus in other areas of the capital markets competency frameworks such as
reinsurance based in retail et cetera, that is the area that we want to play in.
My competitive judgment is that in this area there is room for a new ERGO so to speak,
because we have a lot of capabilities. But I'm also very modest in terms of what kind of
pace can we gain to make this a large footprint because this all requires an educated
sales force because as you very well know, in the corporate business, those products are
not that well looked after, not well thought after because of the question of the liability for
the old age provisioning and obviously, by definition, those products do not have an
explicit guarantee component to it, which makes the liability question significant with
corporate pensions. So we would be targeting primarily the retail side of the business and
the retail side of the business requires a lot of advice and if you really want to have a
convincing presence in this space of the retail franchise in the capital markets arena, I think
we really need to train and educate the sales force.
Now, knowing the sales force of ERGO already a little bit and some of the other sales
forces in Germany also, I think there is room for us to do that. I will just require some time
and it's a very consequent strategy whole out going forward. Secondly, the so-called
Religa tax that you were referring to is estimated for a negative impact of roughly EUR8
million, EUR7.7 million to be exact, on the results in Poland and that's for the full year, I
guess, in 2016.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay. Then, Will Hawkins, please and then we will take In-Yong and then we will have a
break and all other questions please then in the second part or in the break.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. William Hawkins from KBW. On the normalized economic earnings of 2.6 last
year and could be lower than 2.5 this year, how much of those two numbers you're
expecting comes from ERGO? So what's the ERGO normalized numbers? Then secondly,
can you just be a bit more precise on how many audit, why the earnings guidance for
ERGO has come down so significantly for IFRS, from about 500 to what could be as low
as 250? Is it pretty material for and I can work out myself that maybe EUR60 million or
EUR70 million is coming from the higher combined ratio guidance. But that's still is another
couple of hundred million which is a big % of ERGO. So can you just be a bit clear about
why we are ending up with lower earnings power in ERGO?

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Page 25 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

I'll start with the normalized part that's pretty low. New business value, give me a little bit
time, because I have to deduct it from reinsurance numbers. Nikolaus?

FINAL

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

Markus, we will share the second one. Maybe I can start and you fill in for the rest of it.
And one thing is for sure that, of course, interest rates, lowering. And we have to go back
a little further because the EUR500 million is an older number. Last year, as we came up
with the range, if I remember everything correctly EUR350 million for EUR450 million. So
that takes out EUR50 million, my life is answering a little easier, two is of course the ever
lower interest rates that bite their way into the result as well.
Then we have the budgets, if you just take, it's not rocket science, just a retrospective
exercise over the last five, four years, we will check that against the progress we have
here in Munich. But the budget of the natural catastrophe losses has been used up a lot
and apparently was too small. So we add a little bit there. This maybe within yield, (EUR70
million) to mention because that, of course, has a reflection in the combined ratio than the
overall market development as such. And now Marcus, if there is anything else, I think it's
also about realism to some extent but Markus?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Markus Riess

{BIO 1835270 <GO>}

Thank you, Nikolaus. The answer I'm going to give you is probably a little sounds more
exact than it really is. So just bear with me in terms of order of magnitudes. The EUR70
million you estimate are exactly the EUR7 million we estimate as well from the -- as a
combination of the new net combined ratio guidance plus the net cat and manmade
claims. So that will be roughly EUR70 million. We see roughly 150, 160 from investment
income, which is basically affect from lower reinvestments yield, small income because we
have ultimately lower premiums and we have also I think you're pretty well familiar with
that, upstreamed excess capital from these subsidiary companies and that obviously
leads to a smaller basis from which you can earn investment income.
Lastly, on the international segment, that's another EUR40 million to EUR50 million, which
is primarily the sale of ERGO Italia and an increased and adjusted assumption with the
medium-term result, which is already reflected into the combined ratio international that
you see. That in all sums up roughly to the sum that you're looking for.

A - Jorg Schneider
And I can add the economic earnings for ERGO on a normalized basis, which looks to me
being quite optimistic that is returned from existing business that is a very high-risk margin
releasing itself over time. It's EUR300 million loan and overall we come up with roughly
EUR0.6 billion here. But you should have in mind that this is not all about life. Health
business is performing well and also property casualty Germany is performing well and
also EFGO direct for its life business and health business and a little bit property casualty
business all these are delivering economic earnings. That means, I would say it's
somewhat realistic, somewhat optimistic but not totally unrealistic this number and all
goodwill effects are anyway not part of that calculation.

Page 26 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you. Then we have In-Yong ask the last question before the break.

FINAL

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Hello. In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Just one question on the Group net income
guidance. I think in the preliminary results you were quite confident of getting to the
EUR2.5 billion. So I was wondering what kind of scenario, is that the worst-case scenario,
EUR2.3 billion that you got at the low end of the guidance and what's changed in the
meantime since then? Thank you.

A - Jorg Schneider
Perhaps they became a little bit more uncertain coming from capital market
developments that is the only reason I would say that has changed since. So we have not
built in all the deterioration between 4th of February and end of February. End of February,
we had kind of very low point on the capital markets. But especially with the incoming
impairments from equities we thought that it's wise to be a little bit more careful.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. So far for the first part, I would suggest that we return to this room and
start with the second session at exactly 4'o clock please. So roughly 30 minutes. And we
are looking forward to discuss with you further in the break. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, let's start with the second round. Bernhard please, turn is yours.

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

And good afternoon. I'm happy to share now some details concerning our risk profile and,
our risk capital requirements and our solvency position with you. First of all, key role offers
management in this environment is built resilience and enables change and innovation.
Nikolaus pointed out already at the current risks that we are facing mainly driven by
political and economic risks. They are already leading to high at the current risks that we
are facing mainly driven by political and economic risks. They are already leading to higher
volatilities in the markets and there is definitely more to come and this volatility has an
impact on our economic solvency assessment. But also in the new Solvency II regime. It is
reflected in the solvency ratios of the whole insurance industry.
Therefore, building resilience is a major focus of our risk management activity and on the
first slide you see that with the classical risk management measures that we already
employ for many years, we try to dampen the impact of the market volatility on our
solvency position and also be able to play out our financial strengths in these turbulent
times. And I'm sure you will also believe us that we can manage our insurance risks with
our risk management tool kit as well to support this.
On slide 34, you also see that not only the role of risk management is to support -- to
build up the resilience. But also to support change in innovation and to develop markets
for specific risks, to exploit opportunities with new clients, offering risk-related services,
Page 27 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

use the insight that we gain also for our risk assessment that is while we are also daring to
take risks earlier than others as we can experiment in our well-established frameworks
and also explore business in this environment. Some examples, Torsten will go into this
later on. You can find also on the slide like specific flood cover, cyber cover but Torsten
will touch on this in more detail later.
Now to our standard reporting, our risk profile has not changed very much. So our
solvency capital requirement only decreased slightly to EUR13.5 billion. You see in the
comparison with the restated numbers of 2014. So already those numbers based on all
the Solvency II compliant internal model that main movements were in property and
casualty reinsurance risk that has gone up. I will come to that later and credit risk going
down mainly driven by de-risking in our investment portfolio in the reinsurance group. But
also some modeling effects related to the transition into the Solvency II world.
Diversification benefit is reflected in our internal model with 37% and at the end of that
slide, you also see now explicitly the loss absorbing capacity of taxes and the effect that
this has on our capital requirement as this is now considered in the numbers as shown on
the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now going through some points of the specific risk categories, P&C risk on slide 36. This
is first message that of course we have enough risk bearing capacity for taking over even
more exposure. Also for our peak scenarios. But in this current environment, we see that
prices are not adequate, solvency capital requirement for P&C risk is still mainly driven of
course by our peak scenarios by nat cat exposure. Even so in 2015 the increase coming
through via this segment mainly goes back to foreign exchange effects. But also our
primary insurance business mainly written in the US.
In 2015, also some special risks contributed to the increase in these solvency capital
requirement and this goes back to also our building up of more innovative products and
for example, now our standalone capital requirement for whether risk is higher than our
P&C ERGO capital requirement. On the next slide, some statistics on nat cat losses or
better the less than expected losses in the last years. In the last four years, we were lucky,
the industry was lucky because major losses were below expectation. This is not an
indicator to change the models or to change pricing. It is still more likely to have four good
years. So below expectation -- below the expected losses and then to have two
consecutive years above this expectation and this all is based also on our very detailed
bottom up modeling and validation processes and we see currently no reason to change
our assumption. But find that all of this experience is still very much in line with the models.
Next slide is on life and health risk. Slightly decrease on capital requirements to EUR4.7
billion. We see some growth in reinsurance and health business that is pushing the
numbers up. But the major change is coming from the risk category or what is here
categorized as longevity risks where we see a decrease from EUR2.4 billion to EUR1.5
billion. This is dominated by the insurance risk of ERGO's annuity book, which is classified
under longevity risk.
This also contains behavioral risks, cost risks. So you shall not interpret these sensitivities
as the standard formula sensitivity kind of analysis on our life and health risk with respect
to longevity or mortality. But these are the lines of businesses driven mainly by longevity
Page 28 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

or mainly by mortality and their capital requirement as reported here. Coming to market
risk, we see a good balance between the different risk categories, very high
diversification, resulting in our market risk. Risk managers love this. You see a jump in 2014
mainly in the foreign exchange risk category. This also is related to Solvency II
requirements as in Solvency II as a neutral cash preference is in euro. We have a different
view on this. But to be Solvency II compliant, we changed this and this leads to this
increase in foreign exchange rates. You also see that we manage our duration gap
actively to also try to dampen interest rates sensitivity in the reinsurance but also
especially in the ERGO life insurance books. Now on slide 14, I try to make the case of our
hedging activities that are embedded in the economic metric, which are favorable in an
economic balance sheet view but leads to unfavorable effects in the IFRS P&L.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our liability driven investment strategy tries to reduce sensitivity of our eligible on fronts
which is the equity position in our economic balance sheet and hedging of interest rate
inflation with physical assets. But also with derivatives. This is what we are aiming with to
steer what kind of value at risk we like to see with respect to these risk categories, which
makes total sense in the economic balance sheet and you see the effects and also the
positive effects on the capital position. But we see the unfavorable IFRS P&L effects
especially also in 2015 for example driven by the inflation developments. Another risk
category that we have not touched upon in more detail before which is operational risk.
As we run a full internal model, also operational risk is modeled bottom up. The top three
risks according to the industry standard categorization for operational risk, you see on the
left hand side of the slide, which is mainly going back to wrong financial statements and
resulting runs tax statements, antitrust cases or process errors. So we hold above 4% of
(under certified) risk capital for operational risk, we are validating this with internal loss
data. But also with external loss data and stresses and currently we do not see any reason
why there should be also a change to higher numbers. But also to lower numbers. So this
is also very much in line with our validation results.
And Nikolaus already showed the solvency ratio of 302%, which increased in 2015 to the
year-end number which excludes any kind of share buyback or dividend activities in 2016
except the remaining share buyback program from last year. So in the footnote, you see
the resulting solvency ratio also taking into account the expected dividend payment for
2016.
We have not used any kind of long-term guarantee measures. So no volatility adjustment,
no matching adjustment, no transition notes for the Group numbers. But also on legal
entity level. But with interest rates at the current level or even lower levels applying these
measures for selected legal entities in the Group is of course still and a valid option.
Now to the sensitivities of our solvency ratio, if you apply the sensitivities end of February.
So, the current market environment, you will see that we would be slightly around 280%.
We also would expect that our current solvency ratio is in that ballpark. But that means
even taking into account dividend payments, share buybacks. But also the one or two
unpleasant surprise leaves us in a very comfortable territory with respect to our solvency
position.

Page 29 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

We also added the analysis of our sensitivities, the stress of the ultimate forward rate. So
taking it down, for example by 100 basis points and here applying a static volatility
adjustment to give you also feeling of how these measures would result in our solvency
ratio. In your rankings or also if you compare us to our peers, we typically appear to be
relatively sensitive with respect to interest rate risk. But also spread risk. So therefore,
please note the assumptions on the right hand side of the slide, because we are
reporting our numbers based on full consolidated account for the Group. So taking the
whole group into account not using any type of long-term guarantee measure. But also
for example, taking into account the full credit risk of all our investments, all our fixed
income securities, all our government bonds and to have a fair comparison also, this has
to be considered to also have the same basis for comparison. If we, for example would
use some of the long-term guarantee measures or transitional measures, you see that
our solvency ratio of course would increase. But more important is that sensitivities would
go down and we have here shown this as an example for the spread sensitivity. But also is
equity sensitivity with respect to some selected measures. And pointing at the spread
sensitivity, which currently is 30percentage point decline in our solvency ratio of 302%.
This would go down to 10%. So only two-third of this impact would result after implying
the measures I just mentioned. So please also if you compare to our peers, please
compare apples with apples. Thank you. Now, I hand back to Christian.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Good afternoon. And hello. I have the honor to lead you through the reinsurance part of
the presentation and I would start with a short summary of our financial results here on
the first slide. Very good performance in all segments, I will skip the life and leave that up
to you. But although non-life and risk solutions part had very good results last year.
Premium grew by life and non-life together by about 5.2%. Of course, a strong impact of
foreign exchange rates, particularly from the North American markets. Very good net
results of EUR3.3 billion and now I come to the combined ratio, I think Jorg mentioned it
already, it's 89%. This of course extraordinary, we did not expect that. But when I look at
quality offset 89%, we have to realize very low cat activity in 2005, which was also to
some extent caused by the strong new climate phenomenon in the Pacific ocean, which
usually leads to a very below average cat activity in the hurricane regions and we cannot
expect such a scenario every year. So it contributed approximately close to 6% to the
better performance and then we had 7.2% reserve releases, which is more than 3% above
our usual expectation and I mentioned already in one of the former questions our current
book is as strong as before.
If I didn't have to, I would not have released such a reserve amount here. But the 4%
which we put every year as an additional buffer into the youngest underwriting years can
at least be expected for the near future from all the information we have available to
date. So very strong reserve position. Normalized if I, let's say, normalized for these two
factors, cat activity and reserve position, we would have achieved 98.7% combined ratio
for the full-year, which is under the circumstances and considering the market
environment still I would say reasonable result.
Next slide, I would like to skip that I mentioned already is two big drivers in the new
business where you and operating variances. If you want a distortion between the two
Page 30 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

because our reserving policy here and what now go to the P&C book and would start
here with the renewal and how we see ourselves positioned in the last renewal and in the
coming renewals.
I think what we see in the market is unchanged, a very competitive market. But Munich Re
is definitely a leading tier 1 reinsurer and we have the preferential access to business in all
of our markets and more and more you see that although in our figures more than 50%
of the premium of the January renewal and that is the biggest renewal of the year was
placed with the Munich Re on the basis of private terms and conditions. That means these
are conditions, which are not available for the normal markets in the world. For more than
two-third of our business, we have direct access to our clients. Why is that important? That
means we have better opportunity for that business to identify opportunities or it feels
demand in our client relationship and be able to respond with specific solutions. And on
the right hand side of this slide you see here already in mentioned our resolution book,
which contributes in the meantime EUR5 billion premium to the non-life book and you see
also hear already the EUR500 million of innovative products, which stabilize and support
the performance in non-life.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here an overview of the rate changes in the January renewal. We published already our
basic results. What you see on that slide is a comparison between our observed rate
changes in the market. These are the great pillars by line of business or by segment and
within each of the pillars you see how the Munich Re rate change was calculated or how
we came out of the renewal. So and that means in almost all segments and all regions,
the Munich Re rate change is a bit better than the rest of the market and is significantly
better in the proportionate businesses.
And proportional business is a pretty stable pillar in our P&C book today. It contributes
about 70% to our premium volume. The only segment where we also face price pressure
was the property non-proportionate segment. It's the second left part of the slide and
this was also the segment where the market pressure was the highest. We saw in terms
of capacity a better capacity available in the market. The contribution from alternative
capital providers was a hedge and pension fund was more or less stable in our opinion
and when I look who caused the competition in the market, it was to a lesser extent
alternative capital. So as an alternative capital, most prominent involved in the US cat
business behaved a bit more disciplined than the rest of the market. So that means the
competition to a large extent comes from our own markets today. That is of course also a
reflection of the non-available growth opportunities these days.
There was hardly any pressure in terms and conditions in the last renewal. It was a bit
different the last two years ago. If you remember, closes et cetera, this time very stable,
no pressure on that side. What is our view in the current market environment? What is our
response? We have no ambition to grow premium volume today. I'm of the strong opinion
with my 26 years' experience, I went through many soft cycles that it is very decisive and
very important to be disciplined, to keep discipline in the Company and I'm convinced the
cycle will sooner or later come to an end. And the Munich Re should never be the
company or the first company who suffers most from negative rates or from under
reserving and so, I never want to be the company who has to let's say be the first going

Page 31 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

to market to increase rates against all markets players because that is the game you can
never win.
So therefore, strong balance sheet and strong discipline is a must for us. Of course it's
the same time there are possibilities, there are options in the market for us to find new
opportunities particularly when it comes to capital management solutions. Here's the
other slide that is for our portfolios rate change and by segment and by line of business.
In the January renewal, overall outcome for us minus 1%, rate change we published it.
You can ask where does and you have minus 1% and so you lost some segment of your
profitability, where does the positive volume comes from? Where is it from? Did we grow
against the market here. What is it? And the reason is pretty simple. When you look at the
next slide, we gave you a short overview where we grew the business and where we
reduce our business and the parts where we can't grow the portfolio came basically from
very few core relationships and a few of them needed reinsurance support as postacquisition measures.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we were part of an acquisition strategy of our clients and after such an acquisition, they
needed reinsurance or had to replace some of the existing reinsurance and we because
of the relationship and because of the early support, we were the only reinsurer in a few
cases who got that business and therefore, that was basically business which was not
available to the market. So therefore, there's been not a contradiction here.
The next slides are known to you. Here we give you an update on our portfolio split. So
first slide. And you have to read it from the left to the right if you want, it's EUR18 billion
total P&C portfolio and you see here in the first slide, the overview of what happens by
renewal date. January 1, the biggest renewal date and (two) others to come at the end of
the day. So what is remarkable, January has the lowest portion of nat cat business, the
other two 11%. The other two renewals are more exposed to the non-proportional cat
business either in Japan, now at April 1 or in July basically in the United States and
Australia.
What do we expect for the year? Based on the current performance, based what we have
seen in the first two months, I personally expect a very unchanged, a pretty unchanged
market environment. So that means probably similar rate pressures in our business maybe
and I don't know whether this will stabilize. We saw some or few indications in the United
States market of rate stabilization remains to be seen whether this was a trend or only
unique for the last renewal.
So here now I dig a bit deeper, still the EUR18 billion and you find here in the meantime
28% premium contribution of risk solutions portfolios. That is what you mentioned at the
beginning what started more than 10 years ago, what started as reinsurance out of
reinsurance business now risk solutions where we could build up and wanted to build up a
new business segment and on the right part of the slide, you see the composition of that
risk solution business of the EUR5 billion.

Page 32 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

And what is so important here, when you look into the EUR5 billion premium, you see that
this risk solutions business is primarily insurance business is of different nature when you
compare with our peers. Many of our peers have primary insurance in their portfolio. What
we do however is we do not expose ourselves to a large extent in the large stuff in the
sort of industrial risk business, which is placed by our brokers on a global basis and most
of our business about 80% is a regional business and this really specialty business where
expertise and risk management service and inspection service is part of the value chain
here. And what is exposed to the global cycle here when I segment this business that is
the part which is here described as corporate insurance partners, 13% share of the EUR5
billion and the Watkins Syndicate. That is the marine business and the offshore energy
business. These two segments or entities all right global business. That means that
follows basically the global market cycles or rate cycles and here, when you ask how do
we develop the business via cycle management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here we shrink our business, we respond to the cycle, we try to keep the profitability in
place. But the remaining 80% is pretty stable and hardly exposed to these global rate
cycles and that means here we stabilize our portfolio, our total P&C portfolio. Second, this
risk solutions business has for us not only importance from a profitability perspective, they
are some strategic consideration behind. And what is it. In the second part of my
presentation, I come to innovation and business development and here's through that
business, through these entities, we have direct interaction, direct contact with the final
insureds. That means here we can develop new products we see where is the demand,
where is no demand, what market prices can be achieved if we develop cyber products
or so, here we can test the market.
So that means we can grow that portfolio. But we can also use these services and these
products for our core traditional reinsurance relationship to bring more to the table than
just the reinsurance product. Therefore very strategic importance for us. In this part, the
next part, you see a short composition where we stand in the traditional reinsurance part,
that's EUR13 billion and in this EUR13 billion, there is also the facultative business included.
By line of business on the left side, you see that in the meantime, the property cat
business contributes only 10% to our business, 10% of $13 billion is now cat business. This
is the business which is highly exposed now to the rate changes and is it good or is it bad
in relative terms, of course, it is a good picture because in the majority of our portfolio is
less exposed to the competition today. On the other hand, the 10% cat business
consumes of course the biggest part of our capital. When you ask Mr. Kaufmann, where is
our capital allocated, then the biggest part is allocated to the cat business. That means,
when you charge a cost of capital to this high capital allocation to this capital for that nat
cat business, then it means that it delivers a very high contribution of nominal earnings.
And therefore, it's not so easy to give that up. Now it's a good provider or contributor to
our technical result and therefore we really try to manage it out in the best way. In the
middle part, you see more than 70% of our businesses in the meantime proportional and
under the proportional business, we look at two sides. We always look at the question, do
the original rates, primary rates change. If so, we have to react. But most of the business
is here from that perspective, very stable.

Page 33 of 55



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

And the second question is, is there pressure on the commission side. These two factors
rate changes and commission changes determine basically the price changes for the
reinsurer. And therefore, we manage these two parts or monitor them very closely. A
proportion of business is under some price pressure. But not comparable to with our nonproportional cap business. Therefore, more stable for us. You know, this picture from last
year. Here, we give you an illustration how we see for our P&C portfolio the relative
profitability changed by segment and the size of the balance represents in an illustrated
phase the underlying premium volume. So here you see the very tremendous changes in
the property nat cat business, in aviation and in the marine business.
When you look at economic profitability, all these segments, these are larger segments.
All these segments which we show here still meet our cost of capital. None of these
segments (signal). But none of these segments as a whole violate our cost of capital. That
is a good thing even in the current environment. We have however and we show that here
in the right part, we have a few sub segments in these segments, which are now below
cost of capital. One is the offshore energy business written by our Lloyd's Syndicate and
few other entities in the Muenchener Group. Very often, you can ask why do we write
them, these sub-segments even if they are not sizable or big. Usually they are written as
part of an overall client relationship, where we always have to ask ourselves when is it
time to give them up and what other business is then at risk if we give up that part which
is under water. And that is not the case yet. Here the next slide, similar picture only for the
cat business standalone, you see the split between the various regions and you see on
one end the importance of North American cat business.
On the other hand, you see that North American cat business in relative comparison with
the other regions of property cat is closer to the line where we see the cost of capital. So
that is the market, which is most under pressure according to our calculation. The question
is now of course, is it only disciplined underwriting and cycle management, what we do in
the current market environment or do we see all the opportunities where can we grow
the business in the future and I try to give you here two examples, one for the sort of
mature markets and one for the more developing emerging markets where we see for
the coming years more business potential in traditional reinsurance.
First is the mature markets. You have seen the announcements in the last months that we
have identified already opportunities to go more into the under-insured cat parallels and
one example here is the inland marine flood business in the United States, which we have
to develop together with Guy Carpenter. We have developed solution schemes for the
flood business in UK. We have also developed business solutions for the terrorism pool in
UK and we think there are further opportunities in terms of completely new products like
cyber. Some further opportunities also in P&C might come from Solvency II, that is still in
early stage. Solvency II was just introduced now. But we see potential increase in demand
here for capital management solutions in the coming year or few years and by the way,
what we have done is here, we have bundled all our internal expertise within the Munich
Re and in a new unit called Capital Partners and this new unit bundles the expertise for
capital management solutions via reinsurance either on a prospective basis or by writing
complete back books or by offering capital management solutions cat bond stuff to our
clients. So that is a new unit because we see higher demand for that. This second slide
gives you a few indications where we see growth potential in the emerging markets.

Page 34 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Emerging markets is of course a bit easier because there's a lot of organic growth in the
markets and already when we only write stable shares in our existing client relationships,
we can grow with the markets. So it's a bit easier. But even in the emerging markets, we
have similar opportunities and here particularly is the low insurance penetration in
countries like the Philippines or like China would mean opportunities for us in the future.
There is one short-term downside for us for the market and for Munich Re and that is the
introduction of the new regulation in China, C-ROSS and this new regulation surprisingly to
us has not led to a restructuring of reinsurance treaties and structures within our current
core relationships in China. Against our expectation, we could even slightly expand the
(quarter) shares with Chinese clients. We did expect a restructuring and still expect it for
the future for a simple reason, according to C-ROSS the underlying capital demand for
motor business is substantially reduced now and that means that the demand to reinsure
motor business on a proportionate basis with an external partner like us is not there to
the same extent. So there might be some pressure coming from C-ROSS. But at least in
the last renewal, that was not the case yet.
Here's now the risk solutions chart, which we showed you already last year. On the left
side to stay as a premium development EUR5 billion now I mentioned it. In the middle
part, you see the development on the combined ratio. We think that the performance
around the 90% level of combined ratio is a level, which is sustainable for us. So maybe
the (83%, 87%) were a bit too good in the past although some random effects. But the
90% and that is not different what we said last year is a level which we can expect also in
the future. If you translate that, that will probably mean EUR0.5 billion underwriting result
coming from risk solutions business why is the relative share of underwriting result? Why is
that reduced because of the random fluctuation in our underlying traditional book where
we had this absence of cat losses. So that was a short-term effect only. Among our
companies within Risk Solutions Hartford Steam Boiler in terms of profitability, is by far our
flagship.
Where do we see the growth initiatives and resolutions and I mentioned it already. It's a
strategic importance and I gave you here three examples of completely different nature
Hartford Steam Boiler and specialty markets are our basically flagships to develop new
products in the markets and both these entities have in the meantime developed a
business model where they offer the direct product and services to the market directly
with insurance. But more and more of the business is written on a white-label basis that
means they are also further channels available for them where they sell their products
together and behind traditional insurance companies who don't have ability the resources
or the resources to develop these kinds of products and services by themselves.
Corporate insurance partner in the traditional business is cycle management, what we do
here. But although corporate insurance partner uses direct their access to the client to
offer new products to the markets for instance cyber warranty products for some of the IT
companies. Here only a short summary. What we did the last renewal on the retrocession
side. On right part of the slide, you see how much capacity we bought via various
instruments in our key scenarios, in our top scenarios and over time, you see that we
basically increased the capacity which we bought from the markets in Australia cyclone
and some of the US windstorm scenarios.
Page 35 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

Why Australia because after 2010 and 2011 you remember many Australian companies
suffered large losses and so did a reinsurance at that time. And we expanded into that
market. We wrote much more business in that market after the prices were significantly
increased and now in line with our increased exposure, we responded on the retro side
and protected our portfolio in a better way than before. On the left side and that is
maybe the more important part, you see a summary of our activities with the alternative
capital providers, pension and hedge funds and it should be mentioned here that the
(sidecar Eden Re II) was the largest sidecar, which was placed in the last month from the
traditional reinsurance bias and we consider this left part as a part where we want to
develop partnerships with a few players. For a simple reason, we cannot completely
exclude that some of the capital providers will stay in the market even after losses and
that some of the capital providers have the ability to provide lower capital intensity that
means provide a lower need for the same amount of risk to allocate capital and if that
lowers our own capital cost. So this would give us a sort of strategic alternative in the
future to compete against the market and with the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, left part is of strategic importance here. Now, I come to the best part of our
P&C and that is the mid and long-term future and the part which I would like to explain
and to highlight is the part around innovation and Nikolaus you mentioned it already in
your introduction. This part which really means fun and a lot of future opportunities,
particularly for a company like Munich Re. And innovation initiative is the initiative for all the
initiatives in that part are key for the Board of Management and particularly for me.
And I've given you here four areas as an example in which direction we want to grow here
and what we have under development. The upper left part is a more, let's say, increment,
I would call it incremental innovation. Incremental means that is not far away from our
current business and you see here for instance what I've mentioned already capital
optimization. There is one part. Second, we also develop traditional solutions, new
solutions, new schemes with public entities, be it pool solutions, be it climate insurance in
the emerging markets et cetera. In the lower left part, if you find our product, our
insurance product development. Few examples, cyber solutions for companies in the
United States or in Europe, non-damage business interruption, business interruption
without underlying property, see more and more demand in the markets or we give
business support insurance protection for startup companies. All these new products,
which we have here in this pocket contributed in the meantime. And that includes ERGO
and we've close cooperation here with our risk solutions entity and with ERGO in the
order of EUR500 million in the meantime. So begins to develop a certain significance
already by very good combined ratios.
Then on the right side, if you take these two parts together new risk services and new
business models. What is behind that. I'm absolutely a believer that the insurance model
and the reinsurance model of the future will not just consist of a financial product. As we
have seen it, let's say, 100, 150 years ago. Why? The reason is simple, more and more
value creation of our clients happens on sort of intangible basis. That means not the
industrial production of some past century dominates the future, no, it's the digitalization,
the IT companies, Internet based models, et cetera.

Page 36 of 55



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

And therefore we have to respond to the service and products and more and more of
our future business potential might come and will come from prevention and risk
management services and that is not just my opinion and I'm for the (inaudible) is German
Academy of Sciences of Technology and that is a body or an organization consisting of
private companies and universities and they are an advisory organization for the German
for the federal government, Germany of future developments. And therefore a very clear
view as they say what happens in digitalization gives the customer. But even more us
opportunities to provide completely new risk management and prevention services.
And I'll give you an example what I mean. We have an initiative underway and built
resources in the direction Internet of Things. Internet of Things means the world is
connected with chips communicating with each other and already today when you look
into big companies like Zeeman's, Daimler Benz, BMW's, General Electric and others, the
chips today in the production process deliver and provide everyday terabytes of data for
the machine steering. Terabytes of data and already today when you have modern
analytical methods available, you can monitor these terabytes of data every day and look
at data patterns and when you see an unusual and abnormal data pattern, you can make
a probabilistic calculation for a certain machine, that this machine might fail, let's say within
the next two weeks. Everything is fine, it doesn't failed yet. But from unusual data pattern
from this chips in these machines, you can make probabilistic assumptions that this
machine will fail and then before it comes to a machinery breakdown to business
interruption, then you can replace the machine or can repair it. So these kinds of services
are under development and we are in close cooperation with the manufacturers to
provide these services.
To be able to deal with that, it needs resources and we have also bought analytic
software thus is available in our organization in all the business division and in the central
unit in the Munich Re. In the next part an update on cyber where do we stand here? Our
market view in the upper right part of the slide is unchanged. We think there is currently a
place insurance premium volume around this $3 billion and this probability will grow by
2020 to $6 billion to $8 million roughly. Most of the demand now comes from the US
market. But it begins to develop in Europe and that is supported by two factors. Most
companies realize there's a high dependency on data and availability of internet and et
cetera and they have to protect the business model. But oozes in governments
particularly in Europe, put more pressure on all private companies to protect their data
and their IT infrastructure. And there are even penalties in the future if this protection is
considered to be insufficient.
So therefore, there is demand. The question is now, how do we do it and how we are
positioned? Our market premium today is ($190 million). That means, we have a pretty
significant share of the currently $3 billion market premium, which is available today and a
significant part of our ($190 million) comes from risk solutions unit that means from direct
interaction with the insureds. Why do we think we can successfully manage that business
and don't misunderstand, there will be losses at one point in time. That is not risk fee that
is for sure. But we have two developments underway, one is, our biggest concern is
accumulation management and that is of highest importance in that business. So not a
single risk lost concerns us or me when a single let's say manufacturer in London or in
Paris or somewhere is affected and has a certain problem with IT or with data, nobody can

Page 37 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

handle that. So problem is accumulation. If a super virus effects half of Europe or half of
the United States or so, what does it mean then for us.
And the second part is, of course, the change in technology. So for these two let's say
concerning factors we try to find pretty good solutions. One is we have for the major
accumulations tough limit management in place. So accumulation management is a key
for us when we write a business and for the second part, a disruptive or quick changes in
the underlying technology, new version of Windows 10 for instance or new Outlook
version or whatever. Here we have close cooperations with IT companies in United States
and other parts of the world in Silicon Valley to be permanently aware what is happening
and not just look at historic data when we write new business, because that is a big
difference to the traditional reinsurance business here.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that is my last slide now. That is how we try to build and have already built our internal
infrastructure to support innovation and what we have done is we say innovation is not just
an issue for central unit within the Munich RE group. So it affects all people, all colleagues
in our company, including us here and we want to encourage all people to come up with
ideas, with business models. And therefore we have founded the two parts. We have first
founded a scouting procedure or scheme. Scouting means we have our colleagues in
Silicon Valley. We have some in London, we have some in Israel to really build direct
relationships with IT companies in the world and to learn from them what kind of
technology data management analytic procedures today are available and can be
transferred into our business.
Second, we built innovation labs. Innovation labs today in New York, Munich and Beijing.
These innovation labs are so to speak a supported room for our colleagues or for
colleagues together with our clients when they have new ideas to build prototypes, to
build new solutions and to have free time not spare time but is time available. So to
speak, outside their original responsibilities and to develop it to real business and if it's
successful, we allow them to build their own new departments in the Munich RE and to
develop that business.
And the last part is data analytics and uniqueness. We have invested into infrastructure
that means analytical systems and we have developed into storage capabilities to build
sort of data like in the future and have built a very good unit of experts, which we think is
somewhat state-of-the-art. We think these capabilities give us a potential to differentiate
in the future and because it needs a lot of know-how and also some sort of investment
here, we think here companies like Munich RE can differentiate a lot from the small peers,
particularly in the future.
Here that is a part where I would like to finish and now Joachim, I hand over to you. Thank
you.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

So thank you very much, Torsten. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon to
those who I couldn't welcome personally already and I'm happy to report on the 2015
performance of the Life Re business, looking back and giving you then an outlook going
Page 38 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

forward. I thought perhaps it's helpful for you if I just with no slides on the screen, just in a
nutshell, share with you the key takeaway.

FINAL

The key takeaway is there is one social effect in 2015 with regard to the Life Re business
and this is the technical IFRS result, which is no concern to us. I'm going to explain that
later and there is a very strong economic performance and there is many other positive
things to tell along the slides to follow.
So as I've already started with mentioning IFRS, perhaps you flip to slide 78, which shows
the IFRS world. What you see there is topline wise, you see a relatively flattish
development as we anticipated I think last year. Actually, what you see is 5% growth over
2014. But frankly, this is currency related. The technical result IFRS which I just mentioned,
yes, it has increased by more than EUR50 million. But it's below the around EUR400
million ambition as we have explained it and repeatedly communicated to you in the past
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me stay here for a second, why isn't this a concern to us? Why is this only slightly
bothering? The reason why is, as you can imagine, in a large portfolio, there is always a
little bit ups and downs and all these smaller ups and downs, they balance out very well in
2015. That's a good thing.
However, what we couldn't balance out were two large single claims in the Life business
that add up together to more than EUR70 million and this is more than EUR50 million
above what we would expect in normal years. So that explains the whole difference. I want
to also highlight, you see that on this slide, I want to also highlight the fee income or the
non-technical result, the EUR70 million reached in 2015, you have to add them actually to
the technical results to see the full contribution from Life reinsurance business and then it
looks pretty nice. However, at this point, let me set expectations correctly going forward.
The EUR70 million is a high number. You should not expect that in every year to come. I
personally would rather estimate or assess something in the range EUR30 million to
EUR40 million being a meaningful estimate.
Then I go one slide back, 77, which shows the economic growth and as Jorg explained
earlier, this is the new solvency II metrics, which then replaces the MCEV metric, which we
could discontinue in life. I want to show you, I want to comment on the two key drivers for
this very high earnings page and this is very high new business value that we created in
2015. It's like one-third higher than what we would have committed to you of what we
have planned internally one-third. We are very proud of that, that's a very good thing. But
the EUR0.9 billion, please read that carefully, it's not comparable with the VNBs in the
MCEV. This one is before tax where the MCEV was after tax and there is some other
technical differences between the numbers.
So the guidance for you is one third higher or in the old world, it would have been
EUR600 million versus EUR450 million ambition plus another good thing on that slide and
there is nothing bad on that slide beyond that is that the variances in 2015 were positive,
quite positive by EUR265 million, which is a good think which is evidence that the in-force
portfolio developed as expected and better. And this is perhaps the right point in time to

Page 39 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

confirm that the previous US old age business issues that have meant some reserve
strengthenings or hits. But also the Australian DI business, we consider them internally as
closed, we consider them as fixed in the sense that we would rather not expect further
reserves necessary reserve strengthening going forward.
On slide 79, I'd like to quickly walk you around the globe a little bit to highlight major
effects in the regions. I mentioned Australia we consider fix, I mentioned the US business,
what we should mention is that the new business, new business, not the back book, the
new business in the US is quite robust and solid. That's a good thing.
The UK market, that is continuous doing well actually and back book is a solid book,
running off profitably and there are some meaningful too good opportunities. But mainly
in the financing areas and then longevity, less so in protection with regard to our risk
appetite at least. Continental Europe is suffering from the crisis, is struggling to grow on
the primary market and so on the reinsurance side. Margins are still interesting. So I would
say relatively small but solid.

Bloomberg Transcript

Canada continues to be the largest value driver from a very healthy back book. And in
terms also of new business, Canada again in 2015 is among the very large contributors.
However, please note, Canada in terms of rate competition in the individual life area has
seen very fierce competition in 2015, which made us lose some shares and certainly some
margins here and there. So it's becoming clearly more difficult in individual life in the UK.
Asia, I'm going to command later in more detail.
If you look on slide 81, then you see the risk return profile of our life re book globally. And
if you remember, last year's presentation, then we have to just send it in the middle of
the mortality business, assuming this is the core traditional business of a life reinsurance
company, this is the sort of business that every reinsurer seeks to having or getting a little
bit more. Then, we compare the other pieces to that mortality business.
What you see is that the financially motivated reinsurance business. So mainly the
financings and the capital relief transactions, they continue to be as the financial solutions,
which is also includes -- they continue to be in the right half of this matrix, meaning
showing above average returns. And this is also our growth areas. You see longevity, the
other color point to the upper left side of this matrix, it's higher risk. This is not new and
this is exactly the reason why we have relatively limited risk appetite on this. I'll come to
this later with some more detail.
So on the next four slides, one slide each, I'd like to add some detail to our four strategic
initiatives from the last year's, which actually haven't changed. And they need not change
because we have evidence enough that they are just the right initiatives. So we start with
the financially motivated reinsurance business. And if you look at the technical results in
the middle, then you see that they have been increasing and again in 2015, actually, have
increased to EUR136 million and this is the part technical result.
And fee income, you see the value creation is a little bit more lumpy, because this is a
more difficult to plan business by nature. But value in 2015 was very high. Please note, this
Page 40 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

is before tax. So the 2015 number is not comparable with the previous years. But clearly is
an exceptionally positive year for us in Asia.
The Asian region is, with regard to topline, rather flattish. As you can see, there is some
growth. Why isn't the topline growing faster? There is one reason. And that is, in the
previous years, there were some volume intense or premium intense transaction which
terminated. And then, we could compensate them by more recurrent premium business.
So topline is relatively flattish.
Looking to the technical results, 2015 exceeds the previous year's by an amount like
EUR25 million to EUR30 million and is now EUR86 million. Compare it to the global life
number, it's already one quarter of the global life business and the VNB was
extraordinarily high in 2015 as you can see.

Bloomberg Transcript

Longevity, I've mentioned that our risk appetite hasn't changed for the reasons that we
have explained again and again. So we continue seeking to write say one transaction of
the size of say one billion underlying reserves preps. If it's less, than we can write two
deals. But we don't want to grow it and we have achieved another transaction in 2015. We
continue being very selective. Most of the opportunities we reject, one we've written in
2015 and we're very happy with it.
Financial solutions or asset protection, what I mean by this is, this is not the traditional Fin
RE business. This one also embraces all the risks on the asset side of our clients. So all the
market risks. So fully comprehensive solution that we offer. We have started investing into
this value proposition some nine or 10 years back and if you look into the numbers here,
then the contribution, the margin contribution of this business is showing positive numbers
since 2011. That's a great thing.
You might assume now, how in 2015 we see a dip in this. At first, you can argue. So it's not
exactly right. The reason is that in previous years for capital market developments there
were some early knockout effects in the underlying performance. It's very technical, which
meant in essence that we could release the embedded values of the written portfolios
earlier than anticipated. So a good thing actually. That's why previous years were relatively
high. Anyway, every year since 2011 are producing positive contribution margins.
Slide 86 tries to show where we believe that the business is, mostly regionally, where
they're going to grow and which return they might probably offer to us and if you look at
these gray bubbles to the left of this picture, then you may take a critical view and argue
well, look, these bubbles are pretty much to the left. They're not really growing or
growing just slightly. The returns look okay-ish and frankly, I wouldn't phrase it like this. But I
would say, it's growing in some parts of the world; in others, it's shrinking. Overall, it's
pretty flattish. But the margins are pretty solid, if you manage the risk well, are pretty
solid. The growing parts are to right, these are the blue-colored bubbles and we feel
confirmed by these bubbles that we're just focusing on the right strategic initiatives. They
make us grow and they contribute attractive margins to our book.

Page 41 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

Nikolaus has used these six categories to structure our innovation activities and along
these six categories or clusters, I have added not all. But just illustratively some of the
innovation investments or innovation focus points of the life reinsurance business. When I
say some, not all, there is two reasons for this. One is, you don't want to see the full list it
will take as long as too much detail. There is another reason, we wouldn't share
everything with you at this point. There might be something that we just don't want to
share in public because the competitors might be interested.
So here you see the uncritical stuff in this event and frankly, there is nothing I'd like to
focus on most pleased if you're interested in one or the other, raise a question during the
Q&A. But what I'd like to say is to the upper left of the slides, when it comes to the new
client demands, I think Torsten and earlier, also Nikolaus, they mentioned the capital
partners business on the non-life side. This is the life part where we say financially
motivated business solvency II solutions or asset protection, this is something we have
been investing on already, that's not happening since six months only. But is already
paying off. So there are business plans behind. It's not just a startup. It's not an early (in a
lab) idea.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other things are, if you go through towards processes to the right or towards risk
services, then this is also something that is in production, automated underwriting services
that we deliver, which our support function for generating very traditional business. So by
offering those to our clients, they give us a share in the traditional books. This is in
production, we further elaborate this and extend it.
To the bottom of this page, you see, I would say newer initiatives, more recent things,
more experimental stuff for us. So for example, we have more and more co-creation
projects with clients where we go through customer experience, customer journey,
workshops or inner lab experiments.
In terms of new insurance products, when it comes to diabetes which often is excluded,
we try to find ways to make this included into coverages and when it comes to new
business models, we are working on various white labeling projects where clients would
primarily bring the strong brand and consumer access to the table and we bring partly or
fully the risk management and the risk carrier capabilities to the table. If you're interested
in more detail, I'm happy to add more to this during the Q&A.
The outlook -- the financial outlook. So with regard to the IFRS technical results, you do
recall that we said around EUR400 million should be achievable for us. We continue
believing this, around EUR400 million should be achievable for us. But believe it or not, it
was just in the first half of this analyst conference, when I got an update on claims
experience and we've got hidden by one more single high claim. So to be completely -and I don't even know whether or how much is (retrospective), let's just assume also in
2016, there will be two larger claims that hit us.
What is the exact size of that, it could be around EUR60 million. So don't take it exactly,
it's not EUR20 million, it's not EUR80 million, it's like EUR60 million. This doesn't mean -I'm just saying 2016 right. Going forward, I would still say 2017, 2018, there is no reason not

Page 42 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

to believe in around EUR400 million run rate. But it makes it of course more difficult to
achieve than it was January 1. So just for the sake of transparency, I'm adding this brand
new and fresh news to you.
In terms of VNB, the EUR450 million value-add ambition that you know from previous
years, we would continue to commit too. In terms of solvency II, at this point in time, it
doesn't yet make sense to translate this into new solvency II ambition because there are
so many technical effects of reconciliation from the old MCEV into the new solvency II that
we wouldn't really feel comfortable. But just for your comfort, had we continued MCEV,
we would have reconfirmed the VNB ambition. So I hope I've done it in time. Thank you.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thanks very much gentleman. Now for the second round of Q&A. Who is the first? Andrew
please. Andrew Ritchie.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. First question for Torsten on special risks. Looking
at the accounts, I see that Hartford Steam Boiler had a 29% growth in premium, that's in
euro. So I'm guessing it's 18% in dollars or something like that, that does seem very high.
Maybe just give us a bit of color as to what was driving that. Is that all the new product
initiatives or is there something funny about that?
Also, you said that 90% is the right combined ratio for the whole of the division. Again,
looking at the accounts and I know it's mashed into various bits of the account, it still
refers to very benign loss experience in special and financial risks, which is a large part of
that division and very decent one also. Is 90% not still a bit ambitious? This is not still
benefiting benign losses?
Then, my second question on life reinsurance. It was actually just two comments on the
slides that you may have wanted more color on is slide 79 and slide 81. You talk about
public drift in Asia. I'm not sure what you mean by that. And also, it might be connected, I
think it could be connected, growing exposure to morbidity risk and you talk about
needing to secure alignment of interest, of course, I not sure what you mean and what's
the risk of that mobility risk expansion?

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

Let me start the first one was the HSB question. Right, majority of the growth comes from
foreign exchange effects, dollar and euro in their portfolio, basically they have two to
three drivers for their growth and all of them are important. One is their normal machinery
breakdown business, whereas it can grow to a normal extent I would say, very important
for them, very important for them is the white-label business, that is significant. Again
here, they bring their normal machinery breakdown service and product expertise behind
other clients to the insurance and that is not new. That is just -- they expand their power
via different distribution channels into the market.

Page 43 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

And the third part, which is among (the smallest) new product. So all the three are
important. What is, let's say, not so successful yet. But we try is to expand that business
model into foreign markets. That is an initiative, China is an option for us. We have
expertise also in China. But it's nothing what you see in figures already.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So that's all domestic US.

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

It's domestic US. It's some of business in Canada, some in London and they try to go into
other foreign markets. But basically their business is US business.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

On the growth ex-FX is about $0.18, is that right or wrong?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

It seem a bit higher. What was your second question? (multiple speakers) Yes. The
business what you see from Hartford Steam Boiler, specialty markets. And American
Modern, these were the three in the United States. And it's not in terms of cat exposure
comparable with the traditional reinsurance business. As a policy, accommodation
potential is really significantly smaller and then second, companies whereas amongst the
company whereas amongst the suite is bit bigger is a American Modern. And American
Modern, let's say, on retro or traditional -- it's reinsurance in that respect, not retro. They
say on program, which we don't show here, say as protected. When you compare that
there will be of course some of the entities below the '90s, Hartford Steam Boiler will be
in our expectations of these apart, which delivers below the ($0.90) weighted average.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

So Andrew, then I take your question with regard to morbidity exposure and to what we
mean by product drift in Asian et cetera. So the morbidity exposure in our books has in
the meantime reached like one-third. And two-thirds is mortality and that doesn't change
from one year to another year really, over five or 10 years, that might change. So it's onethird. But it's an important block. If you're exactly precise, then you could 60 mortality, five
longevity and then it's like the remaining part morbidity in terms of present value of
claims. Now that's no news compared to what we reported the previous year's product
drift, what does that mean. By product drift, we want to highlight one phenomenon, which
we see in various markets not at the same time. But we see it in Asia now. The Asian
business in life is mainly financial transactions, a big chunk is financial transactions. Then,
the next large trunk is critical in this business and that's true across the Asian markets and
the mortality business is relatively small there.
And the product of comment is referring to the critical illness business and what we see in
the rapidly growing primary markets in Asia is that many market players are very
innovative and creative in designing critical illness product, what I mean by that is, like you
add another benefit and to this another benefit, you add another one. From one year to
Page 44 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

FINAL

another, you don't really see a massive change, it's just two, three more relatively
marginal benefit. When you compare them today to what they were five years back, 10
years back, then you say these are different products. Plus if the products are designed
such that there is more policyholder behavior risk and if you give us more optionality to
the consumer, then you also have to assess these behaviors. So they become more
complex.
Then, of course, alignment between insured and the primary and the reinsured becomes
more relevant to be on the safe side of pricing this corrected. So what we want to say is
Asia in this sense is becoming a more complex and more difficult market. That doesn't
mean you should stop doing business, it means like you have to absolutely as a reinsurer,
bring now your global knowledge with the lessons learned from other markets, where
you've perhaps gone a little bit too far, bring that into the local market, if you like educate
a little bit. But in the ultimate case, also stay out of it and reject.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you. Thomas Seidl. And then Olivia, please. And then, Michael.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Seidl for Bernstein. First question is on FX. I think it's the second year that you
have a very high contribution from FX. Is it that you take deliberate FX risk or what is
driving the EUR800 million second year back-to-back? Second question is, on American
Modern, you recently replaced the CEO, I think you stopped writing certain businesses
there, more stuff you should worry coming up in the future?

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

We take limited FX risk. Normally, we orientated our assets to the structure of the
liabilities. The limited risk comes from over-exposure in the US dollar at the moment and
limited under exposure short position in British pound. Then, there are artificially
accounting effects on top of that, which are unavoidable. So situations where we have to
wear unmatched economic position but IFRS reporting does not reflect it adequately. So
it's partially the one, partially the other.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

So it hasn't really changed? (multiple speakers).

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

No really. Bombard?

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

So the risk capital requirement that I showed that this jump was really model driven. But
the general positioning has not changed.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}
Page 45 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

American Modern, change of the CEO, no, not at all, has nothing to do with performance
or so. The change which had to be made after our former CEO left and the company is in
unchanged, good shape, nothing to be reported.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

FINAL

Olivia, please?

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

It's Olivia Brindle from Bank of America. First question on economic profitability and P&C.
So for each line of business and also overall, given where we are with interest rates,
there's always some maximum combined ratio that you need to be out in order to make
economic profit. So I was just wondering if you could maybe give some sense of where
that maximum is versus what you're delivering and perhaps particularly on the casualty
side, is that changing much. You've got, in the US interest rates, may be moving favorably
in Europe, unfavorably, does that offset how are you thinking about that, I think that'll will
be interesting.

Bloomberg Transcript

And second question on the Life side, you talked about the growth in the Financial
Solutions business. But then you also talked about the fee income, probably, we shouldn't
expect that to be 70, that more like 30 to 40, I was wondering if you could sort of expand
on why that would be? And also the second question on Financial Solutions if I may, at
least two of your big peers are also growing in that space. Just wondering you're
competing directly with them on that or there some approach that you're taking that's
different?

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

I'll start with the first one which is interest relation to the nature of the business segment.
First your assumption is right. Of course, the interest rate by segment and currency
country have a strong impact on our maximum combined ratio which we can afford or
when we have to decline businesses that is right. And on the other side, there is a second
part which has a big impact on inflation assumption. Both factors, interest rate and the
inflation assumptions go one-to-one into our pricing and that is the reason why I do not
have and we do not have one interest rate or one inflation assumption for all property or
for all casualty business. But what we do is we look, let's say, almost every month into
each of the markets by segments at current interest rate and interest rate curve and we
look by segment at the assumption, our update or assumption on inflation rate. And what
we then do is our pricing, we first calculate sort of speak for each of the treaties in that
region, the expected loss and the payout pattern of the loss.
And when we have this so to speak since it's discounted, then we apply discount factor
and then inflation factor, these two against the current loss calculation and then we come,
sort to speak, to a discounted loss amount and that basically plus our own cost plus our
loading for capital and all the stuff, that gives us a maximum combined ratio for the
specific treaty. And when you look at rounds of growth now currently in Europe for
instance, the interest rate which we can use for discount purposes in Europe are close to
zero now and it's euro currency.

Page 46 of 55



FINAL

Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

On the other hand, when you look at Australia or China, for instance, here we are still -they also came down. But we still have markets here, where in casualty motor business in
China, remember, we have this structured treaties, where combined ratio of 98% or 99%
can still be sufficient. Why, because we still have significantly higher interest rate, which
helps to further deliver decent profitability. So that's how we proceed here. So in other
words, when we show profitability and in this chart, in this illustrations, that is part of the
calculation. But as far as casualty is concerned, to be quite honest, I don't know whether
you agree. But it cannot become much worse I would say, that's for sure.

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

One thing that I would like to add, which is actually rather referring to primary dental
reinsurance, the key question is of course whether we do invest also then in the very
same currency. And interest rates are higher, take India as an example or Turkey. These
countries were I doubt that we do invest, if we do reinsurance in the Turkish lira, in primary
we do. And as long as we then match the duration of whatever business we take on,
indeed you may end up with a combined ratio north of 100% and still make decent profit.
In reinsurance, it depends on the sheer size of the very business and where do we invest
and we do not invest in all currencies, because just we don't have enough of the business
and then it's a proxy and accordingly also when we price we then use the proxy for the
pricing and that may mean that in some markets, you're not really competitive because
you'd use a hard currency with a lower interest and you compete with someone who uses
the local interest rate. But this only is true in markets where you have high interest rates
and where the proxy has a very low and you do not invest in the very market. But we do
not run and you probably know it anyway, we do not run the business with combined
ratios in the first place, we stop and the processes sounds complicated, it is a little
complicated and we saw the other end. And in the end, combined ratio falls out of it.

A - Joachim Wenning

{BIO 16273429 <GO>}

Then I take the life reinsurance related two questions. One was, why is the fee income
probably shrinking 2016 onwards, the reason is that we now that one large transaction
that produced fee income of the order of the difference has ended in 2015. And we do
not plan or cannot plan that we are going to replace that somewhere else, that's the one
reason.
With regard to the financial transaction business or asset protection business, you asked
how are we different than from our competitors. Where we didn't have or do have
competitive edge or USB or we did have a very clear is with very huge transactions in the
crisis, where we did transactions in 2009, 2010 and 2011 that others didn't. The second
thing is with regard to the asset protection value proposition, where we say we are
offering comprehensive coverages, including all of the assets risks and the liability risk of
(inaudible) company, we have a uniqueness in the reinsurance arena, banks have they
short of offerings. But we have that one comprehensive thing.
And they're in the -- pretty much in the traditional financing arena, we are benefiting from
a -- I would call it rather a delivery mechanism that the clients do appreciate when they tell

Page 47 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

as we know you are going to execute, that's why we are tuning to and these are the three
things that I'd like to highlight and the rest is then commoditized, if you like.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Michael, Please.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

On the -- so you said 500; 90% on EUR500 billion is the underwritten profits. So it's
EUR500 million on your primary in reinsurance business. You have a 98% target on EUR18
billion. So If I do the math, you come out with a 102% combined ratio on the rest, is that
about right or are you planning for -- to me it doesn't sound right, it sounds as if you are
attending to lose money in your core business and I don't get it. So I just wondered if
that's right. And maybe I am making mistake here. Then on the capital allocation,
Bombard, since the beginning you said you felt too much money was in market. So add
market and credit together, that's about EUR13 billion, EUR25 billion is the undiversified; it
is on slide 35; so it's over half. Now, what's the figure going to be next year is really my
question. How much can you cut it? And if you do all this putting money in pallets, how
much can you put in pallets to reduce that number and who is going to insure the fire risk
on that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

Regarding your calculation, I have not exactly made the calculation as you did it now. But I
think you could be right, there could be a relationship between the two. I have not made
the deal, you've done it, then I think it's fine. That's roughly true and considering that what
we discussed before, that we have in markets like China, Australia and other markets,
particularly for the long-term business, some interest rate support and the duration for
the reinsurance business is by far longer since a relative contribution of duration of risk
solution part, it is still at a profitable level. But you're right, your calculation is not wrong.

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

As regards to the second question, of course, this is not meant to be delayed forward to
avoid the exposure to negative interest rates. It is rather a test to see what can be done
and maybe different means and it is also a signal to the public domain. And you may have,
not sure whether you saw that in the UK, we had the same discussion just a week ago
amongst the savings and loans associations in Germany and it is cooking there.
And of course, we also -- it's very interesting actually from the insurance side. We wonder
whether home owners policy or householders' policy in the first place are more exposed
now to burglary, because we have to assume that people start to hold real assets from
jewelry to money to gold and it would of course quite, in theory, dramatically change the
exposure of these policies.
It could also mean that we have to change the policies and say we insure more, because
now you have sub-limits on the liquid assets or real assets of that nature art and so forth
as well. So there's more to it. And this is in the first place a signal because the amount of
cash that we hold of course will most likely never be stored anywhere. So we have to think
Page 48 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

about other means to -- but we both check it. We have not done it. We'll check it. We may
end up not been able to do it; the question is will central banks be ready to give us the
money.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

FINAL

William Hawkins first and James Shuck and then Thomas Fossard, please.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

These are some solvency II questions for Bernhard. So forgive me. Your tiering your
capital you've got 90% in tier 1, which is good. But can you give us how much of that is
restricted and how much is unrestricted?
Secondly, the loss absorbing capacity for deferred tax, that's a massive talking point and
uncertainty in the Netherlands, it just seems to be a non-issue in Germany. I don't
understand why. So you could you maybe talk about whether there is any uncertainty in
your tax assumptions for solvency II?
Then finally, in words of one syllable, why your UFR sensitivity is negligible when your
interest rate sensitivity is reasonably high, I would have thought that there would be some
kind of connection between the two. So why is your UFR sensitivity so low?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

Okay. So I'll start with the last question. So the UFR sensitivity for our book is relatively low,
mainly because the ultimate power grade or the extrapolation starts after we assume, or
solvency II assumes, the euro curve becomes delinquent and that is 20 year plus and the
bulk of our exposure, especially from life insurance business that is interest rate sensitive
is then already declined to an amount which is no longer driving so much our interest rate
sensitivity. And also we, of course, have other lines of business, life reinsurance business,
which also is in US dollar or in other currency. So that's not so much depending on this
euro-specific assumption.
Then loss absorbing capacity of taxes in Germany, that are also discussions on this. But
there also has been clear guidance by our regulator on how to treat certain elements,
especially in the primary life business and so that at least is clarity how to do it. I would
expect that this discussion will go on because there are still some open issues and the
industry is also in Germany raising the hands and pointing at some issues that were
definitely there is also room for improvement with respect to the impact on the solvency
ratios. But currently, we are only applying those things who are absolutely certain and so I
would not expect that there is some downside potential in on our numbers.
On the tiering, the differentiation between restricted and unrestricted Tier 1 this is -- what
are you referring to?

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Page 49 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

I guess I'm kind of referring to the similar issue to what you talk about when you can
differentiate between IFRS and HGB as I understand that your Tier 1 capital can be very,
very high. But it could be using an awful lot of present value of future profits from a
German GAAP point of view. So it's actually not distributable Tier 1 capital.

FINAL

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Okay, you're right. Part of it is also going back to the present value of future profit of
especially life business. But it's for our book not more than 50% of the Tier 1. So it's not
the dominating part of it.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Understood.

A - Jorg Schneider
And the official number is unrestricted for the whole Tier 1 capital is EUR35 billion and only
EUR1.5 billion is Tier I restricted. It's in our annual report on page 130.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay. James?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thanks. James Shuck, UBS. Two questions from me please, again first one Solvency II
question again. Looking at slide 145 where you said the bridge between IFRS NAV to the
Solvency II the prelim eligible own funds, I am just interested in the adjustment or the
comparability of the reserves on Solvency II to IFRS. Obviously one part of that is the risk
margin and the other part of that is the transfer to best estimate liabilities. Could you
break that out for me please. That'd be very helpful.
Then my second question is I don't suppose Mr. Draghi is your favorite person at the
moment. But I'm just interested at least one thing to think about reinvestment rate of 1.5%
and say that you wanted to invest in corporate bonds, it's another thing to fund a liquidity
to actually be able to invest at that level. So could you just kind of comment on whether
you think you are going to be able to roll your paper over as the year progresses, please?

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

So on page 145 risk margin end of 2015 is about EUR9 billion and also to answer your next
question roughly one-third of this is primary insurance.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

And the best estimate liability bridge?

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Page 50 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

So the best estimate under IFRS at Solvency II, it's identical. So we have no difference
between IFRS and best estimate -- in the best estimate and Solvency II. So that means it
would only be a discounting effect that makes a difference. But I'm not sure if we have it.

FINAL

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

I guess what I am trying to get to is that I mean under IFRS there is an element of
prudence on setting the reserves, under Solvency II it's sort of best estimate. So I am
(thinking of ) what the difference is?

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

But for us it's the same -- so it's the same interpretation.

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The other question, Jorg showed you on one slide very (clear) picture of reinvestment
rates according to the different asset classes including corporate bonds, it's slide 25. And
of course we have, as you said, some 10% corporate bonds in our overall book. I can't tell
you because this is of course a maturity picture and the 3% is certainly too high and the
gentleman that you mentioned is not helpful even now, because one part of the package
is not that it will buy the corporate bonds. So that will probably further drive down the
return and we feel that the risk reward on many of those assets isn't right anyway
anymore. We have seen some spread widening not so long ago. We see them now
narrowing again. I think it will be further pushed to narrowing.
On the other hand, we have the problem with a bit our spread for the lack of liquidity in
the market. So it's very difficult to make a prediction where we go. One thing is for sure,
of course, corporate bonds will stay a relevant S class for us. It will support our
reinvestment rate that Jorg said most recently was closer to 1.7%. Given we have
corporate bonds it will be even below. So we sort of mix them in. But we -- I'm not -probably you are much closer to the market than I am in that regard. But we will certainly
continue to try to invest in corporate bonds and we have widened the universe in both -in two senses on the industries we invest in and regions too, more so even on the regions
in the recent past to make sure that we grab and take in the number, whatever we can.
But it's really, really difficult.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay. Thomas and then the last question for today goes to Andrew.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Two questions related to ERGO. Could you update us on the
solvency position of ERGO in the current low interest rate environment? And some place
last year asked about how far the Group was away from injuncting capital into ERGO. I
have seen that, Nikolaus, last year you indicated that we were four or five years away in an
environment where interest rate were still at (61.65%). We are now at 15 basis points. So
are we getting closer to that pressure point? Thank you.

Page 51 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

FINAL

Who gives the -- I can give you my flavor and please ask my colleagues to correct me.
First the ERGO holding, the top company is not the issue. The issue and I wouldn't say
independent of interest rates. But not in today's world even. And we showed you -- I think
we did show you the solvency ratio fully, ERGO as a whole -- we did not. But it was high
enough and it's still high enough. That not the problem. So we were not closely injecting
money for the holding or for reasons of the holding.
The question rather is of course the life insurance companies. As per end of last year they
were absolutely in the green territory, with the drop of the interest rates specifically in
February. Of course, we are entering closer territories that were more difficult and I think
Bernhard in the slide remark referred to how -- when you talked about the long-term
guarantee measures as you may be repeated and specified to the extent you can on one
to two.

A - Bernhard Kauf mann

{BIO 18347993 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So we still, of course, have the option two use any kind of Solvency II transitional or longterm guarantee measures. But that is depending on the interest rate environment and
further development. But in the current environment we are exploiting what is the best
strategy forward.
When we met in London last year in November, end of November I already said it's always
an option to apply for these long-term guarantee measures. We fulfilled the legal
requirements as at the end of last year for all the companies. But with the interest rates
close to zero that doesn't hold true. So there are deficiencies here and there but there is
always the option to go for the ATG measures.

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Okay, Andrew.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Two quick questions. First one is actually an observation. On Solvency II, I promise my last
question is not on Solvency II. But the penultimate question, you are indicating and
Nikolaus you were saying, you're always slightly worried about the world, you want to
remain the more conservative end of the world. Bernhard you highlighted the volatility of
Solvency II. Why don't just expand the range? Why is 175% to 220% the range because in
reality you want to remain above the 220%. So make it a different range and that 175% to
220% was based on a different model anyway. So I'm curious if you even consider that I
think discuss maybe you expand the range 50 points, not 30, a wider range, why is that
the right number?
And the last question on innovation, that EUR500 million premium number is that to date
what you've done or is that what you did in 2015 on the new product areas? And I
presume you are having very high combined ratios or initial loss picks on that business
because it is quite unknown, is that fair? I mean, it is a very delayed profitability. And I think
from memory in Monte Carlo when you launched the innovation sort of strategy you
Page 52 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

talked about EUR2 billion to EUR3 billion of premium in a couple of years. Is there a
number as to where you think that premium will get to?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Torsten Jeworrek

{BIO 5724439 <GO>}

I do not remember to be very honest. But you are referring to EUR3 billion would be
challenging, probably not within Nikolaus remaining time in the Munich Re. So we will see.
So how did you measure the premium. That is not a premium which we generated in
2015. That is a premium which is not -- let's say, that is a premium which is in force at the
end of the year. But usually these are 12 months policies. So that figure is not too wrong to
relate it to each other.
Loss ratio pick, that is a difficult one and because you cannot write the business in the
traditional way, that means you look at data and make a loss ratio pick and then make a
decision I want it or don't want it, why because neither for cyber policies nor for all the
other policies, business interruption without underlying property damage or reputational
risk policies, performance guarantee, all the stuff, when you start for the first time you
don't have data. So you start pretty blind if you want. You don't have data. So how can you
make a loss pick when you don't have historic data. So what we do is the following. We try
to look at sort of alternative data. We do not have loss history, we look at alternative data.
Good example, I don't know whether I've mentioned it already, is when we wrote for the
first time the performance guarantee policies for photovoltaic plants where we gave the
guarantee over the 20-year term of (inaudible) below, let's say, 10% after 10 years or 8%
of after 10 years and 15% after 20 years or whatever. Then we didn't have the data but
we went here to the founder of our institute that is a very good example. And therefore
very different reason already before as they made hundreds and thousands of test cases
about degradation. So of course, it did not give us the loss amount but they told us at
least there is a probability of a certain panel under certain technology how will it degrade
it in the future. Then. So to speak we related this probability of single panel of failures of
single panel to the underlying (inaudible) required premium and of course because of
uncertainty load et cetera and so more data we build then in the future we came then to
an own price if you want. And that's how we build it. And therefore it's not really surprising
that in the first years -- of course we can see surprises. I do not exclude that. But in the
first years our assumptions are pretty pessimistic, if you want, or conservative, be it on our
accumulation control side where we first begin to add up limits in a very naive way to
make sure that we are never on the wrong side and the more data, we have so to speak
we tuned it we improve it and we finds it. And the same is true for pricing.
And therefore I cannot exclude that we might experience a large loss but at least on
almost all products the combined ratio are far below the combined ratio of our risk
solution business. That means our assumptions that was built in buffers were not too
wrong.
The nature of the business is different for the solar panels performance guarantees more
long term as to sort of tail element if you want so to speak. And as further we go, the
more we know about experience. But the risk periods goes over 20 years. But more than
12, 13, 14 years are old ones in meantime. For cyber policies it's usually more cat type
covers, it's not the tail in nature. You can have liability covers in this segment. But even it's
liability you need a first incident, or the accident, or take from outside. So to speak. That
Page 53 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

means you know something was happening here and then you can make a calculation
how much will it cost. So that means the usual tail element like under liability, casualty
policies that's not the case here. It always need some accident.

FINAL

A - Jorg Schneider
Then your first question was on the target range for our economic solvency ratio. So we
are faced also with constraints coming from our local GAAP balance sheet and the highest
aim we have is to avoid dividend cut. And I may add I'm also very happy that when we can
continue the share buybacks with this pace which is close to similar to a dividend payment.
And therefore we have to have that situation in mind and we want to preserve any tools
of managing the local GAAP situation for a situation where we come under pressure, let's
say, from capital market movements, from further impairments, also impairments on
subsidiaries or things like that.
So we want to avoid the situation where we use up our current possibilities to increase
our distribution to the maximum mount and then later on sit on a huge equalization
reserve and not being able to pay our dividend. That's what we want to avoid. And why
do we not adjust our economic solvency ratio to a higher level, having in mind this
constraint, this is because from a pure economic point of view we do not need a higher
ratio than somewhere between 175% and 220%. And please rest assured that keeps us
under very healthy pressure to ensure that there is enough distribution capability also
under local GAAP requirements.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that I hand over to Nikolaus.

A - Nikolaus von Bomhard

{BIO 3123407 <GO>}

We'll soon hand it over to Christian. Just one quick two or three remarks. Today's
presentation was titled strong track record and new ideas. I think we didn't have so much
discussion on the question whether that is a strong track record. We were enthused,
certainly aren't you, by the length of the presentation of Torsten. You could see he
certainly also is about what we do on the innovation front. We all are. Bernhard has his
very own perspective on what we do there. He is a little worried rightly so. So is Jorg. But
we try really to move the industry. But also with the industry ourselves forward here and
we are leading that, I would dare to say.
I understood from your that you would be way more interested in our new ideas, how we
manage capital and get the solvency ratio into different territory. Rest assured what Jorg
said is certainly holding true. We will do whatever it takes. This is not for me, this remark
apparently. Then what can be done to free the capital, we would love to put it to work in
the first place. If we can't do that of course we will have to see what we can do on the
local balance sheet, on the local GAAP balance sheet.
Let me finish before Christian probably says pretty much the same. Thank you for your
personal attendance here during the conference. We know it's quite an effort to come
from, most of you at least, from London. But also from other places. Germany is a little
easier. But still we appreciate that and to be here face to face with you and discuss

Page 54 of 55



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-16

whatever you have on your mind and to present to you personally and then maybe now or
later on to speak to you means a lot to us. It's highly valuable and we appreciate it. Thank
you.

FINAL

A - Christian Becker-Hussong

{BIO 19080254 <GO>}

Thank you. Hardly anything to add. Time to wrap up. Thanks for coming and also thanks to
you following this conference on the web for spending your afternoon with us. Hope to
see you here on the floor in the function room and if not then we will certainly have the
opportunity to meet various times this year during road shows and conferences. Thank
you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 55 of 55

