Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

Q4 2015 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Esteban Tejera Montalvo, First Vice-Chairman, Managing Director & Chief Executive
Officer
Natalia Núñez Arana, Deputy Director-Capital Markets & Head-IR

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Presentation of MAPFRE Results
For The Full Year 2015. As usual, I'll give an overview of the results and the main business
development. And later, Mrs. Natalia Núñez will explain the financials in greater detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will answer the questions that have been submitted at the end of the presentation.
And if any further questions arise during the call, please send them to the specified e-mail
address and we will answer them if the time permits.
Let's now turn please to Slide 3. As you can see from the figures, MAPFRE continues
growing thanks to the Non-Life business coming from its international units, but has also
benefited from the improved demands in the Spanish market where I would like to point
out the return to growth in Motor.
In addition, the consolidation of DIRECT LINE and the strength of the U.S. dollar
contributed to offset the impact of the depreciation of the Venezuelan Bolivar that is one
of the main impacts of the year and the Brazilian real during the year.
The combined ratio increased to 2.8 percentage points due to a seasonally strong
snowstorms in the United States that we reported during the year and this explains
almost half of this increase.
The Life business has contributed positively to results, thanks to improvement in both the
underwriting result and the financial income in Brazil as well as the resilience of the
profitability in the Spanish business despite the fall in premiums we have suffered in this
market.
The attributable result of €708.8 million includes a net gain of €155 million from the sale of
CATALUNYACAIXA's insurance business as well as several extraordinary negative impacts
stemming from an increase in reserves and the identification of unprofitable business
segments mainly MAPFRE ASISTENCIA in the last quarter. We are placing a special
emphasis on underwriting policy and in line with MAPFRE's profitable growth status.

Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Funds under management fell slightly due to CATALUNYACAIXA operation, but if we
exclude this effect, managed savings would have increased slightly by 0.3%, which is quite
noteworthy in the midst of a very difficult market environment.
Shareholders' equity has fallen during the year mainly due to the reduction in the market
value of the financial investment portfolio and the depreciation of our main currencies
against the euro, except for the U.S. dollar, although we did see some improvement in the
fourth quarter.
The Board of Directors has agreed to propose to the Annual General Meeting a final
dividend of €0.07 per share, thus, taking the total dividend proposed against 2015 results
to €0.13 per share.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please let's move on to Slide 5. Here, you can see several measures we have been taking
to pave the way for profitable growth in the near future. The measures included
alignment of underwriting standards mainly in MAPFRE ASISTENCIA; increases in reserves
with the special mention of the Motor and General TPL business in Spain as well as in
Turkey, Colombia and Mexico; identification and cancellation of unprofitable business
segments especially of MAPFRE ASISTENCIA; optimization of cost structures;
implementation of the regulatory changes; tariff increases in key markets; and the
adaptation of the current economic context, which can be seen in the lower level of
realized gains compared to 2014. These extraordinary measures have had an impact of
roughly €185 million on the results of this year.
Please move to Slide 6 where we saw how is evolving the MAPFRE BRAZIL business. If we
look at our business in Brazil, we can see that we have a leading market position and
resilient underlying growth. Even with that economic backdrop, we are still seeing growth
in local currency terms. Motor is growing by 1.1%, and the total premiums are growing by
3.6%. We saw a recovery in our business, which witnessed a year-on-year growth of 13.2%
in local currency compared to a decrease of 38.1% at June despite the delay in the federal
subsidy program.
As you can see on slide 7, MAPFRE BRAZIL has a proven track record in profitability with
solid combined ratios, less than 94%, and excellent return on equity higher than 15%. The
net result increased by 16.9% in 2015. And we also saw a strong growth in the client base,
which increased by 12.2% in the year reaching 11.3 million customers.
As you can see on the next slide, the outlook for the insurance market in Brazil is still
positive despite the macroeconomic slowdown thanks to the low levels of insurance
penetration in the growing middle class. According to Sesian Seguros (07:22), the Brazilian
Insurance Association, expectation of growth continue in the main lines of the business,
especially in Life Risk and in Motor and in Other P&C, where we have a strong presence.
In addition, measures have been implemented at MAPFRE to increase the already high
levels of profitability. And these measures include cost reduction plans, increase
distribution platforms, increase client penetration and cross-selling initiatives.

Page 2 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Turning to the next slide, we can see how we have to manage the business during the last
three-year period. During this period, MAPFRE has continued creating value for its
shareholders. And as you can see, the average share price from 2010 to 2012 was €2.35,
whereas the average during the 2013 to 2015 increased to €2.85, which implies a 6.6%
increase. The payout has been consistently above the 50% target with 5.6% annual
average dividend yield, and the shareholders' equity has increased by close to 10% since
2012.
On the next slide you can see that the last three-year period has been an important stage
of MAPFRE's development as a global company. A new global corporate structure has
been fully implemented and it has allowed us for decentralized management with a
homogeneous operational framework, strong management and supervisory teams at the
head of each regional area. And this structure is helping us to achieve higher levels of
monitoring and supervision while allocating resources more efficiently and leveraging
synergies within the group.
On the next slide, we take a look of the MAPFRE's next three-year strategic plan, which is
based on four pillars: excellence in technical management, digital transformation, client
orientation and culture and human talent management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding technical management, we will continue with a special focus on underwriting,
pricing and claims management and we aim to outperform the market in technical
profitability in all products.
Regarding digital transformation, there are over 200 projects in process. In this area,
VERTI will be the brand for the digital direct business worldwide and we will continue with
the integration of DIRECT LINE Italy and Germany.
In client segmentation projects, projects have been rolled out to our main markets in
Spain, Brazil and the USA among others and the Net Promoter Score will be implemented
for every country in the next year. MAPFRE will also continue with its strong focus on
human talent and fostering geographic and internal mobility.
On Slide 12, we continue to reaffirm our key strategic objectives. The combined ratio
finished 2015 above the target due to the extraordinary losses in MAPFRE USA, as I
mentioned before, as well as the increase in research during the year. But we continue
with our target of being at the end of this year in 96% combined ratio.
The payout ratio has exceeded target at 56.5%, and this shows the MAPFRE's
commitment to our shareholders. This expense ratio has fallen 0.5 from the 29.1% since
the announcement of the strategic objectives, leaving another 0.5 to be reduced to reach
the target during this year. And finally, the €30 billion revenue target was heavily impacted
by currency movement that implied more than €2 billion in this period, especially due to
deterioration of the currency in Venezuela and in Brazil.
On Slide 13, we can see how MAPFRE continues to maintain a balance between mature
and growing markets. During 2015, we have seen the following variations in the premium
Page 3 of 17



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

distribution: a reduction in Iberia from 29.4% in 2014 due to the sale of CATALUNYACAIXA
to roughly 28% which is a small reduction and as we can see later in homogenous terms,
we have registered growth in Iberia; a fall in the contribution in Brazil of 3.7 percentage
points and 3.8 percentage in LATAM SOUTH mainly due to the depreciation of the real
and the bolivar, respectively; increases in LATAM NORTH and increases in EMEA due to
the consolidation in DIRECT LINE and the organic growth of the business; and an increase
in North America thanks to the development of the business and appreciation of the U.S.
dollar. And I would like to remark the increase in MAPFRE RE in 14% to 15.6% this year.
With regards to attributable results, the distribution has experienced large variations due
to the net losses in North America and EMEA and the falling profits in LATAM SOUTH and
we registered an increase in the weight of the attributable results of Iberia by 13
percentage points; Brazil by 4 percentage points and MAPFRE RE by 3 percentage points.
Now, I would give the place to Mrs. Núñez that will explain the figures a bit further. Natalia?

Bloomberg Transcript

Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Esteban. Good morning, everyone. Please let's move to Slide 15 to take a look
in-depth at the Non-Life account. On a yearly basis, Non-Life premiums have grown at a
healthy 6.5%. We are seeing the following trend there. Growth in EMEA, thanks to the
consolidation of DIRECT LINE which implies €374 million in premiums; an increase in
LATAM NORTH in Industrial Risks and Transportation due to the issuance of the PEMEX
policy, which was of €387 million in Mexico in the second quarter; Improvement in Iberia,
which was a return to growth in Motor, as well as a positive evolution of Home and Burial
business lines. Overall, good organic growth in North America, mainly outside of
Massachusetts, as well as in Turkey, Peru, Chile, Colombia, Argentina and Central America.
A positive year of MAPFRE RE, thanks to resilient performance of Non-Group business
despite the difficult market environment. These improvements offset the strong decline in
LATAM SOUTH due to the deterioration of the exchange rate in Venezuela especially in
the quarter.
We have seen also healthy local currency growth in Brazil with total premiums increasing
by 3.6%, Motor increasing 1.1%, Other P&C increasing 11% with Agroinsurance going up
13.2%, although premiums fell €405 million due to depreciation of the Brazilian real.
Finally, there has been a positive impact of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar on North
America MAPFRE ASISTENCIA, MAPFRE RE and MAPFRE GLOBAL RISKS.
Regarding the fourth quarter, premiums fell 11.6% due to lower volumes in Brazil, €202
million less, driven by the decline in our insurance production in the quarter after the
strong performance in the third quarter of 2015. There have been also seasonality effects
on issuance at MAPFRE RE and positive development in Iberia, EMEA, LATAM NORTH and
Chile. Colombia and Peru helps to mitigate these declines.

Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

The combined ratio increased from 95.8% to 98.7% for the reasons we will now discuss
on slide 18. The claims ratio has increased 2 percentage points in the year as a
consequence of exceptional claims in Homeowner insurance in North America as we have
said during the former quarters due to the strong snowstorms in the U.S. This added 1.3
percentage points to the loss ratio.
In Iberia, there was a large claim in Commercial insurance in the third quarter, an increase
in Burial technical reserves, higher frequency in Motor, Home and Commercial General
Liability, as well as increases in reserves in Motor and Commercial General Liability.
There has been also deterioration in the loss ratios in EMEA as a result of unprofitable
contracts at ASISTENCIA especially in France and an increase in severity and frequency in
Turkey. Deterioration also in loss ratios in LATAM NORTH, in Mass Market Multi-Peril lines in
Mexico. Increases in losses in APAC due to Motor lines at MAPFRE INSULAR, as well as
MAPFRE ASISTENCIA.

Bloomberg Transcript

On a positive note, we have seen an improvement in the loss ratios in LATAM SOUTH
specifically in Argentina and Chile, and a relatively benign loss experience at MAPFRE
GLOBAL RISKS.
Please let's move on to Slide 19 where we can see the main drivers of the quarter. In the
quarter, the loss ratio has increased 1.9 percentage points mainly as a result of the
following trends: a higher ratio in Spain due to reserve increases and higher frequency; in
EMEA due to the unprofitable contract in ASISTENCIA especially in France as well as higher
reserves in Turkey; deterioration of the loss ratio in Brazil due to a large industrial claim at
GLOBAL RISKS, and an increase in losses at MAPFRE ASISTENCIA. Also, has been higher
losses from industrial events at MAPFRE RE. These increases were partially offset by
improvement in loss ratios in Chile and Peru.
Please let's turn to Slide 20. The 0.8 percentage point increase reflects rising expenses,
reflects rising acquisition cost in Spain, Mexico, Argentina, Colombia and Chile. The
consolidation of DIRECT LINE has also impacted the expense ratio.
The €25 million decrease in financial income mainly reflects a lower level of realized gains
and reinvestment yields in Europe, which is consistent with the current market
environment. This decline was partially mitigated by the high interest rate environment in
Brazil. The positive impact of the strength of the U.S. dollar on exchange rate gains has
also contributed to the financial result.
Please, let's move on to the Life account on Slide 21. The result of the Life business has
increased by 5.9% despite the falling premiums. And this is mainly driven by Spain.
The 10.6% decrease in premiums volume has been affected by three main movements: a
decline in Iberia in Life Savings insurance due to the low interest rate environment; a
corporate policy in the bancassurance channel of €75 million in the first quarter 2014,
which has not repeated this year; and the consolidation of ASEVAL and LAIETANA VIDA

Page 5 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

since the first of November 2014, which contributed €90.8 million to total premiums in
2015.

FINAL

In Brazil, we have seen also a slight decrease in Life business in local currency, minus
0.4%, due to weaker production in the fourth quarter of 2014-2015 compared to the
previous year. A contract in issuance in LATAM SOUTH as a result of the cancellation of
unprofitable contracts in Colombia, partly offset by continued strong growth in Peru.
We are also seeing the following positive trends: growth in LATAM North due to a large
Life Protection policy in Mexico, over 44% growth in Life Savings products in Malta; new
business at MAPFRE RE; and increases of 9% in mutual funds and 6.9% in pension funds in
the agents' channel in Iberia.
In the fourth quarter, the significant growth in business volumes implies an increase of
27.9% and reflects the good performance in Iberia due to the agents' channels and the
recovery of BANKIA channels in the fourth quarter and increases in Brazil resulting from
Banco do Brasil's sales campaigns.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please, let's move on to Slide 24 where we'll see the result of other business activities.
The result of this slide for other business activities has been impacted by lower net
operating revenues in MAPFRE ASISTENCIA due to the identification of unprofitable
contracts and optimization of the structure, especially in EMEA, North America and Brazil
as well as higher expenses at the holding companies due to the implementation of the
regional structure and expenses related to the integration of DIRECT LINE.
On slide 27, we will look at the main drivers of the consolidated results. The year-on-year
contraction in the bottom line has been due to three main causes: exceptionally large
weather-related losses, especially in North America; the extraordinary measures that
Esteban explained in the beginning of the presentation regarding reserve increases; and
a lower level of realized gains in both Life and Non-Life.
We have also seen an increase in income tax when compared to the previous year due to
a reduction in 2014 from the impact of deferred taxes in Spain after the decrease in the
corporate tax rate.
Profit was supported by a strong result in the Life business in Brazil as well as the resilient
result in Iberia despite a low interest rate environment and a gain of €155 million from the
sale of CATALUNYACAIXA insurance business.
Now, we will take a look at the balance sheet on Slide 28. In 2015, the main movements of
the balance sheet include: the sale of CATALUNYACAIXA's insurance business; the
consolidation of DIRECT LINE; a decrease in the market value of the investment portfolio
in Europe as a result of market turbulences despite improvement in this fourth quarter.
And currency movement have had a strong negative impact especially in Brazilian real
which has fallen 25% in the year and the Venezuelan Bolivar, too.

Page 6 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Let's move on to slide next to take the – see to the investment portfolio. Here you can
see the breakdown of the investment portfolio. Total investment decreased around €306
million since June, the last time the portfolio was presented, which is mainly explained the
falling investment at MAPFRE BRAZIL due to the depreciation of the real. There are no
material changes in the asset mix compared to June 2015 save for the reduction in the
weight (27:03) Latin America in the government bond portfolio which was driven mainly by
currency movements.
The movements also reflect a fall in market prices due to market tensions in Europe, the
reinvest of maturing corporate bonds into higher yielding and more liquid public debt in
Spain, and the appreciation of the U.S. dollar.
It's also worth mentioning that real estate investments are booked at cost value and that
our real estate portfolio has around €975 million in unrealized gains at year-end.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the quarter, totally equity – total equity increased by over €76 million, whereas
shareholders' equity fell by €46 million. There were two positive impacts on equity in the
quarter: lower negative currency conversion differences, mainly due to the positive
evolution of the Brazilian real as well as the Turkish lira and improvement in the market
value of the financial investment portfolio after the market turbulences we experienced in
Europe in the second quarter of the year. And other important change during the year
was the sale of CATALUNYACAIXA, which especially impacted non-controlling interest.
Now we can turn on to Slide 32 for a review of the capital structure. The variations in the
capital structure during the year are mainly explained by the reduction in shareholders'
equity as we have seen on the previous slide. There was also the maturity of November
2015 senior bond of €1 billion which was refinanced with credit facilities. As you can see,
we've increased in banking financing from 1.4% to 9.6%. Our coverage and leverage ratios
continue to be very much consistent with AA rating levels and are among the strongest of
any European insurance group.
On page 33, you can see our financial unsubordinated debt structure. It's worth pointing
out that the maturity of the syndicated credit facility was extended from December 2019
to December 2020 as stipulated by contract, which gives MAPFRE a high level of financial
flexibility.
I will now hand back the call to Mr. Tejera to start with the Q&A session. As you are aware,
we will answer the questions that most of you have sent us throughout the morning. If any
other issues arise during the Q&A session, please send us an e-mail, and we will be
delighted to respond if time permits.

Q&A
A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Thank you, Natalia. Well, I will start with the Q&A session. Please, you have the first
question.
Page 7 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Thank you. The first set of question is with regards to Solvency II. Niccolo Dalla Palma from
Exane BNP Paribas, Avinash Singh from Nomura, and Paz Ojeda at JB Capital Markets ask
the following questions. Could you please provide an update on where you stand on
Solvency II?
Why have you chosen not to disclose it when you have already provided the guidance?
When do you expect approval? Would you still guide to Solvency II ratio slightly above
160%? What kind of impacts on Solvency II has resulted from Brazilian ratings downgrade
to junk?
Thank you. Well, taking into account that we are among the first insurance companies to
report the full-year results, we have preferred not to disclose the figure in Solvency II due
to the fact that we are yet in the – reviewing the calculation methodology and the review
of the last figure. In any case, I will reassure you that our position is very comfortable.
As we saw in previous presentation, I remember it was in June, we released the figures of
Solvency II that was higher than 160%. We have reported to EIOPA as of September 2015
and the ratio of Solvency II was 168%. And even the final figures of Solvency II will be
released in the first quarter result and with newer guidance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the Solvency I figures for the whole year 2015 was 255%, and I hope that the figures
of the full year will be higher around the figure we delivered to EIOPA as of September in
the – near 170%. But the final figures will be released in the first quarter results.
In terms of what kind of impact on Solvency II had resulted from the Brazilian rating
downgrade to junk, the impact is insignificant in our accounts due to the fact that we have
our investment in Brazil fully matching our liabilities there, as you know very well.
Thank you, Mr. Tejera. The next set of questions is with regards to the (33:22) business.
Carlos Peixoto at BPI and Paz Ojeda at JB capital markets had the following questions.
What happened at MAPFRE ASISTENCIA? The combined ratio went up significantly in the
quarter. Can we expect further provisioning in 2016?
Well, we started (33:43) at a full review of the MAPFRE ASISTENCIA operations in the
second half of the year. And we have find some surprises especially in our operations in
Europe due to very specific operations, especially in France where we are acting rapidly,
and that has impacted mainly in the travel assistance lines. This includes higher frequency
and severity in the operations in France and the UK in travel assistance.
But we have also introduced a special provision in order to restructure the business in
Venezuela, Brazil and the USA where several big contracts have been cancelled due to
the high frequency in road assistance and where we have cut cost in order to reduce our
structure (35:18) there due to the fact that we have now less business there and we
adapted quickly in order to reduce the structural cost that we have to provide service for
these (35:38).

Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

This is one thing that we have done and we don't expect (35:46) further provisioning for
2016 and we expect to recover profitability during the year or in the – during the year. I
think that this is – most of the deterioration we have included were one-off deteriorations.
Thank you. Niccolo Dalla Palma from Exane BNP Paribas asks the following question. At
MAPFRE U.S. profitability has been terrible (36:23). As you saw on Slide 72 and in seven
years, you only got back 31% of your initial investment, as you saw on Slide 70. Why don't
you exit and allocate the capital to something else?
Well, this is a question that we have answered several times to you. The position of
MAPFRE in the USA is a position that started in this way, in this strong way in 2008 with the
acquisition of Commerce. When we acquired Commerce, the main concern was, how we
will be able to maintain our position in Massachusetts when and there is a – there will be
the liberalization of the market. We take the position there. We maintain combined ratios
in Massachusetts that are good, as you can see in our presentation in a statistical
appendix we have made.

Bloomberg Transcript

And from the point of view of profitability, we have repaid the debt the company had. We
have upstreamed dividends since the acquisition for 31% of the investment, and we have
funded the expansion in other segments of the business and especially in other territorial
areas where as we are starting the business there, the combined ratios are higher than
the combined ratio we have in Massachusetts.
This is a process where we have the control, and we can monitor and that we expect to
keep in control during next year. And the special losses of this year due to the fact that
the snowstorms were extraordinary and out of the initial coverage of (38:48) insurance
and that we have to change with the increasing tariffs, increasing deductibles and
changing our reinsurance program allow us to continue with our strategic approach to the
USA that is to keep our position there and continue to grow organically with greater
diversification.
Thank you. Silvia Rigol from BBVA asks the following. Will you have to write down the
goodwill at MAPFRE USA?
For the time being, there is no reason to do so and we submit this business (39:40) to the
stress test of the – this goodwill. And the business plan allows us to keep in the same
position we have.
Paz Ojeda from JB Capital Markets has the following question on MAPFRE USA. What is
the reason behind the worsening of the combined ratio during the fourth quarter?
This is due to the combination of several factors was the worsening loss experience in
personal auto (40:14) of the State of Massachusetts. And one-off impairment of the
investment in a key assistance we have done. Standalone MAPFRE ratio for MAPFRE USA
has improved during the quarter.

Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Thank you, Mr. Tejera. Paco Riquel (40:44), Silvia Rigol and Andrew Sinclair from Merrill
Lynch and Avinash from Nomura ask about the sales increases in Spain in 2015. The
variable impact in 2016 was estimated at around 5 percentage points in terms of
combined ratios. How much of this impact, if any, will you say that it has been frontloaded
to 2015? Why did you not communicate earlier that you were doing reserve
strengthening? Are there more reserve strengthening to come in 2016?
Well, the effect of the provision increase we have to take into account the difference
between the appropriation (41:28) of the incurred but not reported reserves in 2015 and
2014.
MAPFRE FAMILIAR and MAPFRE EMPRESAS have allocated a bigger amount of the IBNR in
2015 for increases in frequency. And we have reinforced our already strict policy on
technical reserves. In this year, we had go ahead in the sense that as you know during the
last years, we make special provisions in order to increase in the provisions and to be
comfortable when the Baremo will come. Now, the Baremo is here and we have to
reinforce our position, our prudent position in this area.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Paz Ojeda at JB Capital sends the question about VERTI. Could you give us the
net result of VERTI? Are you going to improve on the underwriting policy in this subsidiary?
Well, VERTI has had a net result in 2015 of minus €24 million, but this subsidiary had very
good levels of the growth in premiums, is continuously working in order to improve
selection and policy holder and tight and extensive control. The problem here is we
haven't reached the breakeven size due to the evolution of the prices, but we are in the
path of reaching our objectives in the near term.
Andy Sinclair from Merrill Lynch sends a question about Iberia's Non-Life expense base. It
seems to be climbing despite lower premiums. Should this high expense base be
expected to continue, or will anything be done to cut costs?

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Hi, Andy. The higher expense ratio in Iberia is due to a change in the portfolio mix.
Currently, there is a bigger weight of products with higher acquisition costs. Additionally,
there have been some marketing initiatives in Motor segment in the first quarter, like the
previously mentioned (44:17). And that's the reason, the main reason for the increase in
the expense ratio in the quarter in Iberia.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Thank you. Niccolo Dalla Palma from Exane BNP Paribas asks the following. In Brazil, your
nominal growth rate is between 4% and 5% in Motor and Life Risk. This compares with 11%
inflation in Brazil. Are you losing between 6% from 7% volumes in order to protect your
margins?
Well, the business is performing well, but it's true that the country is suffering a lot. And
even if there is a – the good thing is that we continue to have and the market in general
Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

continue to have growth, but it's true that the growth is lower than the inflation. But this is
by far register in the impact of the currency. So, I think that the business is doing well and
the technical results continue to be very good. The growing lower than the inflation is a
normal situation in a so-volatile environment like the volatile environment of Brazil today.
Thank you, Mr. Tejera. Avinash Singh of Nomura asks, in Brazil, you expect partial growth in
premium income in 2016 versus 2015, but the economic downturn is getting worse. How
do you plan to accelerate this growth, price hikes?
Well, whether we have released were the figures showed the forecast of the whole
industry for the sector, not our company figures. We are performing well in this area. We
will continue the turn (46:52) of the markets in terms of keeping tariffs. I can say now what
will be the evolution of the tariffs in the next two quarters, but we will be, as always, very
vigilant with the evolution of the market and keeping our leading position there.
Thank you. Silvia Rigol at BBVA, would like to know, are guidance for premiums in Brazil in
local currency for 2016, could rural insurance continue to reduce in premiums, what are the
drivers?

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, in agricultural insurance, there are a lot of situations but at the end of – quarter-byquarter, but at the end of this year, we had registered a growth of 13% during 2015. In
2016, we expect that if the federal subsidies continue for our farmers in order to buy
premium (48:08) to the business, we will keep our position as a leader by far. And in other
segments, the evolution is in order to the general forecast of the market.
Thank you, Mr. Tejera. The next set of question is with regards to dividend strategy. Silvia
Rigol of BBVA and Andy Sinclair at Merrill Lynch would like to know the following. What is
behind the announced dividend cut, and should we expect further reductions in 2016? You
cut dividend but the payout ratio remains comfortably above 50%, what is the upper limit?
And you appear to be uncomfortable with 60% payout, which would have held the
dividend steady.
Well, we have told with the dividend – with policy dividend this year is our commitment to
keep the profitability for shareholders. In this area, even if the net result has been
reduced about 16%, we have only reduced in the dividend by 7.1%. This means that we
have the resilience in terms of solvency, and in terms of liquidity to always maintain our
policy of dividends because we are talking about €0.13 against €0.14 last year. So, we are
maintaining -practically the dividend. And we maintain our commitment of giving money
back to shareholders.
In terms of your question of be uncomfortable with a 60% payout with (50:27) the
dividend steady, well, we were not uncomfortable with the 60%. But we felt that €0.13
were dividend that in part reflects the evolution of the company during the year, but
shows the resilience of the company for the coming years.
Thank you, sir. On DIRECT LINE, there are various questions on DIRECT LINE coming from
Niccolo Dalla Palma at BNP Paribas; Paz Ojeda at JB Capital Markets; Avinash Singh of
Page 11 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Nomura; and Fernando Gil at Mutuactivos. Could you provide an update on DIRECT LINE?
You paid €550 million for these assets and had a small loss in financial year 2015. When
do you expect to achieve €50 million in profit, which would ultimately justify the price
paid?
Well, this was our first year in DIRECT LINE in Italy and Germany. And we had various
extraordinary charges this year. Eliminating these, the combined ratio is at around
breakeven and we expect to achieve profitability in – well, we have profitability now and
we think that we can reach this target that you have showed of €50 million, more or less,
in less than a couple of years.
We have worked very hard in the integration of the company. We are introducing the
digital transformation and the expansion of the digital direct business in Italy and Germany
according with our strategic lines I had mentioned at the beginning of the presentation.
And we have now two companies that are running in the way MAPFRE run our own
companies. But this implies in the first year more expenses than usual that are usually
one-off expenses that are reflected in our accounting this year.

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

And also it's important to say that the amortization of the value of business acquired is
having a special importance in these figures.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Of this year.
And what are the contribution of DIRECT LINE to net results been?
Well, as I mentioned before, the business will be profitable this year. And we think that it
could be in the order of between €30 million and €50 million in the year coming and the
next year.
Thank you. Silvia Rigol from BBVA asks what is the reason behind such a high combined
ratio in EMEA, 102.7% in 2015 or 109.4% in the fourth quarter of 2015 And in Turkey,
DIRECT LINE, could you provide us with more information on DIRECT LINE?

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Hi, Silvia. On page 43, you can see the, combined ratio of EMEA. And it's been 102.6%.
Here in EMEA, it's important to say that there has been the strong deterioration of NonLife loss ratio due to mainly the cancellation of unprofitable contracts in France from the
Assistance business. And also there has been – as we have said at the beginning of the
presentation, (54:57) increase in Turkey in order to adapt to regulatory changes in that
country. So, these are the main items that have affected the combined ratio there in
EMEA.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}
Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Núñez. Niccolo Dalla Palma at BNP Paribas has a question
regarding debt leverage. You are at the low end of debt leverage in the sector. Other
companies in your situation have promised to increase the leverage and return the money
to investors. Will you consider such an option?
Well, our position in leverage is traditionally very prudent. We will continue in this way. This
is true that we are in a position that allow us to increase leverage, but the current
conditions of the markets with high volatility are not the better. But even if it is, we will –
first of all, will have no necessity of increasing leverage in order to maintain our dividend
policy.
On the other hand, as you can see in our structure of capital, we have very low levels of
debt, and we can increase that in any case if it's necessary in the short term or the
medium term, but the short-term conditions are not the better for this.
Thank you. Esther Castro from Banco Sabadell would like to know the duration of assets
and liabilities. Are you considering real estate in the calculation?

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Our asset duration is slightly under seven years at the end of 2015. Real estate is not
included in this calculation. Non-Life duration has remained almost stable throughout the
year. And regarding Life portfolios, as you know, over 40% of them are matched. That
minimizes the interest rate risk.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Thank you, Mrs. Núňez. The following set of questions come from Michele Ballatore at
European Insurance Research and Rahul Parekh at JPMorgan. You have released a
combined ratio target below 96% I believe in 2018. How and where do you think you will
compensate the effects of the new Baremo and the deterioration of the underwriting
profitability in Spain?
Can you please give us some details about 2015 total cash generation and its upstream
to the holdings by geographical division? Have you planned to do an ad-hoc presentation
for your 2016-2018 strategic plan?
Well, in terms of the target of the combined ratio, we keep our target even if the
conditions of the combined ratio in Spain, especially in Motor will be tough. We have made
a lot of – we have been repeating of a lot of measures in order to keep the combined
ratio in Motor insurance in Spain lower than our competitors and in levels that allow us to
keep the combined ratio.
The impact of the Baremo is an impact that will be especially strong in the first half of the
year. But the increases of tariffs we have made that will be applied – has been applied and
we will continue to be applied will allow us to improve dramatically the combined ratio in
the second half of the year in Spain. On the other hand, the combined ratio of this year is
a combined ratio that is especially high due to the loss ratio also in other countries where
Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

we foresee an improvement especially in the USA where the tough conditions of the last
year are difficult to be repeated.

FINAL

In terms of upstream of the dividends from the companies, Natalia will – can you give us
some details?

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. Just to say that today we will release at the end of the day the individual
accounts of the holding company, and there you could see the upstream of dividends, but
not for regional areas, but for the legal entities that we have. So, you will have the chance
to see the upstream of dividends there today at the end of the day.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

They will have the detail of every company and the dividends that are upstreamed for
each company.
Thank you.

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

I think there was another one. I think, sorry I missed out. Have you planned to...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

Have you planned to do an ad-hoc presentation for your 2016-2018 strategic plan?
In terms of upstream of dividends?

A - Natalia Núñez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

About – Yes, we think our president in the general account will give us more color about
this. So we think it's much better to wait till then – that moment to a general meeting.

A - Esteban Tejera Montalvo

{BIO 3910673 <GO>}

In any case, there will be an – this year – last year was a year, a special year where there
were less dividends coming from the USA obviously and more coming from Spain. In the
near future, we will have a more balanced contribution dividends according to the
contribution of the net results you can analyze in the presentation in a more normal
situation.
In terms of remembering more normal situation, usually, USA represents roughly between
7% and 10% of this and Brazil is contributing well. But LATAM contributes (01:02:30) this
year also. The special contribution of this year, and I'm talking about 2015, was due to the
extraordinary situation in several countries that we have talked to you (01:02:46) before.

Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

Thank you very much. The following set of questions refers to strategy, Niccolo Dalla
Palma asks, in the video on your website you mentioned that you want to generate profits
in every business line and market in which you operate. What are your return on equity
targets you set yourself for each business line and markets you operate in?

FINAL

And regarding mergers and acquisitions, do you see opportunities for other acquisitions?
Well, in terms of the setting of (01:03:22) return on equity, I think that the general meeting
assembly will be in the framework for the presentation for the next three-year strategic
objectives. And we will release the specific figures at that time. This is next month. In any
case, we think that the return on equity this year is very low in comparison with the normal
return on equity we are planning for the future. But I think that we will release the figures
in the next month.
And in terms of is there an acquisition, as you know, we have an approach to the business
that is mainly growth – organic growth in the main (01:04:36) in all the markets we have a
presence. And we have an approach of merger and acquisitions that is only that merger
or acquisitions that complement our strategic positions in strategic markets. In this way,
there is no one in the short-term operations that we are looking for. But we analyze
everything in the market where we have a presence.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Mr. Tejera. Paz Ojeda, JB Capital also has a question on MAPFRE's future
strategy. The increasing result in some businesses seems to indicate that there has been
a certain relaxation in subscription criteria and provisioning. What measures will you take in
to control the subscription policies at these various subsidiaries?
No. This is clearly not. What we have done is to be ahead of the problems as always in
MAPFRE. But not we had a release in our traditional control and constant review at our
business. This is more an exercise of transparency, and we show the problems when the
problems arise.
We have a focus on profitable growth that will be – especially remarked in the strategic
objectives for the three years coming. And this is in our core underwriting policy, as
always. So, we will continue (01:06:36) putting in the first place the technical underwriting
control, the tariff adjustment, and the prudent reserving which is the same that we have
done. And the increase of the reserving we have done this year is due to the fact that
there are new environments where we must be especially prudent – the Baremo in Spain
that is a reality now, the changes in the situation in third-party liability in Turkey and the
possible downturns of the economy in other countries. But this shows how MAPFRE acts
when the problems arrive, and we have faced the problems immediately, not (01:07:50)
the past.
Thank you, Mr. Tejera. We have further question on Brazil from Carlos Peixoto at BPI. What
are your expectations on the evolution of the Agriculture insurance business?
Well, the Agriculture insurance business is a business where MAPFRE and Banco do Brasil,
we are the leaders by far. And the reality is that is an insurance that is – has had high
Page 15 of 17



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

FINAL

demand and usually is used to guarantee the credit that the farmers get at the beginning
of the crop season. We have a market share that is very, very high, and we are the leaders
by far, as I mentioned, and we have registered an increase in volumes in the year of
13.6%.
It's true that at the beginning of the year was a seasonality decline due to the fact that
there was a lapse in the approval of the several subsidies. But when the federal subsidies
finally were approved, the demand of the farmers reacted quickly. So, I think that this is a
healthy market and the association of agriculture and insurance in Brazil is forecasting
growth of 13% for this year also. So, I think that this is a business, obviously, where we will
continue to lead the market and to take advantage of the situation of the high demand.
Thank you. We have another question from Carlos Peixoto of BPI. Should we expect
financial income to remain under pressure over coming quarters?
Well, clearly, the low interest rates environment in the eurozone will clearly have an impact
on the reinvestment deals. However, in the USA, the interest rate are heading upwards
(01:10:20) for the first time in many years and should be a positive. And there is also highinterest rate environment in Brazil. And, well, this could offset the pressure we are
suffering in the eurozone.

Bloomberg Transcript

Michele Ballatore (01:10:45) has the following question. Could you give us some details
about 2015 total cash generation and its upstream to the holdings paid by geographical
division?
As Natalia said before, this is reported in the Annual Report and you can see it. And now...
Thank you very much. We have no more questions.
As there is no more questions I would like to thank you again for being with us in the
presentation of result. And I hope to see you several of us in the coming days in Europe
and in London and in any case, in the conference call, in the first quarter results in three
months. Thank you again. Bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.
Page 16 of 17



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2016-02-10

Page 17 of 17

