Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kiyoshi Wada

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki
Kazuki Watanabe
Koichi Niwa
Masao Muraki
Natsumu Tsujino
Taichi Noda
Tatsuo Majima

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your patience, and thank you very much
for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings FY 2016 First Quarter Financial Results
Conference Call. Please be advised that during the presentation, all the lines other than
the speakers' lines are put on mute. And this conference call is being recorded.
Before we begin, let me remind you that the presentation may contain forward-looking
statements based on the current projections and they entail risks as well as uncertainties.
Actual results may differ from the current projections.
With that, let us start the conference call. Mr. Wada, please.

Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

I am Kiyoshi Wada from Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Group. I would
like to give you the overview of Tokio Marine Holdings' financial results during the first
quarter of FY 2016, that we announced today.
I would like to give you a presentation for the first 15 minutes or so, based on the
PowerPoint slides uploaded on our website under Topics. After my presentation, we
would like to entertain your questions.
Let me start with the overview of our consolidated results on page two. Net premiums
written were ¥894.4 billion, up by 6.3% or ¥53.1 billion year-on-year, primarily due to the
Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

FINAL

contribution of newly consolidated HCC despite the appreciation of Japanese yen.
Insurance premium, Domestic and International Life Insurance business totaled ¥215
billion, up by ¥206.6 billion due to an increase in in-force policies and decrease in
surrender of variable annuities. Consolidated ordinary profit went up by 1.6% or ¥2 billion
year-on-year to ¥128 billion. Net income attributable to owners of the parent increased by
8.7% or ¥7.7 billion over the year to ¥97.2 billion.
I will amplify on the details about the consolidated ordinary profit later. After excluding the
effects of provisions for cat loss reserves and amortization of goodwill associated with
HCC consolidation, adjusted net income increased by ¥2.8 billion year-on-year to ¥125
billion.
Next, let us review how the consolidated ordinary profit changed from a year ago on
page three. In the Domestic P&C business, ordinary profit of TMNF increased by ¥21.8
billion year-on-year due to increase in underwriting profit and net investment income and
other. Underwriting profit increased mainly due to increase of earned premiums and
decrease in provision for cat loss reserves, while the net losses incurred by nat cat
increased.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for net investment income and other, dividend from domestic subsidiaries and
business-related equities decreased, but self-gains of securities increased.
Ordinary profit of Nisshin Fire dropped by ¥3 billion, mainly due to increase in provision for
underwriting reserves. As a result, ordinary profit of Domestic Non-Life in total grew by
¥18.7 billion year-on-year. Profit of Domestic Life business increased by ¥4.4 billion yearon-year due to decrease in provision for underwriting reserves and improvement in gains
and losses on sales of securities.
Ordinary profit of International Insurance business declined by ¥10.3 billion year-on-year.
So, HCC was newly consolidated to contribute to our P&L, profit declined due to stronger
Japanese yen as well as capital losses on bonds realized by Delphi. As for consolidation
adjustments, negative adjustment increased by ¥10.5 billion year-on-year due to an
increase in amortization of goodwill associated with HCC consolidation.
Next, please turn to page four to review adjusted net income. Adjusted net income is a
group-wide KPI based on consolidated net income under J-GAAP, but compensating for
the impact of various reserves unique to insurance business and deducting sales gains
and losses of fixed assets in order to indicate the underlying profit and loss from our
business operations.
Major changes over the year in the reconciliation from net income under J-GAAP to
adjusted net income are shown on the slide. Adjusted net income increased by ¥2.8 billion
year-on-year to ¥125 billion. Sales of business-related equities progressed ahead of the
annual plan, and we have already achieved approximately 32% of the full-year adjusted
net income, which is projected to be ¥388 billion for FY 2016.

Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

FINAL

Next, I will discuss Domestic Non-Life business on page five. This is the overview of the FY
2016 Q1 results of TMNF. We explained in more detail about underwriting profit first. Net
premiums written for private lines of business increased by 0.6% or ¥2.9 billion in total.
While premium for fire business decreased due to the shortening of the contract
durations, the number of auto policies increased and effects of the historical product and
rate provisions came through. For more details by line of business, please refer to page
seven later.
Net losses incurred on the private lines of business increased by ¥11.4 billion year-on-year,
despite the decrease in the provision for outstanding reserves for foreign currencydenominated claims, associated with the appreciation of Japanese yen. Main factors
behind the increase in net incurred losses are described on the slide, but the biggest
reason is the increase in nat cat losses in the commercial business due to Kumamoto
earthquake.

Bloomberg Transcript

Provision for cat loss reserves decreased by ¥14.3 billion year-on-year mainly due to the
reduction of the provision rate in the auto business. As a result, underwriting profit of a
term under review increased by ¥16.3 billion year-on-year to ¥36.4 billion. Excluding the
impact of cat loss reserve, underwriting profit was ¥54.1 billion, up by ¥2 billion year-onyear.
Next. Net investment income and other. Details are described on page eight, but while
dividend from domestic subsidiaries and business-related equities decreased, sales gains
of securities increased. As a result, net investment income and other increased by ¥7.7
billion to ¥78.6 billion. I would also like to note that during the first quarter, we sold
business-related equities by approximately ¥52 billion, and the sales gains were
approximately ¥38 billion. Based from the procurement that I explained so far, as well as
increase in sales gains for fixed assets, all in all, we recorded a net income of ¥92 billion,
up by ¥23 billion year-on-year.
Next. Let me discuss combined ratio on page six. The private insurance, earned-incurred
basis loss ratio increased by 0.9 points year-on-year to 55.4%, mainly due to an increase
in net-incurred losses relating to natural catastrophe. The impact of natural catastrophes
was 4.5 points per quarter compared to 1.5 points in Q1 last fiscal year. Hence, the loss
ratio excluding the natural catastrophe impact was better year-on-year. The expense ratio
improved by 0.4 points year-on-year to 32.2% mainly due to a decrease in personnel
expenses. As a result, the combined ratio for private insurance on a earned-incurred basis
increased 0.4 points year-on-year to 87.6%.
Next, I will go through the financial results for Nisshin Fire. Please turn to page nine. For
Nisshin Fire, although net premiums written increase driven by fire and auto insurance due
to an increase in net provision for underwriting reserves and an increase in net incurred
losses including natural catastrophes, underwriting profit decreased by ¥2.4 billion yearon-year to ¥1.7 billion. Net investment income decreased by ¥0.4 billion year-on-year to
below zero due to a decrease in interest and dividends income. As a result, net income
decreased by ¥2 billion year-on-year to ¥1.1 billion.

Page 3 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

FINAL

Next, I will explain the results for TMNL, please turn to page 10. New policies ANP
decreased by 15% year-on-year due to limiting the sales of long-term savings type
products. However, excluding long-term saving type products, our core focus and the
medium-term management plan, new policies ANP increased by 16.2% year-on-year due
to favorable sales in third sector lines such as medical and cancer insurance. In-force
policies ANP increased by 4.9% year-on-year due to an increase in new policies. Excluding
the impact of variable annuities, in-force ANP increased by 11% year-on-year.
Regarding key figures in financial accounting, as you can see on the slide, net income
increased by ¥3.1 billion year-on-year to ¥6.2 billion due to a decrease in net provision for
underwriting reserve as well as an improvement in gains and losses on sales of securities.
Core operating profit increased by ¥1 billion year-on-year to ¥7.2 billion.
Next, I'll talk about the international insurance business on page 11. Net premiums written
for the international insurance business increased by 23% year-on-year to ¥429.5 billion
due to contribution from HCC that has been newly consolidated from this fiscal year. By
region, net premiums written decreased in some regions due to the appreciation of the
yen. But on a local currency basis (13:33) recorded an uptick including Europe and Life.

Bloomberg Transcript

In North America, net premiums written increased by 49% due to HCC (13:45) sales and
Philadelphia and Delphi contributing rate increases in the renewal book and an increase in
new business. In emerging countries such as Brazil, India and Thailand, auto insurance
sales growth continued and reinsurance increased mainly in the non-catastrophe business.
Next, I'll talk about business unit profit for the International Insurance Business on page 12.
Business unit profit increased by ¥2 billion year-on-year to (14:28) billion. Due to
contributions from each business segment, progress made in Q1 compared to fiscal year
projections came in line at 25%.
Next, I will give details by region. America profits by ¥1.4 billion. Delphi realized capital
losses on bonds with the aim of risk reduction. However, HCC's earnings contribution,
Philadelphia's business profit and Delphi increased in interest and dividend income
contributed positively. South and Central America and Asia profits decreased respectively
by 57% and 69% due to the impact of large losses and others. Profits for Europe and
Reinsurance on the other hand increased due to foreign exchange gains.
Life increased mainly due to an increase of unrealized gains on bonds due to a decline in
interest rates in Singapore and Thailand. Details for Philadelphia, Delphi and HCC are
provided on page 13. This concludes my presentation.
We'd now like to take any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Q&A
Operator

Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

Thank you very much, Mr. Wada. We would now like to open the floor for the Q&A session.
The operator is now going to explain to the Japanese-speaking audience how to place
questions. We thank you for your patience in advance.

FINAL

Once again, the operator is explaining how to place questions for Japanese-speaking
audience. Thank you very much for your patience. The first question is from Mr. Muraki of
Deutsche Securities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much for this opportunity. My first question is related to TMNF on slide
seven. The loss ratio over (17:12) business increasing. Why is that? I believe that for
historical losses, you reflected the increase in losses incurred or the outstanding claims
reserve. The outstanding claim reserve itself did not increase significantly. However,
what's the background behind it and what is your outlook going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

And my second question is pertaining to page 12 related to International Insurance
Business. In your presentation, you mentioned earlier that you haven't really achieved 25%
of projected profits for the year. And excluding the impact of nat cat losses, how much
profit have actually achieved? I believe that you probably achieved only 22% or 23%.
You're probably off to a slow start, if you will, for the year. So, it's my understanding
(18:06) from this. And if it is correct, why is it the case? Why are you so? I believe the large
losses have happened in Brazil and also in Asia. But excluding nat cat business, how is the
profitability trending so far outside Japan?

A - Operator
Yes. My name is (18:35) from personal lines underwriting department of TMNF. Let me
answer your first question. On year-on-year basis, the loss ratio for auto increased by
0.7%, up in the first half of the year 2015. We exclude the outstanding claims and
therefore, on a year-on-year basis, on earned-incurred basis, the loss ratio increased.
And in terms of the actual trend of the loss, the claim cost is essentially trending flat for
major lines of business. And thanks to the FX rate provisions that we have made so far,
the actual profitability is slightly improving. And going forward, the claim cost is expected
to be flat. And due to the factors that occurred in the fiscal year 2015, we think that the
trend is going – the loss ratio is going to increase. And also, in the last fiscal year, in the
first half, we made a full revision of the claims.
And therefore, on the year-on-year basis, you're expecting loss to rather decrease. And in
the second half of last year (19:39) damage was low and therefore, rather this fiscal year,
the loss ratio is expected to increase. And, therefore, all we know, we don't think the
actual loss ratio is going to deviate too much from the initial expected level for the year.
My name is (19:52) from International Business Development Department. Let me answer
your second question. Now, excluding nat cat losses that you have correctly pointed out,
the actual progress rate is less than 25% so far. And the major reason behind this is that
within Delphi Group, in order to proactively reduce risk, we have sold some bonds. As a
Page 5 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

result of that, we posted some capital losses realized. And at this point in time, we don't
think that we need to revise our guidance as we are now seeing a major deviation from
the initial expectation. However, the loss ratios are aggravating in emerging markets in
particular and therefore, we will closely monitor the situation moving forward.

FINAL

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you. If it is possible, I would like you to amplify on the second rate which is the
increase of the sales of bonds by Delphi. How much increase have you seen?

A - Operator
During the term under review, on a post-tax basis, we sold approximately ¥9 million worth
of bonds by Delphi.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next person is from Daiwa Securities. Mr. Watanabe, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Hello. This is Watanabe. I have two questions. First one is the (21:12) impact. With regards
to Kumamoto earthquake, how much do you think the ultimate amount is going to be?
This is related equity.
Related question is my second question. There was ¥52 billion in the first quarter. It seems
that it's at a high level. And you were saying for the full year, it's more than ¥100 billion.
So, if you – is there a possibility that you're going to exceed ¥100 billion for the full year?
Those are my two questions.

A - Operator
It's Watanabe (21:41) from the Corporate Accounting Department. With regards to
incurred losses really at the Kumamoto, excluding household earthquake, ultimately,
we're expecting ¥14.1 billion.
I'm (22:02) from Financial Planning. Let me answer your second question with regards to
business-related equity sales. Like we've been saying, we need to negotiate with the
company which we own. So, depending on when we reach an agreement, that amount is
going to be decided. So, because we're following that plan, for the full year, we're
expecting to sell down ¥100 billion as we've initially planned. So, at this point in time, we
have no plans to change our target.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

Let me ask a follow-up question. So, you were initially expecting only ¥5 billion, but it's
exceeded that amount. So, are you going to be able to offset that with the reversal of cat
loss reserves?

FINAL

A - Operator
This is Watanabe (22:56) from Corporate Accounting. At the beginning of the year, it was
right after the Kumamoto earthquake. Therefore, information related to damages was
limited. So, we're looking at past earthquakes and net incurred losses from the past as a
reference point. But there aren't many reference points and because it has its uniqueness
in nature and we saw deviations when we looked at the actual unit prices. For the full year,
on an ordinary basis, we were announcing ¥45 billion. At this point in time, we have no
plans to revise it. So, for reversal of cat loss reserves, we are not depending (23:37) on
reversing it at this moment in time.
The next question is from Mr. Noda of Goldman Sachs.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you. I also have two questions. My first question is related to number of
accidents reported. Earlier in January through March period, due to warm winter, you
mentioned that it was a benign quarter. However, what is the situation since April this
year? That is my first question.
And second, related to ESR, I would like to know the update. I do assume that you
probably do not have accurate number. However, I would assume that ESR suddenly
(24:22) is declining, but is my understanding correct?

A - Operator
My name is Miniyama (24:24) from Personal Line Underwriting Department of TMNF. Let
me answer your first question on number of accidents reported in and after April.
Because the number of policies in-force has been increasing, the number of accidents
reported has been increasing. However, excluding the impact of top-line growth,
essentially, the number of accidents reported has been staying flat year-on-year.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

A - Operator
With regards to ESR, as you have (24:59) due to interest rate movement as well as the
stock price movement, ESR also moved. This time around, we have (25:08) calculation of
ESR. So, while we are not able to comment as to where the ESR is currently trending, I
hope that you understand our situation.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

But perhaps to clarify, are you – I believe that you are disclosing ESR every six months as
your policy. But, as one of the KPIs, if, for example (25:36) getting ESR, updated ESR on
the monthly basis perhaps (25:42) management decision.

FINAL

A - Operator
Of course, internally, we are checking ESR. However, we are not disclosing those ESR
except for end of the first half and end of the full year. I hope that you understand.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

Okay. So, with regards to the recent ESR, it is possible that you might decide to take
certain actions based on a more updated or recent ESR before you announce the first half
results in November, irrespective of the communication externally?

A - Operator
As I mentioned earlier, we also do assume that the ESR has been changing. However, at
this point in time, we don't think that the ESR has moved to the extent that that affects
negatively our company's financial soundness.

Q - Taichi Noda

{BIO 16478436 <GO>}

I understand very well. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question is from JPMorgan, Ms. Tsujino please.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Hello. For this result reporting, Kumamoto is higher than expected. International was – you
had Delphi. Something that wasn't anticipated before. You realized sales losses. Originally
for Japan ¥45 billion was what you were expecting for nat cat. And ¥5 billion was related
to Kumamoto. So, if you have wind and flood events, there is a chance that you're going
to exceed ¥45 billion. For the first quarter, you had ¥52 billion worth of gains related to
sales of securities. But with regards to full year expectations. First, if you believe you're
going short, you could sell securities. Last year, you ultimately reached ¥120 billion of sales
of securities compared to your target of ¥100 billion. So, my point is, so that you could
achieve a higher level of sales, are you negotiating more with companies that you hold
your shares out? That's my first question.
With regard to Delphi, the amount you sold, how much was it? And with these sales, the
exposure to energy or maybe – I'm not sure if the category is emerging category, but how
less of an exposure do you have now? Were you able to cut it down by one-half ? How
much of bonds did you have to sell in order to achieve that level? If you can give me the
details of that, I could get a better impression if your measures were drastic or not.

A - Operator
Page 8 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

FINAL

(29:03) from Financial Planning. With regards to the business-related equities, then the
sales amounts for the full year. And if we're going to increase the target, like I mentioned
earlier, we need to do these negotiations with the companies, so we don't have a shortterm view, but a medium to long-term view. We're trying to enhance the understanding of
that company before we make the sales. And based on that, we are proceeding with our
plan with ¥100 billion per year target.
So, for the fiscal year, we're negotiating based on our target of ¥100 billion. So, just
because we are expecting to undershoot with regards to full year expectations, it doesn't
mean we're going to try to offset that by exceeding ¥100 billion. So, our target for this
fiscal year remains to be ¥100 billion.
Let me answer your second question. This is Hattori (29:56) from International Business
Development. For Delphi, for emerging country bonds and energy-related bonds, it was
only 7% (30:06) percent. But with the sales, we were able to reduce exposure by onehalf. Unfortunately, we are refraining from announcing the actual amounts that we sold.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

(30:23) entire portfolio, meaning the exposure is one-half ?

A - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Exactly.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Sasaki of Merrill Lynch Japan.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Yes. This is Sasaki from Merrill Lynch. I have two questions pertaining to International
Insurance Business, first, risk reduction by Delphi. They reduced bonds. They sold bonds in
and after March. I believe that energy and resource-related names are seeing more
defaults in United States according to statistics. On a consolidated basis in the second
quarter, are you expecting to see a similar either impairment or capital losses to be
realized by Delphi? And also, looking at the current unrealized gains or losses of the
portfolio, how large or small is it?
And secondly, in terms of FX, the Japanese yen is becoming quite stronger. The
Japanese yen is currently trending at ¥110 or ¥100 to $1. So, given this rate exchange, I
believe that it has probably become more challenging for you to achieve the target. So,
how do you assess the current FX and the achievement of plan for International Insurance
Business this year?

Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

A - Operator

FINAL

My name is (31:43) from International Business Development Department. With regards to
your first question on capital losses realized, we're still tallying up the latest number.
However, as far as this company is concerned, it seems that the capital losses are
declining and are becoming smaller.
To your second question related to foreign exchange, with regards to net premiums
written, in terms of sensitivity, ¥1 weakness to $1 has an impact of ¥10 billion; and to £1
¥900 million. And also with a weaker Japanese yen by ¥1 to $1, there is an impact of ¥1.2
billion. And for UK pound, there is an impact by ¥60 million, and we would continue to
closely monitor the foreign exchange going forward.
I think as of end of March, I think the rate was ¥112.6 and it's currently ¥100 to $1 or so. So,
do you think that there could be a shortage by about ¥10 billion at the profit level? So,
you're considering how to offset (33:09). Is that correct?
Yes. We would consider duly, including the impact of foreign exchange toward the end of
the first half. Thank you.
Next person? From Tokai Tokyo (33:36) Research Center, Mr. Majima.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Hello. This is Majima. Earlier you've talked about the revision of the ultimate loss ratio for
bodily injury insurance. Is this going to be a rebound year-on-year? And for the full year,
it's going to come down. And for the interim period, is this going to be a positive or a
negative on your profit? I just wanted to confirm that.

A - Operator
I'm (34:15) from Personal Lines Underwriting. For this full year profits, it's not going to be a
fluctuating factor. I was just talking about trends compared to the previous fiscal year, so
I'm sorry if I gave you the wrong impression.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

So, one more question regarding nat cat. So, we didn't have any typhoons at all, although
the Kumamoto earthquake occurred. Last year we did, but we didn't have now, which
means on a natural basis (34:48) period, you should probably exceed. On a full-year
basis, there may be snow (34:54). So, that's your outlook. So if that's the case, last fiscal
year you made a downward revision at the interim period and you reversed it up again for
the full year. So if you have good numbers for the interim period, what are you going to
do?

A - Operator
This is (35:13) from the Corporate Accounting Department. For nat cat from the interim
period onwards, it's really hard to project what's going to happen. But at this moment, we

Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

have no plans to change the ¥45 billion. But depending on what happens going forward,
we may consider. But at this point in time, we can't give you a quantitative assessment of
where things are going towards.

FINAL

Next question is from Mr. Niwa of SMBC Nikko Securities.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

I have questions on Domestic Life business and also International business each. With
regards to Domestic Life business, I believe you explained earlier that at TMNL in the first
quarter vis-à-vis the full-year projection, you have achieved a very high progress rate.
From the perspective of progress rate, how are you appreciating the actual performance
to date of the Domestic Life business? That is my first question.
And second, with regards to nat cat of Japan, on the definitive basis that you have known
so far, do you see a need to change the full-year guidance? I do have an impression that
nat cat losses turned out to be bigger than initially perhaps expected. So, what is your
current view?

A - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is (36:37) from Corporate Accounting and Financial Planning of TMNL. With
regards to your first question, at the moment we have just finished first quarter of the
year. In terms of the expenses and others, on a full-year basis, the current situations may
not necessarily continue as this. And therefore, I'd like to refrain from making additional
comments with regards to achievement of the full year.
I'm from International Business Development Department. My name is (37:08). Before tax,
we were expecting about ¥47 billion of nat cat losses outside Japan through the year. In
the first quarter, we had ¥5.2 billion of cat (37:20) incurred by nat cat losses before tax. So
we need to continue to monitor the situation. However, we don't see at this point in time,
we have (37:31).
There are no questions at this point in time. There seems to be no additional questions.
Back to you, Mr. Wada.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

Thank you for attending Q1 fiscal 2016 telephone conference for Tokio Marine Holdings. If
you have any additional questions or feedback for us, please don't hesitate to contact us.
Thank you very much once again.

Operator
This concludes Tokio Marine Holdings Q1 2016 results call. Thank you for your attendance.
Now, you can hang up your phone. Thank you.

Page 11 of 12



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-08-09

Page 12 of 12

