Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Barry Lee Stowe
Michael Andrew Wells
Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou
Paul Chad Myers
Tony Wilkey

Other Participants
Abid Hussain
Alan G. Devlin
Andy Hughes
Ashik Musaddi
Blair Stewart
Farooq Hanif
Gordon Aitken
Greig N. Paterson

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon M. Hocking
Lance M. Burbidge
Oliver George Nigel Steel

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us for our 2015 Results. And we're doing
a little different format today. I'm going to give you just a couple of quick comments,
turning over to Nic to do the financial overview, and then I'm going to come back to give
you context and address some key points about various businesses and some of the
challenges we have and some indication where we are heading into 2016.
So, with that, we think the performance was strong and broad-based. Obviously, all of the
business units contributing effectively. I think that if you look at the balance sheet, I think
it's in great shape, defensive, well capitalized. The operating performance, again,
underpinning the shareholder dividend. This was something we talked about in January.
We're earning it first. We're stressing it. We're paying it. And you see that, as well, the
extraordinary dividends. We got asked this morning on the investor call, the first one since
1970. For those of you that are into Prudential history, so if you would like a context for the
last extraordinary dividend.

Page 1 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Yes. Execution, the key to what we're doing. The strategy is holding obviously very well.
Opportunity is there, and it's our responsibility to turn that opportunity into tangible
results for you. So, we'll have that detailed today. And then, again, our relative position to
peers in the marketplace, to potential challengers, et cetera, we think is in very, very good
shape.
So, I'm going to turn over to Nic now to give you a granular look at the financials. And then
I'm going to come back after and put some color and context around where we are as a
business unit.
Nic?

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Mike, and good morning, everyone. In my presentation, I will firstly run
through our full year results and highlight the drivers of our performance for 2015. And
then, as usual, I will go on to cover the Group's capital position and the balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, starting with our financial headlines, at the time when companies in many sectors are
having to choose between growth or cash, Prudential has been able to deliver both in
tandem yet again. All of the Group's key profitability and cash generation measures have
improved by 15% or more, making 2015 our most successful year ever.
We achieved it by making the most of our structural advantages in the markets that we
operate and by executing with discipline and with focus. The 22% increase in our IFRS
profit to £4 billion was broad-based, as Mike said, and is underpinned by a large portfolio
of in-force business. To this, we continue to add valuable new business flows, up 20% in
NBP terms to over £2.6 billion, and this metric is led by Asia.
Our capital discipline ensured that sales translate to profit and then to cash relatively
quickly across all our businesses. The success of this approach generated over £3 billion
of free surplus, up 15% year-on-year.
Operating profitably is the first and most important source of capital. Our performance in
2015 has increased our Solvency II surplus to £9.7 billion and has added to our EEV
shareholders' capital which was up 11% and is equivalent to £12.58 per share.
Our enhanced financial resources, our resource of strength and resilience and provide
additional headroom to weather the effects of the market volatility that we have seen in
the early part of this year.
They have also allowed us rather to increase the full year ordinary dividend by 5%,
£0.3878 per share and declare a special dividend of £0.10 per share.
Turning to the detailed financials and starting with IFRS operating profit, the Group picture
reflects our focus on diversified high quality growth that blends both resilience and
Page 2 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

stability to our financial performance. Also, business has contributed significantly to our
profit with Asia, the U.S. and the UK growing at double-digit rate while M&G maintained its
profitability despite the adverse impact of the retail flows that we've seen in the year.

FINAL

Our IFRS profit growth is predominantly led by insurance margin and fee income with low
exposure to rates. These two sources now account for 76% of our income, which
represents a healthy evolution in the overall shape of our earnings.
And now, I want to take each business in turn, starting with Asia. Our momentum in the
region remained strong with all of our key financial metrics growing between 16% and
28%. Our life operations had a strong finish to the year, achieving record sales in the
fourth quarter with December being our best ever month. Our focus on quality delivered
a 30% increase in regular premium and new business, which represented 93% of APE.
This result was underpinned by the strength and diversity of our distribution where agency
sales grew by 29% and were complemented by a 16% increase in sales through our
regional partnership with SCB.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our long established and diverse new business franchise in Asia provides a high level of
consistency when aggregated to the regional level. This consistency affords us the
flexibility to take value-based decisions, which prioritize future performance over nearterm sales headlines. In line with this discipline, we took a deliberate decision in Indonesia
to limit sales incentives to prioritize quality in the current soft environment.
In Singapore, we withdrew from Universal Life, which provided poor returns in the current
low interest environment and redirected our focus towards health and protection. And this
will pay dividends as we move forward. Notwithstanding these deliberate actions, our
overall sales increased by 26% with seven countries reporting APE growth of more than
15%.
New business profitability increased at a faster rate of 28%, supported by a strong rise
from health and protection, which now accounts for 62% of Asia's NBP. Our health and
protection regular premium orientation also underpins the growth in both IFRS operating
profit and free surplus generation. Eastspring's contribution here is now meaningful after
reporting a 26% increase in profit to £115 million on the back of record flows in the year.
I would like to take a few minutes to explain why we're confident about our earning
prospects in Asia. As you know, our life book in the region is predominantly regular
premium business. The power of this can only be truly appreciated by looking at the
impact that this has over a longer time period. Mike first showed you this slide in January
which depicts the growth in the premium base of our Asian businesses over the last 10
years. It concerns both the consistency of our execution and the power of compounding
with every year's new regular premiums adding to a growing in-force space which now
exceeds £7 billion.
The £2.8 billion added by new business in 2015 will further augment this premium base as
we move forward. Therefore, when we look at growth, what matters most is the
movement in the total premium stock as this is what drives earnings. We said in January
Page 3 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

that earnings can sustain a double-digit growth even if new business levels are flat. The
part of the chart that covers the 2007 to 2010 period is proof of this. What it shows is that
despite the flat sales shown in blue in 2007, 2008 and 2009, in-force premium shown in
red rose strongly from £2.1 billion in 2007 to £3.6 billion in 2010.
Now, the benefit of the increasing scale of our in-force premium base is evident in the
rising levels of earnings. In 2015, our Asia business generated nearly £1.2 billion of profits
from in-force, reflecting the compounding effect that I've just referenced, the regular
premium sales, and strong customer retention.
Almost 2/3 of these profits come from our health and protection book, a source that is
uncorrelated to investment market. Growth here reflects the consistent addition of new
business cohorts each year, underpinned by strong and enduring level of consumer
demand, high levels of persistency given the limited social welfare provision in the region,
and positive claims experience supported by our ability to re-price when necessary.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, what we have in Asia is a high-quality earnings base, one that is defensive in
times of volatility and one that offers a secured platform for future growth. So, our
confidence in the future earnings prospect of our Asian business reflect the powerful
contribution from our in-force book which in 2015, as you can see, increased by 14%.
The growing contribution from our health and protection business, which was up 17% to
£783 million, and the benefit of operating a diverse portfolio across the region where our
most developed businesses are pushing forward the structural advantages and where
newer businesses are making more sizeable contributions than before and compounding
nicely.
Moving to the U.S., Jackson's results reflect its disciplined value-based approach to
managing the business, which has driven growth in earnings and cash. New business APE
rose by 3% as we continued to manage the volumes and mix of variable annuities to
match our annual risk appetite. Sales of VAs with no living benefits was 33% of the total,
reflecting the continued success of Elite Access.
Here, sales levels were slightly lower than last year. But we have seen a positive migration
towards non-qualified accounts, which represent 69% of the Elite Access total, up from
66% a year ago. The 9% increase in IFRS profit to £1,702 million reflected the growth in
fee income on the separate account assets, which more than offset the decline in spread
income. As I have previously flagged, yield compression has reduced spread margin on
the fixed annuity book to 241 basis points. And I repeat my guidance that this will trend
down over the next couple of years to around 200 basis points.
Capital formation remained strong in 2015, reflecting both Jackson's operating
performance and its disciplined approach to managing the market risks in the portfolio.
This in turn enabled Jackson to make a sizeable remittance to Group for a second year
running.

Page 4 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Fee income on variable annuity business, which grew by 11% in 2015, remains the
dominant component of Jackson's earnings. The economics of this growth continue to be
very favorable. The business earns 192 basis points in fees and is serviced by a highly
cost-effective platform. Growth in fee income is, therefore, directly correlated to the
growth in the asset base.
As you can see in the chart on the right, the increase in the separate account assets is
primarily driven by the additions of new premiums each year. These continue to exceed
outflows creating a positive jaws effect, a feature that will endure for some time. While
there is clearly a cyclical nature of this income source, market effects are dampened by
the lower beta of our separate account assets and the positive expense leverage of our
operation.
Our UK life business continues to build on the appeal of its extended retail offering. Retail
APE and NBP both increased by over 30%, driven by the popularity of PruFund, which is
available through a wider range of drawdown, pensions, bonds and ISA wrappers. IFRS
operating profit increased to £1,195 million driven by an improvement in the life results
which is analyzed in the table on the right.

Bloomberg Transcript

The profit from new annuity business of £123 million is lower than last year's £162 million,
reflecting a continued decline in retail sales and lower contribution from bulk. As I said in
January, the onerous Solvency II capital requirements with effect of 1 January, 2016, have
reduced our appetite for annuity and you should expect to see a very modest
contribution to our profit from this line going forward.
The step-up in our UK life results have been driven by a £339 million profit from one-off
management actions taken in the second half of 2015 to position our balance sheet more
efficiently under Solvency II. These actions included the extension of our longevity
reinsurance program, which now covers £8.7 billion of the £31 billion annuity reserves and
the impact of various asset switches within the credit portfolio in order to optimize the
matching adjustment benefit. I do not anticipate that these actions will recur, although, of
course, they remain available.
The core profit from in-force annuities and with-profits business was £644 million and this
will be the main driver of the UK life results going forward. These are seasoned portfolios
which should sustain a healthy contribution to earnings from the UK for some time
supported by the sizeable addition of new with-profits business.
Finally, on a point of detail for your forecasts, the longevity reinsurance that we completed
last year will create an annual earnings drag of around £25 million against this core inforce result.
M&G experienced £10.9 billion of outflows from its retail funds in part reflecting a marketwide change in investor sentiment away from fixed income. Retail outflows totaled £3.5
billion in the fourth quarter, a run rate that has continued in the first two months of 2016.
These retail outflows have more than offset the positive picture on the institutional side,
where we saw net inflows of £3.9 billion, reflecting M&G's success in the specialist fixed
Page 5 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

income market. The outlook here is positive underpinned by strong pipeline of committed
capital.
Despite these outflows, revenues were broadly maintained as the average AUM in 2015
was similar to 2014. By taking action on costs, M&G contained its cost-income ratio at 57%
and delivered a broadly unchanged IFRS profit for the year at £442 million. The 18%
decline in retail AUM at end 2015 will have a direct impact on retail revenues which
account for 60% of the M&G total. While related variable costs will cushion the impact on
profit, everything else being equal, you should expect the overall cost-income ratio to
drift higher in 2016, towards the 60% level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having covered growth, I now want to turn to cash. Free surplus, which is the primary
measure of cash generation in our business, increased by 15% to £3,050 million. The
improvement is underpinned by the expected returns from life in-force business and
continues to be augmented by positive experience, which in 2015, included £2 million to
£3 million from the non-recurring actions I described earlier. In the top right, you can see
that all three businesses are making significant contributions to the life in-force result
reflecting business growth.
We remained discipline in the redeployment of our capital, increasing new business strain
to £745 million. The components of this investment are analyzed in the bottom right. In
Asia and the UK strain climbed more slowly than sales, reflecting favorable product mix.
The increased strain in the U.S. was also impacted by changes in mix and was principally
driven by a higher proportion of new VA premiums being directed to the fixed account
option. Jackson business remains highly capital efficient, with IRRs well in excess of 20%
and short payback period.
This next slide provides the usual chart which shows you how the annual generation of
free surplus has impacted stock on the left and central cash on the right. As you can see,
our operating performance has driven our free surplus stock higher. This has, in turn,
enabled our businesses to increase remittances to over £1.6 billion while retaining
sufficient buffers to fund growth and to absorb market shocks.
The Asia remittance includes a £42 million proceeds from the sale of our Japanese life
business. We continue to moderate upstreaming from Asia given the current FX rate and
the strong levels of central liquidity which, at the end of the year, stood at nearly £2.2
billion.
Before leaving this topic, I want to update you on the evolution of our free cash
generation profile from our life in-force business. As normal, we start with the expected
profile at the end of 2014 in dark blue which a year later is broadly unchanged, as shown
in the light blue, reflecting experience changes to market assumption experience,
changes to market assumptions and currency movements.
Adding the free surplus from the 2015 new business in red, produces, as always, an
improved profile evidence of the powerful capital dynamics of our book of business. Now,
this analysis is prepared on a Solvency I basis. While it remains appropriate for our
Page 6 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

businesses in Asia and the U.S., the profile of our UK life business will change under
Solvency II.
As I indicated in January, we have reworked the UK life in-force profile to allow for
Solvency II and updated it for the 2015 year-end position. This slide summarizes the
output of this work on the right and compares it to the profile on the Solvency I on the left.
The updated analysis confirms the conclusion from our January presentation, but the
annual release of higher Solvency II, SCR and risk margin more than offset the effect of
the transitional amortization and other impacts to produce a broadly unchanged profile.
Incorporating this new UK profile into the overall Group picture now shown in the white
bars confirms that Solvency II has not fundamentally altered the overall cash dynamics of
our Group.
So, having covered the operating results for the year, I want to reemphasize our
commitment to the 2017 financial objectives.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Asia, we are ahead of the 15% IFRS profit compound growth rate as measured on the
original objective definition using December 2013 exchange rates. The Asia free surplus'
objective on the same basis is a stretch, which was always the intention. Finally, at Group,
we remain on track having delivered £5.6 billion of cumulative free surplus across the
Group at the half year point.
On the back of another strong performance, the board has approved a 5% increase in
the 2015 full year ordinary dividend to £0.3878 per share in line with our progressive
dividend policy. The board also decided to utilize the additional headroom created by
management actions toward a special dividend of £0.10 per share. We remain focused on
growing the dividend given its importance to our shareholders and in doing so, we aim to
strike the right balance between funding our long-term growth, which as you can see is
intact, maintaining appropriate buffers for uncertainty and increasing payouts.
Every dividend decision is subjected to severe market stresses to ensure that we can
continue to grow it safely even under challenging market conditions. Our conservative
approach to dividend is a signal of good capital discipline.
I will now turn to the balance sheet and the capital position. On both reporting basis, we
have seen the strong operating performance in the year flow into the closing
shareholders' equity position. As a result, the IFRS equity was up 10%, whilst EEV equity
increased by 11% to £32.4 billion. We continued to manage our balance sheet
conservatively. Our credit portfolio remained defensively positioned and performed well
in 2015 with no defaults and minimal impairments. Specifically in Jackson, impairments for
the full year were $58 million, $31 million of which was booked in the fourth quarter.
While our balance sheet is sensitive to market, it is more resilient than you might think
reflecting our scale, our conservative approach to risk management, our currency mix and
the natural offsets that exist within our business portfolios.

Page 7 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

The best way to illustrate this is by reference to the position at end February where we
estimate that despite the falls in a number of market indicators, indices, IFRS
shareholders' equity was up at £14 billion and our EEV equity was just over £34 billion,
equivalent to £13.25 per share.
Having provided you with a detailed run-through of Solvency II only a few weeks ago, I will
focus my comments on the end 2015 position. Our Solvency II surplus at the end of last
year was £9.7 billion, which was up on the half year number.
This is despite the more adverse market conditions in the second half which turned what
was a positive £0.5 billion market effect at the half year into the negative £0.6 billion
market effect that you see in the chart on the right.

Bloomberg Transcript

The strength of our operating experience of £2 billion which is roughly equivalent to 20
points on the Solvency and the impact of management actions of £0.4 billion have
mitigated the negative £1.6 billion modeled approval effect, bringing the overall surplus
back to where we started the year.
The composition of our available resources is dominated by high quality Tier 1 capital,
which represents 82% of own funds and is equivalent to 159% of the SCR. Since our
current utilization of the capital tiers are well within the prescribed limit, we retain
significant headroom to increase the capitals back through the issue of qualifying debt.
The updated sensitivities to market shocks are included in your packs and are largely
unchanged from those at the half year. Using these sensitivities, we estimate that our
Solvency II position on the 1st of March was around £8.6 billion, equivalent to a cover ratio
of roughly 180%.
I would remind you that the Solvency II surplus underplayed the true economic capital
position of the Group. This is because it excludes around £2 billion of economic
diversification benefit between the U.S. and the rest of the Group. It does not recognize
£1.4 billion of Asian surplus. It excludes shareholders' share of the estate of £0.7 billion. It
does not capture the surplus of the ring-fenced with-profits funds. It excludes the full
value of the swaps program in the U.S. of just over £0.2 billion, consistent with the
treatment under RBC, and it incorporates no benefit for a volatility adjustment as we have
yet to apply for this. In summary, we're comfortable with our overall Solvency II surplus.
The local capital position of our main businesses, which remain the primary binding
constraint confirms the overall Group picture. The contribution of our Asian operations
under Solvency II has increased to £5.2 billion. However, it is the locally driven free surplus
position of £1.5 billion that remains the relevant measure for cash and local capital. The
U.S. RBC ratio has increased to 481%, reflecting the strong capital formation that I
referenced earlier.
In the UK, the shareholders' Solvency II surplus is broadly unchanged from the half year.
The position of the UK with-profits funds is lower despite the higher estate value as we
decided to utilize the capital headroom to increase the equity backing ratio of the fund.

Page 8 of 34



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

In my final slide on the topic of capital, I have summarized the capital generation ability of
our business model using three different lenses: IFRS, free surplus and Solvency II. As you
can see in the top part of the slide, our annual operating generation is sizeable on all
three bases, supported by our large in-force book. We ensure that dividends are well
covered with the balance adding to our capital stock as shown in the bottom part of the
slide. We look to hold a stock of capital that is sufficiently large to cushion the effect of
markets and to absorb the impact of any new capital regulation. It is this discipline that
underpins the resilience of our business model and enhances our ability to weather
financial storms.
Before I sum up, I wanted to update you on our credit position at the year-end which I
know is an area of focus. Shareholders' exposure to credit is concentrated in the UK
annuity portfolio and the U.S. general account. These portfolios are actively managed and
remain high quality with a defensive stance as evidenced by the fact that 95% is held in
investment-grade bonds. Credit exposure is well diversified across 1,800 names and we
operate strong risk management controls on concentration risk with strict limits by
geography, by sector and individual security.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have updated the disclosures on our exposure to oil and gas, including the additional
information on the energy and the mining sector provided by Chad at the January
Investor Day and all of these are included in the appendix to your packs. In these two
particular sectors, our debt holdings are centered on high quality names and our high
yield exposures were small at end 2015. And in fact, they've remained small since then.
To summarize, 2015 was a year when all of our growth and cash metrics improved by 15%
or more as we made the most of our structural advantages and executed with discipline.
Our strong operating performance and conservative stance on risk has also enhanced our
Group capital and Solvency levels, improved our resilience and translated into higher cash
returns to our shareholders. Thank you.
I will now hand you back to Mike.

Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, looking at the Group and nine months into the role, I think there's a couple of points
I'd like to make today. One is, I think, we are showing that we can compound a business at
that scale at rates that you'd see of a much smaller company. And I think one of our goals
as a management team is to continue that trend. I think the other couple of points I want
to make and delve into a bit is the quality of the delivery. As Nic mentioned, it's extremely
consistent across all key metrics and there's a lot of good reasons for that. The resilience
of the sales model, I think is misaligned with some perceptions externally and particularly
in the fact we're selling low beta product into high beta markets, if you think about it. That
misalignment creates tremendous opportunity for us and the macro noise actually creates
demand for us in a lot of markets. So I'll come back to that a bit.
And then finally, the dividend reflects a view on discipline that we'll earn it, stress it and
pay it in the context of what our various options are as far as growth. We'll balance that

Page 9 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

growth in income agenda. There's no other message beyond that. There's a lot of
comments this morning, if it was too high or too low, is it too confident in our growth
opportunities, too low. We have plenty of growth opportunities. We actually have more
than we have capital, okay, at attractive returns. No message in that either. It's a great
place to be as a business and we're going to execute efficiently with what we have.
So, let me dive a little deeper. Our strategy. This is well rehearsed in this room, and it's no
reason to get in too much detail on it. But the idea that it is working effectively I think is
well proven in the 2015 results.
Two things going on, but again, the global stress, the global high level metrics are
creating demand for us and the risk of transactions at one sense is a good thing,
whichever way these trends occur, we have part of our business that benefits. But the
idea that there is a growing tension on investment climate actually puts clients more open
to some of the propositions we have that de-risk their portfolios, their wealth, their health,
et cetera.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second trend, it's clearly global as you travel in the markets we do business in is
the expectation that consumers are self-reliant. That's true in the West. That's clearly true
in our Asian markets. We don't do business anywhere where the consumer doesn't
believe they are personally responsible for their future, be it health, wealth, protection or
both. So, if the opportunity is there, do we have the franchise and the markets to
capitalize?
So, we think we're in the right marketplaces. We've talked a lot over the years of the
quality of our businesses. Clearly, our Asian business has no equal. Its capabilities continue
to grow. We'll get into some of the details about it, but it clearly has the scale and the
footprint in the marketplace is second to none.
The disciplined approach to the U.S., its operational, distribution effectiveness, its
capabilities to adjust fast to be an innovator are unique in the marketplace and the
broadest definition of financial services, not just in the insurance sector. And then, the
brands we have in the UK, M&G, and Pru UK, their strength, the number of solutions, the
quality of the products, their capabilities, we can compete with anybody here
domestically. As you see from the results side of the UK business, these are trusted
brands with long track records of servicing a client effectively.
So, when you look at that in a Group, what conclusion, what summary you get from the
three? It's two things, what I mentioned earlier, there's competition for capital. The capital
doesn't have citizenry here. We don't allocate it by percentage to market by country. It's
most competitive return for shareholders. We look at payback, cash flow, signatures, all
those elements, and we have these discussions strategically.
And second, we can be disciplined. And this is not a trivial issue. We have the ability to
back off in a market or a product. We're not dependent on making any one part of this
work at any point in the cycle. Some of you I've known for most of my 21 years here, and
when we backed off in the U.S., we'd lots of discussions in the hallway if we were doing it
Page 10 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

at the right time or the wrong time. It's the luxury I can tell you having run a business unit
and certainly luxury as CEO of Group to not be dependent on any one market, any one
product at any one point in time.
You look at what Tony and Lilian's team are doing in Singapore. They're backing off the
(32:37) market because we don't like the economics. If that was our only business in Asia,
right, that would be a difficult decision because you would be worried about the overall
performance of your region. So, again, the breadth of the footprints, the scale of these
operations give us optionality that few competitors have.
All right, let's take them region by region. So, again, the footprint in Asia is outstanding.
When I look at this, what I'm looking for is how do we look across the spectrum. Because
again, you're looking for attributes at scale that we can capitalize, that we can produce
higher return fee than the other player. So, that means that we have diversification by
country. We have diversification by product, and most importantly, we have diversification
by distribution.

Bloomberg Transcript

Are we in the right channels? Are we in the right markets? Can we capture this Asian
opportunity? It's structural, it's measureable, okay, but do we have the breadth and depth
to get there? So, I would say on the life side, absolutely. I would say on the asset
management side, Guy is here if you want to talk to him about Eastspring, they are there
and growing and they are continuing to grow in front of the consumer demand which
again will be rapid and is definitely a challenge to stay with the consumer demand for
asset management in Asia, but we have all the capability to do that, all right?
If we have the distribution, if we have the reach, do we have what the consumers want? Is
the pricing right or with the right point in the cycle. So let me just give you one – let me just
pick one market, say, Indonesia. So health and protection product in a market effectively
with no government support or services for retirement are health protection and minimal,
okay?
So, the product demand is there. Can they afford it? Our base product costs roughly what
two cups of coffee a week cost at a major coffee shop. That's about the entry level. So,
we can provide the service to consumer, clearly, what insurance does best, right? The
large flows of consumers de-risk their individual position by dividing that over a large
consumer base, allow them to move from cash into investments or into something else
they want to do with the money because they give that risk to a trusted entity service
provider, us, okay?
But the transaction size we can do is incredible. I've got a – I was teasing the guy,
somebody gave me a penny. This is from when we were founded. In fact, I think is really –
you guys know I like history, it's really interesting. And you may not know, this was how
Prudential started. It was industrial policies that were actually paid for with a penny, very
common way of collecting.
And one other thing is that when I travel, I ask our colleagues and I ask people I interact
with, how do you pay for coffee? And obviously, I know how we collect premium. The
Page 11 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

answer varies, all right? It's mobile pay in some markets. It's Apple Pay in some markets.
It's UnionPay in Hong Kong. In China in general, it is cash in some markets, and it's credit
cards in some markets. And we talk to bank partners about when they introduce some of
these new technologies, what does it do to ATM use and things? The consumers drive
that preference, okay? And at our sides, our job is to align with that.
Let me give you an example. We're using mobile pay as collection in Asia. We are paying
with phone minutes. We have 1.1 million clients in Africa that pay for their insurance with
phone minutes, okay? We collect cash in dozens of currency. I mean, we're capable of
being as innovative as any disruptor in the space, and it's a prerequisite for us to succeed.
We have to stay with the consumer, and we're fully capable of that and doing it across the
pitch.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, another piece on that, so that if we have a product that client wants, can they afford it,
all right? Headline noise would suggest, GDP would suggest some of the clients have
been in a rough state. GDP is too high level a metric for our consumers, all right, and it is
directionally interesting, and it's important for us to look at, but it's not a predictive
indicator for us.
One of the things – meeting with some of you individually at various events last year, we
couldn't talk about where we were in the second half of the year, I'm travelling around
Asia, these airlines – these airports are packed. These flights are sold out. The hotels are
booked, I mean, it didn't feel like what I would read when I was in the U.S. and – or the UK,
in particular, on some of the metrics. So, if you take a look at things like what is personal,
what is the – I mean, I think I didn't – these were clearly – these markets were chosen on
purpose because these are markets we have large exposure in and where there has
been a lot of noise. But if you look at China, Malaysia and Indonesia, personal disposable
income, okay, the growth rates are not only material, they're consistent. The middle class
is faring better than the tails.
Now, again, if you are a politician and responsible for the overall society, there are some
challenges embedded in that. For us, they're such a large middle class, and they're doing
fine, okay? This measures our opportunity. Do they have money in their pocket? Are they
buying things? So, I chose airline just because of my time in airports. It just felt like an
appropriate and kind of personal one. But we could've done telecom here. You guys all
have the capability to see this. We could've done telecom, we could've done department
store sales, grocery store sales, all those metrics look relatively similar in these markets.
The consumer, the average consumer is still buying, still has disposable income, and
those numbers exceed the GDP numbers you're seeing. Okay. So, they're very resilient.
Now, again, that is that doesn't mean that if we were selling luxury goods in Chengdu that
our markets would – isn't changing, or, if we were an oil and gas company in the suburbs
of the Philippines, outside of major cities. But that's not our business, okay? And again, our
ability to do transactions at varying sizes, right, allows us to reach a very large definition of
the emerging middle class.

Page 12 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

All right, so, if they have money, the demand's there, what are we doing about it? One of
the things that I'd like to do going forward at these events is give you a slide of what
you've paid for over the year, some of the tangible deliverables year-over-year from an
operational point of view, because we have internal objectives to make the company
better every single quarter. And I want to make sure we give you some context for what
we're doing with your funds. So, scale of distribution, speed, quality, all are up.
Let's stay on Asia for a minute. So, you're well north of 500,000 agents. These are
managed very effectively. So, this is growth in quality, not just growth in quantity. You're
seeing innovation. 25% of the sales have come from products that we didn't have 24
months ago. So, again, we're innovating. We'd keep coming out with new things that are
good for the consumer and good for you as shareholders, okay? And we're getting
better at the boring but absolutely critical operational IT, touch points with the clients; 5
million-plus interactions with clients in Asia last year. If we're going to grow at these rates,
we have to have scalable, high quality platforms to keep those recurring earnings. Those
recurring earnings are people. They're people who care about their relationship with us,
about how they're treated, about how well the products work, about how good our
service is. So, you'll see us continually to improve that side of our back book, because it's
critical, again, to our recurring earnings.
Relative scale to peers, all right? We are competing with AIA, Mark Tucker, our old
colleagues and his crew and we're competing with local national champions. The balance
of the players, as you can see, sell in a year what we sell in a quarter in a good year, all
right? That is not where our challenge is coming from. So, where we're looking at the
marketplace, we're looking at typically what in market major competitors' doing. We keep
an eye on AIA. We look at disruptors or innovators and see if there's anything interesting,
right? But we're not looking to the right side of the scale. We have a scale advantage. And
in a business based on the law of large numbers, this is not a trivial issue, okay? We have
proper exposure to markets. We can afford to make proper investments in markets, be
that technology, risk, people, all right? All of these elements require an element of scale.
And so, we have that scale advantage relative to our peers. And again, it allows discipline.
Correlation of markets. Are they – are our returns – we've shown you this slide before, but
I think given last year's performance in market share, the equity is down 8% to 12%. You
had recurring premium up 30%, all right? Nic walked through it. This is disconnected by
nature of the transaction with the client, by the client demand. And, again, it's been
counter-correlated to headline news, all right?
We have a material disconnect between our opportunity and the equity markets in the
region. That obviously should translate if you have premium growth in the earnings in cash.
And, again, today, you've seen that disproportionate amount that comes from taking care
of and doing the right thing for existing clients, all right, and then adding additional cohort
after additional cohort. Vintages as we call them in the States, of clients on top of that, all
right, and that part of our model is succeeding, and we're very, very pleased with the
performance there and, again, highly predictable.
So, fair question. So, you're the market leader, you've done well, good growth rates, et
cetera. Is there any room left, all right? A couple of things, our penetration level in our
Page 13 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

most established markets, so, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong is still low. We
have great market share in each of these markets, but there's still a very large unserviced
population there for us. And, again, this is without even expanding our product portfolio.
But our other markets, our nascent markets are growing exceptionally well. We've shown
you a couple of times on slides that where they were relative to some of our large
markets 10 years ago, but the reality is they're growing at very high rates, very high
quality. And what you're seeing the team do when you're down on the ground is you're
seeing them take the lessons from previous markets, previous experiences and Lilian and
Tony and the team dropping those into these newer markets, all right? And we don't use
all of them, okay? We may skip a generation of tools if we think the markets move past
that. But at the end of the day, we can deploy people who've done it before for us in a
market. They've done a start-up. I was in Cambodia with our team in Phnom Penh. We're a
new player. We're one of two major new players there. We have the bank distribution
relationship, so exceptionally well done by the team there.

Bloomberg Transcript

But what you're seeing is what we know in region applied in a new market. And there are
new challenges and those come with the local granular on the ground things and you see
that same thing in Africa. And you see the same thing in a rural part of the Philippines. But
we take what we know. We take people that are a part of our culture, know our tools and
we drop them in and you get a similar result to what we had in other markets faster, okay?
There's less of a learning curve. And that's a critical element. And again, it comes back to
our scale and our footprint.
So, there's a tremendous amount of upside in these markets for us and I would argue
with you that the bulk of our growth in Asia is ahead of us, okay? There is no less demand
in some of these other markets than we see in Hong Kong or Singapore. Our penetration
in China, the China team has done a great job. We got a very good partner there, up 28%
year-over-year. But we're a fraction of that market and it's a market where the country has
targets on insurance penetration. We're a trusted brand. The concept with British rule of
law is a very trusted cultural element of who we are. And we can do a lot more. So, again,
our growth is ahead of us in this marketplace.
All right, on to the U.S., I think we spent a lot of time in the U.S. in January, so I don't want
to spend too much time here. But I think the key argument I'd make is this is a unique
business in its space. It is a fraction of the cost of the competitors. It has better
technology, better operations, better distribution. There's a track record of innovation,
and there's a track record of bringing products to market faster and more effectively than
peers. You want a simple measurement at that, look at the Elite Access launch relative to
the 12 or so clones of that. The sales of that product still exceed the cumulative sales of
the rest of the industry attempting to copy it even at lower prices, even with more
incentives, even with guarantees on products that probably shouldn't have a guarantee
on to begin with, okay?
This is a Group with the ability to execute at a very, very high level. So, the other piece as
we go into the changes in the U.S., and really the DOL being the key, is the structural
demand in the U.S. hasn't changed, okay? If the Department of Labor in some way with
their new regs changes access to advice, cost of advice, or access to the products or the
Page 14 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

configuration of the products, the consumer still wants some level of protection on their
retirement assets. The consumer still wants good balance portfolios and again, this is no
different than we see in the UK, all right?
So, the question becomes the attributes of the competitors. As I said in January, I think a
major disruption, I think first off to be clear, I think our major disruption is arguably bad for
the consumer, okay? But that doesn't necessarily mean it's bad for us and those both can
be true at once, okay?
We can build whatever product the rules and regulations allow to get the most benefit the
consumer at the highest returns for the shareholder, we can balance those stakeholders.
We can do it faster than peers or quite a ways into our contingency planning for this, right?
So, we sort of plan for the worst, know what we'll do if that's the case, all right? And then
we'll see when this gets dropped on us, what the period is, when it's effective, what the
grandfather period is if there is, what's the transition in sales. All those dynamics will
navigate as well as anybody, and I think arguably better than most in that space. And it
does, if it's at the extreme end of the DOL proposal, it does reshuffle the position of
providers of financial services and providers of advice. And when that happens, there'll be
winners and losers. And I would argue with you, Jackson has the attributes to be one of
the winners.
And market where we could prove that to be true would be the UK. So our UK business
had a record year. This includes pre-RDR, this includes the changes to annuities. It seems
doing a great job. Why? Again, trusted brand, good product, product innovation, all the
things, getting the right things for the consumer at a pricing and level that gets the
shareholders a good return.
M&G then gives us the capability on the asset management side combined with our UK
business to compete with anybody in the space domestically, all right? You will see more
changes. That's the nature of our market. It's the nature of all of our markets. Regulatory
changes are a part of the business.
We look at changes in a little broader context. We'd used this slide with you. We've always
had something going on. In 21 years here as you guys know, I don't ever remember a year,
when we sat around in December, I went, well, that was an easy one. There was nothing
to work on, right?
There's always something and this firm's resilience is measurable. And I think there is an
element of our history as a part of our DNA and the culture of the firm. And again, we're
ready for more. But I think the UK business is a good example of a disruption in a
marketplace on advice and product creates opportunity. And I think that's similar to what
you'll see in the U.S.
All right. Let's get to shareholder-centric metrics for a second. So the earnings are high
quality, measured how. Well, by source, by currency and mix of the customer base they
come from. So again, not a single dimensional look, all right? Whatever stress you want to
throw at this, different ways to look at it. So, what if U.S. dollar policy is, rate policy changes
Page 15 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

the value of the dollar, well we have a lot of earnings in dollars. Okay. Rates go up, we
could benefit from that. I mean, again, most financial metrics moving, we have benefit on
both sides and risk manages on both sides. So, I think, we're very well-positioned with the
shape of our earnings, the source, and the relationships at the consumer level by then to
be predictable and strong.
All right, so this all sums up on one of my favorite slides. Two things I'd ask you to take
away from this. These should grow in tandem. If you're squeezing a business, there'll be a
misalignment of these metrics. So, if you're looking at us versus competitors in this slide,
side-by-side, there should be a similar nature. It doesn't have to be a perfect correlation.
But, these should grow in a similar fashion with businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. It tells you that you're consistently adding profitable business, managing capital
correctly, et cetera. And there's one other takeaway I'd like you to look at, is, okay. Look at
where we were pre-crisis, in terms of operating income, new business profits, free
surplus generation. Look at the change in order of magnitude to where we are now. We
had a good crisis. Okay. We were fine last time. We are materially, we are 3x times
stronger and more capable and have more recurring earnings and have more client
relationships than we had last crisis.
Okay. Again, that's not a forecast of a bad market crisis. But, I heard this morning we're at
the seven-year anniversary of this market going up. We're well-positioned for market
changes and we're well-positioned for resilience across a variety of climates. And again,
that translates into cash for our shareholders. I said this earlier, it's a discipline dividend
policy, earn it first, stress it second, pay it. Okay. If we had extraordinary capital of pull
forward earnings, it's yours. You see the special dividend today reflecting our view on that.
So, there's no other message in that. It's not a lack of confidence in our growth. We have
plenty of capital to grow in 2016 and beyond. It's not a reflection in the market climate. But
we are a bigger company. We have grown in size and scale. And again, with that, we
should have the reserves and the opportunity to be countercyclical that goes with that.
And finally, we're a growth stock as well. So, you've seen increase in value. I think the
metric that has to jump off this pace is a 30% growth in revenue in Q4. Think of the noise
around Q4. I just don't believe that that's what people thought was going on. It was very
frustrating to see this on our business units and just, by law, we can't share that with you in
the quarter when we're talking. But the strength of this business, right, and again, the
attributes of how it relates to clients does very well in rough markets. But the value
creation and the investment at returns that are competitive, I think with any industry, are
key to our growth story. And we think the opportunity is there.
And lastly, on 2016, so it feels roughly like 2015. We see double-digit increases year-todate in the life business. Same net outflow challenges on the retail side at M&G. Same
success on the institutional side. And Asia, again, having a very, very good start to the
year.
So, that's where I think we are. I think it was strong performance. I think the franchises we
have are best in class, I think they're measureable in how they can and did execute and

Page 16 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

what their capabilities are. I think we're innovating at levels, again, of a – that will keep us
competitive with natural competitors and disruptors. And I think our superior long-term
position gives our recurring value to this – a predictability to this that's unique given our
size and scope. And we hope to keep demonstrating the benefit of that to you.

FINAL

So with that, what I'd like to do is ask the team to come on up and join me and we'll go to
Q&A.

Q&A
A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. Do you want to lead the festivities?
Just raise your hand and once the mic finds its way to you, please do state your name,
your firm's name and then ask a question. Give us a second. All right. Do we go to Blair
right here?

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good morning, just...

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

It's Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. Two questions, please. On the dividends, Nic, you
talked earlier this year about performing a 1 in 25 year stress on profits and looking at how
the cover looks. I wonder if you could provide a little bit more detail around that.
Everything about the company is growing at double-digit, yet there's a 5% base growth in
the dividend and you talked about two things cover. So, there's maybe some mixed
message around the dividend. So, just any color you can give on a stress aspect of that
would be really helpful.
And secondly, I guess also for you, Nic, can you give us an indication of what you think the
organic Solvency II available capital generation is for the business. So, that's everything
including in-force creation, et cetera. What's the organic Solvency II available capital
generation of the business? Thank you.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. What the dividend cover is, once you take the special dividend into consideration, is
around 2.5 times. That's where we've ended the year. And as you say, and I've said this
before, that there are number of things that we take into consideration is what happens in
a stress. And also, what are the prospects going forward in terms of how much capital
we're going to need? We think 5% is a very good rate to continue to compound. I've said
before that that is – we're looking to grow it at 5% no matter what. And that's really
Page 17 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

important because even in a downturn or even if something doesn't go quite to plan,
then we look to our shareholders to feel confident that we can sustain that level.
On the organic generation, the £2 billion that I have referenced, unless I've
misunderstood your question, is what the company was able to throw out in this year.
That's roughly £2.4 billion on own funds, and negative £0.4 billion on the SCR. I'm not sure
if that is addressing your question. Clearly, that £2.4 billion on own funds, it comprises a
big block that is related to the in-force. Why? Because we bring everything effectively in
on an MCV basis and then margins unwind, and of course, we deliver the equity and the
risk premium that is available there. And a good chunk of it also comes from new
business, which we also generate organically. So, the entire £2 billion or £2.4 billion in the
numerator is organic unless I misunderstood the question.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Jon?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Just to come
back on the dividend, I know it seems a little bit churlish given the special, but what should
we be looking for in terms of the triggers to understand when that cover starts coming in
because the stress element, I guess, is related more to what you've earned in the year
relative to the prospective use. Is it actually just the outlook in terms of visibility that we
need to see clear before cover starts coming in because you've been talking about this, I
guess, for two years or three years now in terms of the cover?
Second point, on DOL, can you talk a little bit about where we are on the politics? Is there
anything that could happen to especially derail the overall change? And if you could give
us some color on where your base case is for the change, that'd be helpful.
And then just finally, there's a couple of minor regulatory issues. I think one with the PRA
on the back books and secondly the CIRC in China. I just wonder if you could comment on
those, please? Thank you.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

So, I'll start with the cover. When I covered this in January, I said that whilst our dividend
policy is anchored on IFRS cover, we use a number of other metrics to assess that, and
then if you're a growing company and the assets and liabilities that you like grow as well,
you need to put risk counsel aside. And IFRS is imperfect in terms of capturing that, which
is why we use free surplus as well, which is something else that we assess cover against.
And it's something else that we stress, and of course, now we do have the Solvency II and
a number of other metric, capital ratings, capital, for example.
So, we take the full suite of capital metrics. I wish it was as simple as managing this
business by reference to one metric. It would make my job a lot easier. Unfortunately, it's
not. We have to balance all these things. And interestingly, the slide I put up that said the

Page 18 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

operating formation of capital is different numbers under different bases. There's
different mechanics under each. We just have to take all of that into consideration.
Most of these KPIs, we are covered strongly, but, of course, stress will come off a little
(59:31). The way we make a decision is that in a stress, we can sustain the growth of the
dividend at 5%. And that's what we judge alongside the growth prospect. And as you've
heard today, those are intact, and particularly in Asia, we're seeing sort of the growth.
We're seeing great opportunities for growth, but ultimately needs financing as well.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

DOL. Barry, you want to give us some color on...
You're closest to politics.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. With respect to the politics, I mean, in some respect, the politics of it is kind of scaling
back, and it's more focused on implementation, which doesn't mean to say that there's
not still some politics at play. So, right now the rule's sitting with the Office of
Management and Budget. They are tasked with trying to measure the cost, the economic
impact of the implementation of the rule change.
Now, there is the prospect that OMB would come back to Department of Labor, and say,
you massively underestimated the cost of doing this, and the economic disruption will be
created by this, the odds of that happening are approximately zero. I mean, they'll – it's
run by political appointees, and so they're going to come back and say the rule is fine.
So, they're going to publish, I would guess, within the next 30 days at the outside,
probably less than that, whatever they're going to publish. And we try from every source
to get a sneak preview of where it's landed, it's very difficult to do. The ranking minority
member, the ranking democrat on House Labor Committee demanded basically from
Secretary Perez, that he be allowed to see the rule change before it was issued. They
refused to share that with him. Their alternative was to go to Capitol Hill and brief the
opposing democrats, so it was about 100 democrats on Capitol Hill that are opposed to
the change or at least have some level of concern about the change.
The briefing, as far as we can tell, consisted of don't worry, this is going to be very
consumer-centric. It's going to ensure that people get better advice than they've been
getting in the past so you should be for this. And some democrats have come back
concerned that they didn't really get any meat, if you will, in that briefing. And others have
said, well, they satisfied me. So if they said it's going to be good, so it must be good.
We will see what it looks like when we get it. If they land in a sensible place, the prospect
is that companies will try to adapt to it as Mike has said and I would reiterate. We are
prepared for this from both a product perspective and a process perspective. So don't be
concerned about that. We do have a track record in the Group and within Jackson
specifically of using disruption of this sort to our commercial advantage.
Page 19 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

So without disclosing things we can't talk about around product changes and so forth. I'd
say everything I can possibly say to allay your concerns that we'll be able to deal with this.
If it goes too far, if they do things like not grandfathering, then the politics again becomes
very real.
And my suggestion to you would be that if they went as far as that and say you've got to
repay for the whole industry, you would probably get a stay of implementation in the
courts. You will have lawsuits anyway. There's a number of trade-oriented groups as well
as some – the potential for other regulators to come in and go to the federal courts and
immediately ask for a stay of implementation while they work out the legal matters and so
forth.
So, it's still a very messy process to pin and it really just all depends on what the rule says
and we're not going to know for a few weeks. I wish I could tell you more about that. But I
would, again, close by emphasizing that we are prepared for any contingency.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

There was two other questions on the – both regulatory. Tony, do you want to comment
on the – I assume, talk about CIRC.

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

CIRC is about the UnionPay.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

What's in action? Are you looking at admin issues or something?

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yes. No. Understood. We'll come back to the...

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

CIRC. Yes. Okay. So, I think maybe this is what you're referring to. CIRC conducts a review
or inspection of the life companies operating in China every five years. Recently went
through that, not only for us, for the entire sector. And the results of that get published.
That's a good thing, I think. Broadly, the results or findings, nothing, no material issues, just
some tightening up of certain controls within the company, ties in nicely though with all the
work being done and the implementation effective January 1 of China Solvency II , CROSS.
So it's kind of like a bit of the ties into the operational side of that. Worth noting, we were
in Beijing last month, I think, with the Chairman of CIRC. and having dealt with these folks
for many, many years now, they consistently hold it out as the gold standard of operating
Page 20 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

environment and controls within the China insurance sector. So, yes, no major concerns
now.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

And, Jon, do you want to – I mean, there's very little to be said about the PRA.
Yes.
I'm sorry, not the PRA. FDA.
Yes. I assume you're talking about the FDA recent press release on the review into
longstanding customers. I mean there's not much we can say. We are obviously working
very closely within. We take it very seriously. But (65:29) enforcement, so, they're using
their enforcement powers to conduct further review. This has been going on for nearly
two years now. So, it will go on for a while longer. I think in their press release, they have
said that they will make no further comments and they expect us to make no further
comment either because it's gone through the enforcement group. So, there's nothing
more we can say.
Greig?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Morning, gentlemen. Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions. One is, just in terms of
Indonesia, in January you spoke about consumer confidence as a leading indicator. I mean
this is an oil and energy poor country. You must be benefiting from the low oil price, et
cetera. I just wanted you to give us some kind of feel for the outlook for Indonesia.
In terms of the U.S., you mentioned impairments. But I'm saying what were the costs of
downgrades in terms of 2015, so we can get a feel for the total cost of the wider spreads
in a downgrade theme? And then, Nic, just in terms of this 180% coverage you
mentioned, I think you said on the 6th of March. I wondered if you can give us a bit of
waterfall. Is that ex the dividend, have you just mark-to-market that's including operating
elements, et cetera? Just investors want to know why there's been a reduction.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, Tony, do you want to start with Indonesia and maybe absolute level of sales and
earnings?

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Sure. While the business did grow slightly in 2015, it was still a very good year for the new
business generating essentially 1/3 of £1 billion of new APE sales at about 70% margin IFRS
around 1/3 of £1 billion as well. So, highlights were good. There have been a lot of
economic headwinds there. But notwithstanding that, we have been pushing forward with
expansion of the business. We opened 25 new branches. We call them GAs. We recruited

Page 21 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

right around 10,000 new agents every month. We on-boarded 410,000 new customers in
the year. That's 1,100 customers per day. So, pretty vibrant growth in the business.
Where we are today? I mean, it does look like there might be some signs of economic
turnaround there. The JCI is up, I think about 4%, 5% year-to-date. The Group seems to
be (68:00) rather seems to be stabilizing. We are pushing forward with all our activities.
One example is last month, we were in 30 cities in 30 days in front of 50,000 of our top
agents and let me just say, morale is quite good and yes, still pretty good. Okay, so...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Downgrade? Okay. Just to give you some stats for 2015. In the UK, the annuity book we
had £2.4 billion of various securities being downgraded and we have £0.9 billion being
upgraded. In the U.S., we had, across our portfolio, $4.7 billion downgraded and $3 billion
upgraded. So those are the numbers that have flown through our accounts today. Now
clearly, the impact that that has on the capital and earnings has been captured in the
ratios that we've put out today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the 481% for RBC clearly hopefully factors the impact in that. And the £3.3 billion on the
shareholder account in the UK on the Solvency II also captures the effects of those. I was
asked in January what is the sensitivity for the downgrades on the UK ratio. So we've
added some additional sensitivity in the appendices so you now have that. So hopefully
that answers that question.
On the 180%, what's driven that predominantly is the drop in deals and to a certain extent
the drop in the equity markets. That does impact, if you like, the transfers that come out
from the profit because kind of bonuses are going to be linked to that. So that's had an
impact on that and of course it had an impact in one or two other places where we have
interest rate risk.
Offsetting that was a positive FX effect. So the 180% or the £8.6 billion reflects that. It is
before the dividend, because the dividend will come through the numbers at the point of
which it's effectively declared. And the impact of that is £900 million-odd. So, seven
points on the final and another couple of points on the special.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(70:36)

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

It's not one quarter. It includes two months.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Lance M. Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}
Page 22 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Thanks. It's Lance Burbidge from Autonomous. I have a couple of questions. Firstly on
Asia, Hong Kong is obviously a crucial part of the business. I just wondered if you'd seen
any impact in terms of capital flights from China coming through in terms of explaining
why the sales are so strong. And then on China, your new business margin is actually
pretty low compared to some of your peers. I wonder if you might talk about that.
And then I'm afraid I'm going to get back to the dividend again. You do talk obviously
about moving towards that 2 times cover on 2015 taking out the special, taking out your
one-offs, 3 times covered on the ordinary dividend then you're certainly 3 times current, I
think, in underlying free surplus generation. And you talked about obviously, through your
presentation how defensive your earnings are, and I guess even the fee income on
Jackson, a lot of it is based on guarantee account value, not on the account value. So,
what is the actual stress that can come through in terms of getting you to the point where
you feel uncomfortable with that 5% growth?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, first one, Asia, Hong Kong and China. Tony, you want to grab those two?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Sure. I think as you'll note from the results, Hong Kong had a fairly respectable year in
terms of new business. About 50% of the new business is coming from Mainland Chinese,
who buy in Hong Kong. I think we mentioned before, this is in no way a new phenomenon.
We started selling to Mainland Chinese and Hong Kong over a decade ago and had built
infrastructure, Mandarin-speaking capabilities, simplified Chinese, et cetera, to deal with
these customers. And I think we have a bit of a first-mover advantage there. A lot of the
growth in that business can actually be fairly well correlated with the growth in the agency
force.
The agency force, I think in the last – I'm looking at Lilian, I think in the last three years or
four years has almost doubled. We're now at about close to 14,000 agents in Hong Kong,
and continue to that. We continue to recruit and license new agents. And we continue to
onboard new customers, both domestically and from the Mainland. It's worth noting that
the business in 2015 from, let's call it domestic with Hong Kong people buying in Hong
Kong, also grew by about – I called them Honkie, sorry, grew by – it's a local term, grew
by...

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

It's not the same everywhere though.

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

...grew by about 35% to 40%. So, domestic growth and also and coming through with the
Mainland fees. And, again, business continues to do well in that regard.
In China, I mean, I think we had a fairly respectable year. The business grew by about 28%
in terms of top line APE. The NBP grew slightly higher. Not as significantly as maybe some
Page 23 of 34



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

of our competitors. And the growth in that margin came from two things; a shift in
distribution, and within the shift in distribution, a shift in product. We have deliberately
grown our agency force. I think we have pretty good intellectual property when it comes
to building agency force. And our CEO in China, Mr. (74:24), has spent a lot of time in
other countries studying the Prudential agency model. Has taken that back to China, and
we think building out the agency force very strongly. We're now at record levels, I think,
we're over 20,000 in terms of China agencies, small by China terms, so there's a lot of
headroom. And the agency force has been selling more health and protection and that
has increased the margin. We're very happy with the quality directional growth of that
business.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And dividend, I'm not sure if there's more to say. I think there's (75:00).

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe, maybe just to – you're right that we are – the potential for earnings growth in Asia
is robust. I would agree with that. Your point on the U.S., just to correct, maybe one
statement that you made. You're right, the fees, some of the fees are linked to the
guaranteed asset base, but that's a component of the fees that pays for the guarantee.
So the 192 basis points doesn't include any of that. That's utilized, if you like, to hedge and
it's reported with the hedge results.
And in the UK and M&G, so I guided you down. I mean, I don't know how else to answer
the question. It's a reflection of discipline; it's a reflection of the opportunities that we
have elsewhere to direct the money. In the end, the payment that we made is a 40%
payout. Yes, we haven't used the special dividend mechanic before, but it's a tool that
we've decided to use this time and we may well use, going forward.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions, the first is, I was a bit surprised to see that
health and protection new business profits in Asia were up only, I say, only 20% against
the 28% increase across the whole of Asia. So what was growing by more than that?
And I supposed linked to that question is, if it's the par with-profit, if it's the with-profit,
new business profits. How does that link through then to IFRS? Because, historically, the
with-profits funds in Asia have not actually driven much in the way of IFRS earnings? So
that's sort of question one and a half.
Second question is, if you do see a slowdown in new business or even a fall in new
business sales in the states, over the next year or so, what are you going to do? I mean,
the free capital generation of that business is then going to look pretty impressive over
the next year or two. What are you going to do with that free cash that develops?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, the (77:25-77:27).
Page 24 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

A 20% is a pretty good number for the health and protection growth when I look at how
hard the team has to work to deliver that. There is – I mean, we've cautioned you a little
about the susceptibility of the NBP of health and protection to interest rates. I know it's a
discussion that Adrian and I have constantly if only we were on stable assumptions, like
some of our competitors, you'd be able to see the underlying growth without, if you like,
the noise that comes through from that. We are on active. If you want us to change the
pathway, we're happy to do that.
But, what's held it – working against that H&P total was a near 100 basis point increase in
interest rate in Indonesia and a lot of H&P comes from there. It's 60-odd percent of the
sales. There was also an increase in interest rates between start and end of the year in
Singapore of 32 basis points, again, with the reorientation of the focus of our Singapore
sales force into H&P. Kind of that, the economics worked against that underlying growth.
And of course, in Malaysia is the third place. We sell a lot of H&P and interest rates were
up there as well by 10 basis points.
So, that's what's held it back and it's only 20%, some of it is optical because of that
particular mechanics. Now, a free surplus generation, yeah, that's a nice problem to have.
If and when we – if it turns out as you predict, yeah, and then we'll decide how we use it at
that point.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Cool.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks so much. Andy Hughes, from Macquarie. Three questions, if I could. The first
one is on the UK. Obviously, you've got a £170 million benefit from longevity reinsurance
and £8 billion of liabilities, but you still have £22 billion of liabilities which is still on CMI
2014. If you move to CMI 2015 at the end of the year which is quite a lot lower in terms of
improvements, presumably you'll get a big IFRS benefit then as well. So, how should we
think about that?
Second, I've just got a follow-up question on the FCA investigation and work you're doing
there. If there was any compensation to be paid, would a large proportion of that come
out of the estates? Could you just confirm that?
And a general question on Asia. I guess the commentary you're giving us on Asia now is
that it's had a very strong start to the year. December was the strongest period you've
had for a long time. It all seems very positive. Are there any numbers you can put around
this, or is that just as far as you can go in terms of how Asia is performing in the current
market?
And final question on M&G. Obviously, you were talking about institutional pipeline of
inflows. Is that not enough to offset the continuing outflows from the optimal income? And

Page 25 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

on the cost-income ratio, you're kind of guided up. Are the cost savings embedded in
that, or is that something you'll consider? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, Andy, on the Asia, that was my decision. No, that's about as much detail as we can
get. And it's a similar answer on the FCA. There is zero upside, and that's commenting
about a regulatory process, we have an ex-regulator in the front row nodding his head,
going, yes, Mike, stop talking now.
There's a – we take it very seriously. We interact with the regulators in all our markets
frequently. This was an industry-wide look. The underlying product has done extremely
well for the client 1, 3, 5, 10. So we will do everything we need to do to work with the
regulator to get this through. But publicly commenting on the process is something they
asked us not to do. So that's as far as we can go. Okay. You asked about – there was one
other I missed there, CMI and change of assumptions too.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. CMI 2014, CMI 2015. There are many in the industry that believe that CMI 2014 and
CMI 2015 are aberrations and do not reflect a true underlying trend.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

These changes on longevity...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Improvements in the – or rather, reductions in the rate of improvement which longevity is
increasing. So there are many in the industry that believe CMI 2014 and CMI 2015 are
aberrations as opposed to a signaling, if you like, a true change in the life expectancy or
the improvement in the life expectancy of people.
Our reserving last year was on CMI 2012. We looked at CMI 2014. We will move, we have
moved to CMI 2014, but we did it in a, if I could describe a CMI 2014 minus-minus basis.
Because in line with that conservatism, and the caution that you would have heard from us
throughout the whole presentation, we want more data before we can declare victory on
that particular point. So there is a small benefit coming through the numbers, but it's not
significant. We'll see. If there are more studies and they confirm the trend, then we will
move our assumptions. But we've haven't moved them, we've moved them modestly at
the moment.
As regards extrapolating from the £8.7 billion of reinsurance that we've done to the £31
billion of liabilities. Look, it's not – there were very specific circumstances kind of why we
did this in the course of 2015. Clearly, you only do transactions where they add value, and
that's a prerequisite. We won't do something that is bad for value. But the circumstances
were that we had the uncertainty surrounding Solvency II. We were only going to know for
sure in December. Candidly, if at that point we had a negative surprise, then there would
have been no time to react. So, you do the responsible thing on behalf of your
Page 26 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

shareholders, which talks to discipline, to try and pull those levers, to try and optimize the
position, in the event that you have to rely on that.
As it happened, the outcome was fine. So, I wish I could turn back the clock and unwind
those, but it's not possible. So, we did it. There were a good value. We have no plans to
repeat that, of course, other than to say, if we ever needed to, we would if the market is
there. And of course, we do, there is a tradeoff ultimately by how much you can bring
upfront versus this is ultimately what you lose in profits, going forward.
Those were the circumstances. They were unique, i.e. – as I said, there's no plan
necessarily to repeat that, which is why I guided you to look at the core line in the UK
results and project from there. Oh, cost income ratio.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Cost income?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Cost income ratio, no, I was very specific in my words. I've said everything else being
equal. So, to the degree that there are further cost actions we can take, or management
actions we can take on the cost basis, those are not captured.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you. Farooq from Citigroup. Can you just give a little bit more guidance on
what you mean by the contingency plans of Department of Labor?
You talked a little bit about products? And I know you don't want to share your full
economics and planned strategy, but just to give us a bit more comfort. And secondly, if in
the U.S. we move to kind of a lower churn type of model in the VA market, so we have
kind of more stable AUM. And in the UK, it looks like we're going to have potentially net
outflows unless you really ramp up in the bulk market. So, are we ever going to move to
situation where you see better remittance ratios in both of those two markets. So it's a
way of growing remittance above surplus capital generation. And lastly, very quiet quickly, I
mean do you have an updated view on the forthcoming RBC changes for credit risk in the
U.S. Thanks.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Well, on the U.S. regulation, it's a bit of the same answer on some other questions. So, we
can't discuss product filings, for both approval reasons and competitive reasons. We're
not looking to coach competitors on direction they should go at this point. But I think it's –
from the worst case DoL proposal, we backed into what would be effective strategies
and how do you get those to market. I think the piece that's key in this, when you think of
our U.S. platform, is one of the absolute critical elements will be who is going to help – the
most heavily and in a worst case, as written DoL implementation, right? No, softening
whatsoever.

Page 27 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Broker dealers really get hit hardest, right? Their business models take the biggest hit,
and they bear a disproportionate amount of the IT and the biggest change in their role
and position with the consumer.
So, there would be a need for someone to get those advisors in those firms technically
up to speed and have systems and products that are compliant, et cetera. That's
something we're very good at, all right? So, the planning is operational, as well as
product, as well as training. It's multidimensional, but, again, no desire to give competitors
a view candidly on where that's going. That's – and then – and regulators don't allow us to
comment on filings in the U.S., as they wouldn't here either.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the comment on churn, I'm not sure where you're going there. So, the VA products in
the United States, Jackson is the net sales, to be very clear. If you look at net sales tables,
it's us. All right? So, we don't have a retention of consumer issue with Jackson. I think that
goes to quality of product, it goes to who you do business with, okay? It goes to the
returns, the policyholders have been able to receive by not capping the structure of the
product with an unnecessary volatility adjustment, or a fee structure that the portfolio
can't support.
So, the quality of the underlying product, this is true in the UK, this is true in Asia, gets you
better retention. There is no way we win in this room of shareholders, if the client doesn't
win. So, the U.S. product is very good. It is, by far, immeasurably the best in the industry,
okay? So, we don't have a hype – we're not trying to chase our own outflows in the book.
We used to hear, well, that's because you're a new entrant and all that. We've led the net
sales league tables since we started. It's not just that. We now have a book at scale, we
now have distribution at scale, we have all the elements that any of our peers do and we
still have positive net inflows. And that's how you're getting earnings growth with us
managing the total risk exposure to absolute sales.
Now, we're looking at that again. Taking a little more sophisticated look at our risk
appetite in the U.S. and we'll keep you informed on that, but not all sales have the same
risk, all right? So, one has a 3% guarantee, and one has a 5% that's two different risks to
us and shareholders. So, again, we'll look at that but we don't – I'm not sure I understand
the nuance of the churn?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I think the point that Farooq was making, if there are less moving parts, will there be more
stability in free surplus of profit, and therefore can there be higher remittance ratio that
was the question. Well, I kind of admire your optimism, I hope you're right.
Yes, there may be less moving parts, but there's still a lot moving parts, which is why in
the past we've resisted from giving you targets, financial objectives for any parts of our
UK business, because there we're selective, or any parts of our U.S. business, because it's
cyclical. And so, that's – all we promise is that to do the best in the circumstances as we
find them. And as I said a minute ago, there are still many moving parts that could
influence those KPIs.

Page 28 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Now, as it relates to the remittance ratios, they're not the top numbers that they can be.
We never said that that's the case. We have them in a place where it's comfortable in
order to leave enough capital behind to buffer any market events. And they're also
informed by what we actually need at the center. So, it's not, if you like, they're not
indicative of the best percentage that at any given point in time we can deliver.
They've gone up and down, they've been higher, actually, at a time of crisis, which is
exactly what you want, you want that flexibility at that point.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And just, Farooq...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

On RBC, Chad, I don't know if you have...

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

The changes on RBC?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Yes. The changes on RBC, they're still not defined at this point. So, NAIC is kind of a slowmoving entity. So, I think we don't know yet exactly what they're going to do. It's going to
take typically a few years to implement. And generally speaking, the direction they're
heading would tend to, across the industry, move RBC a little bit lower, really depends on
how they shake out. There's some differences between what's in the investment grade,
non-investment grade world too, so they're just making it more granular.
I think wherever it shakes out, it's going to be similar to what we've seen in the past,
which is, if RBC becomes – if the charges become more onerous and RBC drops, the
industry will adjust and I think the rating agencies will adjust to the new normal there. It
shouldn't really change anything in the long run.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. This is Gordon Aitken from RBC. Just on the reinsuring of annuities. You've
reinsured some in-force annuities there. I just wonder what the difference is with
reinsuring new business because obviously, you said you stepped away from that.
And the second question is on just, if I can understand the thought process behind the
special because it's quite unusual for you to do this. I mean, if it's a one-off gain and then,
yeah, pay a special, but this is a little bit different in the sense you've given some profit
away to the reinsurers and it's a change in shape of the cash flow, so it's more upfront.
And you mentioned a £25 million drag. So, is it to do with this or is it just a signal that our
balance sheet is strong enough?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}
Page 29 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

FINAL

Let me address the one-off and then cover reinsurance in-force. I think the discussion on
the boardroom is, as Nic said, we – the reinsurance was precautionary going into Solvency
II. I mean, this was a work-in-progress until approval. And so, that being the motivation for
this piece that effectively, to your point, pulled forward earnings, earnings belong to the
shareholder, if you look to adjust for tax and they've been paid out. Okay?
It also goes to the general view though if we have excess capital. We've earned it, okay?
We're open to paying it out. But again, it's earning it first. It's having it in-house first and
then paying it. I've not seen a piece on risk-adjusted dividends. I think it would be an
interesting, somebody's bored on a Sunday, it would be an interesting work stream on –
but I think as long as we make our earnings from – our earnings driving dividend, and
again, cash is driving dividend, we have a highly sustainable dividend relative to peers and
we're doing that while we're growing the company at the numbers we've seen. That
balance is critical.
But the first piece, I've been here when we had an unsustainable dividend, okay? So, part
of that is personal experience. You should – we want you to be able to count on that. So,
there's an element of – keep hearing this conservative coming up. Conservatism, it's real
but we also understand at a point it's unnecessary. So, there's a balance in here and we'll
keep working to that. But if we have excess earnings, we'll pay them out. And I don't think
– there's multiple mechanisms we could have used, the U.S. there would have been a
share buyback, that drives other metrics that may or may not be things you want to move.
Cash is a simple, clear message. As your earnings, the pull forward, there you go.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on the reinsurance structures...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

On the reinsurance there'll be – post 1 January, given that we cannot use – we don't have
the benefit of a transitional. The capital that has to be priced into – actually utilized and
then priced into an annuity contract going forward is very, very onerous. Where the
interest rates were at the end of last year it would've been somewhere between 20%
and 25% of premium. Where interest rates are today it's greater than that.
Now, in order to get the thing to work, even if you wanted to deploy the capital, you're
reliant on huge increases in price. And you're reliant on quite a lot of engineering both in
terms of removing part of the risk margin through longevity reinsurance, or asset side
engineering as well. Candidly, I think there are easier ways for us to deploy our capital
than to enter into that particular race. And that's why we haven't done it.
On the back book, candidly, it was to increase – clearly if you pass all the – I mean there
are many factors, the fees were attractive, the tradeoff between the fee that we ended
up paying to the reinsurer, and if you like, the pads that were released under the various
capital bases were sufficiently attractive. At the same time, it increased our resilience.
Part of the reason that the sensitivity when interest rates are a lot lower in the UK, the
sensitivity is unchanged in the UK is because having pulled the levers, we've muted that

Page 30 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

sensitivity to the impacts of the market effects. And that's part of the reason why at the
end of February, we were only down about £1 billion.

FINAL

So, you take all of that into consideration, we think it was the right thing to do for the back
book. But for the front book, there are easier ways of using our capital than generating
returns. And that's what underpins our stance in that particular space.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 17127644 <GO>}

It's Abid Hussain from SocGen. Two questions, if I can. Firstly, on China and Hong Kong, is
there a risk the Hong Kong business is cannibalizing the JV in China, especially if I can just
jump on a plane and go across the border and the trust in the rule of law is higher across
the border. That's the first question.
And then, secondly, on the U.S., what is the minimum crediting rate on the fixed annuity
back book? Or put another way, where would U.S. long-term rates need to be before you
start making a loss in that book?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

China, Hong Kong, Tony.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Yeah. Is there a risk that Hong Kong's cannibalizing China with 1.3 billion people there, I'm
not sure there is at this stage. I think it's probably worth noting that the Mainland Chinese
consumers who are purchasing products in Hong Kong are slightly different. The lion's
share of them come from Guangdong province, which is the neighboring province,
formerly Canton, where the JV most of the business is actually coming from the Eastern
seaboard, Shanghai, Beijing. We just opened a new branch in Hunan. And so, it's actually,
it's a different geography. And it's actually – it's also a slightly different socio-economic. So,
don't see any cannibalization at this stage.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. On crediting rates. Two or three things to say on that. Firstly, in relation to the
proportion of the VA premium that goes into the fixed account option, that goes in at a
1% guarantee, okay. So, the guarantee level is modest there. And we're able to effectively
back it with assets that yield comfortably in excess of that.
In relation to the in-force book, and again, it's difficult to generalize, but on average, the
guarantee is at around the 3% level. The assets backing, there is around – the crediting
rates, on average, have about 20 basis points to 25 basis points headroom against that
guarantee level. And they're backed by assets that deliver 240-odd basis points on top of
that which is ultimately what drives after an RMR deduction.
It would only be an issue, and of course, they're backed by securities that are way you do,
that produce that. And there is a good level of cash flow matching their own duration. The
only issue would be is that if, for whatever reason, all these holders decided to extend
Page 31 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

well beyond the point at which we hold the assets. There are trades that we do to
lengthen, if you like, the duration of that. And we've done that in the past where we
needed to. So, no, we're a long way away from that being a problem. I don't know if,
Chad, if there's anything you want to add to that?

FINAL

Actually, people save for a reason. They don't save and they can't extend ultimately
forever.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

All right. We'll take the last two and we'll...
Yeah. Last two, Alan.

Q - Alan G. Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin of Barclays. Just one question on the Department of Labor. I know
nobody knows what's going to happen to (99:10). But do you have any concerns on the inforce? You mentioned grandfathering because that would materially impact an earnings?
Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Alan, there's no clarity on it. But, if you think about, earlier in our previous slide, it's actually
around retirement services for one of the brokerage firms, Smith Barney, when it bought
Shearson. You had art, antique cars, people's mortgages, oil and gas, limited
partnerships, REITs, all these products have been allowed over the years in retirement
accounts. It is unimaginable. It's possible, but when Barry talked about a political reaction,
if you said that all of these clients by year-end, whatever the timeframe is, this all has to
be put into a fee-based asset management relationship.
The political reaction to that, (100:01) would be severe. And I don't think the White House
is looking for even the most extreme advocates or anti-advice, anti-active managements
would see that as a good thing. But that would be the implication. Okay. So, that's the
question on grandfathering. What is – and it's clearly an issue in the market. People are
very concerned about it. The single best thing with DoL now is get it out. We can deal with
whatever changes they make. I hope they're more consumer-centric than the first draft.
But we'll – it'd be nice to know the rules and we'll go from there.
It's not helpful for the industry to be in limbo. And it's certainly not helpful politically for
House Ways and Means, Senate Finance, Labor, these key committees to be in limbo.
That's not an efficient process. So it's clearly coming to an end. But the grandfathering
element would be, I think you'd see the other bill, probably (100:51).

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Well, what you'd end up with – and this piece of legislation that's introduced in December
with a broad democratic support called Roskam-Neal. If that legislation were passed then

Page 32 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

survived the Presidential veto, which would be almost certain, it will completely undo the
rule change.

FINAL

But again, the key there is that it's difficult even with Republican majorities, it's difficult to
override a Presidential veto. If you had grandfathering, you would probably – speculation is
you would see Roskam-Neal attached as an amendment to the Puerto Rican financial
bailout, which the President cannot veto.
And so basically, it'd be okay if we're going to play nuclear options here. Here is the
nuclear option from the other side. I don't think it'll go there. That's a very inelegant last 12
– think the half and the last 12 months of any Presidency. And I'd be surprised if they went
there.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And if you think about, Alan, some of the securities that can be legally owned, it's forcing
a client to sell at this point in the cycle. And some will, effectively would be forcing them to
realize losses for no reason other than an arbitrary policy change. So it's possible. But
again, I think it's fairly remote. We'll see. But the best thing for us, we're ready, let's get it
out there, let's react. Let's get back to business, see what opportunities it creates, go
from there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Good morning. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just a couple of questions. One
on UK. Can you give us some thoughts about where your UK capital ratios are at the
moment? I mean you gave the Group number, 180%, but where would the UK number
be? Would it still be above your comfortable level, which I think is around 130%? I think
that's what you said at the Investor Day. That's number one.
Secondly, what is the fundamental spread on the UK Annuities book that is currently
baked in in these Solvency II, and how does that compare to Solvency I? Just wanted to
get a bit of sense about what the numbers are.
And thirdly is, can you give us some thoughts on where the variable annuity hedging costs
are at the moment? It looks like there has been a recent spike because of lower rates and
high vols. So, how does that compare with the guarantee fees that you are collecting?
Thank you.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. On the UK, it's in our range, it's in the range of that I highlighted in January. On the
percentage of spread, it's 45%, that's what's coming through in the surplus. I mean, it's
58 basis points in the base. It's 172 basis points in the SCR, in the stress. And when you
translate that into percentages, it's around 45% in the SCR.
What was the other question? On the hedging cost.

Page 33 of 34



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-09

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

The hedging cost. Chad, you want to give us a...

FINAL

A - Paul Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Well, as you would expect, the hedging cost has gone up a little bit for certain
transactions. Nothing so significant that it's impaired our ability to put the hedges in place
that we think need to be in place and the program still performs well. I mean, in terms of
the scale of the increase, I don't know if it's that easy to quantify actually, but...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I guess two things there. On rates because we're tending to be and have been for years,
on a shorter end, call it, two years minimum on most of the hedges we're buying. In fact
the long rates have come down. It's really not affected anything. Actually, two-year rate's
actually higher than it's been for a while.
So, the rates side of it's been somewhat helpful. Volatility has actually been a fair bit lower
than we saw last year. So, it's manageable from a short-term spike, and we adapt, I'd say,
a very minimal impact.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So, with that, I want to thank, everybody, for your time today, your questions and
appreciate your support. And we'll see you in six months. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you for joining today's call. Ladies and gentlemen, the call is now finished. Have a
nice day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 34 of 34

