Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Doug Caldwell, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
Eilard Friese, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jan Willem Knoll, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst
William H. Elderkin, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to the NN
Group's Analyst Conference Call for its Fourth Quarter 2015 results. (Operator
Instructions).
Before handing this conference over to Mr. Lard Friese, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of NN
Group, let me ﬁrst give the following statement on behalf of the Company. Today's
comments may include forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding the
future developments in NN Group's business, expectations for its future ﬁnancial
performance and any statements not involving historical fact. Actual results may diﬀer
materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements speak only for – as of the date they are made and NN
Group assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements
whether as a result of new information or for any other reason. Furthermore, nothing in
today's comments constitutes an oﬀer to sell or solicitation or an oﬀer to buy any
securities.

Page 1 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

Mr. Friese, go ahead, please.

Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yes, good morning everyone, and welcome to this conference call to discuss NN Group's
results for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Now, I will start oﬀ today's presentation by going through the highlights of the fourth
quarter results and of the year 2015 as a whole, including the progress we have made to
deliver on our ﬁnancial targets. But I will also look forward at our priorities for the coming
year.
Delﬁn Rueda, our Chief Financial Oﬃcer, will then talk you through the ﬁnancial details of
the results at Group level and for the individual operating segments as well as our capital
position. I will conclude the presentation with a wrap up, after which we will open the call
for Q&A. And we also have our Chief Risk Oﬃcer, Doug Caldwell, here to answer your
questions.
So let's go to slide number 3, the ﬁnancial highlights of the fourth quarter. NN Group's
operating result for the fourth quarter of 2015 was €250m, which was down on the same
quarter of 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start with the positive developments in the quarter. We continued to reduce
administrative expenses in the Netherlands and the results of Insurance Europe and
Japan Life were up compared with the same quarter in 2014.
On the other hand, the results of our non-life business were impacted by less favorable
claims experience in the property and casualty segment. And the lower operating result at
asset management reﬂects restructuring provision which has been taken as part of its
strategy enhancement program, which I will talk about later.
If we look at the year as a whole, the full year 2015 operating result of the ongoing
business was €1,435 million, which is up more than 32% compared with 2014, with almost
all segments reporting improved results.
As you know, the Dutch Central Bank approved our Solvency II partial internal model in
December 2015. Delﬁn Rueda will talk in some detail about our capital position in his part
of the presentation, so I will simply say that our Solvency II ratio under the partial internal
model was 239% at the end of 2015. And our cash capital at the holding company
increased to almost €2 billion.
In view of our strong capital position and the earnings development we are proposing a
ﬁnal dividend for 2015 of €1.05 per ordinary share. Together with the interim dividend that
we paid in September, the full year 2015 dividend comes to €1.51 per ordinary share and
represents a payout ratio of 41% of the 2015 full year net operating result of the ongoing
business, in line with our stated dividend policy of 40% to 50% of the net operating proﬁt.
Page 2 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

Let's now turn to the next slide, and look how the individual businesses developed in
2015. In our largest segment, Netherlands Life, we remained focused on achieving further
cost eﬃciencies while managing the run-oﬀ of the individual life closed block. We
continued to selectively pursue growth in the pensions market and in December 2015 saw
the launch of our general pension fund, or APF, ahead of the new pension regulations that
became eﬀective in January of this year.
Our aim is to improve the combined ratio of our non-life business to 97% or better by
2018. This ratio stood at 101.5% for 2015, and so we have still more work to do. Progress
within the disability and accident segment has been encouraging with a combined ratio
of 97.6% for 2015. However, the property and casualty segment was hit by large ﬁre and
weather-related claims in 2015, resulting in a combined ratio of 104.8% for the year.
At the businesses in Insurance Europe, our focus is on proﬁtable growth, which means
that we put the value of the business before volume. This is reﬂected in the higher value
new business numbers for 2015. This should help us achieve our earnings growth target
even in this low interest rate environment.
Our COLI business in Japan is performing well, as it builds on its ability to oﬀer innovative
products, through an expanding distribution channel. Our Bancassurance sales grew by
approximately 20% in 2015.

Bloomberg Transcript

The market environment in 2015 was very challenging for the asset management industry
as a whole and NN Investment Partners, our asset manager, was no exception in
struggling to attract new mandates during the year.
To address this, we have embarked upon a program to focus, simplify and optimize our
asset management business, by rationalizing and creating scale in its product range and
building on its speciﬁc areas of expertise. As I already mentioned, we have taken a €13
million restructuring provision in the fourth quarter in connection with this program which
is reﬂected in the operating result.
In addition to delivering cost savings, these measures should enable our asset
management business to achieve its growth ambitions in the coming year -- years.
Finally, NN Bank is steadily and successfully growing its franchise in the Netherlands as it
expands its mortgage portfolio and customer savings activities.
Let's move on to the next slide, and let's look at our progress on the ﬁnancial targets that
we have set for NN Group as a whole. Firstly, we aim to realize an annual growth rate of
the operating result before tax of the ongoing business of 5% to 7% on average in the
medium-term.
The operating result before tax of the ongoing business in 2015 of over €1.4 billion
represents a 32% increase compared with 2014. This growth rate obviously reﬂects the
particularly high results in 2015, which were supported by some large favorable items.
Page 3 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

We've always stressed that this is a medium-term target and that we intend to measure
our average growth rate over a longer period.

FINAL

At our Capital Markets Day in November, we announced our new target to reduce the
administrative expense base in the Netherlands to €700 million by the end of 2018. We
achieved €15 million of cost savings in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Thirdly, we aim to increase the net operating return on equity of the ongoing business in
the medium-term. The net operating return on equity of the ongoing business for 2015
was 10.8%, so higher than the 8.6% for 2014.
Aligned with these three targets, we expect over time to generate free cash available to
shareholders in a range around the net operating result of the ongoing business. In 2014,
the free cash ﬂow adjusted for the IPO related items was €450 million compared with the
net operating result of €806 million.
The free cash ﬂow of the holding company in 2015 was almost €1.4 billion, which included
a total of about €1.5 billion of dividends upstreamed by our subsidiaries. This compares
with a net operating result of the ongoing business for 2015 of almost €1.2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please bear in mind that this is an over time target and there can be volatility in both the
operating results and the dividend ﬂow.
Delﬁn Rueda, our Chief Financial Oﬃcer, will go into details of our free cash ﬂow later in
the presentation.
Turning now to slide 6. We aim to always maintain a robust balance sheet while at the
same time using the balance sheet eﬃciently. Being well capitalized allows us to fully
focus on improving the returns on that capital. Thanks to strong capital generation, NN
Group's Solvency I IGD ratio increased to 320% at the end of 2015, even after distributing
€849 million to shareholders during the year.
The holding company cash position was almost €2 billion at the end of the year, mainly
driven by the dividends upstreamed by all business segments in 2015. Please bear in
mind that this number reﬂects the position before the payment of the announced ﬁnal
2015 dividend and the share buyback completed in January 2016.
In terms of ﬁnancial leverage, our ﬁxed cost coverage ratio went up to 13.1 times. The
leverage ratio decreased to 21.7% while the gross ﬁnancial leverage position remained
stable at €3.7 billion.
From now on, we will report our capital position based on our Solvency II partial internal
model as approved by the Dutch regulator last December. The NN Group's Solvency II
ratio was 239% at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015, down from 247% at the end of the
third quarter of 2015. But please note, that both the Solvency II ratio and the IGD ratio
already reﬂects the proposed ﬁnal 2015 dividend of €341 million.
Page 4 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

The share buyback of €250 million in January 2016 will be reﬂected in the Solvency II ratio
at the end of the ﬁrst quarter of 2016.

FINAL

So let's move to slide 7. We've always been very clear about our commitment to execute
on the equity story set out at the IPO with a focus on creating shareholder value. Our
priority is to improve earnings and generate cash with a base case of returning that cash
to shareholders unless it can be used for other value creating opportunities.
Since the IPO, we have returned a total amount of €1,440 million to shareholders. This
includes the ﬁnal 2015 dividend that will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting in
June 2016, and it also includes our participation in ING's sell down of a further stake in NN
Group in January 2016, when we bought back another €250 million of NN Group shares.
As a result of that sell down and the conversion of the ﬁnal tranche of subordinated notes
to the anchor investors, ING's stake in NN Group has been reduced to 14.1%.
So ﬁnally, on slide number 8, I would like to spend a minute on our priorities for 2016. Our
primary focus is on improving performance across all of our businesses. That means
continuing to achieve eﬃciencies and cost savings while at the same time investing in our
products and services to customers in the various regions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Two areas are being given particular focus and that is non-life and asset management. I've
already mentioned the program we have launched at our asset manager to sharpen its
strategic focus. And at our non-life business, we continue to take measures to further
improve the results such as adjusting premium rates and improving underwriting
performance.
We will continue to deploy capital in the best way, in the most proﬁtable businesses in
order to generate value for our shareholders. And when looking at future growth
opportunities, be it organic or inorganic, we will always apply strict ﬁnancial criteria and
compare it with the alternative deployment of that cash by returning it to shareholders.
At all times, we will maintain our capital discipline. We have today disclosed our target
range for the cash capital position in the holding company at €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion,
and Delﬁn will talk more about this later in the presentation. This solid capital position will
allow us to cope with the remaining regulatory uncertainties and market volatility and
continue to deliver on our dividend policy.
And with that I would like to hand over to you, Delﬁn.

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Good morning, everyone. I will start with the consolidated full year
results.
NN Group reported an operating result of the ongoing business of €1.4 billion for the full
year 2015. This is up 32% compared with 2014. The operating result excludes the result of
Page 5 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

the closed block variable annuity business in Japan.
The 2015 operating result was supported by some favorable items including large private
equity dividends of €221 million, cost reductions in the Netherlands of €75 million, and
non-recurrent beneﬁts of €52 million in the technical margin. It also reﬂects higher results
at Insurance Europe and Japan Life as well as lower funding cost. These positive
developments were partly oﬀset by a lower result at asset management, and an
unfavorable claims experience in our non-life property and casualty business.
In the right-hand chart, you can see that the full year net result increased signiﬁcantly
compared with 2014 to almost €1.6 billion.
Special items in 2015 comprise rebranding expenses. In addition to that, special items
include €13 million of restructuring expenses taken in the fourth quarter related to our
new cost reduction target in the Netherlands. To achieve this target, we expect to spend
€30 million to €35 million before tax per year over the next three years. We will report
these expenses as special items.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before going through individual operating segments, please turn to slide 11, which gives
more details on the cost savings in the Netherlands. As we announced at our Capital
Markets Day in November, we have set ourselves a new target cost base in the
Netherlands. We aim to reduce the administrative expenses of Netherlands Life,
Netherlands non-life, and the holding entities to €700 million by the end of 2018. This is a
reduction of almost 15% compared with the annualized cost base at the end of the third
quarter of 2015.
We have got oﬀ to a good start, with total expense savings of €15 million achieved across
all the Dutch units in the fourth quarter of 2015, bringing the cost base in the Netherlands
down to €803 million in an annualized basis.
As Lard already said, improving eﬃciency remains a priority for us going forward. We are
implementing a range of initiatives to achieve these savings from operational eﬃciency
improvements in individual departments to more cost eﬀective IT platforms.
Let's now look at the fourth quarter performance of each individual segments, starting as
usual with Netherlands Life on slide 12.
The operating result of Netherlands Life remained broadly stable at €155 million in the
fourth quarter of 2015. There are both positive and negative developments inﬂuencing
this result.
Firstly, the technical margin was higher as the current quarter included €25 million
beneﬁts following updates to certain technical provisions, partly oﬀset by lower mortality
results. Please also note that the fourth quarter of 2014 included a €19 million addition to
the unit-linked guaranteed provision due to a decrease in interest rates.

Page 6 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

Secondly, fees and premium based revenues remained under pressure due to the
individual life closed block runoﬀ. The investment margin decreased in the fourth quarter
of 2015, following a non-recurring negative adjustment of €13 million related to mortgage
amortization, while the fourth quarter of 2014 included a €23 million private equity
dividend.
The large private equity dividend received in earlier quarters in 2015 led to an increase in
the investment spread to 136 basis points. We continue our strategy to gradually shifting
the asset mix to higher yielding assets.
Finally, as already seen in the previous slide, administrative expenses decreased
compared with the fourth quarter of 2014, supported by lower staﬀ costs.
I will now turn to slide 13 for the results of Netherlands non-life. The operating result for
Netherlands non-life was €28 million compared with €35 million for the fourth quarter of
2014. This was due to an increase in the claims ratio in property and casualty. The
combined ratio for the fourth quarter increased to 100.7%.
Let's look at the two business lines within non-life separately.

Bloomberg Transcript

The fourth quarter 2015 operating result in disability and accident remained stable at €21
million. The results of D&A have improved over the last few years following the various
management actions we have taken. As you can see in the right hand chart, the combined
ratio has decreased accordingly and now stands at 97.6% for the full year 2015.
The fourth quarter operating results in property and casualty, however, decreased to €6
million from €13 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. This was due to lower results in the
motor portfolio as well as in the miscellaneous portfolio which primarily comprises liability
and legal aid cover. On the other hand, the current quarter saw fewer large ﬁre and
weather related claims leading to a higher result in the ﬁre portfolio.
On balance, however, I think it is fair to say that we still have more work to do to bring the
property and casualty combined ratio down, which has stood at 104.8% for the full year
2015.
Please turn to slide 14 and the results of Insurance Europe. Insurance Europe reported a
higher operating result of €48 million for the fourth quarter of 2015. This is compared with
€40 million for the same quarter the year before. This was supported by higher fees and
premium-based revenues related to traditional life, unit-linked and universal life insurance
products. Also, administrative expenses were lower compared with the fourth quarter of
2014, resulting in an improved cost/income ratio.
Moving to Japan Life. The operating result of Japan Life was €27 million, up signiﬁcantly
from the fourth quarter of 2014. Fees and premium-based revenues increased almost 5%
on a constant currency basis, driven by larger in-force volumes. And the technical margin
improved, reﬂecting a higher mortality result. This was partly oﬀset by a decrease of the
Page 7 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

investment margin due to lower interest rates on the invested assets. The cost/income
ratio improved as a result of the higher income and ﬂat administrative expenses.

FINAL

Moving now to asset management. Total assets under management decreased to €187
billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease reﬂects net outﬂows of third
party assets of €4.1 billion, partly oﬀset by positive market performance of €1.6 billion.
The operating result decreased to €21 million for the fourth quarter. Fees were down on
lower average assets under management in the quarter and expenses were higher due to
the €13 million restructuring provision already mentioned by Lard. This one-oﬀ expense
was partly oﬀset by lower staﬀ-related cost.
The lower income and higher expenses are of course reﬂected in the higher cost/income
ratio for both the fourth quarter and the full year. Our focus remains on bringing this ratio
down by increasing fees on assets under management and reducing expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The segment Other, which comprises the holding company, the reinsurance business,
and NN Bank is set out on slide 17. The total operating result of the segment Other
decreased from a loss of €24 million in the fourth quarter of 2014, to a loss of €29 million
in the fourth quarter of 2015. This result mainly comprises the three elements shown in the
graphs on this slide.
Let me go through these individually. First, starting with the ﬁrst graph. The improved
holding result was mainly driven by cost reductions. The result of NN Bank increased to
€11 million in the fourth quarter. The bank continued to grow in both mortgages and
customer savings which led to a higher interest margin. On the other hand, administrative
expenses were also up as investments are being made to support this growth.
Finally, at the reinsurance business, the operating result was down due to lower
underwriting results. Also, the fourth quarter of 2014 included favorable mortality and
lapse assumption updates.
I will now move on to slide 18 to cover our last segment, Japan closed block VA. Japan
closed block VA reported a result before tax of €24 million, up from a €24 million loss in
the fourth quarter of 2014, mainly driven by positive hedge results. As we have mentioned
before, these hedge results can be volatile from quarter to quarter, and tend to have a
negative bias in volatile markets.
As you can see in the right-hand chart, the portfolio continues to run oﬀ. The number of
policies decreased by more than 31% in 2015 and the account value of this closed book
now stands at €10 billion.
That completes the results of our operating segments. On the following slides, I would
like to take you through the value of new business, free cash ﬂow, and capital generation,
starting with the value of new business.

Page 8 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

As Lard mentioned in the presentation, we were much focused on proﬁtable growth in
Europe and Japan, where we are shifting our business mix towards higher margin
products. The success of this strategy can be seen in the value of new business for the full
year 2015, which went up at both Insurance Europe and Japan Life. On the other hand,
the value of new business at Netherlands Life decreased due to an overall decline in
interest rates.
I will now move on to slide 20, to cover our free cash ﬂow. As we have done in previous
quarters, let's start with the movement in the holding company cash capital during the
fourth quarter of 2015, which increased from €1.6 billion at the end of the third quarter, to
almost €2 billion at the end of 2015.
The free cash ﬂow during the quarter was €335 million, which is the sum of the four
elements within the box in the chart. As you can see, the free cash ﬂow was mainly driven
by dividends of €376 million received from our subsidiaries. This included a total of €250
million of dividends received from NN Life.

Bloomberg Transcript

The free cash ﬂow for the year 2015 as a whole is on slide 21. The cash capital position at
the holding company increased during 2015 from €1.4 billion at the beginning of the year,
to almost €2 billion at the end of the year.
This increase reﬂects total free cash ﬂow during the year of €1,336 million driven by
dividends received from all business segments. This was partly oﬀset by €792 million of
net capital ﬂows to shareholders, which mainly consists of ordinary dividend payments of
€349 million and the three share buybacks completed during the year for a total amount
of €500 million.
The appendix to this presentation on slide 32 shows a breakdown of the dividends
received in 2014 and 2015, from our segments and subsidiaries. As you can see on that
slide, they are broadly spread across the various businesses.
Let's now turn to capital generation on slide 22. This slide shows the capital generation of
our subsidiaries and for NN Life separately for the second half of 2015 based on Solvency
I. The total capital generated by the subsidiaries during the second half of the year was
€951 million. This was predominantly generated by NN Life for an amount of €804 million
and reﬂects decreasing interest rates and the tightening of credit spreads in combination
with positive operating performance, partially oﬀset by the investment in new business.
Now that Solvency II has become eﬀective, this will be the last quarter that we report
these Solvency I numbers.
On the following slides, I would like to take you through some additional disclosures on
Solvency II. In the table of this slide, we provide you with the Solvency II ratios for NN
Group and the insurance entities in the Netherlands based on the partial internal model.
As you can see, they have diﬀerent levels of solvency but are all strongly capitalized under
Solvency II.

Page 9 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

Let me now update you on the sensitivities of our Solvency II ratio based on the partial
internal model on slide 24. On this slide, as you can see that in time of stress the Solvency
II ratio based on the partial internal model moves in a similar direction as the standard
formula ratio which we disclosed at the Capital Markets Day last November.
NN Group's solvency ratio is exposed to rising and falling rates, but is relatively well
matched to interest rate movements as own funds under SCR both move in the same
direction under parallel interest rate shifts. The own funds are most exposed to widening
spreads on AAA sovereigns and reducing corporate spreads.
On the other hand, the fact that own funds beneﬁt from widening corporate spreads
provides a good oﬀset to equity risk, especially in times of stress. This is mainly the result
of the diﬀerence between our own investment portfolio and the VOLA reference portfolio
and the fact that we have substantially more AAA government bonds and fewer corporate
bonds.
If we apply these sensitivities to market developments since the beginning of the year and
we exclude the impact of the €200 million share buyback – we did in January, the impact
from market movements on our Solvency II ratio was not material.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will ﬁnish oﬀ by looking at our cash capital target and dividend on slide 25. We told you
at the time of the IPO that we would look to have free cash available to shareholders in
the range of the net operating proﬁt of the ongoing business. While this varies year on
year due to ﬁnancial markets and other items, this guidance remains in place as we
transition to Solvency II.
Today, we also give you some more clarity on the cash capital position at the holding
company, which we see as requiring a target range of €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion. As I have
previously communicated, the amount of capital we need in the holding depends on the
risk in our units relative to their ﬁnancial position.
As they take on more risk or have lower solvency ratios then we will need more in the
holding and vice versa. For this reason, we give you a guidance range which we think will
cover most scenarios.
The combination of these two statements should allow you to have a better sense of our
deployable capital in the holding, both in terms of what you can normally expect to be
generated and also what you can normally expect us to hold.
Looking at our position today, and if we take into account the €200 million share buyback
that we completed in January, and the proposed ﬁnal 2015 dividend that, if approved by
shareholders, will be paid in June, our pro-forma cash capital position stands at almost
€1.4 billion. So within our target range.
The proposed ﬁnal dividend taken together with the 2015 interim dividend that was paid
in September represents a payout ratio of 41%, in line with our stated dividend policy.
Page 10 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

And now I will pass you back to Lard for the wrap up.

Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yes, everybody, so I'd like to round oﬀ this presentation by saying that we are pleased
with the strong results for 2015 and the progress that we have made during the year to
achieve our ﬁnancial targets and generate value.
We reached an important milestone in December, when our Solvency II partial internal
model was approved by the Dutch regulator. We believe that our strong capital position
will allow us to deal with any remaining uncertainties and market volatility. But it also
allows us to keep delivering on our promise to return capital to shareholders by
proposing a ﬁnal 2015 dividend of €1.05 per ordinary share.
We still have a lot of work to do in 2016 to further improve performance and this goes
hand in hand with delivering an excellent customer experience by oﬀering transparent
products and services that serve our customers' lifetime needs and being a company that
truly matters in the lives of our stakeholders.
And with that, I would like – now to open the call for your questions. Delﬁn Rueda and
Doug Caldwell, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer, and myself are here to help you with that. So
please, operator, over to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll start the question-and-answer session. The
ﬁrst question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Delﬁn, just a couple of questions. First of all, on your dividend. So how should we think
about the dividend? So is it strictly based on payout ratio, i.e., if your earnings move up or
down based on, say, a private equity dividend coming in or not, or do you have some
sense like okay, you aim to have at least maintained the absolute cost of dividend, or any
thoughts on that?
Secondly, in your partial internal model, is it more or less ﬁnal, or are you still in discussion
with DNB or others regulators to get a bit more clarity on stuﬀ like LAC DT or anything
else that is still pending, or do you think this is more or less the ﬁnal number? And then
whatever happens, it will be like proper industry-wide, not just Netherlands, but for all of
Europe.
And thirdly is can you give us a bit more color on cash ﬂows for 2016. Because you
extracted a lot of cash out of Netherlands last year, how should we think about? Is it like
you are extracting cash ahead in – from Netherlands, or from like – from year 2016, you
Page 11 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

have already got a lot of cash in 2015, or that was just done and now it's all about 2016
and you continue to expect recurring strong cash ﬂows from that? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yes, thanks Ashik. Delﬁn, I think you would be so kind to take those questions.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Three questions, good morning, Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So the ﬁrst one, how to think about dividend? We have established the guidance on the
dividends in the range of 40% to 50% of the operating result of the ongoing business
after tax. And we have also highlighted, and we do so again, that we are aiming for a
sustainable dividend over time. So that means that ﬂuctuations that might happen on the
operating result should not be translated one on one towards the amount of dividend to
be paid. That's why, as you know, we have a range between 40% and 50% on which
under normal circumstances we like to drive the ordinary dividend.
Obviously, as this been commented already in the past, any surplus capital that we have
will be distributed at the appropriate time on top of the ordinary dividend, as we have
done already over the past quarters.
In terms of the partial internal model, we did receive approval by the – our regulator midDecember and we have already disclosed what is the amount of the solvency ratio under
the partial internal model. We have indicated that, as it was the case for Solvency I, that
the solvency ratios are not ﬁnal until they are ﬁled with the regulators.
And it is true, that under Solvency II there are more areas for potential interpretation with
the new regulation that it was the case with Solvency I. But otherwise, we do consider that
our partial internal model is stable, has been approved and subject to the uncertainties
that we have mentioned in the press release and in further disclosures, there is nothing
else or special to comment upon.
Looking at the cash ﬂows for 2016, I can refer you back Ashik to our general statement
that we do expect these cash ﬂows to be, over time, in the range of the operating result
after tax. And I think that you highlighted yourself, indeed, 2015 has been very strong.
And there are certain elements there, particularly the dividends on private equity, that
although we do expect to keep receiving dividends from private equity not to the same
extent that happens in 2015.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}
Page 12 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

But there is no such thing that you have accelerated cash outﬂow – cash ﬂows from
Netherlands Life, i.e., we may see a bit of drop in Netherlands Life cash ﬂow this year? It's
not like that. You still expect recurring cash ﬂows from Netherlands Life in the range of
your operating proﬁts.

FINAL

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Netherlands Life had a very good dividend for the parent company. But they are not out
of line with the guidance that we have provided in terms of the cash ﬂows coming from
Netherlands Life to be, over time, at or above the operating result. But, as we have always
ﬂagged, there is volatility on how this comes quarter per quarter or year per year. But
nothing special that happened in 2015 that under normal circumstances could not be
repeated going forward.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thanks, Delﬁn. Thanks a lot.

Operator
The next question comes from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead sir.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. First of all, on Solvency II. Now that you have had the PIM signed
oﬀ, could you just try and be clearer to us about what you think is an acceptable Solvency
II ratio as a Group and then Dutch Life and non-life subsidiaries?
And then part b of that, forgive me, if you've disclosed it and I've missed it. But can you
just remind us what's the LAC DT contribution to available capital and the tiering between
tiers 1, 2 and 3 again? Some of that might have changed since the Investor Day.
And then secondly, could you just give us a brief strategic update on what's changed in
the asset management division since the IPO? I'm maybe not following this as closely as I
should have done, but it does sound like the performance hasn't been coming up to
scratch and you've got this further restructuring investment today. So, can you tell us
what's been going wrong and, more precisely, what you're changing that means the
performance is going to be better in the future? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, thanks, William. I'm going to take the asset management discussion ﬁrst and then I
will ask Delﬁn to comment on the other two questions that you had.
First, on the asset management business. We want our asset manager to grow its third
party ﬂows. That's our objective. And we want also our asset manager to improve its
earnings over time. And we've given a target for that at the time of the IPO.

Page 13 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

What we're seeing, and this is against a backdrop that is a reality for the asset
management industry, but also our asset manager is not immune to that, is that we've
seen outﬂows. So we obviously would like to change that proﬁle moving forward and
make sure that we get the growth that we want to achieve there.
And why? Because we've invested, for instance, in a platform to rewire the asset manager
and ensure that we can take on more assets. And, secondly, because we believe that
there is a lot of good strategies that we have that can attract new ﬂows.
So what we've done to sharpen that focus and to make sure that we achieve our
objectives moving forward, we have done a couple of things. We've designed a new
program which goes by the name of Focus, Simplify and Optimize and that pertains to a
number of things.
First of all, we will focus on selected areas, meaning that we will focus on some ﬂagship
strategies in the income space, multi-asset space, the liability-driven investments,
sustainable impact, emerging markets, real assets and private debt where we think that
we have a great expertise and we combine our expertise with higher fees charged in
these strategies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, in terms of rationalizing, we think that we can rationalize our product range and
our product oﬀering. We currently have over 300 funds in seven fund domiciles and we
expect to rationalize that in the coming three years.
More focus is what we want also in our distribution and in our client – in our target client
segmenting – sorry, targeting client segments. So we want more focus on more client
segments and build our distribution in those areas. And we want to simplify our structure
within the asset managers – within the asset manager and simplify the processes following
the implementation of that platform that I just mentioned earlier.
Now in order to support all this, we've taken a restructuring provision of €13 million in the
fourth quarter operating result line of the asset manager. And this has to do with some
investments that we need to make, plus also some personnel costs are included in that.
And that's what we've done to ensure that we achieve our objective moving forward,
which is to improve the net ﬂows and grow the asset manager.
With that, I'd like to hand over to you, Delﬁn, to take William's other questions that he
had.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Of course. William, so in terms of your ﬁrst question about targets on Solvency II ratios, I
think that maybe on this we are slightly having a – slightly diﬀerent approach than others.
But we are not at this time ready to elaborate on speciﬁc targets for the subsidiaries or for
the Group.

Page 14 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

The reason being is because we believe that these ratios, how they are interpreted,
remains ﬂuid and there still remains some uncertainties over the ﬁnal numbers as we
move over the next quarters.
We will see how the environment pans out over the coming year. And for this reason, our
capital guidance at this point of time remains focused on capital generation and in the
holding cash capital levels. And I think that guidance should provide you a good metric in
order to grasp not only what – subject to some volatility, we will be able to generate cash
ﬂow available to shareholders. And then how, as this accumulates in the cash capital at
holding, how that will be distributed to shareholders over time within the range guidance
of €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion.
Your second question was about deferred taxes. You've got in the press release in the
capital management section in page 22, you've got the contribution to own funds – to
eligible own funds of the diﬀerent elements. So that also can allow you to do the tiering of
capital. So then you can see there, that the deferred tax asset is basically all of tier 3, of
€735 million, representing around 6% of the total.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Great. Thanks. Sorry, I missed that last one. Thanks.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Next question comes from Cor Kluis from Rabobank. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning, Cor Kluis, Rabobank. I've got a few questions. First of all, on the Solvency
II ratio in the NL Life business, which declined only by 5 percentage points from 225 to
220, despite the big upstreams that you have done this quarter. Could you tell what
happened during the quarter? What's the roll forward for that solvency development over
the quarter?
And the second question is about energy exposure and China exposure to this probably
fairly small for you. But at least could you give some indication or sizes or ﬁgures on that
one? These were my questions.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, let's start. Thanks, Cor. So let's start with the exposures in China and the energy
sector. So, Doug, can you take that? And then I'm asking Delﬁn to take the Solvency II
ratio of NN Life.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Sure. The China – I think you used the word non-existent. I think it's very – we would not
have any material exposure to China directly.

Page 15 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

In terms of the energy sector, we have – In the appendix we show 3% under utilities and
natural resources. About €1.2 billion of that is exposed to oil. There could be of course,
again, indirect exposure, but that would be more diﬃcult to quantify. So in total, you're
talking about 1% of the general account investments exposed to oil and essentially, no
exposure directly to China.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. And the metals business?

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Metals?

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

I think that would be in our utilities and natural resources. The total exposure we would
have is 3% of our assets.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So, the evolution of the Solvency II ratio in NN Life, basically, you have to take here into
account ﬁrst the market impact has not been this quarter that signiﬁcant. So the variance
from the previous quarter are mainly driven by the dividend payment of €125 million that
is being deducted from the solvency. And I think that is – and obviously the operating
result that has contributed positively over the quarter.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Farquhar Murray from Autonomous.
Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Morning, gentlemen. It's Farquhar from Autonomous here. Just two questions, if I may,
just starting on the holding cash target. Could you just explain the reasoning or
framework behind the €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion target there? And, also, could you just
explain whether there's been any incremental upstreams from the subsidiaries to the
Group in the ﬁrst quarter to date?
Page 16 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

And then just on the – just a little bit of an extension on the question from Ashik on the
dividend. Obviously, net operating proﬁt in 2015 was boosted by private equity dividend.
My question, therefore, to a certain extent is when you think about the dividend trajectory,
did you look through those perhaps with an intention of at least maintaining a stable
nominal? I think the answer is very much yes, but I just want to conﬁrm that. Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, thanks, Farquhar. I'll hand over to Delﬁn for these questions.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Okay. So, Farquhar, the ﬁrst question about the way of looking at the targets of the hold
company cash levels. Maybe if I refer back, as you know, at the time of the IPO we did
explain that the free cash available to shareholders will be in the range of the net
operating proﬁt of the ongoing business. We have repeated that several times. And now
basically what we have given you now is more clarity on the cash capital position at the
holding, of which we think that the range of €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion is our target.

Bloomberg Transcript

The cash capital, you have to think of it as the amount we believe that we require to cover
stress events and to fund holding cost. So this amount depends, therefore, on the risk in
our units relative to their ﬁnancial position. So, as I said during the presentation, as we
take more risk then we need to have more cash capital at holding. And also it depends
what is the level of solvency in existence at the subsidiaries.
So this is, if you like, a dynamic situation on which also levels of interest rates and other
valuations of ﬁnancial assets impact your solvency over time. So the combination of these
two statements how much we are expecting to generate of cash ﬂow and how to move
from there should provide you a good guidance.
And obviously you should not expect that this target is a complete ﬁx. So that means that
there will be times in which we are outside of the range. And obviously, as any target, we
will aim taking the right actions in order to move towards the range again.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. And dividends in the ﬁrst quarter in terms of upstreams?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

In terms of dividends for the ﬁrst quarter you have to – basically, just as a reminder, the
dividends for Europe tends to come into the second quarter. And I think that one element
maybe to highlight is that in the case of Belgium, because their portfolio is – part of their
portfolio is running oﬀ, we are expecting to release during the period of 2016 and 2018 a
bit more dividends than in the past.
For Netherlands Life and for the other operating units the capital above the commercial
target is upstreamed to the holding company as it comes through. And we expect this

Page 17 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

remittance of Netherlands Life to be larger than the net operating result, as I have said. So
I don't think there is anything in particular to ﬂag for the existing quarter.

FINAL

A - Eilard Friese
And then ﬁnally I think, Delﬁn, that Farquhar also had a ﬁnal question around the dividend
policy. In general, the 40% to 50% range, and how you think about – how we think about
that. So maybe you want to take that as well.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. I think the dividend policy we – on the ordinary dividend I stated already that we're
looking for a stable evolution on that respect. And obviously the private equity
contribution, as others, can be volatile, but we should still – I think that the right deﬁnition
is to look at sustainable, hopefully, growing dividend over time.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much indeed.

Operator
Next question comes from Farooq Hanif from Citi. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

I want to return to the holdco cash target because you're clearly going back into the
target range now having been above it. So I just want to understand what this means
because you are – we are in a time of stress with lots of potential risk and – but at the same
time you've got very good capital in your subsidiaries.
So, should we interpret you being below that €1.5 billion range as – if you're within the
range, buybacks we should assume in this climate don't happen until you get above the
range? What happens as you get to €0.5 billion? What is the range of diﬀerent actions
that you take within that range? If you could just explain a little bit more.
And my second question is you've given the €1.8 billion of Solvency I capital generation.
Was the Solvency II capital generation in 2015 greater than this or less than this? And can
you make a general comment on Solvency II capital generation versus the Solvency II
generation that we've seen before? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
So, Farooq, thanks for your question. Let's start with Delﬁn, on the range and how to think
about that.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So when considering how we return excess capital, I think we have to take into account
diﬀerent factors. Our own risk and solvency assessment, current and future capital
Page 18 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

generation, market volatility, regulatory uncertainties, litigation risk as a unit link.

FINAL

So many factors need to be taken into account when we take a decision to return excess
capital.
For this reason, we have given a guidance that covers most scenarios within that range.
But, as I said, you should not look at the €1.5 billion or €0.5 billion as hard target. We will,
over time, come back to the range. And that does not mean that if we are below €1.5
billion that we don't have capacity to do share buybacks or distribute further dividends on
top of the ordinary dividend. That's why there is a range.
And, again, within that range, then what we will look is into considering all these factors,
the solvency of the subsidiaries, the situation of the risk proﬁle at that point of time. We
will decide on the share buybacks. But the range, I would say, if anything, gives us
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility in order to aim for the sustainable return to shareholders.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. And, Doug, can you take the second piece of the question for Farooq?

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I think maybe just to focus on the diﬀerences between the Solvency I and Solvency II
regime and primarily in the Netherlands. It was – I think when you look at NN Life where
you have – the change in the assets is very similar between the two.
On the liabilities, there is a credit risk adjustment and a volatility adjustor that you have to
take into account that was not there in Solvency I because it was on the swap curve.
During 2015, that was a net positive, so that would have been a little bit lower capital
generation for the ﬁxed income and the liabilities.
Then the other main diﬀerence is the risk margins. The risk margins are generally a little
bit higher under Solvency II than under Solvency I, so that would generate a little bit
higher capital. But those are the types of points that I think are the key diﬀerences.

A - Eilard Friese
And I think, Delﬁn, can give a bit more on the capital generation.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. I think maybe the base reference for you to look at, Farooq, is in – again in the capital
management section where you can see the evolution of the solvency capital ratio in the
quarter. You can see that in terms of the solvency capital requirement has been very ﬂat,
as you know, around €5.6 billion capital requirement, and there has been, however, a
reduction of €0.5 billion in the eligible own funds.

Page 19 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

But when you look into that, as you can see that there are two elements impacting that.
Basic own funds decrease not much, by around 200, and is being – the increase in the
non-eligible own funds as well as the non-eligible own funds – non-available own funds,
sorry, and the non-eligible own funds.
So the main driver for the reduction of the basic own funds is, of course, the proposed
ﬁnal dividend of €341 million, and so you have to take into account that the solvency
requirements and the basic own funds already reﬂects the €340 million dividend. And as I
was --

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

The implication of what you're saying is a normalized run rate is essentially similar to the
dividend – ﬁnal dividend payment in the quarter.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Sorry, Farooq, can you ask the question again?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sorry. I was just trying to do some maths in my head. So what you're saying is that the
SCR was ﬂat but the own funds was down mainly due to the dividend. So if we take the
ﬁnal dividend payment, that gives you an idea of the operational solvency generation in
that quarter?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Actually, I think that if you were to exclude the impact of the dividend, instead of
239% it will be 245%. So, excluding the dividend, it is a decrease of 2 percentage points
from 247% to 245% and the majority of that is explained by basically the non-available
own funds and the non-eligible own funds that has increased somehow. The markets have
not had much impact during the quarter for both NN Life or the Group.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Next question comes from Nadine Van Der Meulen from Morgan Stanley. Go ahead Miss.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Firstly, I suppose, on Netherlands Life. The value of new business was
a little low. You mentioned declining interest rates. What are your expectations here going
forward? So what, in your mind, is a more normalized level going forward? And in that
light, perhaps you can comment also on the development of new products like APF, etc.

Page 20 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

The second question is previously you mentioned there are regions where you see the
potential to reduce solvency positions. Can you remind us which regions and how much
capital you expect to be released from lowering this in the coming years?

FINAL

Thirdly, on the P&C performance, clearly the last three years are above the 100%. Apart
from further expense saves, what actions are you taking to improve this?
And lastly, can you – as far as you can say, give an indication of your appetite for
acquisitions given that you still have quite low leverage, strong capital and low growth?
Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, thanks Nadine. So let me start with taking a couple of these and then I'll make sure
that – I think Solvency ratio Delﬁn is something for you and then the remainder I will take,
to a large extent.

Bloomberg Transcript

So ﬁrst on the appetite for M&A. Our focus and priority is on the existing businesses and
activities and making them stronger in the markets where we operate. And obviously we
monitor the developments in the various markets where we operate closely. But nothing
has changed in that sense in the IPO. So if we have excess cash, your base case is to
repatriate that back to shareholders unless there is a corporate opportunity that presents
itself and creates a lot of shareholder value. So in that sense, nothing has changed.
When it comes to our property and casualty business and the combined ratio of the nonlife company, as you know, let me start by repeating the target that we have for this is 97%
or better by the end of 2018. In spite of the fact that the full year the combined ratio has
gone up, we are going to continue to get after that target and work towards it. But in
order to go deeper into this, we need to dive a bit deeper into the various segments of
the non-life company.
Disability and accident, which is a large piece like 45% of the premiums of the non-life
business, is actually in a decent place. It's down at 97.6% and don't forget that is a healthy
level for a D&A business where we also have reserves in the balance sheet. We also made
money on the investments there.
When it comes to property and casualty, we have – there is a number of dimensions here.
Over the full year we have seen an increase of the combined ratio there, which was mainly
driven by the ﬁrst three quarters in which we saw large ﬁres in our ﬁre book and quite
some weather-related claims. You may recall the hail storms, even the summer storms that
we had this summer. So we saw that coming through.
We've looked extensively at whether these large ﬁre claims would constitute a pattern.
We've looked ourselves. We've made sure that we've had proper diligence done on that.
Nothing came out that there any – that was signaling towards a trend in that area. And
also Q4 actually conﬁrmed that because in Q4 we didn't have these large ﬁres. And the
combined ratio for ﬁre for instance in Q4 was back to 88%. So that gives you a dynamic
Page 21 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

which has been important for understanding the driver of our combined ratio evolution in
the non-life business.
The motor book is something that we focused on, and I mentioned that in earlier quarters.
There we have improved actually over the year from 111% combined ratio to 109%. Now,
obviously, that's not where it should be, so we continue down that path to bring the
combined ratio in a better place for the motor book. And what we have done so far is the
following things.
We have taken individual approach to frequent claimers. We terminated large car ﬂeets.
We introduced usage-based car insurance, and we had some diﬀerentiated premium rate
increases, 6% roughly round numbers, in 2015 for small car ﬂeets, round numbers 10% to
20% depending on the experience that we have in the particular client, with a particular
client.
And for the next steps, we will take ongoing measures on loss making pools, mandate the
broker portfolios and additional car ﬂeet pruning. So we will continue to do this and also
adjust premiums based on risk reviews. We will do that in a sophisticated manner to
ensure that we improve the overall risk proﬁle of that book.

Bloomberg Transcript

So bottom line is, combined with the expense reductions, we aim for the target of 97%
combined. Now that's for the non-life business.
For life, VNB was low. I want to start by saying that actually the sales growth in the life
business, in the Netherlands, is obviously very, very small since it mostly constitutes of the
pension business where we have a lumpy evolution of renegotiating of existing pension
contracts.
In the individual life insurance space, we basically sell term life. And for the remainder, the
long-term savings needs are catered for by the savings products that we oﬀer through the
NN Bank business that we have, which is growing quite nicely.
And then we focus especially on the DC and the PPIs etc., which is low guarantee or very
low guarantee and therefore, less capital intense new business in the deﬁned contribution
space. So that's where we do think that there is growth opportunity and we have launched
new products there and also launched the APF as a new vehicle to capture DC
arrangements.
With that, I'd like to hand over to Delﬁn for the question about potentially reducing
Solvency II ratios in various markets.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Hi, Nadine. We are well capitalized across the diﬀerent end subsidiaries. So that will give
us a good position. Maybe the best reference I can give you Nadine is what we described
already in the Capital Markets Day, when we expressed that for Netherlands Life, for some
entities within Insurance Europe and certainly for the Japan closed block VA, is where
Page 22 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

their reduction from the level of surplus capital will be also a contributor to the cash
generation coming from these segments.

FINAL

Within Europe, I have already mentioned Belgium, as being the entity with the largest
potential for releasing capital due to the runoﬀ of part of their business there.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Your next question comes from Gordon Aitken from RBC. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Good morning. Thanks. Firstly, one of your competitors yesterday was saying it is not
currently proﬁtable to write deﬁned beneﬁt and showed a negative new business margin.
I am just wondering is it proﬁtable currently for you? I noticed the IRR has declined. As
you've said, you've renewed a few large group contracts. Is it possible in this market to
take schemes from other providers? Would you look at doing that and if that's not
possible, can you simply just up your prices that you charge in the schemes? That's the
ﬁrst question.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second one is on Solvency II and UFR. I see you've given some sensitivity for 100
basis points move south. What's your view as to the likelihood of this happening? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, thanks Gordon. Let me start with the pension business in the Netherlands. We have
always maintained a view that when it comes to writing pension business, you need to be
disciplined. And we have our own pricing discipline and as a result, you did not see us
participating as much as some of the others did in the buyout space, for instance.
So we maintain that discipline also when renewing new pension contracts where we do
observe, given the low rates and the quotes that we would give in the renegotiations to
our clients, that there is – obviously it's become quite expensive and as a result you see a
move to deﬁned contribution, or at least to renewals on a diﬀerent basis where you have a
more of a hybrid system that employers often to their employees, or really deﬁne a
contribution business. So we will continue to maintain our pricing discipline and, as a
result, that's how we migrate and help our clients towards let's say less capital intense and
aﬀordable pension plans.
When it comes to the margins of the DC business, they are lower indeed. Having said
that, the capital that is associated with this business is also quite low. So, as a result, the
return on capital, of course, looks also diﬀerent in this area.

Page 23 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

We believe that over time, and it will take time, because the existing stock on the balance
sheet of our Company is there and that represents the past accruals and past rights of all
pensioners, that over time we clearly see a move towards the deﬁned contribution. So
over time that will happen. It is accelerating at this point in time especially for new
business. But it will take time before our total balance sheet has migrated into that
direction.
So when it comes to the Solvency II sensitivities, I will hand over to Doug for this.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. I think yes, the question, show the UFR sensitivity. I think the question is
what's the likelihood of that? Of course, we don't really assign a likelihood. That's
something that will go through the process of EIOPA. They will review this. It's one part of
Solvency II as well. So it's not necessarily likely that only one part will be reviewed. But we
will see how it plays out during 2016 and see what the nature is. I think one point that's
not mentioned on this slide, it's important though to remember, is if it were to be
adjusted, while that would have the impact on the Solvency ratio that we show, that would
also increase capital generation going forward. So this is one where there is a trade-oﬀ
between the two.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Great. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Next question is from William Elderkin from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Most of my questions have been asked and
answered. But I just wondered can you give us any – how we should be thinking about this
very, very strong solvency you're showing in the Dutch Life business? I know you've made
comments around the holding company and previous comments around capital
generation. But is there anything more you can add in terms of where your major
uncertainties are, or how and when some of that excess capital may return to the holding
company?

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, Delﬁn, please.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, William. No, I don't think there is anything special or uncertain there.
Obviously, the impact of the loss absorbing capacity of deferred taxes and actually of any
of the sensitivities that we have shown in the presentation very much impact. NN Life has
been the largest and the most important entity. But nothing special to indicate in terms of
how the capital will be generated or will ﬂow into dividents to the holding company.
Page 24 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

As we explained in the Capital Markets Day, we do expect that to have positive evolution
on the own funds. But also in the solvency capital requirement, we expect to have
decreasing capital requirements due to the individual life portfolio.
And then for the pension business, depends of how things play out in relationship to
insured deﬁned contribution. But keep in mind that as the business shift towards deﬁned
contribution, that is very capital light and more management net fee based. And then we
have already said that Netherland's Life has a strong solvency ratio. So reduction from the
current level of solvency ratio might also be a contributor to cash ﬂow generation towards
the holding.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Next question comes from Matthias de Wit from KBC. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Just to come back on the question of the dividends paid to the
holding company since the start of the year. I'm still not entirely clear whether or not you
remit – you did remit any cash specially related to the Netherlands where in last year in
Q4, you announced that you paid the dividend in February. So I just wonder whether you
did do that again. Could you – linked to that also remind me when the international and
Dutch operations typically pay their annual dividends to the holding company? I thought
it was Q2 for international and Q1 for the main dividends from the Netherlands.
And then secondly on Solvency II. I understood you were working on some optimization
initiatives or looking at them including longevity swaps, the reﬁnancing of the non-eligible
hybrids and a number of other actions. So could you update us in this respect? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, Matthias, good morning and thank you. So, Delﬁn, would you take those questions
please?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, maybe just -- okay,the microphone is now on. So maybe Matthias, on the dividends
paid from Netherlands Life, I think there is no particular quarter on which that's going to
be done. Actually when you look at how 2015 has developed, we paid €350 million in the
ﬁrst quarter, we paid €150 million in the third quarter, and €250 million in the second – in
the fourth quarter.
So that's a total of €750 million, which actually, you should add to that the approximately
€10 million per quarter that we do receive as part of the coupon, or the interest on the
hybrids that has been lent from the holding to Netherlands Life. And that, the same
Page 25 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

happens with other business units like investment partners or NN Re. That don't have so
much of bias towards the second quarter and this is more distributed across the year.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. So for Insurance Europe and Japan it's...

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Japan as well. Japan as well. It tends to be in the second quarter, or maybe the third
quarter.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. And then on the dividends received since the start of the year, because normally
you announced it when you pay, you remit cash from the Netherlands, you announce that
it's – what was paid after the quarter ended, but you didn't do this this year. Is there any
diﬀerent timing or?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No, yes. Well I think, one has to be – it can be a little bit misleading and one is to read
carefully, because every time we announce our dividend, it's already reﬂected in the
solvency ratio of that entity.
However, if you were to look at the graph, or the numbers in relationship to the cash ﬂow
to the holding, obviously cash ﬂow is only accounted when the actual cash transfer from
the subsidiary to the holding. But, basically, what we have already paid has been €125
million in the month of October from Netherlands Life, another €125 million in the month
of December, and we have not announced anything yet from Netherlands Life so far,
otherwise would have been highlighted and also included in the solvency ratio as of
December 31.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, that's clear. And on Solvency II optimization?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

In terms of – so Solvency II optimization, I think there are a few things that we are looking
at. I mean, one clear one is the longevity on which we are looking into what is the
possibility of doing a transaction. I think this is something that we have to be very careful
with in the sense that it has diﬀerent elements and one has to be sure that when we do
the transfer of longevity risk it is done based on the right basis.
Another potential action is reducing expenses faster than our expense assumptions and
that will have a positive impact. And then, but it is more marginal, is if we were to apply
some transitionals on the countries for the technical provisions in the countries in Europe
under the standard formula. But that will have a very marginal impact on the overall the
solvency.
Page 26 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

That's clear. Thanks a lot.

Operator

FINAL

Next question comes from Jan Willem Knoll from ABN AMRO. Please go ahead sir.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. A couple of brief questions. On nonlife, do you think your combined ratio in D&A can improve much below the current 97.6
%, or will the improvement in the Group P&C ratio fully have to come from the P&C
business?
And then on disability speciﬁcally, do you think that on the back of the economic recovery
in the Netherlands you will see some positive impact on the claims ratio in the disability
business?
And actually, both in P&C and D&A, how much room do you have to reprice the business,
or is that quite diﬃcult given the competitive environment?

Bloomberg Transcript

I guess on the longevity swaps. I guess that's partly a choice between capital now and
capital generation in the future and given your strong capital ratios, I mean why would
you sort of consider doing all the eﬀort in executing longevity swaps?
And then brieﬂy also, sorry for coming back on the cash capital target at holding. I mean
you made it very clear that the target depends on, amongst other things, the risks in the
underlying businesses. We could argue that looking at the risks and developments in the
underlying business that the risks are rising and you are rerisking the general account still.
It seems that risks in the ﬁnancial markets are rising, at least in my view. Not all your
litigation risks have been resolved. So given these risks and developments, is it fair to
assume that you will aim to keep the cash capital in the upper half of the guidance range?
And maybe lastly on your asset quality. You talked about your exposure to energy and
mining. So we use the utility and national resources exposure as a proxy. What percent of
these portfolios is below investment grade and what sort of credit migration have you
seen in the ﬁrst quarter and do you expect in the rest of the year. And basically similar on
your exposure to ﬁnancial institutions. How much exposure do you have to AT1 say, if any?
Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Well, Jan Willem, good morning. That's quite a number of questions, so we'll try to
answer them in an orderly fashion there for you. So, let's take them one by one.
First the non-life comments – questions that you had. The disability and accident business
runs at 97.6% combined. I already mentioned earlier that on a breakeven level you can
Page 27 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

also run this business on a 100% combined. So 97.6% combined is a very healthy eﬀect,
healthy level of this business. But we will obviously – we do think that most of the
improvement that we need to get to the 97% or better by the end of 2018 needs to come
from the property and casualty side of the house. Having said that, we will also aim to
improve the combined ratio on the D&A side by especially lowering expenses etc. But of
the most improvement we expect to have to be come from the property and casualty
business.
When it comes to the economic developments in the Netherlands, will that have a
positive impact on D&A? It's not a one-on-one relationship. But it is true that if the
economies are better, usually you see a better risk proﬁle emerging in the D&A portfolio.
That is true. But let's not – but I am not going to be more concrete on that moving
forward. So the bottom line is most of the improvement will need to come from P&C. And
D&A is in a healthy position right now, but we aim to improve further through expense
reductions and improvements with the underwriting performance.
Then we go to the longevity swaps, which is the second question you had. And I ask Doug
to comment on that.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, I think we have a few considerations when we look at the longevity swaps. One is it's
simply a risk concentration for our Company. So it's one of our biggest single
concentrations and we need to consider if we want to adjust that over time. And then, of
course, how to do that because these contracts can be very long dated and so you have
to be very careful that you are entering into something that you are comfortable with.
Of course, we also want to look at the capital eﬃciency of it and whether that improves
our return on capital, and these are probably the two biggest things that we will look at
and consider as we continue to work through that.

A - Eilard Friese
Okay, and then the questions on the holdco cash capital levels and then subsequently the
energy exposure questions, so let's move to Delﬁn.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So I think it's -- we have given a range for a reason in order to cover most scenarios. So I
think it should not be that appropriate just to speculate if we are going to be on the very
top of the range or come down below that element.
The only thing I would highlight is that once more that the subsidiaries are strongly
capitalized and that the level of the cash capital of holding is strong and as a
consequence, unless there is extraordinary circumstances, markets moving very badly, the
sustainable return to shareholders should be maintained over the next quarters.

Page 28 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

FINAL

Keep in mind that so far, as Lard emphasized during his presentation, we have given back
€1.4 billion to our shareholders since the time of the IPO. And that has been done at a
time where obviously we have beneﬁted from positive impacts of the market because
while doing so we have increased at the same time the level of solvency and the level of
cash capital at the holding. So there is some ﬂexibility there, I would say.
In terms of the exposure to energy and investment grade and the CoCo or AT1, ﬁrst our
overall exposure to ﬁnancials is very low. We basically don't have any exposure to CoCo.
You can also see in the appendix the breakdown of the ﬁxed income securities by
category and you can see that the part Other, that will include non-rated or not
investment grade is very limited with a total of 2% and as said, again this includes nonrated securities.
And in terms of the exposure of energy, it is also very limited. And I think it was 2% of the
total of which oil related is 1%.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

Yes, and in terms of credit quality of the speciﬁc oil and mining exposures, what percent
of that is below investment grade?

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

I think we have to get back to you on that speciﬁc question. But again I think it's good to
note that it's very limited the exposure that we have. But on that particular question we'll
get back to you, Jan Willem.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks.

Operator
Next question is from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go ahead sir.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Hi gentlemen. Thanks for allowing me to come back. Actually, I've just got two quick
questions if I may. Several of your peers have given Solvency II targets for subsidiaries and
for Group level already. So, can you just explain which uncertainties are driving your
decision not to give these and are these speciﬁc to NN?
And then more broadly, you have stated before that there is excess capital within NN Life
and certainly 220% looks extremely strong versus peers. But at the same time, you seem
to be now saying that the €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion holding cash target builds in the
position of the subsidiaries.
Does that mean that if you upstreamed from NN Life and lowered the capital in that
subsidiary, that there will be an oﬀsetting increase in the cash target at the holding and
Page 29 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

would that oﬀset be one to one or is that far too extreme a kind of interpretation of what
you're saying? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese

FINAL

Thanks, Farquhar. Delﬁn?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, starting with your ﬁrst question about any speciﬁc uncertainties driving our approach
to provide guidance on capital management, the answer is no. I don't think there is
anything speciﬁc. Obviously, each company has its own characteristics and risk proﬁle.
Maybe it's also a question of oﬃce style and approach that we have taken from the very
start at the time of the IPO. And I think we've been clear on which uncertainties do assist
at this point of time.
We just think that maybe at this point of time, providing a speciﬁc target for the
subsidiaries might, in certain scenarios, going forward, prove not to be that helpful. So
we'd better provide a guidance that gives you, as I said already, indication of how cash
ﬂow might be generated and how can be distributed to shareholders going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

And your second question. If indeed NN Life continues having a healthy and a strong
dividend ﬂow to the holding, there is not a one by one need to increase it at the holding
company. Obviously, the levels of €0.5 billion to €1.5 billion is designed for covering most
scenarios over time. So that means that there is ﬂexibility within that range and it's not
mathematical one by one.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Could I please extend that question? I mean if you took the position in NN Life below say
200%, does it become one to one at that stage? I can't imagine it does. I just think the
way you spoke to that comment, actually just opened up a point of uncertainty.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Obviously, you treat the cash capital at holding diﬀerently if your largest subsidiary is at
220% Solvency or that is at 120% Solvency for the sake of argument, that's obviously the
case. But one has to consider the ﬂexibility that currently exists in the solvency ratio for
Netherlands Life in order to cover any uncertainty or risk they can be facing and 220%, as
you have said, it is a very strong solvency ratio and certainly compared with other peers.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much indeed.

Operator
There are no further questions, please continue.

Page 30 of 31



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2016-02-25

A - Eilard Friese

FINAL

Well then I would like to thank all of you for your questions and for your participation in
this call this morning. So I'd like to round oﬀ by saying that we are pleased with the strong
results for 2015 and the progress we have made during the year to achieve our ﬁnancial
targets and to generate value.
We reached an important milestone in December when our Solvency II partial internal
model was approved by the Dutch regulator and we believe that our strong capital
position will allow us to deal with any remaining uncertainties and market volatility. But it
also allows us to keep delivering on our promise to return capital to shareholders by
proposing a ﬁnal dividend for 2015 of €1.05 per ordinary share.
We still have a lot of work to do in 2016 to further improve performance and this goes
hand in hand with delivering an excellent customer experience, by oﬀering transparent
products and services that serve our customers' lifetime needs and being a company that
truly matters in the lives of our stakeholders. I wish you all a very good day.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the NN Group conference call. You may now
disconnect your line. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 31 of 31

