Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Dieter Wemmer, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Günther Thallinger, Member-Management Board and Head-Investment Management
Oliver Bäte, Chairman - Board of Management & Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie, Analyst
Edina Rozinka, Credit Trading Strategist (Financials)
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael Igor Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Rötger Franz, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results
2016. For your information, this conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to
turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Gail. Good afternoon from my side as well, and welcome to our conference
call. As you know, we have three presenters today. Oliver will kick it oﬀ and share his
views on the 2016 results and our capital management. Then Dieter will explain the
numbers in detail. And ﬁnally, Günther will talk about our investments.
We have scheduled two hours for the call. In case that is enough to cover all your
questions, please come and see us at our Analyst Meetings that we will host next week.
And we will host one in London, one in Paris, and one in Frankfurt.

Page 1 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

That's already all from my side. And with that, I hand over to Oliver.

FINAL

Oliver Bäte
Yeah. Good afternoon, or good morning if you are in New York. Thank you very much for
listening and your interest. I'm proud and happy to present very good numbers after a
very challenging year for us, and good news on capital management. The headline for
our presentations today is Delivery on Delivering, and that's what we have been doing for
2016.
Now, I don't need to explain to you like in the press call today what a diﬃcult environment
it has been politically and economically in 2016. And it looks like it's going to continue.
Lots of unpredictabilities, and in this environment, particularly, with a very diﬃcult interest
rate environment, our company has performed really well. Thank you, in particular, to all
our employees and the leaders in the company for great results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, what have they been? With €10.8 billion total year results, we are near the upperend of our target range. We have generated €6.9 billion in shareholders' net income, and
we are therefore proposing to increase the dividend per share to €7.60. That's up more
than 4%. Earnings per share is the same number in terms of increase. It's now at €15.1, and
our Solvency stands at a very strong 218%. We assume you have some questions around
that, that Dieter will address later.
The return on equity is 12%. It's somewhat down from last year. That is due to very strongly
rising equity capital. There's a couple of eﬀects related to that. We're still sticking to our
target of around 13%. So, we believe it's not an issue around earnings. It's actually an issue
around balance sheet strength, which we consider to be an extremely important asset in
such a very diﬃcult environment.
If we turn to A3, I'd like to highlight that all our segments are delivering. Life and Health is
now with ROE about 10%; P&C, 13%; Asset Management, 15%. So, let me hit the segments
one after the other.
On the P&C side, we'd like to grow 3.1% internal growth. The combined ratio, with 94.3%,
is getting closer to target. The restructuring of Fireman's Fund that is still impacting the
AGC&S results is on track. And we have, after installing a new leadership team in São
Paulo for LatAm, are making good progress and further improving our performance
across the Latin American continent.
Operating proﬁt signiﬁcantly improving, and as you will hear later, without some further
clean-up in the balance sheet on an old Life portfolio that we still book under P&C,
because we only otherwise have P&C and Health in Brazil would have been already
signiﬁcantly more positive.
The Life and Health insurance story continues to be very successful. We have told you in
November of 2015 that our most important strategic priority is the transformation of our
Life insurance business, moving it to new capital-light products that are both better for
Page 2 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

consumers and better for our shareholders. It is happening, and you would see that later
the trend continues strongly across core markets.
The new business margin is up, despite record low interest rates and the disposal of
Korea strongly beneﬁted our Solvency II capitalization. I think some did not have that on
their radar screen. And it has three positive eﬀects. It impacts positively future proﬁtability.
It strongly helps our Solvency II capitalization. And it further reduces interest rate
sensitivity, which is one thing that is of utmost importance for our risk management team,
because that has been impacting us negatively as a sector and also as Allianz.
And I just wanted to say it loud and clear, we are committed to further reduce interest rate
sensitivity and risk capital consumption. We have a slightly diﬀerent view on credit spread,
which we're going to talk about. So, operating proﬁt here in the segment is at a record
level with €4.1 billion, and it's very strong. It's also due to the fact that our U.S. Life
company is doing extremely well, and congratulations to the team in Minneapolis for
another successful year.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Asset Management, we've also told you clearly what the agenda is. PIMCO, as a
company, has decided to rejig its team, ﬁnd a new leader, and then the investment team
was able and capable to focus more strongly on investment performance and
outperformance which has been very strong in 2016. Congratulations. In return, net ﬂows
have returned €11 billion in the second half, that's in euros. And also, congratulation, due
to good cost management, the cost-income ratio is now again below 60%.
And not only did PIMCO performed really well, Allianz Global Investors delivered an alltime high in terms of operating proﬁts, €543 million, despite very strong outﬂows of the
equity sector, particularly in the United States. So overall, when you look at the portfolio,
yes, times are really tough for all segments, but yes, Allianz has been performing really
well.
So, we're continuing our track record. Page A4, gives you an overview of the last few years
of improvement in operating proﬁt, earnings per share and dividends per share. And as
described earlier, we're again raising the proposal for increasing dividends per share to
now €7.60. And that comes in addition to a share buyback of €3 billion that we have
started today.
Now, talking about delivery, we are delivering at the same time on multiple cylinders. We
are delivering strong results on our existing business, while in parallel, changing the
company. That's a very hard thing to do. It's a particular stress for our managers, but it's
working very well.
A5 gives you an overview. I don't want to go into the detail. It remains at the heart of our
transformation program that we are focusing on bringing customer loyalty to top levels
across our businesses. We're making progress here, as we are on digital, thanks for those
that visited us in Munich, as we do on technical excellence on growth engines on culture
change.

Page 3 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

On page A6, I'd just like to highlight, people are asking and waiting for the big bangs. It's
not necessary we have a track record of continuously investing. Last year, we've invested
in Rogge. We have done the Zurich Maroc deal. We have created a partnership with
Standard Chartered. But we're not just buying. We've also decided, and you see that it's
about cleaning the portfolio wherever it's necessary. So, after disposing of the Fireman's
Fund retail portfolio and AGF in the UK, we have successfully executed the exit for our
Korean Life portfolio with huge beneﬁts for Allianz.
Now, that already brings me to something that is probably very dear and important to
you, the slide A7. And let me spend a little bit of time on this slide. We have debated for a
number of time how do you think about the commitment that Michael Diekmann has
given the few years back on the unused budget for external growth. And we've always
said, if we do not ﬁnd appropriate investment opportunities which we are working on,
because we want to grow this company, but if it's not possible organically or externally,
we are going to be disciplined and return it to our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're keeping our commitment. That's another form of delivery, and we are returning €3
billion to shareholders via share buyback over the next 12 months. Again, that has started
today, and that is subject to a sustainable Solvency ratio above 160%. That is the exact
wording, and there's no other detail to bear in mind. We will cancel the purchased shares
over time.
Now, this alone will create an EPS accretion of around 4.4% if you do a full rate analysis on
2018 numbers. And also, if you think about the ROE uplift, you will obviously need to have
a few assumption on how this comes, but is about 50 to 60 basis points improvement and
that is important to know.
Now going forward, we have decided to simplify and ﬂexibilize our dividend policy in
order to be able to return capital to shareholders whenever that is suitable. Very
important, because we don't want to run up against the three-year wall, and then being
asked last year, what are you going to with the budget, what are you going to do the
budget? So, we don't need to wait for the end of a three-year period. If we don't need the
capital, if our Solvency remain strong, we can return capital in ﬂexible solutions. It doesn't
always have to be a buyback. It can be other ways.
And I'd also like to highlight that we are committed to remain capital discipline, as this
ﬁrst share buyback in our history exempliﬁes, because we have very demanding earnings
per share growth targets, and very demanding ROE targets. So, these are going to
safeguard capital management discipline. And I'd like to mention also, that you can see
from our numbers that we have extremely strong cash ﬂows to the holding. The vast
majority of our earnings are ﬂowing up. So, we have the ﬂexibility to continue doing what
we are doing. I think we are pretty unique in that.
Now, page A8 gives you just a repetition that is often forgotten. We are committing to
payout 50% in the regular dividend, with a ratchet, i.e., that we'd like to maintain the
minimum level of prior year even if earnings were to be a little lower. And I think it's

Page 4 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

important to understand that next to being busy and productive, we've also obviously
been fortunate.

FINAL

Now, even if we're not fortunate and you have large net cap of volatility in the markets, we
have another 50% of the earnings that we can use to support both growth and ﬂexible
payout of excess capital, and if needed also to support the ratchet. So, you have an
insurance policy in your hand with our very reliable dividend policy.
So, let me summarize on page 8, 9, what the equity story is that we gave to our investors
in November and we have repeated at the Merrill Lynch Capital Day. Allianz is an
outstanding downside protection investment. We have a super-capital position. We are
well-diversiﬁed, yes, sometimes one of the other segments is aﬀected by short-term
volatility.
Overall, the portfolio is extremely strong, operating proﬁt, CAGR has been 7%. And we
have a very, very high quality investment portfolio. Günther Thallinger is going to talk
about that. It's not just the investment rate grading, we also are building the earnings
power through our alternative investments. So, you're getting the best of both worlds, a
well-diversiﬁed portfolio, and investment income above what other people can do.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, that would already be a rock-bottom value proposition in these very diﬃcult times.
On top of that, we have an attractive dividend policy with a 50% payout with a ratchet,
and very strong capital discipline, which we are now demonstrating. We're honoring the
commitment that Allianz has given, and we are buying back €3 billion.
Further to that, we have upside potential. We're absolutely committed to achieving a 5%
EPS growth. And remember, in 2016, we already delivered 4% even including Korea on an
organic basis. The Renewal Agenda investments are starting to pay oﬀ. They're helping
us, and most importantly, over time to improve net promoter score, and have, over time,
to also help us on productivity. Now, we're investing a lot at the moment, but productivity
gains will have to come over the next few years. And we enjoy scale beneﬁts on the
investment side both with Allianz Investment Management and our third-party asset
managers that are hard to beat on a global scale.
And while we're doing good and we are talking about it, we'd like to emphasize that this
is not a company that is running for quarterly earnings. We are trying to build a franchise
that delivers on a sustainable basis to society. This is not for the press. It's also important
for our investors. We are really trying to deliver contribution to all elements of society,
whether that is around the investment side, energy consumption, or as it is, with
employee engagement, and we are very proud of that.
And with that, I'd like to hand over to Dieter with one ﬁnal mentioning, that's our outlook
for 2017 not to be forgotten. Now, people have said and written some comments that we
have a muted outlook. I'd like to repeat then we have had a muted outlook for the last
three years. What we are doing for next year is fully consistent with prior years.

Page 5 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

As you remember, we had a mid-point for 2016 of €10.5 billion, that we've increased €300
million or 3% to €10.8 billion. So it's above signiﬁcantly the last-year mid-point, and we
have various numbers in the segments to get to the number with their own mid-point and
variations. Obviously, not all will be top and not all will be bottom.
So we believe that even in times when the political environment looks really diﬃcult, when
economic outlook for Europe might be under stress, particularly in government markets,
we remain committed to what you ﬁnd on page A12, which is the same ambition we have
given to you in November of 2015. Get the return on equity to 13%, grow earnings per
share of 5% and also improve the health of the company to have our consumers give us
75% top marks across the business and drive up our leadership index to 72%.
Thank you for listening.

Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, good morning, good afternoon. I am now going to dive in deeper into the numbers
that is then section B of the overall presentation, and we start on page 3. That is the only
page, which focus on Q4 standalone and then we move to the summarized annual results
page.
We ﬁnished with a really strong quarter in all segments. Revenues up in total driven by our
P&C segment with an internal growth of 3.6% and also internal growth in Life and Health.
Of course, Asset Management still slightly negative following the larger outﬂows in 2015.
Operating proﬁts, €2.8 billion, almost 10% higher than a year ago and 23% up on net
income with €1.7 billion.
Property and Casualty ended the year with a 94% combined ratio, I would call it a strong
organic one-oﬀ of 4.9% without inﬂuencing at all the strength of our balance sheet. Life's
new business margin 2.9%, with good volumes, a very strong ﬁnish of the year. I think it is
one of the highest new business values in a quarter you have seen so far at Allianz. The
2.9% new business margin re-calculate with quarter-end or beginning of the year, interest
rates would be 3.2%. And Asset Management also €640 million operating proﬁt, slightly
up over the quarter a year ago, that is certainly a good turning point. PIMCO cost income
ratio below 60% and inﬂows of €6 billion, even €1 billion better ending Q3, and I am
allowed to say this, January started at PIMCO very strong with above €5 billion net inﬂows
in January.
So, now turning to the overall annual results, €10.8 billion operating proﬁt. Strong
condition from Life and Health, where P&C reduced by the falling investment income,
following the natural decline of our average yield in the portfolio.
Asset Management, as I said before, still the consequence of 2015 outﬂows, resulting
overall in a net income of almost €6.9 billion, 4% above last year and then also resulting in
a 4% EPS growth. So, organically, already pretty close to our 5% target for the year.

Page 6 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

So I focus a little bit more on the balance sheet and then go a little bit quicker through the
segments because due to our ad hoc requirement, you had 12 hours more time to read all
the details. So I assume you have used this, and then I would focus more on the balance
sheet because I think that is of more interest.
Shareholders' equity, no surprise, slightly lower than after the nine months, falling
unrealized gains on bonds, but €1 billion more in unrealized gains on equity investments.
Compared to beginning of the year, our liabilities for own pension increased. However,
compared to the nine months ﬁgure, we have a lower pension liability. And FX actually
contributed also to a further increase of our net asset value.
The biggest jump you see in our Solvency II capitalization, and I would then move directly
to the next page to have chance to discuss it in more detail. So there are two ways to look
at this. I personally like the simple description ﬁrst. Look at the 12 months development.
Forget that there were 52 weeks, 5 days a week of daily volatility, and just look what has
happened over the 12 months.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, interest rates lowered over the full 12 months. Credit spread actually increased a bit.
And also stock markets went up. So all these market movements, we were actually able to
compensate by management action. That means reﬁned asset liability management, as
well as some equity hedging, in particular in Q4, so that was a wash. And then the 18%
increase from 200% to 218% is just the earnings plus rounded 10 percentage points for
the disposal of Korea that explains over the whole year the full movement of the solvency
ratio.
When I go into the Q4 details then we go much more into a lot of nitty-gritty movements.
For example, what you from the outside world cannot really guess and calculate is how
did the swap volatility move in Q4 and a key indicator here is the 10-year interest rate
volatility on the euro swap that is 19 points lower in Q4 than in the previous quarter, that it
let our group solvency increase by 4 percentage points.
Then I think that you have in general calculated Korea impact a bit lower, well it's 10%, we
had a better capital generations through Life proﬁt, high new business value, and of
course increase in interest rate also reduce the cost of options and guarantees a bit. And
then improved and reﬁned asset liability matching are the key driver besides the market
movement what we have seen in Q4. But personally, I like more the simple full-year story
because that is then giving the strategic picture and not trying to explain every movement
in the ﬁnancial markets.
Moving to P&C business page 13, well, roughly the same operating proﬁts than a year ago
because net earned premium, pretty ﬂat. Yes, combined ratio, 0.3 percentage points
better, but we lost €170 million on running investment income. And under other, we had
2015 a little positive impact from the disposal of the Fireman's Fund retail business, not
repeated in 2016. Therefore, other is a lower number.
The combined ratio, I would say, similar; a good cat year as before, actually, Q4 almost no
cat. In Q4 we have seen, in particular on the books of AGCS, some special and material
Page 7 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

large losses, but that is no concentration that is I think just our normal regular business
that from to time large losses are incurring.

FINAL

Expense ratio, 30 basis points up. That is not yet the reduction in expense ratio we are
looking forward to in the future. We have half of it, so a bit more than 10 basis points
increase in commission, the rest is also higher investment level we have done also for the
change agenda. So our investments in the change are running at a fairly high level.
Run-oﬀ, 4.5 percentage point for the full year, yes, above our long-term level of 3.7% or
even when you adjust for Fireman's Fund 3.9% level. So, we are slightly above. But we had
very strong run-oﬀ in some markets, and it's not damaging the future balance sheet. Our
accident year underwriting results or loss ratio improved slightly over the year, and will
help us to achieve our 94% ﬂat result or better in 2018.
I think I skipped the details on the individual markets as it is probably good for your
reading. Also, I would not go into the details of the investment income of the segment
because that is very self-explanatory, nothing special in it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to page 19, the Life business and what we achieved there. The Q4 picture looks
pretty much the same as the previous quarters. Our shift in mix with about 40% of the new
business volume in our capital-eﬃcient products. The main markets here are Germany
and U.S., not only in share, but also in volume. Overall our Life new business is on a strong
level.
You can see it on the right-hand side of the chart, the German Life business, 12% up in
new business volume, and the U.S. also rounded 12% up in new business volume. Where
in the U.S., our ﬁxed index annuity business continues to deliver, and VA has €2 billion out
of the €12 billion ﬂat compared to previous years. So that means our focus to grow the
business is clearly the ﬁxed index annuity business.
And overall, for the year, we are still down in present value of new business. Why is it not
ﬂat or up? We have two markets, which could not repeat the sales successes on unitlinked to the same extent, that is Taiwan and Italy. I think Italy's volume in 2015 was just
huge, and this year, it is still a high level, but lower.
And in Taiwan, the unit-linked market has not really recovered from the low sales
following the March, April hits to the stock markets. The proﬁtability in our Life business,
page 21, on €4.1 billion for the year, as I said already in previous quarter, might be slightly
above a fully sustainable level.
For example, our investment margin, which is up, includes a substantial swing also from
basis risk in our U.S. VA business. We cannot expect that this gain is repeating every
quarter and every year. So therefore, we are normalizing our Life results a bit lower, as you
can then also see, including a growth assumption as we have done it in our outlook ﬁgure
just explained by Oliver.

Page 8 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

By countries, who produced the growth in proﬁt? Well, that is the U.S., France, and then,
of course, the non-repetition of the operating losses of Korea that is actually I think the
easiest way to explain the increase. Germany produced a high, but ﬂat operating proﬁt in
2016.
So when we move to the page and – little bit spending time on the value of new business.
As I said before, the record level 1,448 new business value. We are measuring our new
business value and our new business margin following the Solvency II rules for calculating
the market consistent balance sheet.
So when you are grossing up this value of new business to make it comparable to other,
you would expect the risk margin, which is included in this calculation, you would move to
a real growth assumption. And when you then actually gross it up from the discounting
eﬀect and ask how much operating proﬁt will this business produce over the run of time
of this tranche of new business, you end up with a number clearly north of €5 billion of
operating proﬁt.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our 2016 numbers, the day one accounting of this new business was a loss of €400
million. So that would actually also come on top of a new business value gross up. So that
means, this value is clearly suﬃcient to replace maturing Life business proﬁts, as well as
giving us a long-term growth perspective for our Life operating proﬁt.
Page 25, the usual health check for the investment margin. On statutory liability basis, our
yield is still 5.1% unchanged, minimum guarantee was changed, new business strategy,
surely and slowly moving downwards, so that actually the gross investment margin stable
to slightly up. And the proﬁt sharing to our customers also very much unchanged
compared to last year, so not only our shareholders can be very happy about the results, I
think our customers should be as well.
Moving now to Asset Management business, I think I have already given the highlights
that it's the ﬂow turnaround at PIMCO. Actually our assets under management for the
whole year more than €100 billion, up, €31.5 billion comes from the Rogge acquisition,
similar amount comes from currency impact, and then the rest is market value gross
coming also from the slightly lower interest rates, plus higher equity markets and the
market movement of €47 billion. And then in total, we still had outﬂows because we have
not fully compensated the ﬁrst six months of outﬂows.
Allianz Global Investors so far every quarter positive, and ended the year with minus €3
billion. A simple explanation is that actually, organically, the four quarters added to a zero
and the €3 billion outﬂow was roughly the outﬂows we had on the Rogge acquisition right
after the acquisition and was part also in our assumption for the business plan of the
acquisition.
When we move to the revenue page, yes, revenues down 7%; at – in total, PIMCO, almost
minus 10%; Allianz Global Investors, small positive adjusted for currency, minus 1%. But
what I think is important is that PIMCO after the little jump in fee margin beginning of the
year kept it over the quarters pretty stable, which I think is important also going forward,
Page 9 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

also shows that the inﬂows we have achieved are also adding revenues pretty much at the
average fee margin of the existing business.
So our proﬁts, page 31, asset management ended very much at the mid-point of our
outlook page we published exactly a year ago, €2.2 billion operating proﬁt. A good last
quarter with also good performance fees achieved, not the one-oﬀ performance fees, we
had previous year from the distribution of the Bravo Fund returns, actually very much
ongoing performance fees, also being reﬂective that PIMCO got a new traction on its
performance. 12-month performance on the PIMCO funds was 92% at year-end. I think the
three year was some 86%. So actually really getting back the traction of good customer
returns what deﬁnes PIMCO's trademark for so many years.
Corporate segment, page 33, nothing really special to report. That development on the
expense is a little bit less income on the banking following lower interest rate spreads in
the banking industry in general and our improvement in proﬁt, as shown under the
holding and treasury segment is a lower contribution to our own pension fund. The rest
stayed very much ﬂat.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the page 35, the translation of operating proﬁt into net income, we have
indicated here what we had in total to consume or to absorb for Korea. Korea did hit our
balance or did our P&L with €450 million, billion would be a lot, it's the local currency,
million in the year of – that contrasts quite a bit to positive impact in our Solvency II and
market value balance sheet of plus €3 billion in total when you add the impact on those
capital and on fund calculation.
So that got compensated by some realized gains and losses. We had here some also
blocked rates reported about earlier in the year. The impairment includes €210 million
from Korea and also some – impairments for our small bank in Germany called
Oldenburgische Landesbank or OLB, which we are now accounting for as held for sale in
the year-end accounts.
The tax rate, yes, looks a bit lower, 1 percentage point. But I think it is, at the moment,
reﬂecting more or less unchanged tax rates in our major markets. But we had more tax
realized gains from equities that reduced the overall tax rate by 1 percentage point and
helped then also us to achieve a 4% higher net income.
And with this, I would summarize 2016 as a year of – another year of strong delivery. Fifth
time in a row increased net income and dividend, very much on track to achieve our 2018
ambition organically, the EPS growth target. The OE, I think what is in the way that we are,
a bit rich in capital, but I would consider this as a luxury problem and a not a challenge.
Combined ratio, I think, also moving in the right direction, while preserving a strong
balance sheet.
Our Life OEs 75% already on an OE above 10% and the rest, we are getting there. And Life
new business margin, I think the 3% target is clearly in reach.

Page 10 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

And with this one, I would hand over to Günther to give you a much deeper insight into
the investment results.

FINAL

Günther Thallinger
Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning also from my side. Now, about, let's
say, the investment portfolio. We are talking about €653 billion of assets, a portfolio that is
continuously growing, and I was allowed to start – to head the investment entity AIM at
Allianz. The portfolio was slightly above €500 billion. This was 2012. So there, you can see
it is growing strongly.
However, it is not changing in the overall structure, and that is very important. The asset
allocation, as you see roughly on page C2 remains fairly constant with close to 90% of
ﬁxed income which is obviously because we are really matching our liability side. And
also, the overall risk structure of the portfolio remains fairly constant which you see on the
right-hand side, top right-hand side of C2 with the rating structure.

Bloomberg Transcript

Very important for us is that, we continue to take out the interest rate risks or the risk
driven by the interest rate, the interest rate sensitivity. You see this is indicated by the
duration ﬁgures, again on C2, bottom right-hand side. We have achieved it now during
2016 to get, on the Life side, for instance, to 9.5% versus 9.7% which is really very, very
close to and almost matching.
Now duration is only one indication clearly, and I believe it makes sense to indicate or
emphasize that we are managing out a larger set of KPIs. And actually, we are not
managing the duration as such, but we really manage the cash ﬂow proﬁle of the liability
side.
The portfolio is a very diversiﬁed portfolio as you can see in the second chapter of the
slides that we have provided on Investments. I will not go through these slides, but it
makes sense to mention those here, because if you read those through, you will see how
well diversiﬁed the portfolio is, especially if one considers the liability side in connection
to the asset side, meaning that we have, of course, the various insurance portfolios in
these markets that are then reﬂected in the asset allocation.
Now on page C3, there you see the yield that we have achieved in 2016, it's 4%. And I am
just indicated that there might be a diﬀerent page numbering, but I'm on the page, total
IFRS yield 4%. Total IFRS yield 4% is what we have achieved. The current yield is 3.3%.
The diﬀerence there is especially realized gains and losses position of €8.4 billion. This
€8.4 billion is indeed a fairly big number. That number is a result of our overall investment
strategy. It is not a result of – we want to especially harvest up to a certain level. What do I
mean with investment strategy that refers back to the duration management, the cash ﬂow
management that I indicated before. And in an environment where the rates are fairly low
or even decreasing than any management on the ﬁxed income side has an implication or
an eﬀect this realized gains position.

Page 11 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

Total performance is 5.6%, which leads me already to the next page. Investment result is
indeed very strong, we believe, especially if you compare it against Western European
peers. The page shows the performance in the range of 2007 to 2015 and it is 50 basis
points above the Western European peers.
For us, it's very important that we have a very competitive position. Although because the
investment result is that strong – it's important for the group as such, but also because this
drives the attractiveness of the products that we oﬀer.
Let me go to the reinvestment yields. Reinvestment yields – economic reinvestment yields,
as we show them here, reﬂects obviously the market environment. That means, they are
lower than in 2015. They are decreasing. There's not really much that we can do. We have
to work within these markets. However, they do not simply reﬂect the market yields there.
We are – as we will show later on very much into alternative assets because we want to
boost the reinvestment yields as much as we can. And we believe with our scale, we are in
a position to have underwriting capabilities and capabilities to go into alternative assets
that help us to keep these yields still at an attractive level.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, not all of the assets we can reinvest into our alternatives, and therefore you see
this reﬂection of the market yields as they are out there. And one should remember here
that, the year 2016 had a fairly strange overall pattern which is, we had decreasing yields
till the beginning of the fourth quarter, and only in the fourth quarter we really had a very
strong increase, and we have to work, of course, throughout the entire year.
Before I come to the alternative assets, quickly about margins in the Life/Health business.
Margins in the Life/Health business are very resilient, we believe. If you especially
compare the business in force ﬁgures on a reserve basis, the business in force yield versus
the average minimum guarantee is really far, far higher. And that is actually a pattern that
you have seen for quite some years by now. So we are actually quite happy with the
achievements there and do believe that these margins are not only resilient, but they
deliver quite some buﬀers.
Similarly, on the new business side, on the new business side, I would like to mention two
things. One thing is the volume behind the average guarantee of the new business is
relatively declining, as Dieter has explained, because we are working on our products
portfolio such that we have an eﬃcient capital utilization. That is one thing.
The second thing is just technicality, but important to note, the 2% economic reinvestment
yield cannot directly be compared to the reimbursement yield that we showed in prior
years, because the economic part is roughly 20 basis points that reﬂects the currency
hedging costs, and that should be considered there. So, if you compare it to prior years,
please reduce the prior years by 20 basis points until you get to the comparable ﬁgures.
On alternative asset, let me jump to page C10. Here, you see the development or the total
volume in the various asset classes and the growth versus 2015. What you'll also see is our
total and the ambition. The ambition is €140 billion in these asset classes in total of what
Page 12 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

we want to achieve. We are now at more than €100 billion. We grew in 2016 by €15 billion.
That is something that you cannot directly see from comparing the ﬁgures, if you do not
consider the de-consolidation of the various entities that Dieter has explained. But it's €15
billion that we are growing there, and that's why we believe €140 billion is an overall
ambition that we can achieve mid-term.
The assets that we have under our alternative assets are explained in many discussions
with some of you. They are very relevant for us not only because of the duration pattern,
but also because the correlation, in otherwise the diversiﬁcation eﬀect is something that
makes those assets also very attractive.
But I also should quickly mention, simply coming from the alternative assets, because they
cover what we call sustainable assets to a certain degree, wind farms or other renewable
energy, for instance – ESG for investment management. We have now rolled out our
scoring. We are working now on more than €250 billion of our assets with that scoring.
We do believe this is really strengthening our overall customer value proposition.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in addition, it helps us to identify risks in the investment portfolio. We would not go
that far that we would say that an asset allocation that uses also ESG scoring is going to
deliver a higher investment result, but we, indeed, as mentioned, believe for risk
identiﬁcation, this is a very useful tool in addition to, of course, to the sustainability value
proposition that we should deliver.
Well, that brings me already to the end with my summary page. I'm not going through the
summary page, but I just would like to emphasize once again, the size that we have with
our portfolio is not only a ﬁgure as such, it's really a driver of excellence that we can
recruit and develop, and that is important especially in a low-rate environment because
only with certain expertise, such a portfolio can be managed with that diversiﬁcation. And
we believe we have that all onboard and the ﬁgures show this quite clearly.
Thank you.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay. With this, we would be happy to take your questions.

Q&A
Operator
Our ﬁrst question is coming from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst one is on Solvency. Can I
just conﬁrm there's no change to your target range of 180% to 220%? And also, there's no
Page 13 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

change to your guidance on the underlying rate of Solvency capital generation? I mean, I
guess just in context. I mean, you're probably now well-above the top of your range. I'm
guessing gross of the buyback and I'm guessing the buyback drag should basically be
oﬀset by your ongoing capital generations, just the sort of context there.
Secondly on M&A, I guess – I mean, your recent deals tended to be friendly from willing
sellers, et cetera. And there's been a lot of press speculation recently about potential
unsolicited approaches. I just wanted to give you the opportunity to comment on that,
dispelling that or disconnect if you wanted to.
And then perhaps thirdly just on the outlook, just wonder if I can understand your thinking
behind the non-Life segment which obviously €0.2 billion, lower than it was last year. I'm
sort of guessing you're hoping for less of a drag from Latin America and improving
expense ratio and organic growth. And I know we got some investment income
compression. But I'm surprised that fully oﬀsets the positive. So just wondering if you
could talk through your thinking there? Otherwise, thank you so much for an excellent set
of results.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think I'd start with this Solvency II question. I did win the internal bet that this would be
the ﬁrst question. Yeah. So, our target range is unchanged the 180% to 220%. Yes, the
capital or proﬁt generation is some 2% to 3% per quarter. But hard to be more precise,
and you are fully right. When it takes 12 months to execute a share buyback, we earn it in
parallel over time.
The outlook question to P&C, and I'll leave the M&A question to my boss, we have
reduced the outlook €0.2 billion – I would put it this way. I think P&C has probably, of all
three segments, the best chances to help with the outperformance. We have subtracted
just the €200 million investment income. And if we turn around further the business, as
you have mentioned, Peter, plus, we have another year where we have actually
demonstrated that our net cat exposure is maybe a little bit lower than it used to be, we
should be – and we're working and producing results in the right direction. But when you
take our full cat load and the reduction in investments returns, then I think despite
improvements, the midpoint is very much justiﬁed.

A - Oliver Bäte
Yeah. On M&A, nothing changed, actually. This is quite funny because you always need to
ask yourself cui bono, Peter, this was an interest instead of tooting around. If you're not a
banker and getting a fee, then it's somebody – who would beneﬁt from being a target?
And if you are one of the guys that have a strong balance sheet, then you obviously
always assume to be an interested bride. Well, we're interested, but we are not obnoxious
about it and, therefore, the criteria are the same. The ﬁrst thing, it has to be friendly, yes. It
should be friendly. It has to be EPS accretive, yes, and it needs to make sense
strategically, yes. And it needs to be in a market where we have a strong management
team and a strong platform, yes. And ideally, it is in P&C.

Page 14 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

That's it.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Perfect. Thanks very much.

FINAL

Operator
Our next question is coming from Michael Huttner from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you very much. Great results, well done. 4% and with the buyback, you
are well on track. Just really numbers questions. And on the turnaround potential, could
you put ﬁgures to, I guess, Brazil and the Fireman's Fund?
On the Korea, sort of €454 million losses in 2016, how much can I assume this is
nonrecurring or how much was oﬀset by maybe gains which are a little bit higher than
normal? Maybe you can say a word on Ocwen, I didn't see you mention of it?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then ﬁnally on cash ﬂow, I noticed in the Life, embedded values from the two kind of
forward, the €2.4 billion capital movement, which would imply and I know it doesn't really
work like that. But about 70% of your dividend is paid out of Life and I just wondered if
that's the right way of looking at it? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I think – ﬁrst of all, we are showing under the P&C result for Latin America a loss of €75
million. The number is very much driven by really one-oﬀ reserve strengthening of our Life
business which was retained after the disposal of the Brazilian Life business I think some
nine years ago and that was a book which was retained and which we reviewed over the
summer and then in Q3 and Q4 booked the reserve. So without this one, so when you
look really at the two P&C business, that should not show up in P&C numbers but it was a
composite legal entity as far as I know.
Then we would have been already at close to a zero operating proﬁt for the year. So, I
think we are turning the corner really in all three markets, Colombia, Brazil and also
Argentina. Mexico is anyway on a good proﬁtability level. So, that is not a turnaround
story. That is a continued growth story at good proﬁt margins.
So how much this is? Yeah, well, I think if you want to take for all three and the Life one-oﬀ
some small triple-digit number, that is fair. Fireman's Fund continues to be – actually our
accident year loss ratios are I would say very much view as market standard where we still
are working on actually replacing very ineﬃcient expensive IT systems and that has
certainly taken longer than we originally thought. So it is less of – we don't know how to
do the business. We know it, but it is technically less easy to get there.

Page 15 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

Korea losses, well, that would be hard to say that we can – that it would not be – yes, it will
not be repeated in 2017. However, I think also some of the realized gains, I cannot promise
that it will be repeated at this level. So, therefore I see this not as a big positive for 2017.
And, yes, I did not mention Ocwen, but we have taken already some reserves in our UK
book for a move in the discount rate in the Ocwen tables.
And your last question on the capital movement in Life, no, it's not correct that Life is
paying all of our dividend. The highest payout ratio is still coming from our Asset
Management business. Actually, I think they paid in 2016 105% of the earnings that are the
numbers I like. And P&C has also a strong dividend distribution. So, it's not that Life is the
only one, but Life is also returning on a very good level.
I cannot tell you exactly by heart how Korea did inﬂuence the overall movement of this
individual number, but I think that is as I just said.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

And on the – just the P&C payout is it, in the past I remember was it 70%? Is that the ﬁgure
we had this year?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. That is certainly on the run rate. And I think on the – on our cash ﬂows from
subsidiaries to holding company, I think we are in a very good shape. Our treasury
overachieved its annual target, and that is a good way to handle it.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is coming from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon, Dieter. Dieter, can I just ask a bit about the interest rate gearing
from an earnings perspective, because I think it was a few years ago that there was a
presentation you made in London or Allianz made in London, which suggested that it
takes several years for the earnings to start really materially coming in. Is there any change
to that or should we assume that – I know duration is now longer, but is there any
intention to change that? Is that a way to put the – maybe that's a better to ask this
question.
Second question, obviously, you have commented on P&C. But I'm just wondering
whether it was too cautious target, simply because probably this is the ﬁrst time that in
several years that the outlook year-on-year is lower than the previous outlook.

Page 16 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

And in this context, I've noticed that you said [AYLR] is ﬂat. But wasn't it true that in the last
quarterly results we were hearing that the claims inﬂation with being beaten by the price
increases a bit more. If you could just comment on that also please. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Okay. Vinit, the interest rate gearing on our earnings, well I think that is very much part of
the business model. That is not something we can inﬂuence as we like. When interest
rates go up – look, in P&C, we are turning around. maybe 20% of the portfolio every year?
So that means you have the chance to reinvest 20% of the portfolio and the speed of this
– yes, we can certainly look to speed it up where bonds are already shortly before maturity
and reinvestment opportunities here. Our teams will for sure, do this and – are doing this
already and now quite a bit. But by and large, it is driven just by maturities in business
model.
And in Life, the same. We can invest new money and we can invest in matured businesses
or where the steepness of the interest rate curve allows a good trade between turning a
short maturity into a longer maturity because interest rate got even steeper in the long
ended rates. That type of optimization, we will always do.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in Asset Management, it is obvious what is happening. First on a ﬁxed income fund,
the market value goes down. That means even if the average fee is the same, that means
on a lower AUM, you are earning in the ﬁrst moment less on a fund which has a smaller
market value, that is just the physics of the setup, there is no chance to inﬂuence this.
But in the mid-term, it clearly moves up, and still our Solvency II balance sheet has an
interest rate sensitivity towards rising interest rates, so we have a better capital position.
We will be easier able to sell new products in Life, also new products in Asset
Management. So overall economics, I would see very positive to interest rates, but P&L
will – little bit slower follow.
In P&C, I don't think that inﬂation is already our enemy. I think the claims inﬂation is not
really changing at the moment. Yet now everybody says, in Europe, our inﬂation rate is up,
but when you dig little deeper, the negative inﬂation rates in Europe were driven by lower
oil prices. Now, you have a higher dollar and slightly higher oil prices. As the cost of
energy driving up inﬂation rates, that is pretty much delinked from what we pay for our
claims.
So – and we have seen in 2016 there is the latest analysis. We have still overall seen a
favorable reduction in inﬂation compared to original reserving assumptions, and that
allowed us, and continues to allow us to recognize reserve strengths as we show it.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sure. Thank you, Dieter.

Operator
Page 17 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

Our next question is coming from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Firstly, on the Solvency II owned funds and SCR movement, I can roughly
calculate the operating capital generations roughly €5 billion to €6 billion, something like
that post-tax. Is that right? And how does that compare with the holding company cash
ﬂow that you refer to earlier? And are there any operating variances in Life that we should
take out going forward?
And a second question again on Life. In the investment margin breakdown that you
calculated, there's clearly a big increase in harvesting. And I know that that's an output,
not an input in the way you run your business. But, what risk do you see of that declining
quite sharply in the next couple of years or is it something that will possibly increase with
movements in the yield curve and change in your portfolio? If you could comment on
that, it would be really, really helpful. Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I will pass on the Life realized gain question to Günther. Let me start with Solvency II. We
have a before tax and dividend and operating capital generation Solvency II of 30 points.
Is this fully matched by cash ﬂows? No, because I think the Life new business value is
obviously a non-cash item that you have to realize over time. Actually on day one, Life
new business cost you cash and is not creating cash in most circumstances So that part is
certainly not cash.
But as I said before, we have a strong cash ﬂow when you calculate it the relative to our
IFRS net income. And in the end, we are paying out – the dividend out of our IFRS net
income. And as you all remember, Farooq, we have done quite a lot of excess capital
return activities over the last years and continued in 2016. So I think we are in a very good
cash position as I indicated before. But I think to say that we could really cash out every
quarter Solvency II earnings, that would go a little bit too far.
And now, I hand it over to Günther.

A - Günther Thallinger
Yeah. Regarding the gains realization, you do know about the total ﬁgures that we have
here is €8.4 billion now. We had €7.9 billion in 2015 and we had €4.3 billion in the three
years before that. So that is more the normal level in terms of total investment picture.
On the Life side, one should actually expect indicative rates increase that this realized
gains position goes down, of course, pretty considerably. That's simply following the
approach that we have. Is that a risk? No, this is not a risk because, as I said before, it is
more a result of implementing our investment approach rather than a form of generating
the IFRS result.

Page 18 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

As perhaps a ﬁnal remark to this, one should see that these gains realization not
necessarily is always fully into the operating proﬁt because it is, of course, is shared with
the policyholder, and in that respect, let's say, even a big ﬁgure should not be seen as a
major operating proﬁt contributor.

FINAL

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Quickly on – if I may return on the capital generation, Dieter, would you be willing to give
us a potential conversion ratio, roughly, of earnings to HoldCo cash?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I must say then that that is really a creative new question, so I like it. But before I now start
a back-of-the-envelope calculation on it, I think we will try to ﬁgure out whether we can
really ﬁnd any logical combination between the two that we can give a rule of the thumb
for the future. But I would stay away from an answer here on an ongoing basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would only like to add on the Life realized gains. You should not forget the situation in
our German Life business which is a major part of our traditional Life liabilities and also
assets. Under the local statutory reserves, there is a transition which is so-called ZZR,
actually to build up additional statutory reserves, which is I would describe it's technically
nothing else than moving unrealized gains from the asset side to the liability side.
That has certainly driven an increased level of realized gains in our overall portfolio. You
have to remember that the German number makes almost one-third of our overall
traditional Life portfolio and that sets that our contribution, I think, are going to peak in
2016 and 2017. And that is something which is certainly part also of our investment
management.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Thanks for humoring me on the cash. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is coming from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Thank you. On your change of deﬁnition for operating proﬁt, I am now ignoring
restructuring charges, just a numbers question, should we still be penciling in as the
normal expectation a couple hundred million a year we've seen in the past?
And then more strategically, I guess you're deliberately sending maybe the positive
message to your colleagues that they shouldn't be scared to invest in growth or removing
that from a performance metric. I mean, is there any material way that might manifest itself
in terms of company behavior?

Page 19 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

And then secondly, could you just highlight for us this year the Life market that you think
you're going to be getting particular attention around your 10% ROE target? They could
already be above it. Clearly, the ones that are below it, where you expect that to be the
most kind of attention for either earnings or capital relief? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

William, I somewhat missed your ﬁrst question on the operating outlook. What was your
link between the restructuring expense and behavior?

A - Oliver Bäte
Oliver here. I think the question was given the signal on the change in deﬁnition, is that
also signaling a change in strategy in terms of restructuring our business?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Then, I got it right. Thank you. I think, indeed, we remove it from the operating proﬁt
because the operating proﬁt is used internally also for our target setting process. As you
know, it is part of the management target setting system, and we want to encourage
people to constantly think about changing the business, and the target setting system
should not be in the way that people are stopped doing what is right to drive the future.
That is really to get more speed into the organization and get the people also more
looking at opportunities where change could help to a positive future.
The 10% ROE target, well, we haven't not given a list there, that would be actually also a
bit unfair to my colleagues in the countries who at the moment, not yet on the 10% level
because they are all working hard and has given us a lot of high hope that they are
getting there. Therefore, we should wait with until we have 2018 and the .

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. And sorry, just to come back, in terms of the numbers on the restructuring
charge, should we inevitably assume that that line item could be increasing because you
said it was ﬁne to be investing or should we...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yes. That line item should be increased, but I'm not expecting jumps to huge numbers.
But certainly, a growing – I think we had some €100 million in last year. And currently, we
see the same level, but I think we have now the change, and that could be a bit more
coming towards the next quarters.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much. See you next week.

A - Oliver Bäte
See you next week.

Page 20 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

Operator
Our next question is coming from Nick Holmes from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you. Two questions. The ﬁrst is, I wondered how concerned are you by the
EIOPA requirement to disclose Solvency II without the long-term guarantee package. I'm
sure you can't give us any sort of ratio on what it would be like, but can you give us any
idea of what the ratio sort of range might be?
And then secondly, Oliver, just wanted to come back on acquisitions. I know you said
nothing has changed, but correct me if I'm wrong, but I think you have indicated in recent
interviews that you are looking at large acquisitions, and I think that is a change, is it not? I
wondered if you could give us a bit more color on that. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Bäte

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick, thank you. Oliver here. It came also up this morning. That is actually a
misunderstanding based on an interview earlier where the question was, are you not
investing or trying to invest and buy something in the U.S.? And then we basically said,
well, that is very challenging because in the U.S., the valuations are very high for the
market relative to Europe. And if you want to do something in P&C, you would need to go
very large, and then I said – and that's why it's very unlikely.
Now that was turned around and to say, ah, so since you need to be large, then they're
going to do large. So that is a little bit like the deck of buy and sell, the chart that you
know, and you say buy and then sell is coming out at the end.
Cut the long story short, we remain disciplined the way we are, and our balance sheet
allows us to do both large and smaller. But what we are needing to do is to have
transactions that make economic sense and that we can handle. And these criteria have
not changed. And...

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Sorry.

A - Oliver Bäte
And the other comment, as I said earlier, there's lots of speculation driven by people that
have low share prices and we always come up as the guy that might be interested, but
we'd like to have a nice bride. Okay. So, Dieter will talk about long-term guarantee.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yeah. I think actually our balance sheet is the best long-term guarantee. I think the EIOPA
requirement that I think it's somewhere mid-May that all legal entities in the eurozone
have to give their full details on their Solvency II balance sheet and assumption setting is a

Page 21 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

good step in transparency. I'm really looking forward that there is more transparency in
the Solvency II regime as we currently have.
Am I concerned about it? No, because we are not using a balance sheet transitional. And
the VA, yes, that was part of the long-term guarantee package. But I think it got
diminished by EIOPA redrafting of it in a way, I think, the industry should have got a much
better way to handle it because the credit spreads we can use under the VA is
substantially lower than the current spreads we are experiencing every quarter in our
results. So it is really a small recognition of what we achieve and what any insurance
company achieves. And the U.S. insurance industry is clearly beneﬁting from recognizing
100% of their credit spreads and Europe has to live with a small portion of it. So I think any
transparency will help also to drive a fair competition between Europe and the U.S. and I
think also a fair transparency between Allianz and its peers.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Thank you very much for that. Can I just follow-up very, very quickly. First, Dieter, on the
long-term guarantee package, are you – I mean is there any concern that the transparency
will work against both, perhaps yourselves, but also the industry in lowering ratios to
levels where people might get concerned?
And the second question, Oliver, sorry to pester on this, but just very, very quickly, are you
saying that you rule out large acquisitions or do you not rule out large acquisitions?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm not concerned about our solvency ratio and the transparency. I'm looking
forward that this is a positive. And in particular, when I consider this a very unfortunate
debate about the German life insurance industry, and I think I'm really looking forward to
the transparency, and maybe some of you have to address their comments.

A - Oliver Bäte
Talking about [adjusting] comments. So let me repeat. We have no predeﬁned size that
we are looking at. We're looking at strategic ﬁt.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much indeed.

Operator
Our next question is coming from Michael Haid from Commerzbank. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Three questions, and ﬁrst on the expense ratio in
P&C, which was again very high. And you mentioned that it includes some investments.
Can you talk a little bit about these investments, and can you also give us kind of a
Page 22 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

number, which may or may not in the future reduce the – by which the expense ratio may
be reduced in the future?
Second question, new business generation in Life in Germany was very strong in the
fourth quarter. Can you tell us where it comes from? Is it more single premiums or more
recurring premiums business and is it more new or actually does it include traditional
product? And also regarding German Life, you mentioned that there was a burden from
the policyholder crediting in Germany in the fourth quarter. Can you talk a little bit about
that?
And last question regarding the ZZR, you just mentioned that this you expect to peak in
2016 and 2017. Do you say that because you assume that the regulation or the legislation
is going to change or do you – or can you say that without a change in the legislation
regarding ZZR requirements?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

That was – was this along question two or already including question three?

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

It was already question three.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah. Okay. Michael, thank you. Expense ratio P&C, well, over the whole year, our
admin cost ratio moved 10 basis points up. So that is a [per mill] of €50 billion. Yes, that is
still a large number, but it is actually quite a number of projects, we are doing for the
Renewal Agenda, and it is, whether it is the customer centricity, to move up net promoter
score, whether it is our digital agenda, there is quite some change or implementing
technical excellence.
To give you a precise number, I have then really to add up quite a number of details, but it
is roughly explaining the 10 basis points up in total. The new business in Life, and in
particular in Germany, we are in 4Q – it's roughly half-half between recurring – well, it's
diﬃcult to say, because under the German measurement, it is half-half between recurrent
premium and single premium in recognizing the revenues of gross single premium as
very much the dominating part.
It is very strongly driven by our new products, otherwise we would never get for the whole
portfolio the 40% out of capital eﬃcient product and I think our page 19 indicates this. We
have in Germany a higher share in the capital eﬃcient product than overall, that is 42%,
and only below 20% are actually still traditional products.
Yes, you are right with your observation. We have allocated a higher share of the proﬁts in
Q4 to the policyholder. Q4 is always a bit of catch-up quarter to average out the whole
year and align it also with the statutory result and the pay – the real payout to the

Page 23 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

customers. So therefore, there is always a little bit of catch-up. Therefore, the numbers are
not stable over the quarter.
Now, my assumption about ZZR peaking is actually more the assumption how the roll
forward of this average interest rate is moving. So it is not assuming any change by law or
formula or whatsoever. It is more, I would say, a rough guessing how this impacts are
moving forward, and that is just a slowing in decline of the interest rate growth, so
nothing else.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Regarding the expense ratio in P&C, the 28.7% for 2016, I think it
includes more than just the 10 basis points investments into the Renewal Agenda, right?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

The rest is commission increase. I said this before. Sorry that I did not repeat myself.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Oh, okay. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bäte
Michael, Oliver here. Just – because the underlying question is are we remaining
committed despite the surge to drive down the traditional business, I just wanted to be
very clear, there is just an acceleration, not just a commitment. There's an acceleration of
an increase of risk protection, unit-linked, and in particular capital eﬃcient.
And when you – I think your question reﬂected the fact that, in the past, we were very
strong in the change in Germany around the retail portfolio, and in the corporate
portfolio, we were a little slower. That was not because we don't want to, but the issue is
you have ongoing client relationships and contracts with corporations that take a while to
change.
But the direction is everywhere the same. We go into more capitalization products
because it's actually better for consumers. It's not just better for shareholders. It's better
for consumers, gives them more choice; it gives them more yield. So the – it's actually
unabated, and our German colleagues are doing an outstanding job to drive further in
the right direction.
And that is what we want to see overall-wise. So the revenue are still slightly down. As we
are moving from the old world to the new world, you already can see in Germany how big
the success is once you have the right platform of products and services. We will
accelerate in the future into the new direction.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much.
Page 24 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

Operator
Our next question is coming from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello. Hi there. Some very quick questions. What funds are driving the inﬂows at PIMCO?
Is it still mostly the – it was the income fund that was the particular ﬂagship success most
of last year.
And in relation to PIMCO and Asset Management division, what are your sort of base case
assumptions for 2017 behind the forecast? I mean last year, you were willing to give us – I
think that you said you'd get to breakeven or positive ﬂows by the second half, which you
did, also kind of working assumption for 2017 both in terms of ﬂows and performance
fees.
One other quick question. I just want to understand too, the balance sheet is very strong
from the Solvency II perspective. Your debt capacity on a Solvency II basis is obviously
very, very large. But I suppose, I'm just trying to – what's the binding constraint on your
debt capacity? Is it the IFRS gearing, which is kind of ﬂat year-on-year? And maybe if you
give us a number to what you think your debt capacity is.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the ﬁnal question is you look like you've hedged equities more in Q4. Will that have a
P&L impact, increase in volatility from associated derivative noise? Thanks.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Andrew, I start with PIMCO fund inﬂows.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Well, you can look at it from various angles. I think what is good in Q4 is that we have
actually seen good net inﬂows in the U.S. And it is still, the old funds therefore I think
somebody asked me early this morning that Total Return Fund continues to see outﬂows,
yes, correct. But it is clearly outrun by the newer product categories. And it is also when
you look at customer groups, we see the stronger inﬂows in separate accounts. So that is
a bit how I would characterize it in total, so various things.
To give an outlook for the year, well, certainly we assume that the current situation
continues. Active credit, I believe, has really a good outlook, volatility in the market, yes,
slightly raising underlying rates, more steepness in the interest rate curve. I think that are
all good points for an active credit manager, so I think PIMCO is well-positioned for the
current environment.

Page 25 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

FINAL

Your question on what is really limiting our leverage. In general, we are still fairly
conservatively leveraged. We are not going to the maximum. With our current rating, the
bottleneck is Moody's calculation and requirement for our current rating under Solvency
II. Indeed, we have substantially more room to go forward. It's interesting, yes, we will,
which really allow us to leverage up a bit. Under S&P, I think our capital position, I did not
mention this earlier, is very strong, and also the ﬁnancial leverage would be less binding
than Moody's. You had another question, Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Did you hedge equities in Q4. The equities activity was down, and is there an earnings
impact from that going forward?

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I'm glad to pass this on to my new colleague.

A - Günther Thallinger

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It is indeed the case that we manage our equity exposure, of course, to also optimize
our overall capitalization under Solvency II and you see this in the sensitivities, and we
believe we can do this very well with the know-how that we have internally with AGI, but
also with companies like AIG Life in the U.S. And yeah, I believe this is basically the answer
to whether we hedge or we don't. Yes, we do.
Let's say, if – yeah, I'm just getting – cost was also a question there. Look, if we now are
going to really illustrate what kind of fee load we have on these structures, we really start
to make those very transparent. We actually believe that we have a little bit of a
competitive edge on that side and therefore, we are not going to explain that. Sorry.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
The next question is coming from Rötger Franz from Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Q - Rötger Franz
Yes. Hello. Thanks for taking my question. I have two little questions. First of all, last year,
you disclosed the risk capture breakdown by risk category in your presentation, and that
we no longer see that in this year's presentation. So, my question is how actually – has this
changed in 2016, especially in the context of the Korean – sale of the Korean Life
business? So, can you give us a bit of more detail how this proﬁle has changed over the
last year?
And second, it's a bit of a follow-up to Andrew's question in terms of leverage. I
understand that Moody's is binding constraint for your leverage. I also see that you
increased your sub-debt over the last two years or three years quite signiﬁcantly. Also,
Page 26 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

when you take into account that you called €1.4 billion of sub-debt today, which is already
reﬁnanced, issued €1 billion in January, do you have a kind of a speciﬁc target range that
you aim for? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yeah. I think, overall, the target range, as I said, is driven by the Moody's constraint.
Otherwise, we don't have a speciﬁc target range. But when we can use this in a diﬀerent
form, we would also do. At the moment, we have the feeling that buying something more
at this favorable market conditions is a great long-term deal. So therefore, we did this very
opportunistically. The risk capital breakdown will be, for sure, published in our annual
report every year. So, that document is being published soon, and I would ask you for the
patience, to do the speciﬁc reading there, or when you need to do it faster, call our
Investor Relations team and you'll get it earlier.

Q - Rötger Franz
Okay. I will. Thanks.

Operator
Our next question is coming from Edina Rozinka from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Edina Rozinka

{BIO 16575765 <GO>}

Hi there. Two questions, please. Going back to the M&A topic. You highlighted that you
are looking at opportunities in P&C. Would you consider a composite business? And the
second question is, when you are considering the size, how important for you to maintain
your current rating and stable outlook? Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
Dieter has given you so many good answers so...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

I think it's certainly – the rating, we clearly want to maintain. We are selling a AA security to
our customers. It is important for our large industrial customers on the P&C side. But
personally, it should be much more important for the retail customers who trust us our
money for their pension years because there you need to be sure that you get your
money back risk – return 50 years from now and that people should be really focused that
they have a high quality and highly rated balance sheet, which helps in their – for their
old-age provisioning.
So, yes, the composite M&A question is a very obvious one. Sure, when you ﬁnd
something interesting in P&C and Europe there are most likely a Life balance sheet
coming along with it. Yes, from our strategy and business interest, we have enough Life
balance sheet in Europe. We can cover every part of Europe with all Life products, and we

Page 27 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

don't need more Life balance sheets. But if the overall deal is attractive, then you have to
take it or you will not get the P&C part.

FINAL

So it has to be taken into the overall calculation, and then you'll decide whether the mix
enterprise makes it or doesn't make it. It is a rational commercial decision that is less than
a strategic decision.

Q - Edina Rozinka

{BIO 16575765 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you. So you are basically saying whatever M&A opportunities you are
going for, you want to maintain your rating with a stable outlook, just to conﬁrm. With
stable outlook, it...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Yes. I think an acquisition, which destroys our rating – the question is about, well, you are
creating with this, I wouldn't see this as compelling.

Q - Edina Rozinka

{BIO 16575765 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you so much. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is coming from Michael Huttner from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Oh, my lucky day. Thank you so much. I was still practicing my question. So, one was just
these little points again. You said [U.S. basis] you made some money, and I just wondered
how much? And on the assets, I see you said the item, which is across this year and might
not be going forward is the IT, and I just wanted a ﬁgure for that.
And then in terms of general philosophy on capital management, this kind of more
ﬂexible 50 bp envelope, which you can review every year and not every three years, can
you give me a idea that you would like, let me put in extreme, compete with Munich Re in
terms of being a big cash return company with kind of €1 billion annual buyback and a
huge dividend or is your idea instead that you would have the nice dividend that we see
at the moment backed by high ROEs, in other words high ROEs meaning more earnings
growth? So is capital management designed to return cash, or is it designed to increase
your ROE? And linked to that, I still don't understand why the ROE actually went down
from last year to this year when everything else seemed good? Thank you.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Well, Michael, the swing in the U.S. basis risk is some €155 million, and it is roughly also
the proﬁt from the basis – no, the swing, it was a – it's still – it was a year ago a small loss,
and this year it is a proﬁt. So why is the ROE down? Well, our net income is 4% up, and
very simple, our average equity is more than 4% up, driven also by changes in FX.

Page 28 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

And for example, the boost in the equity markets at year-end, which is a nice problem to
have, created €1 billion more after-tax after policyholder share in unrealized gains in
equity. And as we are calculating our ROE, excluding unrealized gains in bond, so the
bond movement doesn't play a role for our disclosed ROE. But obviously the unrealized
gains in the other investment classes, also the unrealized gains in our real estate portfolio
went slightly up with further increase in real estate pricing. So actually, it all went up for
good reasons. As I said before, I really see this as a luxury problem and not as a drama,
which we cannot manage.

A - Oliver Bäte
And Michael, the answer on capital management is a cyclical one, not a fundamental. So if
you are implying that we want to put ourselves in runoﬀ, yes, but it's not. We would like to
grow the business organically and unorganically, but since we do not want to capital
sitting idle and accumulating it over three years, so that over time ROE and capital returns
deteriorate, we want to give ourselves more ﬂexibility.
Other one is the signaling function because quite a few investors were getting itchy at the
end and said, is the share buyback coming, is it not coming. So we want to remove the
uncertainty around it. Having few handcuﬀs and straightjacket is helping our ability to
manage. The discipline will come from the targets, let me repeat that, we have given
ourselves in November, the ROE targets and EPS targets, and they'll make sure that
management is incentivized to keep capital eﬃciency very high.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

On the ROE target, I mean the EPS you're there or it's a calculated guessing there, that
was all my little questions and stuﬀ. The ROE target, as you say it's a luxury problem, but it
seems to be drifting further away. Anyway, it's just a remark. I'm sure it's a luxury problem
and you're enjoying it.

A - Oliver Bäte
But Michael, we have given you some sensitivity initially that the share buyback already is
adding a signiﬁcant boost to...

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

50 bps yeah, of course.

A - Oliver Bäte
...EPS growth, all right, and then, tomorrow as well.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Yes. Of course.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Now, we have to always say when are the shares really bought, when are they really...
Page 29 of 30



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2017-02-17

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

No, no.

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

FINAL

But we'll get a double bang for the buck on that.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thank you so much. Thank you.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

All right. After we have now made it to the second round of questions, I think for the sake
of everybody this should come to an end and close this conference call for now. Again, let
me remind you, there will be more opportunities to ask questions next week at our analyst
meetings.
So with this, we say goodbye to everybody and thank you for having joined our call, and
we wish you a very nice weekend. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
Thank you for your support, guys. Keep on buying our shares.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Dieter Wemmer

{BIO 4755450 <GO>}

Thank you. Bye.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's conference call. Thank you very much
for your participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 30 of 30

