Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

Capital Markets Day - Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jeannette Linfoot, Managing Director, Tour Operations
Jonathan Stanley Hill, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Lance Henry Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Matthew Atkinson, Group Chief Marketing Oﬃcer
Robin Shaw, Chief Executive Oﬃcer - Saga Cruises
Roger Ramsden, Chief Executive Oﬃcer - Insurance Broking

Other Participants
Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Lena Thakkar, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick Johnson, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Welcome. Welcome to our Saga double-well (00:12). The ﬁrst
part of the morning, we are going to take you through our third set of prelim results since
we became a PLC three years ago, and in the second part of the morning, we're going to
do what we're calling our Capital Markets event, where we're going to give you a lot more
detail on our customer insight work that we've been doing over the last 18 months or so,
which we call Project Connect. We're going to talk about the impact that Project Connect
has already started to have on the Saga business, and we're going to talk to you about the
launch of our new membership scheme.
Let me introduce you now to the team. Here on my left, some of them you recognize
already, so, from this end, Roger Ramsden, who runs our Insurance Broking business; Matt
Atkinson, who spoke to many of you a year ago, who is our Chief Marketing Oﬃcer; the
empty seat is me; Jonathan Hill, our CFO, who I'm sure you now well; Jeannette Linfoot,
who runs our Tour Operations, holidays businesses, that's the land-based side; and Robin
Shaw, who runs our Cruise business. And you're going to hear from all of those
individuals at various points in the next couple of hours. The team is going to talk to you
about how Project Connect is being put into practice across the individual parts of the
Saga business and how that underpins our conﬁdence in taking the business forward and
driving growth.

Page 1 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Now, before we jump in and start summarizing the numbers and so on, let's just remind
ourselves of the key virtues of investing in Saga. First of all, Saga is diﬀerent; secondly,
we've now demonstrated for three years in a row that we can deliver consistent growth;
and thirdly, and we're going to talk a lot about this one today, we've got really enhanced
conﬁdence in driving future growth and that's because of Project Connect, but it's also
because of the increasing quality of earnings that we believe that we are oﬀering.
What makes Saga diﬀerent? We are completely focused on the older demographic. So,
what we do? We wake up every day and we focus obsessively on understanding the
unmet needs of the retired generation in the UK, and of meeting those needs. I don't
know any other company that does that. We spend our working lives seeking to
understand those needs and then ﬁnding out how we're going to meet them, and it's a
wonderful target demographic to work with, of course. It's large, it's growing, it's wealthy,
it's complex and it's looking for new experiences. That means that our model is focused
not just on selling a product to an individual customer for a year or two and then
replacing them. On the contrary, what we're seeking to do at Saga is to build multi-year,
indeed, multi-decade relationships with our customer base, reinforcing that with excellent
service in everything that we do and encouraging loyalty to the brand.
The other thing I think that makes Saga diﬀerent is that we operate multiple businesses in
very diﬀerent industries, that gives us multiple opportunities to drive growth and it, of
course, reduces our risk proﬁle as well. What does all that uniqueness actually add up to,
well, it adds up to this chart, I think. I joined Saga three years ago just before our IPO, you
will recall that we IPO'ed in May of 2014 and here are the results since we became a
public company. Our relentless job, because it's such a simple explanation of what we are
seeking to do. You can see from the bars that proﬁt is up consistently over time, those
bars are snapshots at six months intervals oﬀ a 12-month rolling proﬁt number. And you
can see that it grows steadily. That's what we aim to achieve.
You can also see from the red dotted line at the top that debt is down, driven by our
strong cash generation. Indeed, just as we stated we would about 18 months ago, we've
now brought the debt ratio down into the 1.5 times to 2 times band, and we've done that
while continuing to invest in the business and also paying a progressive dividend. Now,
these results don't just happen accidently, but it come from the unique attributes that I
mentioned on the previous slide. Our relentless focus on the over 50s, the strong
relationships that we build with our customers, and the broad range of excellent products
that we sell. And the strength of the Saga model has allowed us to deliver that level of
consistency and will continue to allow us to do so.
Now, when I took over as CEO, and just start after the IPO, we made a number of changes
to the business. So, for example, some of you will recall that we sold Allied Healthcare,
and we exited the publically funded homecare sector. We also have built up a strong
management team, many of whom you can see here today. And then in early 2015, I
announced a new corporate strategy, which we're still using today. The strategy is very
clear; it's very consistent and it's working.
Now, if you look at this list of strategies, numbers 2, 3 and 4, I think are pretty self-evident
in our results. We are indeed growing our earnings from our core travel and insurance
Page 2 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

businesses just as we said we would, that's going very well. We have taken signiﬁcant
steps to reduce the risk proﬁle of Saga, so we've introduced quota share which has
reduced our capital requirements; we've launched the motor panel, which has helped us
to drive earnings from our broking business. And we are investing prudently for the
future.
But the real big theme of today will be strategy number 1, becoming increasingly
customer centric. And for me that's the most important choice that we have made as a
business. And it might sound like a vague phraseology after all what company out there
doesn't want to be increasingly customer centric, but at Saga, it is a very speciﬁc and very
powerful set of choices, and the results, which the team will talk you though later on this
morning, have given us the conﬁdence that we can continue to generate consistent
results and increase the value for our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our conﬁdence has been further enhanced by the next natural evolution of the Saga
model, which we call Project Connect, and you're going to hear more about this in the
Capital Markets section of the presentation later on, but the work itself is about deep
insight into our customers and their potential future value, it's allowed us to grow our
customer understanding and deepen the relationship with our customers that will lead to
improved persistency as we retain more of the right customers, to enhance cross-sell
opportunities and also to lower acquisition costs across the whole business. And the
results of that will be that we grow our already predominantly broked proﬁts in a more
risk-free and less capital intensive manner, that will lead to an increasingly high quality
earnings stream.
Now, let's have a quick look at last year's results before Jonathan takes you through those
in more detail. In summary, another very strong year. We achieved our goal of increasing
earnings from the retail insurance broking and travel businesses. As we guided, proﬁts
from our underwriting division have begun to reduce due to smaller reserve releases and
also to more of our business going to third-party underwriters on the panel. Our ﬁnance
costs have reduced due to our rapid deleveraging. We're now, as I said, within our
medium-term net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5 times to 2 times. And all of fact means that
we have delivered our stated target of growing group PBT by over 5%.
Let's zoom in a little bit on each business, ﬁrst the motor insurance. As you know, that is
our single biggest line and the majority of our insurance earnings are originating now in
the retail broker where we have no capital risk. That business has performed extremely
well over the last year, growing PBT by nearly 60% due to increased operational
eﬃciencies, the beneﬁt of the motor panel and further pricing optimization.
Again, as expected, the underwriting revenues decreased due to external underwriters
taking more of the high-risk, higher premium policies via the panel. Our underwriter AICL
retains a real competitive advantage and a high market share on our panel of old, lowerrisk drivers and it has a consistent record of generating earnings for the group which is
also useful for us in a rising rate environment because it means that we have access to a
very well priced in-house underwriter.

Page 3 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

The implementation of the quota share that we put in place from 1st of February 2016 with
new REIT, just to remind you, cover 75% of the downside risk of all motor policies from
that date. And that has decreased our capital requirement. I do believe that underwriting
will continue to provide a solid contribution to our earnings in the future.
Let's look at home broking. The UK home insurance market continues to be highly
competitive. There's no evidence at the moment to premium inﬂation. But despite those
diﬃcult trading conditions, we've been able to, indeed, we we've chosen to maintain our
policy volumes with a small reduction in proﬁt. The home panel enables us to access very
competitive cost of risk with no capital requirements.
And within other insurance, that is medical insurance and travel insurance, we registered
another robust performance. We have clearly diﬀerentiated products in this space and
they continue to appeal to our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's turn now to travel. Travel had another excellent year, the business has continued
along it's trajectory of proﬁtable growth. It is on track to beat the target that we publically
set of doubling EBITDA to £40 million in ﬁve years. We delivered excellent growth in
proﬁts within our tour operating businesses, and we continue to see a shift in the mix of
sales towards long-haul higher value products. Our customers are looking beyond some
of the traditional holiday destinations. They clearly value the security that Saga brings to
them and in products, such as river cruising and our guided holidays oﬀer, they're highly
diﬀerentiated and they're highly tailored for the needs of our target demographic.
Meanwhile, cruising remains essential to the Saga brand and to the customer oﬀering.
And our two cruise ships, the Sapphire and the Pearl had another good year with
exceptionally high customer satisfaction levels. We are of course very excited about the
prospects for our new ship, which we are naming the Spirit of Discovery. This project is on
track and the ﬁrst itineraries of Spirit of Discovery will go on sale this summer.
Let's now look at our smaller emerging businesses. We're continuing to learn our way into
three new categories, money, health and retirement villages. Saga money is made up of a
variety of diﬀerent products, credit cards, equity release, savings, loans, wealth
management. The team are working on some exciting new products for test during 2017,
based on our clear understanding of what our customers want.
On the Saga healthcare, we have a number of brands operating in the homecare sector,
where we look after people in their own homes. And during 2017, we're going to be
cautiously expanding the area covered and the number of Saga customers that we serve
in that sector.
We've also been examining the potential of the retirement village sector since 2015, we've
been working closely with Wadswick Green in Wiltshire. And what we've been doing is
helping them to meet Saga customers in the right area and with the right proﬁle and
explain the beneﬁts of dedicated retirement village living to those customers. That
relationship has been mutually successful and we're now considering expanding more
deeply into the category.
Page 4 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

Now all of the above three initiatives form a very small part of the Saga business, but they
all present interesting opportunities for us in the medium to long-term, and they do have
the capacity to contribute materially for us in the future.
So, let's talk about the future. When we look at the investments that Saga is making, they
are all heavily aﬀected via deep focus on the customer. Yes, we're building a new cruise
ship because the old one needs replacing. But we can also now build ships speciﬁcally
designed for Saga customers, for the ﬁrst time ever based on our 20 years of experience
in the sector and our recent greater understanding of customer needs and behaviors.
Robin will tell you a lot more about that shortly.
The Adobe Marketing Toolkit (00:13:30) gives us far more granular understanding of
customer behaviors than we've ever had before. It means we can build tailored marketing
behaviors, tailored marketing messages, and develop really speciﬁc journeys for every
customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, we're replacing our 20-year told insurance platform with the new one, but not just
because it's old. We're replacing it because the new one will allow for dramatic
improvements in designing and launching products for our customers. We now know
what Saga customers want better than we've ever done before, and we will be able to
diﬀerentiate more because of the new platform.
It's just worth pointing out that all these projects and indeed others have been several
years in the making, ranging from one years to three years, they're all starting to come to
life now, and in the coming year or two, you will see these projects kickoﬀ and arrive in
the market, and that gives me increasing conﬁdence in our ability to continue to grow.
So, I'm now going to hand you over to Jonathan, who'll talk you through the numbers in
more detail.

Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, Lance and good morning, everybody. Just wait for that one to come up.
I'm pleased to be presenting another robust set of results. I think these numbers really
speak for themselves this morning. Before we go into the detail, I think it's worth
reﬂecting on what we've actually achieved over the last two years.
We as a management team have delivered signiﬁcant change in Saga. We've had a rage
of challenges thrown at us, which we have taken head on and have shown huge
determination in delivering a consistent ﬁnancial performance, and I do believe that we
have set a very solid platform for the next phase of our development, and I do have real
conﬁdence in the ability of this team to deliver going forward.
As Lance has covered in his introduction, this is our third year of consistent ﬁnancial
performance growing proﬁts, delivering strong cash ﬂow, and then paying an increasing
dividend all the time, while deleveraging. 2016/2017, our reported proﬁt before tax was up
by 9.7% to £193 million, and excluding derivative gains and a £4 million proﬁt impact from
Page 5 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

the infamous Ogden. The proﬁt before tax is 5.6% higher the £187 million. We've
delivered a strong increase in available free cash ﬂow enabling us to de-lever signiﬁcantly
during the year to 1.9 times from 2.3 times. And as Lance said, we're now within the range
to be set for the medium-term leverage of 1.5 times to 2 times.
Our net debt has reduced by £83 million to £465 million from £548 million. And based on
these numbers and our conﬁdence in the future, we have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of
£0.058. When this is combined with our interim dividend, the full-year dividend is £0.085,
18% higher than a year before, and this equates to a payout ratio of 62% of net earnings
compared to 57% in the prior year.
It's worth reﬂecting it over the last three years, we have increased our dividend from
£0.041 to £0.072 and ﬁnally to £0.085, and we have moved progressively up within our
guided payout range of 50% to 70%. Within the group P&L, revenue is decreased by 9.5%
to £871 million as a consequence of the actions that we have taken. The quota share
arrangement put in place from the February 1, 2016, requires us to derecognize part of the
underwriting revenue, which I will cover in more detail later. We have included what we
feel is a better measure of top line growth for you to judge this by (00:17:40), which is the
value of sales to Saga customers, which has grown by 4.8% to nearly £1.2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Proﬁt before tax of £193 million beneﬁted from the strong growth in the core businesses,
the lower ﬁnance charge, oﬀset by lower reserved releases and investment in future
growth. It also included the points made earlier around derivatives and Ogden.
Proﬁt after taxes are 11.4% higher at £157 million with the prior year incurring a £7 million
loss on discontinued operations. The eﬀective tax for 2016/2017 was 18.6% compared to
15.9% in the year before. 2016/2017 beneﬁted from about £3 million of historic group relief
and the prior year beneﬁted from the £7 million beneﬁt from Acromas tax losses. But
going forward, you should expect our tax rate to be much more aligned to the underlying
corporate tax rates. Basic earnings per share from continuing operations were £0.141, 6%
ahead of the prior year.
So, we have changed the reporting for our insurance businesses to split our retail broking
from underwriting. We believe this is easier to understand, provides greater clarity on
how we make money within our insurance business and better reﬂects the way that we
actually run the business. This also reﬂects on feedback that we have received from both
analysts and investors on how we might improve our disclosure.
In aggregate, the quality of our proﬁt is improving with retail broking having delivered
proﬁt growth of 9% and our travel businesses having grown by 10%. This is a signiﬁcant
step-up year-on-year, and I would like to underline the signiﬁcance of this slide. Not only
does it show that we're improving that quality of earnings, generating more proﬁts from
areas of the business where we do not allocate capital, but it also demonstrates the
resilience and diversity of our group. While some parts of the business have been under
more competitive pressure, other areas have delivered strong improvements.

Page 6 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

So, in this slide, we look at the comparable proﬁt from each of our retail broking proﬁts,
where we have no capital at risk. Revenue on the right-hand side from all of our broking
products grew by 14% to £289 million and we increased proﬁts by 9% to £138 million.
Across each of our products, we have actively managed the balance between volume and
proﬁt through the year to deliver an overall strong result.
Starting with motor retail broking, we've delivered a major uplift in proﬁtability in a
competitive market with the proﬁt per core policy increasing by 44% to £33. This reﬂects
the beneﬁt of a number of initiatives that have been implemented across 2015 and 2016.
Firstly, we introduced the motor panel in the summer of 2015 and that led to a £3 million
increment in proﬁt in the year with around 30% of net premiums on renewals being
placed with third-party underwriters by the end of the year. Drivers underwritten by thirdparty underwriters have a higher risk proﬁle than those underwritten in-house. As a
consequence, these policies have signiﬁcantly higher growth written premiums,
generating additional net revenue and proﬁt per policy.
The written to earned beneﬁt associated with the growth in the motor panel also
contributed an additional £4 million of proﬁt. Improved yield management and
operational eﬃciencies within Roger's business have also contributed growth of £4 million
with a modest increase in Saga core motor policies being achieved with lower levels of
discounting.

Bloomberg Transcript

The full year impact of Bennetts which was acquired on the July 1, 2015 contributed a
further £2 million of incremental proﬁt and £4 million of additional beneﬁt was generated
by the introduction of the arrangement fee from November 2015.
Moving on to the home market. Home insurance market again is being tough with limited
premium inﬂation in the market and with modest claims inﬂation, increasing net rates.
With these market conditions which shows to maintain year-on-year policy volumes at a
roughly similar level, leading to consistent revenues of £90 million. Proﬁt reduced
marginally to £61 million from £63 million in the previous year.
In other insurance broking, private medical and travel broking delivered higher revenues
and this was oﬀset by the discontinuation of legal services at the end of 2015. Proﬁts were
lower and this resulted from travel insurance which was more diﬃcult in terms of trading
towards the end of the year with slightly weaker demand and also being aﬀected by
sterling's depreciation impacting on net rates.
So, these numbers represent our underwriting business eco (23:24) only. In any one year,
our underwriter targets on the current underwriting year, a 3% return on net premiums,
plus an investment return on the equity capital within that business. To the extent that we
can deliver consistent performance metrics, our in-year proﬁts from this business should
remain relatively constant over time.
During 2016/2017, the operating metrics delivered by our underwriter demonstrate the
high-quality nature of the underwriting. Underlying revenues decreased by 10% as we
expected with the motor panel leading to a reduction in the number of policies written by
Page 7 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

our underwriter. The pure combined operating ratio and the reported combined
operating ratio have remained robust. Proﬁt has reduced to £77 million as a result of
reserve releases being £5 million lower year-on-year, and including the ﬁrst year of the
cost of the quota share arrangement that we put in place. Excluding reserve releases, our
underwriter made a proﬁt of £14 million compared to £16 million on the prior year. The
group continues to see stable claims frequency.
As we have previously stated, we believe that this results from the characteristics of our
current customer base with the majority of our customers being retired, therefore
lessening that impact of movement in fuel costs and the impact of economic and
employment growth. Claims severity during the year has continued to inﬂate as expected
at a mid single-digit level. We are seeing the impacts of Ogden discount rate decision on
net rates, both within our own underwriter and from third-party underwriters. The eﬀects
on gross written premiums are yet to be fully visible, but unfortunately, we do expect that
the market will pass this through to customers.
Very quickly just touching on the quota share, which we put in place on the February 1,
2016. This has signiﬁcantly reduced the downside risk and the potential downside
volatility within our underwriting business; and as we will discuss later, has provided the
initial beneﬁt on cash ﬂow with lower solvency capital required to be held on our
underwriter.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide shows the accounting impact of quota share on the underwriter. Revenues were
adjusted by £111 million to reported level of £112 million and the net overall cost of quota
share was £1.6 million.
So, how should you think about our insurance business going forward? In our retail
broking businesses, we are targeting growth in proﬁt per policy from a range of areas. We
will continue to beneﬁt from better net rates from the panel as the competitive tension
continues to increase.
Year-after-year, we have driven eﬃciencies in our operational and marketing performance,
which we will continue to deliver. And the evolution of our customer understanding and
Project Connect, which will be discussed in more detail later this morning. You should
expect improved marketing eﬃciencies leading to improved persistency and improved
acquisition spend. Overall, we will continue to manage the balance between volume and
value to be able to deliver a consistent result.
From a systems perspective, we expect the new claims platform, which will go live later
this year, not only to improve the customer experience, but also to drive eﬃciencies in our
claims handling costs. Further out, we see signiﬁcant beneﬁts arising from our new
insurance broking platform, not only from a cost perspective, but also providing more
ﬂexibility around proposition development. Clearly, oﬀsetting these beneﬁts, reserve
releases will reduce gradually over time going forward. Overall, we expect that retail
broking proﬁts will increase and more than oﬀset the reduction in those reserve releases.
This will help to improve the quality of our earnings into the future.

Page 8 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

On the Solvency II, the group's solvency capital requirement as of the 31st of January,
2017, have reduced to £103 million from £129 million a year earlier. This is beneﬁted from
our continued excellent claims experience and with the initial impact of quota share. We
started 2016/2017 with £220 million of available capital within the underwriter and this was
reduced by the year-end to £147 million. Over the same period, our solvency capital ratios
reduced from 170% to a robust and sustainable level of 143%.
We paid a signiﬁcant dividend from our underwriter of £115 million during 2016/2017 from
the combination of proﬁts recognized during the year and the reduction in our solvency
requirement. This has been a key contributor to the material reduction in the group's
leverage. The quote share will continue to deliver incremental capital reductions over the
next few years. We have assessed the sensitivity of SCR to various potential changes and
we believe that our solvency position is robust.
So, moving on to travel. We've had another solid year of trading and travel delivering a
10% increase in proﬁt. Total revenue grew by 2%, and was composed of 4% growth in the
tour operating business and a reduction in cruise revenue from the impact of the wet
dock, which probably costs around £9 million in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tour operating proﬁts increased by 32%, due to continued increases in higher value,
higher margin, long-haul and third-party cruise products. From the ﬁrst beneﬁts of the
eﬃciency program, improving our margins and also beneﬁting from the fact that we sold
the loss-making Bel Jou Hotel in the previous year.
As communicated previously, the wet dock for Sapphire reduced year-on-year proﬁtability
by around £5 million. And by a mixture of improved yield management and excellent
management of ship running costs, the year-on-year proﬁt reduction was only £1 million.
You should not expect a full recovery in cruise proﬁts this year given that we have two dry
docks this year, one for each ship for a combined 41 days and also we will be starting to
market the Spirit of Discovery as part of part-way through the year.
We have a history of consistently good cash ﬂow generation. For 2016/2017, the cash ﬂow
performance was particularly strong with the group achieving an available operating cash
ﬂow of £218 million, 88% of trading EBITDA, up from 75% last year. The increase of £40
million on the previous period was driven by materially higher dividend as I touched on
earlier from our underwriter. You should expect us to revert to a more normalized level of
cash ﬂow generation going forward closer to the 70% level of trading EBITDA.
As I said earlier, our net debt is reduced signiﬁcantly to £465 million from £458 million
and we have moved within that targeted medium-term range, and we remain on track to
reach the lower end of that range by the time of the delivery of the ﬁrst ship in mid-2019.
So, as I laid out earlier, we expect to deliver increasing proﬁts in our retail broking
business, current trading and our current plans support this. Our current trading and
travel is supportive of a signiﬁcant uplift in the proﬁt this year with revenue booked for
2017/2018 departures, 8% ahead of the prior year as at the 17th of March.

Page 9 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

Our ﬁnance charge is expected to be lower than last year with lower average net debt.
These improvements were clearly partly be oﬀset by the lower reserve releases which we
expect this year and investment in future growth opportunities, particularly around the
membership area. On leverage, we will continue to reduce our debt ratio, but not at the
same rate as we achieved during 2016/2017 as explained. And we are conﬁdent that we
can deliver solid sustainable proﬁt growth going forward in line with the solid growth rate.
We have strong foundations and the proven track record in Saga. We have a shared
ambition as a management team to take Saga forward, and through Project Connect, we
strongly believe that we have a huge opportunity. This gives us all conﬁdence that we can
continue to deliver a consistent ﬁnancial performance going forward.
I'll hand back to Lance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Jonathan. Okay, let's move on now to the real meet of the day, which is Project
Connect, the growth in our customer insight, the importance of high aﬃnity customers
and the launch of our new membership scheme. We've really been looking forward to
sharing this with us, because we were very excited about it. Now you've already heard this
morning that Saga has just delivered a third successive year of strong and consistent
results. We're now going to show you why we're feeling very positive about Saga's future
prospects. After three years of driving a clear strategy, Saga is actually evolving quite fast
now. We're evolving the business model to reﬂect the changing nature of our customers,
more digital, more demanding, and more exciting – excited about what the world can
oﬀer.
In short, we're leveraging our deep customer insight and our diﬀerentiated customer
propositions to deliver better outcomes for our customers and of course that should
mean better outcomes for our shareholders. We're doing something new, something
exciting and something diﬀerent. Project Connect is an analysis program that we've run
over the past 18 months or so while we have dug deeper into our historic data than we
have ever done before. We're helped by new skills within the team. We're helped by new
marketing analytical tools that are available and also by few external experts as well.
We spent more time listening to our customers in the last year or so than we've done for
many years before and we've learnt a huge amount about who our high aﬃnity customers
actually are, where they came from, what they buy, when they buy it and why, of course,
we should cherish them even more. The high aﬃnity customers or HACs as we call them
are the customers that deliver the greatest lifetime value to Saga. And if we can
encourage them to and spend more with us, to get more beneﬁt from us, then we will
unlock a rich new scene of earnings potential.
Now, let's be quite clear. This cutting-edge marketing and is coupled to real business
issues. The outcomes of Project Connect are already very visible in our business, in our
products and services, in our marketing activities and in our results. We're hard wiring
Project Connect and this way of doing things into every aspect of the Saga business.

Page 10 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

Matt is going to give you an overview of how we have run the project in order to gather
the enhanced insight. Roger, Jeannette and Robin are going to explain how Project
Connect is becoming a game changer within their own businesses, they're going to talk
you through what we've done to improve the customer proposition, smarter acquisition
activities, more eﬀective cross sell, smarter ways of thinking about improving retention,
creating new ways of improving product holdings and really above all thanking our
customers. It's becoming part of the DNA here at Saga.
The launch of membership that Matt also going to talk you through is a major step
change for us. We're doing it, because that's how customers already think of themselves,
is what they want. All customers are going to become members, but as you might expect
the HACs are going to enjoy greater beneﬁts. They're going to – we're going to ﬁnd ways
to encourage their loyalty and hopefully incentivize them to want to spend more time and
money with Saga, that will deliver more lifetime value.
I'm going to hand you over now to Matt, our CMO. He is going to present the project to
you and its impact on the business. Matt's very passionate about this project. He and his
team have been helping us to drive real operational changes at Saga. I know you're going
to enjoy his presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. So, this is an exciting moment, because in this next section,
we're going to bring to life for you the work that we've been doing over the last 18
months that gives you a real sense of the change that's happening in Saga to deliver the
results that you've seen this morning, but also it opens up new possibilities for us to do
new and diﬀerent things to improve the customer oﬃce at oﬀer and generate an
improved return for our shareholders.
So, the ﬁrst thing that we've done over the last year is to build a very diﬀerent view of our
customer base. One of the things that Saga has historically done brilliantly well is driven
business results in its independent businesses. A very eﬀective insurance model, a very
eﬀective cruise model, a very eﬀective holidays model and so on and so on.
What we did is to start to fuse together some insights and data that really looks our
customers at a behavioral level, a segmentation level and then the customer value level
by fusing all of our customers together into individual segments and cohorts. What
emerged from this work and this is looking at the 2.1 million product holders we have. We
started to ﬁnd a very unique signature, a group of high aﬃnity customers, who have a
much more intimate and a much more dynamic and a much greater product relationship
with Saga.
Those customers typically buy premium products, they buy our cruise products, they buy
(00:38:51) products, they hold our insurance products for longer, home and motor and
travel. And so what has been really interesting about this work is it starts to aﬀect the very
activities that we deploy as a marketing and operations organization. So let me give you a
better sense of that work.

Page 11 of 33



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

So what you're looking here is a pyramid of those 2.1 million customers divided into two
segments, a lower base and upper base. The upper base represents those high aﬃnity
customers that we've mentioned and Lance talked about earlier. What's really interesting
about these customers is that compared to the rest of the 2.1 million – maybe a bit of a
sneak preview here of the slides, there's 0.5 million of them, and they have very speciﬁc
characteristics. They buy a better version of what we sell; they buy more of it, so they hold
more products on average than the base. In addition to that, they stay longer and have an
average and future life-time value that's much greater than the rest.
Now, that, in its own right is probably not necessarily a signiﬁcant thing, apart from when
you begin to understand what is the rest of the base look like relative to that insight. So
the ﬁrst thing that we've done is we've started to use that insight very speciﬁcally now to
build an active proﬁle of these customers that's being used to drive some of the activities
that you'll see later on from Roger, Jeannette and Robin to improve the results and
outcomes that we're getting from our marketing activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this is very diﬃcult to see on a slide, but what eﬀectively is, is a real-time dashboard
and data insight tool that we're using to create very individual proﬁles of our customers
and these individual proﬁles start to unlock value for us that we were already deploying in
the business. So for example, we can understand how a customer arrived in our business
and what was the next product they took. We can begin to understand what channel they
engaged with us in. We can begin to understand and use this insight to work out how to
present new products to them. What is a more eﬀective proposition, what channel, what
area, what activity can we deploy to increase the eﬃciency of our overall marketing
activity, and you'll see some pretty good examples of this in a short while.
Now, what's really interesting about this work is when you begin to understand the overall
Saga model, and how this work can begin to inﬂuence and drive overall value from the
activities that we execute in the business. So what you're seeing here is a picture of that
overall base and the ﬁrst thing and most signiﬁcantly perhaps is that we found another
group of these customers in the base, another group of lookalike high-aﬃnity customers,
signiﬁcant group, in excess of 400,000, and the thing to recognize here is that Saga has
historically not diﬀerentiated on a customer value basis its acquisition, cross-sell and
retention activity. So the ﬁrst thing to realize is that this work then starts to enable us as
Roger will show to target our acquisition activity in a much more laser-like way to attract
those customers that represent current and future value into the business. So it makes a
really big diﬀerence to how we're able to deploy our acquisition spend.
The other signiﬁcant point is that today and historically, we have spent almost all of our
money at the base of the pyramid on an average basis. So what this also means we've
been able to do in the last year is start to remove ineﬃcient activity. So last year, we took
about £8 million out of our direct marketing activity and that means that we're sending out
less direct marketing, but producing the same level of outcomes and that means we can
redeploy that money into more cost eﬀective activities that are more personal, more
relevant and more targeted.
The other thing that we're, therefore, also able to start to do as we will bring to life later is
to focus on those cross-sell journeys with those customers that represent the highest
Page 12 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

potential future value and that's why you'll see our product holding increasing in the last
year, because we're able to start deploy this science in a real time basis into journeys
online and into journeys in the contact center to target propositions in a much more
eﬀective way.
But perhaps the most signiﬁcant thing is that at the top of the pyramid we lose some
value, we lose some value every year and we lose some value over a three-year basis. And
so the conclusion, therefore, is that as a business we don't have a proposition that
rewards the behavior we seek. In eﬀect, we don't have mechanics to protect that value
loss that we can see as a result of this work and we don't have a full suite mechanics that
enable us to move people from single product to double products and so on and so on.
And now that we've identiﬁed these customers, there is clearly a very signiﬁcant
opportunity for us to do something new and diﬀerent to encourage and reward and
ensure that that pyramid is in good health.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that leads me on to membership. This is a game changer for Saga, because this is a
fundamental change in the way that we interact with our customers. This is about turning
2.1 million customers into members and the notion of membership in its own right is a
powerful concept. It is about an organization serving its members to reward them and
encourage them to get to things that they won't have to apply (44:56) and to use our
products and services as an enabler to do that.
Membership for us is about three simple things. And again, you have to remember that
we're pretty unique in being able to do this, because we're business that's made up of
several verticals. We're not just an insurance company. We are a holiday company. We are
a cruise company and so on, and that enables us to thank customers in a much, much
wider sense.
So, the ﬁrst thing is I want to say thank you. Saying thank you is a powerful cocktail to a
group of customers who over time very clearly have a strong commitment and
relationship to Saga. We want to reward them for their loyalty. We want to encourage
them to hold more of the Saga world, to say thank you for that, and as a result of that for
them to get beneﬁt that they can enjoy that they very clearly have told us that they want.
And then, ﬁnally, as a result of that cocktail, it encourages them to shop more from the
shop, to do more of the things that we have to sell. Now, all of this work has been based
on a very sound set of customer understanding. It's been based on a really deep and
immersive program of really trying to design a proposition that meets the needs of our
customer base.
What our customers tell us, as Lance said earlier on is that they already feel like they are
members. They are at a point in their life where they are in transition from a full-time world
of work to a part time or semi-part time world of work. And in that world, they're looking
for new opportunities to do new things to explore the world, to think about how they
invest their money, to think about how they go back to education and learn. It's a very
exciting time for our customers and we have a signiﬁcant opportunity to do something
very dramatic to step into that world that builds a much stronger emotional and rational

Page 13 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

connection between us and our customer base. And that's why we're so excited about it.
We are excited about it because the economics work, but also there is a pull from our
customers and in every research group where we've put this proposition, there is an
enormous engagement for our customers for what we are about to launch later on.
So, what is it? It's called Saga Possibilities. Saga Possibilities is fundamentally about
enabling us to say thank you and to open up a world of possibilities for our customers.
How does it work? Possibilities is really about enabling our customers to get access to a
series of pots of value. So, one level possibilities will enable our customers to enjoy rich,
immersive experience whether that's entertainment, dining, wine or just going back to
learn something that they really wanted to learn, whether that's photography or dancing
or painting. It's an opportunity for us to do and build on the work we've already started
with some of the magazine, which I talked about when I was last with you.

Bloomberg Transcript

We now have a digital asset, which has over a million unique sessions a moment, and
what we are planning to do is to enable that as an opportunity for our customers to
provide knowledge and access to expertise and experiences. But what it'll then also
allows us to do is to give our customers a better version of the next product from Saga.
So, what we're going to be doing is we're going to be rewarding our customers for
incremental behavior, additional behavior and our customers will get a better product
and a better service as a result of being members.
And then ﬁnally, it will no surprise we're in conversations with a number of very large
leading brands across speciﬁc sectors of entertainment, technology, music. All of these
brands have really engaged in the possibility of working with Saga, an iconic brand,
serving the over 50s to do something really powerful and interesting. And this cocktail
eﬀectively enables us not just to say thank you, but to deliver against that economic
beneﬁt that I showed you in the earlier pyramid side.
And from a customer perspective how this works, is eﬀectively the more you have, and
the long you have it, the better you will get of those overall beneﬁts. So, this is a very
exciting time for us, as we begin to launch this new proposition into the market, but also
to demonstrate how this work is already improving what we're doing today. Because
fundamentally what it's enable us to do is to start to think about our acquisition activity
and to concentrate on attracting those high-aﬃnity customers that represent most value,
and Roger will talk about exactly how he's been able to do that. What it also enables us to
do, is develop new propositions and to ﬁne tune our propositions, because we're
designing it for very speciﬁc groups of customers with a very speciﬁc proﬁle. What this
(00:50:04) activity also enables us to do is to improve our retention numbers by
developing new propositions and membership overall, and then ﬁnally what it's enabling
us to do is to target the right group of customers to improve our overall cross-sell.
But in essence what it's about, is it's about new and diﬀerent Saga for our customers and
improving shareholder returns as a result of that cocktail of how we spend our money and
eﬃciency. So, what you're going to see now is how this work is coming to life in the
business and improving the outcomes and delivering the results that you're already
seeing.

Page 14 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

And I'm going to hand over to Roger, he's going to give you a sense of how this is
working today in insurance business. Roger?

FINAL

Roger Ramsden

{BIO 18034967 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Matt. Thank you. Hello, everyone. Good morning, everybody. Over the
next few moments, I'd like to just draw out some of the ways in which Project Connect is
really helping me to develop the insurance broker business now and also what gives me
great conﬁdence for the future. And as Matt says, as we step through how we think about
propositions, what we're doing in terms of acquisition, retention and cross-sell.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to start with acquisition. As you all know I think, insurance business is a key part of
when which we acquire customers into the Saga Group. And what we can see already is
that we are doing a very good job of drawing customers into the business who have the
characteristics of those high aﬃnity customers. So on the left-hand side of the chart here,
you can see that 70%, sorry 60% of our customers have the characteristics of high aﬃnity
customers that we brought into the business last year. So, a very strong component of our
new business is coming directly from those customers.
On the right-hand side, when we cast back three years and look at the customers who
came into the business in 2014, and those who have the characteristics of high aﬃnity
customers, you can see that their value has grown in the last three years by 11 percentage
points compared to 6 percentage points from the non high aﬃnity customers. So those
customers, the more that we draw in (00:52:05), we can already see they create more
value for us. And with the targeting capability that the Project Connect (00:52:12) gives us,
we have the capacity to focus even more intensively on attracting those types of
customers with these characteristics into our business.
Cross-sell, on the left-hand side, you can see the signiﬁcant acceleration that we achieved
in the last three years in terms of the numbers of customers in year who go on to acquire
both home and motor insurance from us in that year. 70,000 of them in 2015 moving
through to almost 90,000 in the last ﬁnancial year.
On the right-hand side, we can see that customers who own both home and motor
insurance with us have very attractive characteristics. Nearly 70% of them are in the high
aﬃnity customer's space. Interestingly, they also go on to have acquired from us
signiﬁcantly more additional products; 1.22 additional products on average, compared
with those customers, even though they hold motor and home insurance with us, but
they'll not have the characteristics of high aﬃnity customers are only taking 0.87
additional products from us. So, again, using that acquisition capability, using that insight,
to focus our cross selling activity, completely create current and future value from these
high aﬃnity customer groupings.
The motor panel. This has been the very important task of demonstrating the ﬂexibility of
our supply model as the insurance retail broker. Also it has been very signiﬁcant in
helping us to target and acquire customers with the characteristics of high aﬃnity
customers. What the chart shows you on the vertical axis, is the proportion of customers

Page 15 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

drawn from in blue AICL, and in red, the other non in-house insurers on the panel, along
the horizontal axis, you can see the vehicle value that has been underwritten by AICL, as
the same blue and the other panel members in red.
And you can see that AICL is extremely good, as we've consistently described of
underwriting vehicles, which typically tend to be of lower value, associated with lower
mileage of the customers. What's very interesting is the way in which the panel has
helped me to attract customers with somewhat higher vehicle values, and also, very
importantly, those customers have very similar characteristics to those of our high aﬃnity
customer groupings that we are targeting. So panel, ﬂexibility of our supply model is
allowing us to present the right propositions to the customers that we seek to attract.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our CPAs, cost per policy acquired have also been falling in the last four years. You can
see the cost per average policy, that dropped from just under £35 to £30 in this period.
This is a function of improved target and capability that we're already seeing, arising from
work out to connect, as well as things like the movement to digital channels and the like.
And I'm very conﬁdent with the insight that we're continuing to draw from the Connect
Work (00:55:09), our ability to target right customers, draw them into the business with
the right propositions. Those costs will continue to fall.
So, reﬂecting on what is now almost eight years of leading the retail broker business, I
don't think I've ever be more conﬁdent about our ability to add further value through the
acquisition of the right customers, the development of the right proposition, the ability to
retain those customers, as well as to cross-sell them, as a result of the work that we can
see ﬂowing from our insight Project Connect and the membership structures that we can
see now before us.
Now, I'd like to handover to Jeannette, who will talk about the tour operations business.

Jeannette Linfoot

{BIO 20138529 <GO>}

Thank you, Roger. Good morning, everyone and it's great to be here. And what I would
like to do over the next few minutes or so is take you through some of the really exciting
things that are happening within our travel businesses.
I joined Saga around about – over a year ago actually, and I'm really excited about the
portfolio of businesses that I lead, which includes Saga Holidays, Titan, Destinology, and
our VIP transport division.
So what I would like to do really is give you an idea around how Project Connect and
focusing on our high aﬃnity customers is really making a diﬀerence to our business, not
only in terms of what we oﬀer our customers, but also what that means in terms of results.
So, what you can see from this slide here, I'm just going to focus on Saga Holidays for
now. So, what do high aﬃnity customers look like? Well, we have 85,000 of them, got
accounts around about (00:56:57) 70% of this customers that travel with us every year
under the Saga Holidays brand, and what you can see is that they actually spend a higher
Page 16 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

average revenue per holiday per customer than the overall. So, that's £1,900 compared to
£1,500.
So having identiﬁed this group of really critical customers, what we wanted to do was to
absolutely get under the skin of those customers. We wanted to ﬁnd out how do they
think, how do they feel, and really importantly what motivates them to travel. So, we took
a very scientiﬁc approach, and we ran a whole host of quantitative and qualitative
research last year throughout the course of 2016.
Really interesting was a number of focus groups that we ran across the whole of the UK,
and that was to both our existing customers, but also customers that are not yet travelling
with us. And what came out of that research was some really interesting ﬁndings, of
course, there were some things that came up, which we already knew, and just reaﬃrmed
our knowledge. But equally, what those customers were telling us was that they have an
absolute desire to travel extensively and to travel further aﬁeld. And very often to very farﬂung destinations.
Having this real sense of adventure came out through the focus groups, and importantly,
wanting to have a really authentic travel experience to absolutely get under the skin of a
destination, learn a language and meet the locals and ﬂexibility was also key. I want a
holiday on my terms, but actually what I want from Saga is for you to take the hassle away,
make it easy for me. So from that insight, it really allowed us to shape our proposition. So,
what you can see here is in December last year, we launched a new range of holiday
experiences. The ﬁrst one category that I'll talk about is Go For It. Now, in this category,
we're talking about jaw-dropping adventure. And from the research, this is Book it List
(59:20) kind of stuﬀ. So, to bring this to life for you a little bit, imagine a holiday code in
the footsteps of giants taking a really adventurous safari across Zimbabwe.
Now, our customers, they'll see the Victoria Falls, they'll go on the safari, but also, they will
be able to explore on foot and go tracking elephants and buﬀaloes, as well as canoeing
down the Zambezi. So, those are the kind of holidays that you'll ﬁnd in the Go For It
segment.
The second segment is Discover. So again, this is a fantastic range of touring holidays.
And remember from the research, the customers told us, they wanted to travel further
aﬁeld, and you will certainly get that from this collection of holidays. Just to give you
again an example to bring this to life, within this collection, we have holidays which would
track across Kazakhstan, and actually follow the ancient Phil Crews (01:00:20). So, some
really, really interesting holidays in the Discover segment.
The third segment, we call it Stay and Explore; and again, that authentic local experience
that our customers are looking for. So, whether this is dining at the local tavern, whether
it's taking a painting class or whether it's learning a language, you could be walking
through the couple of streets of Montenegro or equally, taking a holiday in a boutique
hotel on the shores of Lake Garda. So, some really, really interesting holidays in that
segment.

Page 17 of 33



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

The fourth segment that we also launched was called Unwind. So, for our customers that
want to have a stay put holiday in fantastic hotels, with great facilities and lots of activities
going on, whether that'd be in the Caribbean, be in the (01:01:11) or some taking a spot of
luxury in Thailand, you can ﬁnd it in this segment. So, I'm sure I can see you are looking
very excited about this inspiring range of holidays. Anyone that's interested in booking,
come and see me afterwards. I'll take all forms of credit cards. But now, I mean, on a
serious note, some really, really fascinating holidays that we created on the back of that
really in-depth customer insight. So, we were keen to ﬁnd out how all of this have landed
with our customers and not only from the product concepts, but also the marketing that
we used. So, we did some research that actually showed us compared to our competitor
set how we were doing. What that showed was a real step change in not only the way the
people consider Saga, but also what they think of us as a travel brand.
So, on a ﬁve-point scale, 56% of people scored us in the top two quadrants in terms of
saying that they felt Saga was changing for the better, 45% that is not the kind of
advertising they expected from Saga, and 54% like the style of advertising. And you can
see there is some great quotes from customers, not only our current customers who want
that sense of adventure, but also that we're appealing to a new set of customers, new
high aﬃnity customers that would never have considered Saga before.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what does all this mean in terms of our ﬁnancial performance or what you can see
here is on the end – on this chart, on the right hand side, this shows the proportion of ﬁrsttime buyers that now consider Saga when they're booking a holiday with us.
So, back in 2014/2015, 24% were actually ﬁrst-time buyers. That has increased to 28% in
2016. So again, really appealing to those customers that have never considered us before.
And through Project Connect, we've become much more targeted with our marketing
and similar to what Roger showed you, that means that cost of acquisition have come
down quite signiﬁcantly from £108 to £95.
And importantly, what does all of this means in proﬁtability? Well, as Jonathan referred to
earlier, we've had a signiﬁcant improvement in our ﬁnancial performance from a PBT
perspective. The numbers here that you can see show the combined results for the tour
operating businesses, so Sags Holidays, Titan and Destinology, but you can see an
impressive more than doubling the proﬁtability from £5.6 million to £11.5 million.
And looking forward, our booking position is very strong. So, for our revenue that is
booked for 2017/2018 departures, that is tracking at plus 8% year-on-year. And once we
are already on sale with departures in 2018/2019, it's very early, but we are seeing doubledigit growth already, which is fantastic. And we've got this really strong pipeline of
innovation continuing to learn from those high aﬃnity customers. So, in Q2 and Q3 of this
year, we'll be launching another 72 new holiday experiences.
So, when we look at cross-sell opportunity, combined with membership, this is a great
opportunity for us to really cross-sell, now in particular between travel insurance and
travel. So, we have 326,000 customers that buy travel insurance from us every year. Only
7,000 of those are actually buying a holiday or a cruise from us. So clearly, that is a

Page 18 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

massive opportunity. And what we wanted to do, again, using Project Connect to
understand those customers. 87% of them were happy to share with us the type of holiday
they wanted. And amazingly, 31% of people had booked travel insurance with us, but have
not yet booked a holiday. So clearly, this is a real opportunity for us to leverage cross-sell
with membership going forward.
So, what does all of that mean for the businesses that I lead? Well, we have a great
portfolio of businesses already with really strong and loyal customer base, which is a
fantastic place to start. We've a track record of delivering results and you can see that
from the ﬁnancial numbers that we've shown you. Through Project Connect, we have this
really deep understanding of our high-aﬃnity customers and we've been able to really
reshape our proposition. Cross-sell, again, a really important and large opportunity for us.
So through all of that, I feel incredibly excited about the future.
So with that, I will now handover to Robin. He will take you through cruising.

Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Jeannette, thank you very much. As always, a very diﬃcult act for me to follow. Good
morning, everybody. I'm going to talk to you about the cruise business for the next few
minutes. I really want to draw out three key points. Firstly, again, to talk about how Project
Connect, high-aﬃnity customers is also now delivering real beneﬁts to the cruise
business.
Second, I want to talk about cruise insight of how we use that to really reframe and
reposition our own cruise proposition. And thirdly then, to link then that has to actually
our new ship, Spirit of Discovery.
So, this ﬁrst chart here, there are some very hard tangible results where we've actually
looked at high aﬃnity customers who had already taken an existing cruise. And then, we –
through recognition and reward of those, we've managed to signiﬁcantly drive up
conversions of those existing groups, i.e. increasing frequency and then also incremental
revenue comes as a result of that. So the recognition pace which very much builds into
membership and Project Connect really is working and these were people obviously that
we were communicating with before.
The second chart here again looks at high aﬃnity customers who traditionally have not
cruised with us before. But on the left-hand side of that, again, a recognition of previous
holiday buyers. So, typically, they will have spent three or more holidays. And by
recognizing their loyalty, recognizing their business with us through the holidays business,
we then target them speciﬁcally and again drive signiﬁcant reductions in our ﬁrst-time
buyer cost from within that exiting segment.
And on the right-hand side, we've got also Saga Magazine subscribers, a huge potential,
a rich vein of aﬃnity customers for us, and we've targeted those in the same way. And
again, the message is loud and clear, recognition and reward works and the ability to

Page 19 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

cross-sell through Project Connect is very signiﬁcant for our cruise business, very
encouraging.
Moving on now to the cruise proposition, in the top left there, we're very proud of the
cruise operation we have currently, high value, excellent customer satisfaction, ﬁrst-class
service. And that's really kind of the existing proposition not in a bad place at all. Take a
step back now some 15, 18 months and the business case for the new ship, was really
predicated on that existing proposition plus the beneﬁts of moving to a new ship, with
new technology, beneﬁts and operating costs, fuel, repairs and maintenance, and
resilience, that was the business case.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the last 12 or 15 months, we just spent a huge amount of time gaining customer
insight. And that customer insight is from three areas, our existing cruise customers, other
people who go cruising, but with other cruise lines and then people who are potentially
considering cruising. And the feedback is very much the same as Jeannette gave from
land-based holidays and we've known this for a while, but the strength of feeling about
people wanting to experience diﬀerent things, more variety, more sense of adventure
comes through loud and clear from all three cohorts that we've been researching.
We have to incorporate that into our future cruise proposition, and that was a message
that comes out loud and clear. There are barriers still to cruise, people do think that what
will I do on all these days at sea, is there enough time in pool and we need to do a job at
Saga cruise of making sure we overcome those barriers. So, how are we going to do that?
Overcoming barriers and perceptions, our product, our cruise operation will evolve over
the next 12, 18, 24 months. We report the customer insight into practice with changing
experience from bow of the ship.
A few examples of that, we've got a ship which will come on later, a new ship which will
oﬀer a huge variety of diﬀerent dining experiences, entertainment experiences, but also
still maintains that small ship feel that can go to destinations, the other cruise ships can't
go, as a diﬀerentiation more overnight stays. We want to make the story for our customers
as good ashore as on board. Traditionally, cruise companies do a great job on board, with
the on board service, but when they go ashore that sometimes leave a little to be desired,
and we're going to launch an explore ashore program, to ensure our guests have just the
same experience in terms of personalization ashore as they do on board.
Amplifying our positives, personalization is in the DNA of Saga, we do nothing is too
much trouble is absolutely at the heart of what we do, within the business and particularly
on board our cruise ships. And we're looking at how we can enhance upon that. There are
some things that we've done with the vessel which are very tangible. Customers have said
time and time that we want that level of personalization, we want the fact that we've got
panoramic kind of venues to 70 degree (01:12:44) for health and well being, we want the
idea of a promenade deck where we can converse and talk. We've actually come up with
the idea of a hundred small things on the ship design, which we're focusing on and these
have come out of the continued research group that we have with our customers. And a
few small examples, the height of the segs (01:13:04) in the cabins, would you believe that
we had an in-depth discussion with customers about the types of hangers, cloth hangers
in the cabins and we've made sure that you don't need to be a degree in computer
Page 20 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

science to work out the air-conditioning in the rooms. These are all small things that really
work and the combination of those together will truly make this a ship that is very
personal and thoughtful.
I have no doubt in this respect that come the launch of the Spirit of Discovery there will
not be a better thought out ship in terms of design putting the customers right at the
heart of that design. Forgive me, but we have put a couple of pictures in there, on the
bottom left there is the latest design, the aft area of the eating area of the new vessel. And
on the right there you've got the lower tier of our main dining room. We could have given
you many more pictures, but I was only allowed these two. This chart here and this kind of
ampliﬁes again what we are able to do with the Spirit of Discovery. And there is kind of
three kind of titles down the side here functionality choice, and I'll talk on those two ﬁrst.
There are some obvious things we can do. The fact this is going to be an all-balcony
vessel is a huge beneﬁt for us. It's almost a hygiene factor within the luxury market that
we're now competing with this particular ship.
The fact that we oﬀer more choice in terms of dining, in terms of entertainment, it's very
evident, that still has to be done though in a way which is a Saga way, which is very
personal, very thoughtful and that is what has made us successful to-date.

Bloomberg Transcript

My favorite chart, why is this my favorite chart? Quite simply, these are the two things that
will drive absolute success within the cruise business. On the top line there, we've got a
situation where again I believe the ship that we end up designing which is now virtually
complete will be unique within the UK cruise market.
It will be the only small ship built for the UK cruise market and I do not believe there will
be any ship that have so much eﬀort and time. We talked about internally about our
relentless focus on the customer. One of our design partners has changed that word to
obsessive. We are obsessive about making sure that we deliver the best possible ship for
our customers and the future needs of customers and I'm absolutely convinced that will
happen.
Ultimately, that will drive strong repeat rates, lower acquisition costs and overall strong
demand, which is absolutely essential and that is the bedrock of what we need to achieve.
Behind that and I spoke earlier about underpinning the investment case with a signiﬁcant
reduction in costs per passenger value. That's driven by the economics of a new ship with
fuel costs, with low repairs and maintenance, with resilience, improvements, et cetera.
That is a given those beneﬁts are veriﬁed as I stand here today in terms of the design that
we're at. So, we're very conﬁdent those will be achieved.
All-in-all those two factors which I feel extremely comfort about, means that our overall
business case is very secure for our new ship, Spirit of Discovery. Thank you. Lance?

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Robin. So, you've now heard from Matt and from the team how excited
we are about the learnings that we're getting from Project Connect and how that's having
Page 21 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

such a signiﬁcant impact on our understanding of the Saga customer or member, as am I
calling from now on, and also how the business operates has been changed.

FINAL

We're going to be launching membership in the second half of this year, it's a fantastic
platform for us to change how Saga engages with its members, rewarding them for their
loyalty, was helping us to improve acquisition, cross-sell and retention metrics.
And ﬁnally, we have delivered another great year ﬁnancially with underlying proﬁts up
5.6%. With so much going on at Saga, it's important that we communicate with you clearly
how we think that success should be measured moving forward. Our aim, as you know, is
to deliver consistent sustainable proﬁt growth, everything you heard today demonstrates
that we're even more conﬁdent than we can continue to deliver that consistency of proﬁt
growth. The proﬁtability of our core broking business will move forward with the beneﬁts
from the motor panel, operational improvements and the learnings that we glean from
Project Connect.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net debt is now down within our guided medium term range and our dividend policy will
continue to be progressive. We're excited about the future of our travel business. We're
very close as I said earlier to achieving our – one year early our previous target of
doubling the EBITDA of that business over a ﬁve-year period. With the new customer
propositions coming in that Jeannette talked to us about and the new cruise ships coming
in, I'm very conﬁdent that we can continue to grow our travel division, and in fact, we're
setting a new target publicly today of growing the proﬁtability of our combined
travel/cruise division by between four and ﬁve times over the next ﬁve years. So there is a
signiﬁcant uptick in our growth ambition for the coming years.
With the launch of membership and the focus on high-aﬃnity customers, we're
introducing another target which is to grow the number of products held by HACs by
20% over the next ﬁve years. So you'll see growth in the number of HACs, you'll see
growth in the number of products that they hold and the combination of thereof we're
targeting growth of at least 20% over the next ﬁve years.
I'm very conﬁdent that these metrics will allow you to measure our progress over the
coming years, and coupled with some of the changes that Jonathan outlined earlier on in
breaking out broking versus underwriting, we hope that everything you've heard today
gives you a real understanding of how we're going to develop Saga, how we're going to
measure ourselves, greater clarity on tracking us and our ﬁnancial performance as we
move forward. We are very excited about the future of Saga in the next few years. We
hope you are too.
So we would now like to take any questions that you've got. The ladies I think have
microphones. So if I could ask you to raise your hand, say who you are when you've got a
mic, and I will distribute questions across the panel. If you have detailed ﬁnancial
questions that will require a quite a bit of discussion, my ask would be that you hold back
and we will wait, we're not going anywhere, and we'll sit down in a corner and go through
those with you just so that we don't bury ourselves in a particular subset of the numbers,

Page 22 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

but general ﬁnancial questions or broader questions, please ﬁre away. I saw that there
three hands go down when I said them, if you've got detailed ﬁnancial questions. Ben?

Q&A
FINAL

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Hi. Ben Cohen at Canaccord. I'm going to ask a broad ﬁnancial question, if I can. It's really
on – I suppose two-fold, on motor broking in terms of how we should think about the
development in revenue going forward? What is going to drive that given the increase in
revenue at the same time as gross written premium declined year-over-year?
And the second question is really on the margin that attaches to that growth. Maybe
anymore speciﬁcs about how much more you see coming from the panel going forward?
How much more you see from eﬃciencies, maybe you could talk a bit more about how
those eﬃciencies have come through, is that cost saving, is there actually some revenue
that attaches to that part? That would just be helpful to try and build a view of motor
broking going forward. Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Ben. This is yours Jonathan.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Yeah, I think that might be mine. And gross written premiums were down because actually
what's happened, the arrangement fees have come out of gross written premiums and
gone as other income, so actually overall, gross written premiums are ﬂat to marginally
up, but we'll try and provide a little bit more detail on that to you and anyone else who'd
like that.
In terms of the revenue, the revenue is one of the most diﬃcult things for us to predict in
the business, because we're not exactly sure where the panel share is going to end up
and (01:22:15) we actually don't really care. Now that we've got quota share in place, what
we want to do and hopefully we tried to explain this before, make sure we get the lowest
cost of risk that we can possibly get, be it from AICL, our in-house underwriter, or be it
from somebody else. If we get a change in dynamic and what our own underwriters sees
and external underwriter see that can move around and will get the panel share moving
up and down. That will have an impact on revenue. So revenue per se is quite a diﬃcult
metric to look at in isolation. So I'm sorry, I can't speciﬁcally answer that question because
it's quite complicated depending on what happens with panel shares.
In terms of just bringing a little bit to life some of the operational eﬃciencies, this goes
across multiple categories from the huge amount of work that Roger and the team have
done on agent productivity, agent training to ensure that we have great service, but yet
highly eﬃcient calls, optimum use of discounting and optimum use of pricing and how we
manage that in the business with the actuarial team that works within Roger's business
,the marketing eﬃciencies, I think Roger has covered some of that already this morning
and I think you can see some really tangible results coming in there.
Page 23 of 33



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

So these are all the things and obviously we're working with our colleagues, third-party
underwriters on the panel to help them see the wisdom of the opportunities that sit
before them by reducing their net rates to look at various areas where we think they may
have options to price better. So we're always working with our suppliers to help them
understand as well as we can there, their range of opportunities and underwriting with us.
So there are a whole range of things, there are myriad activities that take place. We've
done this consistently, Roger and team has done that consistently year in, year out, and
we expect all of these items to be pushed forward again and again as we drive further
eﬃciencies at the business. I think some of the stuﬀ that Matt and Roger talked about this
morning in terms of Project Connect gives us some great opportunities in that area as well
going forward.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Anything to add, Roger?

A - Roger Ramsden

{BIO 18034967 <GO>}

No.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks.
Good morning. (01:24:40) HSBC. I have three questions. Firstly, you've given the total
products held by HACs and how this could move. Could you talk a bit more in terms of
how do you expect the HACs to grow in the next two or three years and how much can
you add there? Secondly, on the Solvency II ratio, that's about 140%, you guys seem
comfortable. The model is moving towards the broker business anyways, what's the
lowest number as in you guys can go down to from a comfort perspective? And thirdly, in
terms of reserve releases, that still remains a fairly chunky bit in the P&L, still at about £60
million, could you say what the reserve buﬀer currently stands at? I appreciate broker
revenue will grow and oﬀset some of that, but still what that number is? Thanks.
So, I'll take the ﬁrst part of that and then hand over to Jonathan for the next two. So, on
the ﬁrst one, we are not publicly stating a speciﬁc growth target for the number of high
aﬃnity customers. The direction of travel will be upwards and that is because we don't
exactly know how fast it will grow and we don't want to make the promise that we don't
think we can commit to. We've done our best to look backwards into the database to ﬁnd
out how many HACs there have been, but because it's a new way of measuring and
cutting the database, it's not that straightforward for us to get a historical measure.
So, what we're going to do over the next year or two is report to you regularly on what's
happening to the number of HACs. And then over time, it's my hope that we'll be in a
position to start making informal directional commitments to you about where we want to
go. We are conﬁdent from the work that we've done over the last six to 12 months that the
trajectory will be upwards and the number of HACs will be one of the key drivers of that
20% uplift in how many products are being bought by HACs. Likewise, we're not going to

Page 24 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

commit on the number of products per person because we're on a learning curve at the
moment. Jonathan?

FINAL

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

On the Solvency II ratio, we haven't given a speciﬁc target, speciﬁc range. We feel very
comfortable with 143%, I don't think you should expect us to be near 120%, let's put it that
way. We are at the mid to mid-low point where you probably should expect us to be
going forward, but we feel very conﬁdent in where we sit today. I think obviously we have
Ogden within that 143%, we were actually towards 160% pre the Og (01:27:16), so actually
we – this is post Ogden rate change. So, we're in pretty good shape there.
In terms of the reserve buﬀer, you reminded me to make a point that I should have made
earlier. We have not degraded the reserve buﬀer at all. We've not said speciﬁcally what it
is, but we have a history, we said at IPO it's around 15%, and every time we stand up and
say, it's not changed materially since the last time. So, from that I think you can probably
infer where we might sit today. But there's been no degradation of the reserve surplus in
any of the prior periods.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Question on this side of the room.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Two questions, please. Looking at the motor broking
business, if you look at the broker margin, it's still way below what you have achieved,
probably a more mature business in home, and even lower than in the other sort of
insurance broking units. Have you any thoughts of where that margin could go to as the
panel ramps up, can we get close to a margin which we're seeing in home or what sort of
level should we think about?
And the other question is actually about the non-aﬃnity customers, have you been able to
identify how many of those are actually loss making for the business and what would you
do about them? Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I'm going to suggest actually if I (01:28:45) if you're happy that Roger answers the ﬁrst
one, and Matt, the second.

A - Roger Ramsden

{BIO 18034967 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. So the motor margin has developed across the business. The book has
diﬀerent conﬁgurations ﬁrst of all, so we tend to acquire more customers from the motor
insurance part of our business than from home. So, it has diﬀerent conﬁgurations into the
proportion of business, new business versus renewing business, which aﬀects the shape
of the aggregate total that we see.

Page 25 of 33



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

Secondly, with regard to progress on the panel what Jonathan said earlier, I think that
remains to be seen, in terms of the impact that it has, clearly, as we have seen from the
home panel, which is now very mature part of our business. We've done very well if you
like with regard to how the panel has worked. Key driver of those have been our ability to
provide additional insight to those panel members around how best to compete, how
also to think about our customers. So, we've introduced something, for example we
called the Saga Factor, which is insight about the way in which our customers behave and
its way in which we can see that in a way as an insurance business you may not be able to
see those types of behaviors and we can correlate that with, for example clients behavior,
and that gives additional conﬁdence to price.
Now thirdly, we've been doing that for a number of years, for example in the home panel
given the maturity of that part (01:30:00) of the supply side of my business. There's clearly
an opportunity to develop that with our farmers now on the motor panel as well. So, I
think we can improve the capacity of tension in the motor panel, we can improve the
insight, but exactly how that will play out in what is obviously a very competitive dynamic
and the fast changing marketplace in terms of the right place to price, right way to
present pricing through diﬀerent channels, I think that remains to be seen. So a bit
diﬃcult to make sort of forward facing statement, but we can see from what we've done
previously that we can work very successfully within a family environment in a way that it is
quite diﬀerent to other brokers oﬀering similar stars of product.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

Yeah. I would just say, we don't necessarily set speciﬁc end game targets for where we
want speciﬁc individual product margins to get to because obviously, we will trade
volume and value across the diﬀerent products and right across the whole business,
depending on the market circumstances because we work in a very dynamic and
competitive market, and we'll see where is best to grow and where – in terms of policy
where it might be best to grow in terms of high-aﬃnity customers and where it might be
best to pullback a little bit, so we will work on that as we go forward and clear that with
implications on that margin in the broking business.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

And to your question on high aﬃnity customers, we've already identiﬁed and taken out
about £1 million of non-eﬀective spend (01:31:33) goes to groups of customers whose
behavior hasn't changed over the last two to three years, so already we are starting to use
designs to improve our overall model.
The beneﬁt of that is, there's kind of less Saga mail (01:31:49) in people's front doors, and
then it allows us to reallocate that money to much more eﬀective activity. We are on a
journey here, and the journey is very much about concentrating our eﬀort on those
potential high-value customers, which allows us to become more eﬃcient overall because
as Roger said, we start to have target our acquisition activity in the right way, and then we
can cross – do vertical journeys across our businesses and the model improves overall that
will naturally create more eﬃcient activity as we cut out ineﬃcient spend. But I think the
ﬁnal point to say is that we obviously want to provide a great service and products to all
our customers, but what we're starting to do is to narrow our activity focus on those
Page 26 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

speciﬁc groups of customers, and we'll continue to do more work to make our model
even more eﬃcient as Connect's continues to develop and improve.
And as always solid line of presenters there. From the market one gathers that there is
obviously a contrary information, on one hand the disposable income is very high at the
50-plus (01:33:01) level, on the other hand, everyone is kind of wanting their money to go
far and kind of more price conscious across. But coming back to Saga and speciﬁc about
your HAC customers, I mean how is the age proﬁle, the disposable income, I mean kind of
that's – if you can throw some light there.
And it's pretty obvious following up to what Matt said; that all your new spend is basically
going to go towards recruiting more HACs. So, if you could share some tactics and new
thoughts on how you are obviously going to be targeting and recruiting new HACs?
Thanks a lot.
Yeah. So, I think the ﬁrst thing to say is that it's important that you understand the pyramid
is a dynamic model because you've got customers coming in, moving up, moving out,
and it's a snapshot of one period of time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Naturally because of the way we've captured the data, quite a lot of the customers in the
entry point of the pyramid have a slightly younger proﬁle in age terms than those at the
top of the pyramid because by deﬁnition they've been with us longer, they hold more
products and services.
So eﬀectively, what we're starting to do clearly is to use the signs (01:34:18) we have, and
because it's quite a lot of Saga IP and there's a quite a lot of intellectual property involved
in the segmentation and the targeting models, it's quite diﬃcult to disclose all of the
detail. But we can see full, very distinctive groups of customers with very diﬀerent
characteristics. And that clearly what that means is, using our new targeting capability,
marketing cloud that's gone and we can start to customize our products, services and
pricing at the entry point, and Roger has already started to do that, which is why his
numbers are improving and changing as he has already disclosed.
A bit about what we do to grow the numbers and change those dynamics is really
predominantly about why we're doing membership. Because today, we don't have an
enormous number of levers to pull, to reward that behavior that we seek, whereas
creating a vehicle and membership allows us to add value to you, when you go from one
product to two products or when you go from our insurance business to our travel
business, that really starts to enable us to not only attract more high aﬃnity customers, but
reward those who are at diﬀerent stages in the permitted (01:35:37) value. Did I answer
your question, okay?
Half of that.
Half of that. What was the half, I didn't answer?

Page 27 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

Well, in terms of kind of royalty proﬁle (01:35:45) of the customers...

FINAL

Yes. Well, I mean, obviously, because it is intellectual property and because we are using
that to be – give ourselves a competitive advantage in the marketplace, we're not going
to disclose fully all of that detail because we know it's going to give us an advantage and
it's already giving us an advantage in the marketplace.

A - Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

And what you (01:36:09) in terms of proportion of wealth held by the over 50s is still
growing. At the time of the IPO, we did desk research and bought in a bit of data and it
would appear that the liquid wealth held by the over 50s continues to grow as a
proportion. Now, it's gone from 68% to 70% roughly.
And then in terms of reassurance of our customer's willingness to spend and invest; two
data points for you. The ﬁrst is that in a travel market, which we think is roughly ﬂat in
Western Europe at the moment, we're up, our forward bookings are up 8%. And the
other, some of you have heard this before is just to remind you that in a week or two after
Brexit, we did a poll of 10,000 Saga customers and we asked them how their travel
intentions were going to change and few of them, 1% of them said they were going to
alter their travel plans, as a result and that does appear to be playing through now six
months later into our forward bookings.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from what we see at the moment, we remain very optimistic about the size and the
behaviors of our target demographic. Nick?

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Thank you. Nick Johnson from Numis. Two questions, ﬁrstly on Saga priorities. Could you
just talk a bit about what you expect the cost earnings proﬁle of that to be over time
assuming (01:37:24) there is some cost of rewards (01:37:26) that you're oﬀering? So just a
bit of a comment on the likely shape of that?
And secondly, in terms of the target to increase to 880 (01:37:35) products by 20%, again
how should we think about the proﬁt implication of that? Is it like to be sort of a linear
increase in the same manner as the current proﬁt-based customers or is there likely some
products are going to be more popular?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks Nick. Jonathan (01:37:53).

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

In terms of Saga priorities, the cost is measured in single digit millions upfront to set that
up. Clearly we see that, the beneﬁts ﬂowing as an underpin to the steady sustainable
growth that we talked about. And so that's a gradual delivery of beneﬁts over a long time.
This is 1% on persistency rates within an insurance business, cumulate quite signiﬁcantly
over time, higher levels of repeat business in the travel and cruise business. If you
Page 28 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

cumulate those over time, they can grow quite materially. So, I think, you should expect
the beneﬁts to come in gradually, but clearly, we'll have some setup costs. We will have
some costs in terms of what we're oﬀering the customers and that will come in the ﬁrst
couple of years.
In terms of your second question, clearly on cruise, there's a capacity issue. So, this
enables us to, hopefully, drive the load factors and yields in the short-term, but clearly,
that's got a limit on it. Clearly, in Jeannette's business, it will be great to see our ability to
increase those customers gradually over time. And then, the crossholdings in Roger's
business. So I think, you'll see this all coming through on a gradual basis. I don't think you
should expect a sudden whizbang and sudden change. But, we see this as an absolutely
an underpin, giving us greater conﬁdence in our ability to deliver that sustainable,
consistent growth going forward.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

It's just worth bearing in mind that you're all aware that we have a decline in reserve
releases over the next few years. And so, in one way, what we've talked about today is our
conﬁdence in our ability to oﬀset that decline and continue to post solid proﬁt growth in
the years to come?

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean, realistically, if you look at it, you got to expect rather in the 5% external growth, it's
got to be double-digit organic growth to oﬀset reserve releases. So that's what we're
actually trying to deliver underneath this business.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks. Anymore questions from the center, I've been ignoring the center?

Q - Lena Thakkar

{BIO 16225519 <GO>}

Thanks. Lena Thakkar from HSBC. If I could ask three travel related questions. So, ﬁrstly,
just on your travel PBT, which you're looking to grow 4 times to 5 times, could you just
give us a very brief outline of the building blocks for that growth? And then secondly,
Jeannette, just in terms of the forward bookings up 8%, I presume that's a volume driven
ﬁgure. Could you comment on ASPs or any sort of pricing data there? And also, Robin,
once for you. I understand this is a business case of new ships in terms of costs. Could you
talk about the yield opportunity there as well, please?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So, Jonathan, perhaps you can take the ﬁrst block of that, the building blocks part.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. The building blocks, and Jeannette's business, as she shared earlier, makes
around made around £12 million of PBT in the year just closed. Clearly, Jeannette's got
some ambitious plans both on top line and in terms of some of the eﬃciency. The

Page 29 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

eﬃciency program that she has got going on particularly within Saga Holidays, which will
help boost margins and proﬁtability. So, you should see that moving up to a material
contributor to the proﬁt over the next ﬁve years.
And then, we've said pretty clearly on the ships that the ﬁrst – in the ﬁrst full year of
operation, you should expect about £20 million proﬁt from the ships. It grows over time,
because what you're doing is you're taking on 12-year repayable asset-backed ﬁnance in
year one. So, your PBT in the ﬁrst full year is obliviously diluted. As that gets paid down
over time, then you get the full beneﬁt coming in, which goes to £30 million-plus over
time. So, there was – you've got a couple of £20 million blocks coming in, and then you've
got growth in Jeannette's business. It certainly get you to the bottom end of that range.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Jeannette?

A - Jeannette Linfoot

{BIO 20138529 <GO>}

And in terms of the forward bookings, the 8% – plus 8% on revenue that we spoke about
for 2017/2018, that's a combination of an increase in passenger numbers year-on-year and
also an increase in the average selling price. Some of that is down to mix. So, we're seeing
much more demand for our sort of long-haul rivers and program and of course those new
concepts which we talked about is also allowing us to have a higher average selling price
and as well as passenger growth. It's a combination of the two actually.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Okay. On the yield for the cruise vessel, the new cruise vessel, there is – ﬁrstly, I think,
important point to make is that the business case was predicated on the cost beneﬁts with
eﬀectively inﬂationary yield included into that business case. Then, there's two dynamics
at play; there is the fact that we have this new cruise ship which is going to be all
balconies and eﬀectively the real estate is substantially improved in the facilities versus
existing ship. So, there is a positive impact there. The other side of that is there is more
capacity to ﬁll, which is the other side of that equation. That's why, we got to that.
On the latter part of that equation, what I'm pleased to say is that the early demand, and
yes, it's a early demand for 2019/2020, is extremely strong. We've had over 10,000
passengers register an interest to go on the ﬁrst sailing, which could be a challenge. And
of those – over half of those has put down deposits on those ﬁrst sailings from July 2019
onwards. So, those 10,000, even it's (01:43:37) early stage of it, advance and pre-reg
would account for the ﬁrst 12-or-so cruises. So early signs, but the early signs are very, very
encouraging from the demand side.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Couple of more questions and then, we'll call it a halt (01:43:52).

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Page 30 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

FINAL

Hi. Ed Morris, JPMorgan. You sort of touched on what I was going to ask about a little bit
there, but I'm pretty interested about capacity constraints in the cruising business.
Because you have such a signiﬁcant uptake from each ship, how far away are we from a
position where you could think about adding another cruise ship? Is it the capacity
leverage or the factors there?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Did he pay you for that price (01:44:21)?

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

The second question, Jonathan is the – it's on some of the investments you talked about
needing in the broking business. If you could just talk about what exactly you need to do
there and whether you'd be expecting to expense that or with – will there be any CapEx
involved as well? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Look, I'll take the one on the cruise. To remind you, we have an option on a second ship.
We have to exercise that option by the end of this calendar year. And so, we are watching
very closely two things. Firstly, the state of the global economy, global travel, global
cruise. That looks pretty positive and very signiﬁcant growth in ex-UK cruise numbers
coming through at the moment. And we've always said to all the analysts and investors in
the room that you should assume that we will probably exercise that option and build the
second ship, which means that we'll have two old ships going out and two new ships
coming in. So, there's no more hulls at the end of that, although they are slightly larger
ships. So, that's the ﬁrst thing we're watching.
And then, the second thing, of course, is Robin's pre bookings which he has just touched
on. So, we're monitoring extremely carefully the level of interest from our customer base
before making a ﬁnal decision about that second hull. And again, just to ﬁnalize, it is our
intention to build a two-ship ﬂeet and operate a two-ship ﬂeet. We're not fundamentally a
shipping company. We are an asset light business with the exception of those cruise
ships. We are a very asset eﬃcient business and we don't want to turn ourselves into
carnival. That's not our business. We think that it's a very important part of the heart of the
brand, the brand experience, communication and it's the epicenter of great service for
Saga that the whole of the rest of the business can learn from, but we have no intention of
building more shops at this date any way.

Q - Roger Ramsden

{BIO 18034967 <GO>}

And then, in terms of the broking investments, that's really around the new platform that
we're putting in the new Guidewire. There is a mix share of CapEx and OpEx in there. It's
low-single digit millions on OpEx and CapEx, you won't notice it within the bump in our
run rate, which runs at about £30 million excluding the down payments we make on ships.
So, it's not – you won't massively see a huge tick up in that sort of run rate CapEx, because
clearly, we're putting other things oﬀ, where we've got other development programs.
We're getting a lot of resource into this.

Page 31 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I'll get the last question to Blair. And then, we will be staying behind. So, anyone who
wants to talk to us, please come, grab us.

FINAL

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks. Thanks very much. I've got a couple questions to ask. It's Blair Stewart from BOA.
And ﬁrst question just on the insurance side on the quota share. You said that you've
covered the downside risk and (01:47:08) and the upside risks, with reserve releases, et
cetera. So, how do you capture the upside risk as well? I guess the answer is no; just to
explain that would be great. And secondly, the combined ratio, the core combined ratio
deteriorated in the second half of the year quite signiﬁcantly. Is that just normal
seasonality or is there something else going on there, please?
And ﬁnally, I don't think you give the number of policy, the policy count for the
underwriter anymore. You just – I think it's aggregated into one number. So, the overall
policy count went up by about 5%, the core motor policy count went up by about 10%. I
just wonder – get a feeling for where those numbers might move to over the next few
years? Are those indicative of what you expect going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

If I can take those in reverse order, the 10% uplift is primarily the annualization of Bennetts
on total policy numbers for motor. So, actually, the Saga core policies were up by –
between 1% and 2% in terms of total policies underwritten by Roger's business in terms of
the broker. The number of policies underwritten are down about 10% year-on-year within
the underwriting business as a rule of thumb, where do I expect that to get to, I'll just refer
back to the question about we don't really care, we're pretty agnostic as to whether we
underwrite given with the (01:48:34) quota share in place or whether a third-party
underwriter who takes the business, who prices it best, wins the business. So we don't
have a target for where the underwriter will be. Was that your question speciﬁcally around
motor policies?

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yeah. You just surpassed the overall numbers for a moment.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

It's ﬂat when you take the half year of incremental policies on Bennetts, but we can run
you through the detail on that afterwards. In terms of the second question was the H2
core eﬀectively we've recognized a greater quantity of reserve releases in H1 which
excluding the core is – the core report is, and I'll come back to you on the answer to that
one if I can do, I don't know the answer at this point. And the reserve releases outside
clearly the quota share only covers policies in force from the 1st of Feb 2016, is the ﬁrst
point, so any reserve releases for the period prior to that point are clearly all on our
account. And then secondly, we haven't being speciﬁc as to the precise split of the upside
for the quota share paid and period in terms of releases, but I think you can materially
expect all of that to ﬂow to us.

Page 32 of 33



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2017-03-29

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Some great questions. I know we could carry on for long time. I'm hugely impressed after
six years of running PLCs, I don't think we've ever presented to an audience of this size for
two hours and lost nobody, which I believe that you are asleep or that you have enjoyed
the presentation. We're going to stay behind, we're happy to take any questions that
you've got. We're going to be seeing a number of you out on the road over the next two
to three weeks, which we look forward to enormously.
Thank you very, very much for your attention and we look forward to seeing you shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 33 of 33

