Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Martin Croft, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director
David Charles Bellamy, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Ian Stewart Gascoigne , Executive Director and Managing Director

Other Participants
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Benjamin Bathurst, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Lance M. Burbidge , Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the St. James's Place Half Year
Results for 2017. We are now going live into the presentation room, where we'll hear
some silence until the call begins. Thank you for your patience.
Thank you for holding. This call will begin shortly.

David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Take your time. Okay. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us this morning.
As is usual at our interim results meetings, I'll run through the new business and advise the
numbers we released earlier today, hand over to Andy to talk about the financial
performance, the profits, the dividends, and I'll spend some time talking about the
environment we find ourselves operating in and a little more about the future. We then, as
usual, will take questions at the end.
As I said at last year's interims, I said and I quote, "it's an understatement to say that it's
been a very unusual and unprecedented six months with much volatility, increased
uncertainty, political hostility, and a somewhat divided population." And here we are some
12 months on, and that quote pretty much holds true today, political uncertainty, divided
population, political hostility and so on. I went on to say that we're a resilient bunch
nevertheless, and the month post Brexit, we're beginning to see some order being

Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

restored. All we have to do is replace the word Brexit with general election, and here we
go again.
However, while some of the order's been restored and the government is trying to
stabilize the political environment, it remains very fragile. There's nothing fragile about our
business results though, they're proving to be as resilient as ever. Gross inflows are up
29% for the quarter or £3.6 billion and up 30% year-to-date at £6.9 billion. And that's
equivalent to gross inflows of over £55 million every working day. The growth is even
more impressive when we look at net inflows, they're up 35% in the quarter and 40%
year-to-date at £4.3 billion. And that growth in net inflows together with the strong
performance of our investment portfolios have driven our funds under management to
£83 billion, up almost £8 billion since the start of the year, and up almost £18 billion over
the last 12 months.
To emphasize the resilience point, let's look at the trends underlying those numbers.
Here's a chart that shows the quarter-by-quarter breakdown of our gross inflows. And
you'll see quite clearly just how impressive and how consistent the company is at growing
its business. One other attractive feature of our gross inflows is how well they spread
across our three tax wrapper groups.

Bloomberg Transcript

Unit trusts and ISAs are up 32%, pensions are up 33%, and bonds are up 20% year-todate. A similar consistent picture is reflected in the net inflows chart, and consequently,
the growth in funds under management reflects that consistent growth, up nearly £18
billion over the last 12 months and £80 billion since the start of the year.
One of the drivers of the growth in inflows is, of course, our growth in capacity, i.e., the
number of advisors we have with us. You remember that in previous years, we've talked
about the changing shape of the partnership. Our partners today are more reflective of a
population of business owners, or SMEs as I've referred to them in the past, planning for
their own growth and recruitment of additional advisors, support staff, looking to develop
sustainable businesses for the future. Hence, today, we focus on total advisor numbers
since this is more relevant indicator of our capacity.
For the half year, total advisor numbers were up 3.7% on the start of the year, which,
together with the pipeline, is well on track to achieve our full-year objective of growth in
advisor numbers of between 6% and 8%. The other driver is the amount of business
generated per advisor, what we've traditionally referred to as productivity. We measure
that now as well at an advisor level. And as you'll deduce from our strong business growth
thus far this year, a substantial proportion of that growth is coming from increased
productivity across the board. Productivity per advisor is up 19% year-on-year, which is
further evidence of the strong momentum behind these numbers. Our advisors have
never been busier as the demand for face-to-face relationship based advice continues to
grow.
So that's it to start with, a brief overview of the very strong business results released to
the market this morning, 30% growth in gross inflows, 40% growth in net inflows, taking

Page 2 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

our funds under management to £83 billion, and a very strong underlying momentum in
the business.

FINAL

So, let me now hand over to Andy, who'll take you through the financial incomes arising
from this growth, and I'll come back a little later with a little bit more color around the
results once he's done that. Andy?

Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, David, and morning, everyone. A great set of figures, which continues the
recent trend we've been experiencing. And naturally, the strong performance is reflected
in all the financial metrics, which has enabled the board to increase the interim dividend by
25%, and more about this later.
So this morning, I will be the covering cash and EEV results, followed by the dividend,
before finishing with some commentary around solvency. In line with recent presentations,
I will not be spending any time on the IFRS result, albeit there are slides in the appendix at
the back of your pack. Having said that though, with the IFRS underlying profit before
shareholder tax up 44%, it was very tempting to say a few words.

Bloomberg Transcript

So firstly, let's look at the cash result. The net annual management fees for the six months
were £297.8 million compared with £235.7 million, growth of 26% and in line with the
growth of average funds under management over the period. Now within the cash result,
these annual management fees are the most important contributor to the result, with
three key drivers to the outcome in any particular year.
Firstly, the average fee we earn, where the post tax blended rate continues to be around
77 basis points. Secondly, net new funds under management, and thirdly, the investment
return we achieved on the funds. Therefore, all factors being equal, the second half of the
year will be higher than the first half. Typically, we experience a 48:52 split in favor the
second half of the year, and this would not be an unreasonable sense check for your
models, albeit clearly, a material change in investment return would have an effect on the
outcome.
The reduction in fees in the gestation period for the six months were £130 million
compared to £86.9 million, an increase of some 50%. Ordinarily, the growth in this
number would be more in line with the 26% growth in the net annual management fee.
However, as noted in the 2016 full year results, the £237 million timing benefit arising from
the reassessment of unit liability reverses over the period 2017 to 2022. Consequently,
there is an additional £20 million or so cost from this effect reversing in the first half of
2017.
So, our net income from funds under management for the six months was £167.8 million
compared to £148.8 million. You will know that as those funds under management within
the gestation period mature, so does net income figure will increase. At the end of June,
you can see that we had £26.8 billion of funds still within the gestation period, with an

Page 3 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

embedded annual post tax earnings of some £206 million. The £1.1 billion will mature in
the final half of the year and contribute to cash earnings for the first time.
As an aside, you can see the increasing size of funds to emerge from gestation in the
coming years. The margin arising from new business in the six months was €59.4 million,
significantly higher than the €20.5 million for the prior year. This contribution has also been
impacted by the reassessment of unit liability as the cash margin on new business is
higher at the expense of ongoing margin to the gestation period.
As a reminder, this reassessment was all about timing rather than changing the overall
economic profit. This contribution is dependent upon the mix of new business and in the
case of pensions, whether the business is in respect of pension savings or active
retirement pensions where the initial cash margin is lower.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm turning now to establishment expenses. The expenses for the first six months was
€73.6 million compared with €60.1 million for the prior year, and there are two important
points to note here. Firstly, the 2017 number includes the full six months' running cost of
€5.8 million for the additional office space we occupied during 2016. The comparative, on
the other hand, included a cost of only €2.1 million, reflecting the timing of when the space
was occupied.
And secondly, the higher level of gross in net inflows we have seen naturally increases of
cost. And as a rough rule of thumb, every additional 2.5% growth in new business over our
stated aims brings an additional 1% growth in establishment cost. And taking these two
factors into account, the expense outcome for the six months is more or less what I would
expect. On one consequence, our strong new business growth is therefore a slight
dampening impact on growth in cash today, but it is obviously positive for future cash
returns. There were small increases in operational development costs and regulatory
fees, while frustratingly, the post-tax contribution to the FSCS levy of £16 million was again
at an elevated level. Despite this now being the third consecutive year of significant
contribution, we do still expect the levy to fall in future years as the number of historic
claims decline.
In addition, we are supportive of the SDA (12:27) review of how the FSCS scheme is
funded. You will recall that this cost is fully expensed in the first half of the year, so there
should not be a corresponding cost in the second half. Shareholder interest for the six
months was £5.7 million compared with £4.7 million, whilst the tax relief from capital losses
was £9.3 million compared with £7 million. The amount of capital losses we can utilize in
any particular period depends upon the number of factors, including investment markets.
In a steady state, we would expect to utilize £4 million to £5 million in a half year.
And then taking into account a small negative £4.2 million miscellaneous impact, the total
operating cash result for the six months was £139 million, growth of 35%.
Now whilst our business is not particularly seasonal, the second half of the year tends to
be stronger than the first half, reflecting both increasing funds as the year progresses,
together with the FSCS levy being fully reflected in the first half of the year.
Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

Now we continue to invest in a number of strategic investments for the future, with
expenditure on the Academy of £3.3 million and net investments of £7.5 million on the
Asian operations, a net investment of £2.8 million on DFM, and cost of £2.3 million relating
to broadening and enhancing our client offering.
Now, for both DFM and Asia, it's important to note these numbers include the income
these businesses receive on their respective funds under management. In other words,
these fees are not included in the net annual management fee of £297.8 million we
covered earlier. Now, David will provide an update on all these strategic initiatives later.
After deducting these investment costs, the underlying cash result for the six months was
£123.1 million, growth of 30%. The back-office development cost, which we showed below
underlying cash on the basis this would not be a long-term cost, was £8.2 million, at a
similar level to last year. David will also be commenting on this major infrastructure
development.
Now during a period where we're running dual systems, we are not expecting to see any
of your cash benefits, indeed, the opposite. However, you will see in a moment that we
are starting to see benefits in our embedded value projections. And this is encouraging as
cash will ultimately follow.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, on cash, there was a small negative variance of £3.6 million compared with an
equally small negative last year of £3.5 million. And this provides for a total cash result of
£111.3 million compared with £82.5 million, growth of 35%.
Moving now onto the EEV and looking at the key elements of the result. The new business
contribution for the six months was £343 million compared with £228.9 million, growth of
50%. This result reflects not just the growth in gross inflows, but also the expected longterm economies of scale resulting from the tariff we pay on the new Bluedoor platform,
and let me give you a brief explanation. As you know, the EEV new business contribution
represents the net present value of the expected future cash flows from the new
business written during a period. This includes the initial margin less the initial expenses,
together with the future annual management fees, less the future maintenance costs, the
bulk of which relates to the third-party tariff. Even the average duration of our client
investments, a small saving in the maintenance tariff amounts to a significant saving over
the life of the plan.
So in other words, within the EEV new business margin, we're now starting to see the
financial benefits of Bluedoor. There was a positive experience variance of £17.8 million
principally due to the continued stronger retention than the assumption in the EEV
calculation.
(17:06) are the investment costs associated with the Academy, Asia, other strategic
developments and Bluedoor of a combined £23.5 million compared with £17.6 million. The
distribution business contributes the negative £20.7 million compared to the negative
£17.5 million. Both years were adversely affected by the elevated FSCS levy. Share option
and associated costs for the six months were £15.9 million compared with £7.5 million. The
Page 5 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

additional cost in the current period reflects the higher share price, together with an
increased assumption of awards achieving their performance targets.

FINAL

Finally, other contributed a negative £9.5 million compared with a negative £5.7 million.
The major difference relates to a £3.1 million higher corporate matching to the foundation.
This reflects the record fund raising by our community in the first half of the year, together
with a double matching from those contributions.
And taking all these into account, the operating profit for the six months was £397.3
million compared with £284 million, growth of some 14%. The investment return on our
funds during the period was 4% higher than the assumed return, resulting in a positive
investment variance of £214 million. The stronger investment return together with the
small positive economic assumption change provided for total pre-tax EEV profit of £622.9
million, which compares to a profit of £442.7 million, so growth of some 41%.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, on the EEV result, the net asset value per share at the 30th of June was
976.7p, which is up 8% since the start of the year and 23% over the 12 months. Both strong
cash result and an even stronger EEV result, what does it all mean for the dividend? Well,
we announced this morning that the interim dividend will be increased by 25% to 15.41p
per share. And importantly, we anticipate increasing the full year dividend by a similar
amount.
The interim dividend will absorb around £81 million, which represents some 70% of the
half year underlying cash result. However, it's important to remember that the interim
dividend only accounts for 38% of the full year dividend. So in all probability, the full year
payout ratio will be higher.
And going forward, we will continue to grow the dividend in line with the underlying
performance of the business. And whilst the underlying cash result remains a key
consideration in our decision-making process, this cannot be viewed in isolation. We will
also take into account levels of gross and net inflows, funds under management,
expenses, the development of the partnership, market conditions, et cetera, et cetera.
Moving now onto my final subject for this morning, solvency. As you are aware, we
manage the solvency of the business so that any point in time, we hold sufficient assets to
match the encashment value of clients' investments. In effect, what would be needed for
100% mass lapse. We also hold this with an additional management solvency buffer as
prudent protection against other risks. That is not to say we do or, indeed, can ignore the
Solvency II calculations or ratios. However in all but the most extreme scenarios, the
approach we adopt is more cautious than the Solvency II calculation since we take no
credit for future profits.
And just for the avoidance of doubt, we use a standard formula in calculating our CSR and
do not make any use of any other matching volatility or transitional reliefs. Now, I don't
intend to cover Solvency II further this morning, but for those who are interested in the
estimated Solvency II position at the 30th of June, this is also included as an appendix in
your packs. Now when considering the solvency position in our way of looking it, you'll see
Page 6 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

that the solvency of the two life companies remains strong with assets over our solvency
buffer of £185.6 million at the 30th of June, whilst the management solvency buffer is
currently £437 million. You will recall at the end of 2017, we increased the MSB by £267
million to match the increased net assets arising from the reassessment to the unit
liability.
At the February results announcement, I said we'd be undertaking a reassessment of the
MSB in the second half of the year as part of our annual ORSA process. This remains the
case, so there's more news to come. And that's me finished, and I hope you agree that
there's been a strong financial performance in the first six months of the year, culminating
in a 25% increase in the interim dividend. And this continues our history of 25% compound
growth in the dividend over the last 11 years.
Now, as you know, at the end of the year, I'll be taking over the CEO baton from David. As
well as being a massive privilege and honor to assume this role, it also means I will never
have to say the words (23:06) again.
So, thank you for your attention, and I'll now hand the stage back to David for his last time.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy. I hope you agree, some really excellent financial results driven by some
excellent new business figures, demonstrating once again the strength of the business
model and the continued resilience of St. James's Place. Given the fragile political
environment and the uncertainty around Brexit and the economy, a number of
commentators question how we're able to maintain such strong and consistent results.
And clearly, there wasn't a simple answer. Much as I'd like to say it's all down to quality
leadership, it isn't that simple. And in practice, it's to do with a number of things. Firstly,
there's our investment approach.
Continuous improvement and development of our investment approach led by our
investment committee, and the fund managers we utilize ensures that our clients can rely
on the fact that we'll look after their investments that they entrust with us. We'll keep
them safe, give them decent returns, and ensure that they don't have to worry about that
aspect to their financial affairs. The breadth of our investment proposition is such that the
vast majority of clients have very diversified portfolios, spreading the investment risk and
consistently delivering good returns. Year-to-date, all of our investment portfolios have
outperformed their arch peer groups. And a similar picture emerges when we measure
that over a five-year period. And by way of a reminder, the peer group is comprised of a
very comprehensive list of names.
Secondly, it's due to the strength and quality of our advisor community, the St. James's
Place partnership. They are amongst some of the best and most experienced advisors in
the business, with, on average, almost 20 years experience, they know what they're
doing, and are very well versed with the issues most clients face today. And they have a
FTSE 100 business with nearly 2,000 employees backing them up and supporting
everything they do. As I said in my presentation earlier in the year, they're no longer one-

Page 7 of 21



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

man bands either. Whilst in total they number some 2,400 of what we call partners, they
have support teams entirely funded by them, taking care of their back office and their
administration needs. Those partner support teams, as we refer to them, total some
5,000 people and are complemented by a further 1,000 supporting advisors. And we can
well imagine that their number will grow in time such that pretty much every partner's
practice has at least one additional advisor to support the provision of ongoing advise and
service to their increasing number of clients and funds under management. They also
prove their businesses for some of our Academy entrants to join as they graduate from
our Academy. This year, we expect a further 100 advisors to graduate largely from those
that joined us two years ago in 2015. On alongside those people leaving the Academy, it
continues to attract high caliber individuals who've chosen to build a new career with us.
Already this year, 88 new students have joined the academy compared to 75 in the first
six months of 2016. Thirdly and linked to the partnership is the support we're able to give
them to ensure, A, that they're equipped to give the most suitable advice at all times,
and, B, they have the most experienced and extensive technical support to ensure they're
up to date with all the necessary tax and regulatory rules in the climates. Our compliance,
risk, legal and technical teams are all there to support partners, and keep them, our
clients and us safe.
The consequences of their support are perfectly illustrated in the recent thematic review
on suitability and disclosure carried out by the FCA. Their thematic review looked at over
1,100 case files through two lenses, was the advice provided suitable and were the
regulatory requirements for the disclosure of advisor status, charges and costs complied
with. The FCA engaged with a number of firms, including us and several hundred IFAs.
And the results were published by them in May. And they show that across the industry,
93% of cases looked at demonstrated that the advice to clients was suitable. This is
clearly a really good result for the industry or profession as we should now refer to it. And
encouragingly, those percentages were pretty consistent across all channels.
When it comes to demonstrating compliant disclosure though, just 53% of cases looked
at demonstrated that they complied with the regulators' disclosure requirements. And
within that result, just 40% of IFAs compliant. Now, whilst the FCA were disappointed with
the disclosure results, for me, they just illustrate how hard it is for small organizations to
keep abreast of what's required of them, and importantly, what their clients should
receive by way of disclosure documents.
As I said, we were part of this thematic review, and the FCA selected some 65 of our
cases at random. Our results were over 90% in both cases. Over 90% deemed suitable
advice and importantly, over 90% have the appropriate disclosure of status and charges.
Clearly, good results for us, and as I said, evidence of our ability given our strength and
the resources available to the partnership to ensure that our advisors are fully equipped
to do the job as required of them.
We also ensure that they receive all the necessary technological and IT support so that
they have the digital tools necessary to provide clients with the service they require in the
way that they require it. At the same time, we can ensure that the data management,
cyber security and business submission processes are all as they should be.

Page 8 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

As I said, quite how small advisor firms keep abreast of the plethora of rules and
regulations, not to mention the complexities of tax in this day and age, must be a real
challenge for them, and potentially a risk for them and their clients. And sadly, has a
consequence for us, too. Firms, and they are mainly IFAs, that don't keep up to date with
the rules and regulations often don't have the resources to carry out the appropriate due
diligence on the investments they put out, which in turn means that invariably, some fail,
costing their clients significant distress and ultimately, money, causing the FSCS levy to
pay out substantial sums in compensation, which falls on companies like us to make up.
And as Andy said, our contribution to this year's levy is yet another £20 million, the third
consecutive year of near maximum contribution. Frustrating for all of us. Moving on to the
fourth reason why we're doing so well today, and that relates to the environment we work
in. Not only are there complex rules and regulations to adhere to, our lives are more
complicated today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tax is more complicated today. The rules around pensions, tax relief, drawdown are more
complicated today. Even ISAs have become overly complicated with 7 different versions.
We're living longer. Most of us don't have final salary pensions to fall back on. And those
that do are being offered extremely attractive transfer values to encourage them to exit
their companies' scheme. And as you will know, the issues associated with that decision
are far from straightforward.
And the fact is that as the overall wealth increases, an increasing number of people now,
they have the time, inclination or confidence to want to handle these things for
themselves. And so they look for someone they can trust to advise them, and that's
where we and our partners come in, some of the most experienced and trusted in their
field supported by the substantial resources of St. James's Place.
So four key reasons, why we're doing so well. Our investment approach, the St. James's
Place partnership, the support we have behind them, and the environment we find
ourselves in today. And are any of those fundamental drivers going to change any time
soon? I don't think so. If anything, the momentum we've experienced in recent times is
set to continue. Our target market is getting bigger, as evidenced by Datamonitor's
annual research, and personnel responsibility is here to stay. Pensions deficits and the
challenges of funding care in old age the world over are all further evidence of that fact.
Having settled that though, the next few years, we'll see much change. Firstly, there's
Brexit and its consequences. As you know, we are essentially a UK business. Aside from
small operations in Dublin and Asia, we are pretty much unaffected directly by the
machinations of the negotiations over trade agreements. And leaving aside the possible
impact on the economy, I suspect the majority of our clients are not directly affected by
Brexit matters either.
Of course, none of us know the full consequences of Brexit and how it will play out, and
we're certainly not complacent. But given what I've said already, you'll see that the impact
for us is of second order. Secondly, there's the asset management study in MiFID II. Whilst
the new regulations would impact the asset management industry, and in a not

Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

insignificant way, aside from implementing the various disclosure requirements arising for
both initiatives, the impact on us is, again, of second order. We don't need any new
authorizations, we already negotiate largely institutional fund fees for our clients' retail
funds, and I'm confident that the fund managers who manage our clients' funds will
respond to the changes required of them appropriately.
And finally, I want to say a few words on the advice market generally and more specifically
on the value of advice. In the run up to RDR, a number of companies were being
encouraged to invest in digital to reduce the – of the reliance they had on advisors, to
revise their strategies so as to focus more on the D2C market.
We resisted that pressure because we believed in the value of advice and still do. I like to
think of us as a conviction business, business committed to building long-term relations
with clients, serving them well, and providing sustainable and trusted advice. And if we do
that well and clients perceive we provide value for money, thus, stay with us, hopefully
entrust us with more of their wealth, and refer others to us.

Bloomberg Transcript

And to assure that we didn't take any of that for granted, a few years ago, we enhanced
our annual client survey so as to give clients, that's every client, the opportunity to tell us
every year whether they do value what we do and whether they thought they provide us
value for money. And as you know, their overwhelming response to-date has been yes.
98% of them, year-on-year, said that we provided and delivered value for money. And this
year, over 40,000 of them have reinforced that response with similarly strong scores on
retention, satisfaction, referability and access.
What's reassuring though is that other research is coming to the same conclusion
regarding the value of advice today. But the information published in the (34:33) baseline
report recently, jointly sponsored by the Treasury and the FCA, and a more recent
research paper from an organization called ILC-UK, that both highlight that across the
industry, clients are valuing the advice they receive.
The latter open with – open their 45-page report with the following line. This report
demonstrates the very real value of financial advice for the consumer. It goes on to say,
those who take advice are likely to accumulate more financial and pensions well (35:03),
supported by increased savings and an equity asset. Whilst those in retirement are likely
to have more income, particularly at over ages. And it concludes, advisers are good value
for money. The benefits of advice outweigh the cost associated with it. And, of course, we
agree.
And the FCA's recent paper on retirement outcome also reinforces the fact that following
the pension's freedom initiative, most people need help with the choices available to
them and should seek advice. Consequently, our future strategy remains very focused on
the provision of a financial advice, and that remains the key for our future growth. The
marketplace is big and growing. Advances in digital technology helps add value, provides
easier access to data, and enables straight through processing, but will never, in our view,
replace the human interaction our business is built on.

Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

Whilst on the subject of technology, I've already referred to some of the initiatives we
(36:04) to support the partnership. Included within these are a range of mobile apps and
client-specific reporting tools, which gives them greater flexibility to service their client
relationships.
But by far, the biggest technology initiative we're investing in is, of course, our investment
in the Bluedoor platform. Pretty much two-thirds of our new business today is processed
on that platform. And whilst there is some additional development required to deliver the
straight through processing for that business, once we've completed this, we'll begin the
next migration phase and complete the new business build for bonds.
So before I close, just a few words on some of our other recent initiatives. In the last year
or so, we've increased our focus and support we provide to our partners, helping them to
acquire and service truly high net worth clients. Our dedicated Private Clients team is
engaged for the partnership in a number of ways and gaining real traction. That's resulted
in a number of households investing over £1 million with us, being up 38% in the first six
months of this year, with over £400 million invested in that period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Rowan Dartington also continues to grow and very much in line with the business trend. A
number of investment executives and funds under management are up 21% and 35%,
respectively, over the last 12 months. And we're very pleased with the progress today and
the momentum that's building in that business. We're also making good progress in the
provision of products and services to help our clients with their borrowings and cash
management requirements.
As you know, in 2015, we introduced secured lending for our clients in conjunction with
Metro Bank. Since then, we've continued to build a range of services we can offer for this
aspect of our clients' needs. We've launched a further range of savings accounts with
Metro, established a panel of banks to serve our higher net worth clients, including
Weatherbys, Hamden (38:00), Investec and (38:02). And more recently, we've launched a
cash management service in conjunction with Flagstone.
And lastly but by no means least, our Asia business is developing nicely, too. My latest visit
to our three locations in Asia recently reinforced the opportunities those markets present.
Also client engagement, increasing recruitment activity, and lots of potential for the
medium to long-term. We've launched the required life company in Hong Kong, we'll be
implementing new investment portfolios in the next few months, and we'll then be in a
good position to grasp the opportunities those markets present to us. Advisor numbers
are growing as our funds under management. And I'm looking forward to spending more
time on our Asia business, working with the local management teams there soon. It's an
exciting marketplace.
And so that brings me to the end of my last analyst presentation as CEO of this
outstanding business. And at the end of the year, I will hand the baton over to Andy, and
he is absolutely the right man for the job. I know the baton will be in safe hands. He has an
incredibly strong and pretty useful team behind him. And he'll also have me around for a
couple more years as we try and effect a soft exit as opposed to a hard exit; an orderly

Page 11 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

transition, as you might expect. Meanwhile, so for the next few months, we'll focus on the
remainder of this year and do our best to build on the exceptional results we've
announced this morning as summarized on this slide.

FINAL

So, thank you for your time today. And thank you for the support that you've extended to
me over the last 11 years and to St. James's Place, and we'll now be pleased to take any
questions you may have. Thank you.

Q&A
A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Who wants to be first? Okay. We at the back here, move up.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Thanks, everyone. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I have three
questions, please. The first one is on the Bluedoor investment project. Now, you
referenced the fact that the embedded value, new business profits benefited strongly
from that. And I was wondering if you could give us a sense of when those operating
leverage benefits should start to play through into the cash results, what the rough
quantum is. And you referenced there as well that there's still some – the bonds that
need to be transferred across. So could you give us some line of sight on that, please?
The second question is on the FCA reviewing the platform markets. I guess, the
comments in there that were potentially interesting, I suppose, were on the vertical
integration or the conflicts of interest within vertically integrated models, as well as there
was a reference in there around providing visibility to clients on passive funds,
alternatives. And I was wondering if you could comment on those topics, please.
And then the third question was, again, on Bluedoor. One of your peers obviously
switched across from IFDS to another provider earlier in the year. And I was wondering if
you could just give us a sense if that's had any impact on you, either positive or negative.
Thanks.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Well, we'll work backwards. (41:23) think about the – when we're going to get the cash
benefits of Bluedoor. So, the change in Bluedoor clients, so the other company. I don't
know why, but it feels wrong for me to mention the name. So, we'll talk about it as the
other company. No, it has – I think largely positive. You know us, we view things through a
very positive lens anyway. That frees up a bit more resource and enables a little bit more
focus on the Bluedoor platform from our perspective.
There's clearly some negative consequence on Bluedoor in terms of confidence in the
platform, hasn't damaged ours. There were some unique challenges, I think, going on in
that relationship that we have been aware of for the last 12 months or so, and it was a

Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

shock but not a surprise. And so, I don't think any major consequences coming from that
apart from we should get more resource and more attention, which will be helpful.
In terms of the platform study, look, it's early days. The platform study isn't aimed at us. It
isn't part of our world. In fact, the advise and (42:36) thing is explicitly removed from it.
What it does say, what Chris Woolard have said is that they want to sort of benchmark
with some of these other businesses. So, there are pure platforms and then you've got
some vertical integration. I think the challenge with vertical integration is that there are
some companies that sort of get into that world a bit, but not totally. And the conflicts that
are referred to in the paper are largely where you keep your own in-house management,
managing clients' funds, and then you report to have open architecture. We don't have
that conflict. And so, it – we're very delighted for anybody to come and look at our
investment approach. We're immensely proud of it. It is 100% into the marketplace where
we select as good a managers as we can find across the planet, negotiate hard, get
those wholesale rates into retail markets, and it works incredibly well. And so regulators
want to come and use that as the benchmark, perfectly happy with that. And we'll take it
as it comes with it. I've given you enough time to talk about when the cash is coming. Must
be soon, actually. I...

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I was ready a lot earlier. The important thing to – what I meant is that I'm going to talk
about, if everything, is on Bluedoor. And then we'll go back to answer some of your
questions.
So when all the business is being processed on Bluedoor, as I said previously, we'll expect
a double-digit percentage saving in the tariff that we're paying today. That's both in terms
of the new business, and that's why you're seeing some of that coming through in the
embedded value and also the maintenance fee.
And there's a lot more gearing in the new contract than the old contract as well. So the
more business you put on there, you're covering the fixed cost with more business. So,
it'd be very positive once everything's on there. At the moment, we're in that phase
where we're running dual systems. And as I said in my presentation, that means we're not
really getting any cash profits, in fact, the opposite at this moment in time. There's
probably another 18 months or so to go before everything is being processed onto the
system. We have to both develop the new business for bonds, the new business
capability, but more importantly, we have to migrate the pensions and the bond business.
What we can't do is migrate this before we're ready because that would cause all sorts of
issues. So we will be very cautious on when we do it.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. We have (45:10) then we'll come back to you, Andy. All right?

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Thank you for taking my questions, I have three. Firstly, on the dividend,
aside from all the metrics that you've highlighted as being important for the assessment
Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

of the dividend, when we think about the solvency, is it more priority for the board and
management, the solvency based on management solvency buffer or the regulatory
solvency position? Because we've obviously seen a significant strengthening of the
solvency based on the management solvency buffer. And as indicated or strongly
indicated, second half of the year, you may also see that coming through again, whereas
the solvency on a regulatory basis is more stable.
The second question, again on Bluedoor. The expense assumption change is in the new
business contribution. Has that been based on purely an expectation of expense save or
has it been also supported by current actual experience? I do appreciate that there are
these stages, but has the actual experience today supported that (46:22) change? And
then finally, on international expansion. In the full-year report, there was a commentary
around the board's assessment of the practicalities and opportunities of potentially
entering the Middle East. Is there any update as to progress around that? Thank you.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

I won't stop you...

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

...going quickly.

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

So, I'll do the – I'll carry on the Bluedoor theme first. It would be probably a sense for one
(46:51) to do. So, we know what the tariff is for each case, so essentially goes through
Bluedoor. So that's what we're now factoring into embedded value when the business is
being processed on Bluedoor, as both the new business cost and the maintenance cost,
which clearly will go up with inflation as well, but that's all part of the assumptions. So, it is
what we will incur going forward. Does that answer the question?
It's difficult to say because it's so early, whether or not that's what we're experiencing. It
sort of has to be because it's what we're paying (47:27).

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Yeah. As long as the actual experience so far is (47:33).

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Absolutely. On the solvency and, therefore, the dividend, as I was
commenting in my presentation, we view solvency through this management solvency
buffer. We can't ignore Solvency II because we just can't, it's obviously an important
metric, but the MSB should always put us into a more prudent position.

Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

Now, we assess the MSB as part of the whole ORSA process. And this time last year, our
MSB was lower because we haven't done the unit liability mismatch. And so we will
reassess the MSB, but I would expect it to be coming down, not going up. But again, I'm
not going to put any numbers to that at this stage. There's too many board members in
the room
In terms of international, slowdown, I think, is probably the best word I'd put around it. So,
not going away totally, but short-term focus very much on Asia. Deal with the growth that
they were clearly very positively facing in the UK, look down consequences of MiFID II,
disclosure changes, technology, platform study, whatever the outcome, asset
management study. There's quite a lot going on right now, and we've sort of taken the
view that actually, much as we want to look into that space in the years to come, best
thing for us to do from a managerial position is focus on what's here and there. So it's
gone down the packing order, so to speak.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Right. So, Andy was next, and then we'll come over here to Oliver (49:14). Andy?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi, Andy from Macquarie. I had a question on (49:49). Just kidding.

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Go for it, Andy. (49:23)

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Tempting. No, the question is really on the MSB. So, what's in the MSB? I think you
mentioned the unit mispricing (49:31). Could you break down kind of, is conduct risk in
there as well or, I mean, you're saying this could come down? And you've got any
thoughts about if it does come down, what are you going to do with the cash at the
yearend in terms of the proceeds generated from the leadership (49:47) surplus?
And, I guess, the second part of the question is, have you looked at other things that
maybe could be used to reduce the Solvency II position? Would that make any difference
to you, for example, if you were to currency hedge some of the FX risks that you have
with the – where the accounts are invested? That would clearly free up more Solvency II
surplus, but would it make any difference to your MSB? So, are you running on a Solvency II
basis? It sounds like you run on MSB basis, so could we get some feel as to what the MSB
actually is? Because I don't really have a clue what that number (50:20)? Thanks.

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. So, you're absolutely right. We're more focusing on the management solvency
buffer rather than Solvency II. And so, how do we set the management solvency buffer?
Well, the ORSA process is a key area of sort of metrics we use. So, as you know, within
the ORSA, there's stress testing, there's scenario testing, picking up all sorts of different
things. So, I think you referred to the conduct risk, so yes, that will be in there. And coming
Page 15 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

out of the ORSA process, our view at the end of last year before the unit liability
reassessment was an appropriate management solvency buffer to hold across the two
life companies was £170 million. We then came to the unit liability reassessment, which
essentially changed the timing of £267 million worth of future profit and bought back
future profit to today. But if you think about it, when you're looking at the ORSA, what
you've done now is we moved £267 million of future profit. So when we reassess the
management solvency buffer in the second half of this year, we no longer have that £267
million coming through because it's come through at start of the year. I don't want to
preempt what the outcome of that review is or what we will do with the capital. But as I
said earlier, I think it will come down, and then, the board will have a conversation.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Okay. We've got two questions over here.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. I've just got two questions. Firstly, you
talked about the DB pension transfers in your statement this morning, and taking a
cautious approach on transfers of DB pensions. Just wanted to confirm how much of
pension's growth was in the period came out of the (52:30) benefit pension transfers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly, just on Rowan Dartington, just a point of clarification. Can you confirm the
assets under management for Rowan Dartington at the start and end of the period?
Thanks.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Do you want to talk about DB transfers and...

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

At the moment, DB transfers is virtually a small part of our overall pensions business. We
get a lot of conversations going on with individual class and advisors. As David said in his
presentation, this is a complex area. We are cautious about it. There are clear examples
of whether this is the right thing to do for clients, and advisors can get in there (53:10)
that's not the right to do for clients. It's also worth remembering it's a relatively immature
market, a lot of activity, because the pensions freedom rules are quite new in the context
of pensions over the years. And what we're seeing today are enhanced transfers of
values driven largely by a combination of factors such as good equity markets and low
interest rates. These things change over time. So our approach is, as we said many times,
is we'll be cautious about it, we advise clients very carefully about it, is the market
expanding as it is, so with regard (53:40) in the future.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

The other thing just to note on that is that (53:45) small number of cases, the market we
deal in, there are big value, transfer values. I mean, we're sort of a million pounds-ish
average case size here. This is our marketplace, it's the high end of the affluent market
where people have other wealth. So pensions is not the only thing that we're talking
Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

about with them, it's part of. So we're definitely – we don't play in the market where I think
people would be worried where your defined benefit transfer value is the only thing that
you've got that's going to take – provide you with an income in retirement. That's where
life does get particularly challenging.
So far as our idea concerning (54:28), when you say start and end of the period, so £1.5
billion at the start of the year, £1.5 billion something, and £1.8 billion now funds under
management. So six months in, £0.25 billion, up or thereabouts, I think. And I just looked at
my slides. So if that's the period you're talking about, that's where they're running. Yeah.
Sorry. Oliver (54:51)?

Q - Operator
Just one question. The productivity slide you showed, I think you showed 19% increase in
productivity.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Operator
And you've never achieved that, looking at that slide.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

Q - Operator
I mean, it's always been single digit growth in productivity. Now, I'm guessing you're going
to sort of say that some of this is being driven by the sort of extra help that's now within
the partnerships and the technology you've got, but can you talk a bit about the sort of
sustainability of that growth number or what strain eventually it puts on your own business
if you should sustain that sort of growth?

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Ian?

A - Ian Stewart Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Yeah, it's a good one, isn't it? 19% growth in productivity, I'm very happy with that. I think
there is an issue about a sweet spot and that they – the supply of advice. I think our
partners are finding themselves in a very good position after all these years of -the
demand for advice, the shortage of supply, being found out or being good at what they
do. And I think also, if we see the way they've changed their businesses, they've gone
from a kind of rugged individualist to small business owner, where more and more parts
of the infrastructure are doing the stuff they used to do, allowing them to spend more
time with clients.

Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

FINAL

So, there are some kind of internal reasons that they're freeing themselves up more to
spend time with clients, because they're outsourcing the infrastructure to support staff. So
when David says we've got 5,000 partner support staff, a lot of them are doing the tasks
that some of those advisors were doing themselves before. So I think that's had an
impact on their productivity, plus the sweet spot.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yeah. And I don't know what the future looks like, but the momentum in the business is
really strong right now. And I said before at these functions – at these presentations that
you see increasingly, these SMEs that are forming now these 2,400 businesses. They're
becoming much more mature, much – they're planning the next 5 and 10 years. They are
not planning next year's target, and they're not planning – they're not aiming for next
year's partner or double partner. They'll do it, it will become a consequence of the journey
they're on, but they're planning much beyond that. And there's something quite exciting
going on in our business right now that I think that – you're right, we've never seen
productivity increases like that in the past. 4% or 5%, that's our marketplace, that's our
model. But as Ian said, a bit of a sweet spot now.

Bloomberg Transcript

The question is, does that sweet spot (57:30) off in the next 6, 9, 12 months, two years,
three years, whatever. There's an awful lot about what's going in society right now that I
don't think it changes that much. And there are people investing in advisors, but I'm still
not sure that, that – the supply of advisors will catch up with the demand that's sitting out
there right now. So, probably Andy is going to have a really easier time (57:53). I mean, I –
it's set up brilliantly for him. Although (57:58) okay. We've got two more. So, microphone
there and then we'll come over here, all right?

Q - Benjamin Bathurst
Hi. Yeah. It's Ben Bathurst from Soc Gén. First question is on capital. (58:08) small
increase, I think £16 million to the other regulated component of the management
solvency buffer at first half. I wondered if you could just shed some light on what the driver
of that was. Was that purely mechanical? Was that due to growth in SUM (58:20) or some
other sensitivity going on there? Second question's on IFRS. I know it's still way off, but at
this stage, is it reasonable to assume the IFRS 17 won't have any impact on (58:30) things
about dividend in the future, given the fact that it's more to do with moving the Solvency II
net assets and capital position?

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Both for you, I think.

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll do the IFRS 17 first. We're not expecting IFRS 17 to have much impact on us at all,
so I wouldn't expect it to be changing the dividend conversation. On your first question,
the other regulated companies have solvency capital requirements usually based around
the expense ratio. So, their natural increase in the solvency capital required (59:06)
companies. There's nothing specific in there.

Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

IFRS 17. Can you imagine MiFID III, MiFID IV, MiFID V, MiFID VI, MiFID VII?

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, so the good news about IFRS 17 is other companies (59:22).

Q - Lance M. Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry. Thanks. It's Lance Burbidge from Autonomous. I've got a couple of questions.
I'm afraid to get back to Bluedoor, again, one of the reasons that you actually initiated the
Bluedoor project was to stop reliance on the Prudential system. So I just wondered what
would happen if Bluedoor, IFDS decided to now exit the UK market? What protection do
you have in place there?
And the second is more sort of long-term and philosophical about the at retirement
market. Andy mentioned – I assume he mentioned it because there must be more of it
coming in, in terms of people bringing in funds at retirement. What are you doing maybe
in association with your fund manager in terms of developing products that are
appropriate for at retirement? Because the market seems to be really missing doing
anything here.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, (01:00:12) retirement and then we'll talk about Bluedoor.

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. I think that's a really interesting question, and it's a very – a perfect question to the
state of demographics in UK marketplace. So we have a number of works (01:00:23)
underway right now looking at a couple of areas. One is that, what's the right investment
portfolio structures to put the clients at that retirement market. So we're literally going to
want to look more towards an income yield going forward. But at the same time, given
the tax structures we have in the UK, we'll also be thinking about can this fund continue
beyond my generation to next generation and so forth. So we have active work on that,
and if things go to plan, we may be able to talk about that at the year-end, (01:00:47).
The second thing we're looking at is what does a decumulation strategy need to be in
that context for clients. There, honestly, is very few people who haven't got a reasonable
fund when they get to the retirement age across all their assets, not just pensions, but
across all their disposable wealth, if you like. We're going to be looking at ways in which
they can earn an income from that fund differently to they did before. They're not going
to look to new (01:01:09) given current legislation and the current opportunities that are
out there. So we are looking at how decumulation strategies can work in this environment,
and that's a very active piece of work as well.
So these are two things that – this is a market – I talked about the DB transfer market
being immature. If you look at the shape of demographic, this market has got a lot ahead

Page 19 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

of it. So we've – we think timing-wise, we're okay, there's a big opportunity here coming
up.

FINAL

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

So the political question was one of (01:01:35) or – okay. So, it won't happen. IFDS is
owned by DST. American business, was a joint venture between DST and State Street,
owning IFDS. DST had bought out State Street's other half or the joint venture, so the DST
now own IFDS, they also own Bluedoor.
IFDS service about 40 companies in the United Kingdom in unit trusts and ISA
administration. They do an awful lot of work. They're a fairly big player in the UK financial
services market. And DST and their board, and we meet their President cum CEO on a
regular basis, we met with one of their non-executive directors recently because we're a
highly important client insofar as the Bluedoor platform is concerned, and they're keen
that we get all this right going forward as they'll be.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I don't – you're right, one of the reasons we're getting into Bluedoor was because we
have to re-platform our business because Prudential will eventually shut down SALAS, and
therefore, we need to. We're very instrumental in the whole development of Bluedoor. Ian
Mackenzie, who heads up our IT, is here today. He spends quite a lot of time with the
Melbourne team, which is where this is being further developed. And I think if anything
should happen, if DST would have gone under a bus or something were to happen, we'd
probably, all things being equal, just take Bluedoor in ourselves. We've been so
instrumental in its development in the UK, I don't think it will be a huge step for us to just
simply acquire it and take it on from there. So, I...

A - Ian Stewart Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

(01:03:18) we are the only Bluedoor client – and my microphone is not working, this is
probably good news. Whilst we are the only Bluedoor client in the UK, Bluedoor is
operational in Australia and has some very big clients on it.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Yeah, it's a good point, good point. Okay, that – we're – 11:30, I don't know – we can carry
on the conversations and coffee afterwards, so bring this to a close. I'd like to thank David
and Numis for letting us use these facilities. I think they actually worked quite well, I've got
one more question here coming from Aiden (01:03:51).

Q - Operator
Sorry, David. It wasn't what – a question, but if I may, again, before anybody else from the
sell side, to say a few words about yourself. The 26-year journey from shop floor to Chief
Exec for Mr. Bellamy has been a remarkable story and is an inspiration to most of us, if not
all of us. So a hearty well done in that respect.
What will we miss from your departure, I for one will miss the yellow ties. I think I'll miss the
pictures with you in Lycra. So, I don't know if Mr. Croft is going to continue that triathlon...
Page 20 of 21



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2017-07-27

A - Andrew Martin Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

(01:04:30)

FINAL

Q - Operator
Possibly. Sorry? And, well, maybe the business (01:04:37) will continue, but obviously, also
with you, Andy. But on a more serious note, the charm with which you've brought the role
has been much appreciated (01:04:46) rest of the sell side. You're a extremely
approachable Chief Executive, very, very successful, and navigated St. James's Place
through these very turbulent times and delivered 5,100 membership is a full testament to
you, obviously, to the team as well. So, we wish you very well on your retirement, and
hopefully, our paths will cross again.

A - David Charles Bellamy

{BIO 14025555 <GO>}

Thank you, and thank you, much appreciated. Thank you. Very, very humbled, but thank
you for those kind words. I do get a bit emotional, so I'm not going to say anything apart
from I meant what I said about (01:05:32), I'm not going anywhere. So I'm going to stay
around until these guys kick me out and say, – and look at the smile. You can tell they want
to get there quicker than I might. But it's been great working with these guys. A very tight
team for the last 25 years, and thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's call. Thank you very much for joining.
You may now disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

