Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

Shareholder/Analyst Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Brian Duperreault, CEO, President and Director
Douglas M. Steenland, Chairman of the Board
Rose Marie E. Glazer, VP, Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm Doug Steenland, Chairman of the AIG Board of Directors.
And I welcome you to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders for 2017. Joining me and
speaking with you today is Brian Duperreault, AIG's President and Chief Executive Officer.

Bloomberg Transcript

The AIG board was very pleased to announce Brian's appointment last month. This
meeting is being webcast. And we welcome those listening from beyond 175 Water.
We are first going to conduct the meeting's official business to address the list of
proposals under consideration today as presented in the proxy statement. I will then
speak about the actions we took at AIG over the past year before handing over to Brian
to discuss his priorities for AIG going forward. We will conclude with questions and
comments from shareholders in attendance.
I hereby call to order the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of American International
Group, Inc. You've been provided with the procedures we're going to follow today. And I
ask everyone to adhere to them.
First, I'd like to introduce the 13 nominees, which include Brian and me, for the AIG Board
of Directors. All of the nominees are currently members of AIG's board. The nominees
are seated in the front row. And I'd like them to stand as I read their names: W. Don
Cornwell; Brian Duperreault; Peter R. Fisher; John H. Fitzpatrick; William G. Jurgensen;
Christopher S. Lynch; Samuel J. Merksamer; Henry S. Miller; Linda A. Mills; Suzanne Nora
Johnson; Ronald A. Rittenmeyer; Theresa M. Stone; and Douglas Steenland.
I would like to recognize George Miles and Steve Miller, who are retiring from the board
as of this meeting. And to thank them for their significant contributions over the past 12
and eight years, respectively, including Steve's prior chairmanship of the board from 2010
to 2015. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Peter Hancock for his service as
Page 1 of 6



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

CEO and as a director on the AIG board, as well as John Paulson for being a member of
the AIG board.

FINAL

Finally, I would like to thank all of the nominees for agreeing to stand for election and
willing to serve. A certified list of shareholders is available for inspection. Copies of the
AIG Annual Report, which includes the Form 10-K for the year 2016, the proxy statement
and the Form 10-Q for the First Quarter of 2017, are also available.
I now call upon AIG's Corporate Secretary, Ms. Rose Marie Glazer, to present the affidavit
of notice of this meeting and other formalities.

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. I now submit the affidavit of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., certifying that
each shareholder of record at the close of business as of May 8, 2017, was sent a notice
of availability of proxy materials transmitted on May 19, 2017, or a package containing
AIG's 2016 annual report, notice of this meeting, a proxy statement, a proxy card and a
return envelope, mailed commencing on May 19, 2017.
I would like to remind you that the remarks made today may contain forward-looking
statements, which are based on management's current expectations and are subject to
uncertainty and change in circumstances. Any forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance or events. Actual performance and events may differ,
possibly materially, from those anticipated in any such forward-looking statements. Factors
that could cause such differences include the factors described in the Management's
Discussion and Analysis and under Risk Factors in our 2017 First Quarter 10-Q and our 2016
10-K.
AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.
The information provided today may include non-GAAP financial measures. The definitions
of such measures and the reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP
figures are included in AIG's annual report to shareholders and our 2016 and First Quarter
2017 financial supplements, which are available on AIG's website.
Michael Barbera has been sworn in as our independent inspector of election. He advises
that a quorum is present. Mr. Chairman?

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Thank you. Proceeding to the official business of today's meeting, I will present the list of
proposals under consideration today as they appear in the proxy statement. After the list
has been presented, if any shareholder wants to comment on or ask a question about any
of these proposals, a microphone will be brought to you. And I will recognize you.

Page 2 of 6



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

The first proposal is the election to the AIG board of the 13 nominees I introduced at the
start of this meeting to serve as directors until the next annual election and until their
successors are elected and qualified. The second proposal is a nonbinding resolution to
approve Executive compensation. The third proposal is to amend and restate AIG's
restated certificate of incorporation to restrict certain transfers of AIG common stock in
order to protect AIG's tax attributes. The fourth proposal is to ratify the amendment to
extend the expiration of the American International Group, Inc. Tax Asset Protection Plan.
And the fifth proposal is the ratification of the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
as AIG's independent registered public accounting firm for 2017.
Are there any questions or comments on any of these proposals? If so, please wait and
raise your hand and wait to be recognized for a microphone.
Okay. Seeing none, there will be a time later for general questions. We will now proceed
to vote on the 5 proposals that have been properly presented to the meeting. The polls
are now open. If anyone wants to vote now, please raise your hand. And we will have a
ballot brought to you.
There's one person who has expressed an interest.
Okay. If anyone else -- in need of a ballot?

Bloomberg Transcript

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

We need to wait.

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Okay. We need to wait for this person to vote.
(Voting)
Are we done?

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

Once you've completed your ballot, if you could please bring it to the inspector of
election's table so it can be tabulated.

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Have someone pick it up. Okay. With that, I hereby declare the polls closed and ask that
ballots -- all ballots be delivered to the inspector of election. And I here ask Ms. Glazer to
announce the results of the voting.

Page 3 of 6



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

FINAL

I have the report of the inspector of election. He certifies that each of the director
nominees standing for election has been elected by a majority of the votes cast and that
all of the proposals have been adopted. Later today, we will issue a press release with
these results in detail.

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Thank you. With the official business of the meeting concluded, I will now review several
important developments at AIG over the past year before turning the floor over to Brian
for his remarks.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2016 and so far in 2017, AIG has made tangible progress on its strategy to deliver
higher-quality sustainable earnings and reduce future reserve risk. Most recently, after a
thorough and comprehensive search, the board was very pleased to welcome Brian
Duperreault as our President and CEO. Brian is uniquely qualified to help AIG achieve its
full potential. He has spent his career in insurance and he brings a valuable perspective
gained from each facet of the industry in which he has participated. Having worked at AIG
for 21 years at the start of his career, he knows this institution well.
As former CEO at ACE, which is now part of the merged Chubb, one of our biggest
competitors, Brian is an experienced leader who competes to win. Brian also was the
CEO of Marsh & McLennan Companies, one of AIG's largest broker partners. And brings
with him a deep understanding of what motivates our brokers for improved outcomes.
Brian then went on to form Hamilton Insurance Group, an insurer at the forefront of using
data analytics and modeling to advance the science of underwriting risk.
Now AIG has the benefit of Brian's knowledge, relationships and experience to take the
company forward. The board and I say with confidence that AIG is a world-class insurance
company, with its best years ahead of it. Our balance sheet remains strong. We've
significantly improved our risk profile and reduced our fixed cost base. And our diversified
business mix provides a strong foundation for the future. These visible improvements are
all thanks to the hard work of AIG's employees around the world who provide the highest
level of service to our clients. This in turn allows us to realize value for our shareholders,
which remains a key priority today and long into the future.
With that, I will now ask Brian to come over and come up and make comments.

Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Thank you, Doug. I'd also like to welcome our shareholders today. Thank you for being
with us. And thank you for your confidence in AIG.
It's an honor to return to AIG as CEO. As Doug mentioned, I started my career here as an
actuarial trainee and was here for 21 years. So in many ways, I'm coming home. And it's
great to be back.
Page 4 of 6



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

FINAL

I've been in the office all of 3 weeks. So it's early days. But I can share that the future I
envision for AIG will be to build on the company's 100-year heritage and the progress
already achieved to remain one of the world's leading insurers for the next century and to
be better than it's ever been.
My priorities for AIG are to grow the business with a focus on underwriting discipline and
developing a balanced portfolio and to use technology and data analytics to help us get
there. Technology will help us operate more efficiently and cost-effectively and to get the
best information into our underwriters' hands more quickly. Our aim is to make AIG the
most technology-enabled and capital-efficient carrier in the industry. I see technology,
data analytics and innovation as transforming the delivery and underwriting of insurance.
And these initiatives will put AIG at the forefront of the industry.
As I've shared before, I didn't come to break up AIG. But to grow it. There's great value in
the company's multiline structure. The consumer business is a wonderful balance to what
we do on the commercial side. That kind of balance is something others really strive for.
AIG has the substance in its business and people to pursue organic and inorganic growth
opportunities. Growth where it makes sense combined with underwriting discipline is the
path to outperforming our peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going forward, you can expect capital deployment to expand our businesses with the
goal to building long-term shareholder value. So I'm very excited to be back at AIG as
CEO. And I look forward to making AIG better than it's ever been. Once again, thank you
for being with us today.
Now I'd like to turn it back to Doug and to open up the floor for questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Thank you, Brian. I'll remind you of the procedures that we're going to follow for our Q&A.
I ask you that you work with us to adhere to them. Please raise your hand, wait to be
recognized and for a microphone to be brought to you and direct your questions to me.
With that, do we have any questions from the audience?
All right. Seeing none.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

There is a question.

A - Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Page 5 of 6



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2017-06-28

Good morning, Mr. Chairman. My name is Jim White [ph], a shareholder from Philadelphia.
And welcome to Mr. Duperreault. Also, a policyholder for many years with AIG and Lex
umbrella and inland marine. I'd like to pay particular tribute to the team that you have. You
say in your credo that you have the courage to make difficult promises and the integrity to
keep them. We had a matter, JJ White through McGriff, Seibels and Gary Cooney that
worked closely with Jeremy Johnson and Rob Schimek to get that claim that we had
under policy covered. And I appreciate all the effort that was exerted on the part of the
AIG personnel, Rob Schimek and Jeremy Johnson, because to me, you stood up for what
you speak about in your credo. So thank you. Second quick question. I don't know if it goes
to Sid Sankaran or Martha Gallo, relative to construction and maintenance, that's what we
do in 19 states, including Mr. Duperreault's alma mater, good old Saint Joseph's University.
But we're in 19 states, which cover 175 Water Street here in New York City, as well as
Livingston, New Jersey. Who would be the right person that I could just give my business
card to after the meeting, please, for the opportunity to bid? Thank you.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Give it to me. I'd like to meet you. Thank you.

A - Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Thank you for your business. And thank you for being an AIG shareholder.
Okay. Seeing no other questions, I hereby conclude the meeting. Our annual meeting is
now adjourned. Thank you for attending. And thank you for all of your support.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 6 of 6

