Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Wallace-Barnett, Head-Investor Relations
George Stansﬁeld, Group General Secretary
Gordon Timmins Watson, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-AXA Asia
Gérald Harlin, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Thomas Buberl, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Ralph Hebgen, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So, good morning, everyone. Welcome to AXA's 2017 Investor Day. Welcome to those of
you who are on the telephone. Welcome to those of you who are on the webcast, and, of
course, welcome to all of you here in Paris with us in the room.
As you can see on page 3 of the presentation on and on the screen, we're going to cover
a range of topics today, which we believe are of interest and importance to our
shareholders. Thomas will introduce the day by sharing his vision for insurance and the
ways in which we are simplifying and refocusing AXA to accelerate our transformation and
faster growth. George will then lead us through the guiding principles and implications of
the recent changes we have made in simplifying our organization. George and Gérald will
then provide us with an update on our U.S. IPO outlining the implications of the IPO for
the AXA Group and its shareholders.

Page 1 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

We'll then take a coﬀee break probably around 10 AM. After the coﬀee break, Gérald will
take some time to walk us through the links between operating free cash ﬂow and
Solvency II. And we know this is an important topic for the entire industry. Gérald's
presentation will highlight the strong reliability and sustainability of AXA's cash and
Solvency II generation capacity. Gérald will then lead us through an update of AXA's
progress towards the Ambition 2020 targets we shared with you last year.
And then ﬁnally, Thomas, Gérald, and George will return to the stage for a Q&A session.
And at the end of that, Thomas will wrap up the morning with his conclusion. Those of you
here in the room would then be very welcome to join us for lunch. For the Q&A, we'll be
happy to take questions from those of you on the phone or on the webcast. Please follow
the instructions you've been given. And as always, we'll give preference to questions
coming from those of you here in the room.
And now just before Thomas makes his introduction, we'd like to show you a brief ﬁlm
based around our brand positioning, which captures well the essence of the AXA story
and is an important backdrop to many of the topics we'll discuss today.
[Video Presentation] (03:00-05:07)

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Good morning to all of you. I'm extremely happy to welcome you at AXA here to our
Investor Day. And I would like to start the day with my vision for the future of insurance.
Many of you have asked me a lot of questions. I have heard a lot of questions from
employees, from clients, from distributors about what does insurance – what it will be in
the future, when will it be disrupted? What is the role of the GAFAs in insurance? How can
you change a company of €100 billion revenue? All these questions are very important,
are very guiding for the future. But I think when we talk about the vision for insurance, we
should not start at these questions, we should start at the fundamental needs of our
customers.
You've seen some of them being expressed in the ﬁlm. If you think about the drastic
pictures we've seen from a changing climate in the U.S., in the Caribbean, when you think
about the horrible eﬀects of cyber crisis, when you think about health costs rising three
times to four times the GDP, when you are thinking about new ways of work means also
new risks, there's many areas where new answers are being needed from insurance. And I
personally believe that there is a new golden age for insurance, many new risks, many
new needs, that have not been met, and where we look where we are as an industry
today, we are not at the level where we can say we have really seized that opportunity.
In the service rankings, we are often not in the ﬁrst places. When you talk to customers
and when you take your own experience as a client of an insurance company, trust is not
always there the way it should be. We have, however, a great opportunity. 20% of our
customers do claim with us today. For those customers, we need to make it easier. We
need to make it more transparent, and we need to show more trust. This is probably the
easier part of the equation. For the 80 other percent of customers where we only give

Page 2 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

peace of mind today, we really need to rethink our oﬀering because those people want
help, those people want us to help them to avoid the next claim.
And to my mind, service will be the biggest disrupter in our industry. Service is important
because we can wrap it around the insurance coverage and we can really help people
and be in contact with the people, and that is also why 18 months ago we have launched
our Ambition 2020, which is very much under the guiding view of how can we become
from a payer to a partner of the customer because at the end of the day, our business
model is very diﬀerent to the business model of the new digital giants. In their worlds,
individualism is the new king. In our world, social cohesion and social growth is the new
and the old king and will remain the king.
And I do believe that we have a very diﬀerent model and a model that is really there for
the future and for the long term. This model always has one thing in mind, how can we
really empower our customers to lead a better life?

Bloomberg Transcript

What does it mean for AXA? Because we are starting from a very impressive base. We are
today the most diversiﬁed insurer worldwide. We are present in many countries across
many lines of business. And when you look at all the countries, we are very often in the
top one to top ﬁve positions. So a great base to start from with 107 million customers, and
the number one brand worldwide. This is an excellent base to really develop our AXA
further.
How can we really implement, focus, and transform? Today we also live in a very complex
world, being in 64 countries, being in all lines of business, being large is also being
complex and not having the agility to act fast, and therefore we are really taking decisions
that you have seen yesterday under the motto, how can we simplify AXA to the maximum
possible to accelerate focus and transform?
You have seen yesterday that we have announced some very profound changes. The ﬁrst
change is on geography. We want to focus on fewer countries. We want to focus on these
countries where we have scale and potential. Re-centering our portfolio more towards
classic insurance businesses and less ﬁnancial market-driven businesses. Why? Because
we do believe there is the opportunity to be far more in touch with our customer, and that
also means we need to get the balance and improve the balance between ﬁnancial and
technical margin.
A third big and important decision of yesterday is the simpliﬁcation of our organization.
How can we signiﬁcantly de-layer to be closer to the customer? And the fourth major
decision of yesterday, how can we scale up our innovation system, and we have also
communicated this morning that we want to attach 20% of our M&A budget to
innovation. What does it mean concretely? Let's start with geographic focus. And the
question is always, how do you move from a company that is in 64 markets to a very
diﬀerent view of the portfolio?
We have analyzed our portfolio and looked how are we positioned, and the good
message ﬁrst, we are today based in 10 countries that make 80% of the earnings. Those
Page 3 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

10 countries are also the ones that have top one positions to top ﬁve positions. So that is
the base for being extremely diversiﬁed, extremely global, and having scale on a global
level.
When you take a step further, we have been looking at where the countries where we are
today very small but where we still see a large potential in terms of growth of the
population and growth of the wealth of the population. We have identiﬁed six countries.
Those countries are Brazil, Mexico, China, Philippines, Thailand, and Indonesia. So going
forward we want to focus ourselves on the 10 current engines. The focus there is really
going back to growth. We haven't grown enough in these countries, and transforming the
business model in particular, transforming the distribution model.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the high potentials, the six countries I mentioned, there it is really increasing our
positions through growth and reaching leadership positions. Going forward, our M&A
strategy will focus only on those 10 plus 6 countries, and that is a profound change to
what we have been operating so far.
Now, looking at the other entities, we obviously have a lot of smaller entities. Those
smaller entities we need to, going forward, do two things. We need to reduce and
rationalize the footprint so you will see less than 64 markets going forward, but we also
need to manage them in a diﬀerent way. We don't need to transform those businesses the
way we transform France, the way we transform Switzerland. Those can be managed far
more in a private equity type of style. This also shows you that we want to put an end to
the ﬂag policy that we have been operating for a long time. Apart from the fact that you
would see a rationalization of footprint, you will also not see another new country being
opened.
And fourthly, we have clariﬁed some key strategic issues that we had around commercial
line business and around investment management. Commercial line is and will remain a
very core entity for us. We want to grow in commercial line, and we want to use AXA
Corporate Solutions to really fuel the growth of commercial lines in the10 plus 6 countries.
The same is true for AXA investment management. It is a core entity, and it will remain a
core entity.
You have probably heard a lot of rumors about the future of our AXA investment
management. It is very clear now; we have decided to keep it. We have decided it will
remain a core asset, and it is an investment manager that is very well-positioned. It is large
enough. It is very eﬃcient on the ﬁxed income side, and it is excellently positioned on the
alternative side. We also want to use AXA IM to really source the assets necessary for
AXA. So, fewer countries, simpliﬁcation of the portfolio, ﬁrst message.
Second message, shift of the portfolio. And this will be quite a radical shift of our
portfolio. AXA will have a very diﬀerent proﬁle going forward. There will be less
dependence on ﬁnancial markets and a refocus on the core insurance business. We want
to grow in three preferred segments. One is the health business. We do believe given the
need I have told you about earlier that particularly due to the rising health cost, health
insurance will become far more important.

Page 4 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

We do want to grow in protection because disability and making sure that you can work
as long as possible, and if not any more that you're being looked after, is certainly a
market that grows a lot, and the commercial P&C side – and when I talk about commercial
I'm talking about the smaller and medium entities, not about a large commercials – we
see a lot of risks that are not being covered and we see a lot of new risks arising.
Take the example from earlier, cyber-security, only 10% of the companies are covered
today. These lines of business are already a very large portion of our portfolio, and we
have the very clear determination to grow in these preferred segments. Why do we
believe this? Those other segments where by nature there is the most customer contact.

Bloomberg Transcript

You go more than once in your life to your doctor. As an entrepreneur, you ask yourself
every day, what can I do better to improve? So there is a natural point of contact, where
also moving from a payer to a partner is a natural evolution. Due to the fact that you have
the context, it is also the natural point of oﬀering additional services and those additional
services we have been testing for quite some time, we know now what works and what
doesn't work.
For example, in France today, we are one of the biggest provider of teleconsultation.
Every year we are helping 5 million people that call to really avoid going to the doctor to
queue up, and those models work. When you look in risk consulting of large companies,
we've been focusing ourselves on helping on earthquake exposure, developing models,
helping companies. Those business models work extremely well. And what is also
important, by shifting the portfolio towards preferred segments and towards more
services, those services will have a very diﬀerent PE to the classical insurance business
since we talk about a much lower capital intensity. Those businesses are also the
businesses that are the most proﬁtable and the most growing ones.
And due to the fact that AXA has got a very large presence in those 10 countries, has also
got a very large presence with distributor networks, it is the natural point of also
accompanying our distribution transformation from an agent selling mainly motor
business to the agent moving very much to the more complex business. And if you look
today into AXA France, you will see that the classical agent has moved away from the
motor business, has focused him or herself far more on commercial business, far more on
the health business.
And I do believe that in these areas, we see the biggest potential for innovation, going
back to what I said earlier, what can we do better for the 20% of customers that do have a
claim? What can we do diﬀerently anew for the 80% of customers that don't have any
claim at all?
And this is also the second piece of the M&A story. We want to focus the M&A on the 10
plus 6 countries and on those preferred segments. This also means to the country that we
are going to decelerate on some of our businesses that we do believe are not that
strategic anymore. And this is in particular the traditional GA savings business. In order to
change the proﬁle of AXA, we need to grow much more in the preferred segments than in

Page 5 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

the ones that we believe are not so strategic anymore, and that also means that we will
probably decelerate our growth and have negative growth rates.
And one clear example which we will talk about today of our determination to change the
portfolio is certainly the partial listing of our U.S. business where you've seen we have
ﬁled for this IPO, the initial S-1 yesterday evening. The U.S. is our second-biggest market,
but in order to change and move the needle, we need to start there and really re-shift the
means of investment from those focused on ﬁnancial markets business to the core
insurance businesses where we want to grow and where we have the customer contact.

Bloomberg Transcript

In order to really move ahead, we need to scale up our innovation. We've been building a
innovation ecosystem which is very large. We started with scouting in Silicon Valley,
scouting in China, scouting in Tel Aviv to understand what is going on. We then went to
invest, and AXA Strategic Ventures is our investment fund where we invested in new
businesses always with the idea how can we bring two things together, great ideas of
entrepreneurs, and scale of AXA. But it was not enough. We went a step further and said,
what can we do to really incubate ourselves? Because it is better to really incubate here
than having somebody else to cannibalize you.
And therefore, we founded KAMET. KAMET is our incubator where we have
entrepreneurial teams working on new ideas and launching these new ideas. And that has
been a big booster for us and also obviously a big point of friction because the
traditionalists and the innovators don't always get on easily. We even went a step further
and said, what can we do on a global level? Because it's not only about start-ups that are
the new word, it is also about other industries moving closer to our own industries. And if
you look, it is the reality, many pharma companies, many of the GAFAs are moving
towards our business. The solution of tomorrow is not that they will cannibalize us and
take over our business. The solution is that we ﬁnd ourselves together at the boundary of
those sectors, and therefore AXA Partners for us is extremely important to really leverage
that potential of cooperating of partnering on a global level.
To give you a few very concrete examples, ﬁzzy, you have seen that we have launched a
ﬂight delay insurance based on block chain. This is something radically new because it's
an insurance coverage that attaches to another product. It's an insurance coverage that is
parametric, there's only two answers, yes, no, zero, one, and it's something where no one
hand is touching the process. Everything is done automatically and is done on block
chain. Nobody else has launched that yet.
If you go a step further and look at Qare, Qare is another teleconsultation that we have
launched in London. We have seen that there's many French experts in London, and we
also have seen their desire to stay in London despite Brexit. However, they love to go to a
French doctor for two reasons: they can speak their own language, and the French
doctors are much cheaper than the English doctors. So we have developed a mechanism
where the French expert through video consultation can get a very quick appointment via
a video consultation in their own language and for a third of the price that pleases
everybody, and this has really, really gone oﬀ.

Page 6 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

If you take another example, on partnerships in AXA Partners, we are very, very concerned
about the fact that there is new labors and labor and social risk arising. Today 130 million
people in the U.S., in Europe are already working in non-traditional labor arrangements.
Those people need new coverages, and it is our conviction that we can oﬀer those type of
partnerships and those type of insurances, and therefore UBA is one of the examples
where we have really tested it out, and there's plenty more to follow. We know now what
works in innovation and we also know what doesn't work.
The next step is now to scale it up, and scaling up also means to ﬁnd a bridge into the
traditional entities because the addressable market for us for these innovations is exactly
one market, our 107 million customers. And therefore it's very important that we create
that link and that in the next phase we really go topic by topic to decide what is being
built and what is being bought and how can we roll this out now to really scale it up.

Bloomberg Transcript

All of this can only work if we change the management of the group. Simplify to
accelerate also means changing the way we work. And this is based on two fundamental
convictions I've got. One is, yes, we are large, yes, we are in many countries, but we can
be much simpler. What can we do to simplify ourselves and how can we leverage the
talent, the potential that we have in the markets by empowering those people.
And therefore when you look at the history of AXA, we've been always extremely strong in
the ﬁnancial management of our balance sheet. The fact that we have such a strong and
robust balance sheet is the fruit of that, where we can still catch up is on the operational
performance. And therefore it is my conviction that we really need to put more action on
this one that grows on the one hand with being closer to the entities, but it also goes with
having the numbers that go with it. And we have made great eﬀorts to develop a tool
where today we have one single source of the tool of the numbers that are relevant for
everybody and that are also transparent for all the involved managers in order to discuss
one single tool.
The second important topic is the full accountability in the local markets. I do believe the
further away you take a local decision from a local market, the worse the decision. Let's
focus ourselves, local entities should be fully responsible and empowered on the
transformation of the local entity. The group should really focus themselves on making
sure that the reputation is guarded and on making sure that we act on behalf of the
shareholders, which means essentially the group is there to allocate the capital and to
really make their portfolio shift happening, it is not there to control the number of visits of
an agent in (30:00). And this also changes fundamentally the way we will operate. I have
asked all of the local CEOs now in those 10 plus 6 markets to develop their own equity
story. They need to prove to us now why should we invest in the country, why should we
even invest more. And I can tell you it's a very healthy process. We have done this process
with AXA U.S., we have done this process with AXA Investment Management and we will
be doing it now with those nine plus six entities that are still missing.
And one thing is clear, there is no compromise on customer service. One of our
commitments has been and will be going forward that by 2020 100% of our markets will
be at market average or above in terms of customer satisfaction. We are working very
hard on this. And going back to what I said earlier, we need to address two pieces; how
Page 7 of 43



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

can we make the service for the 20% of customers that we do serve well today much
better, but the biggest leverage is, how can we increase the service for the 80% of
customers where we only oﬀer peace of mind and their experience often is quite a
frustrating one. They get a bill, they manage to do everything not to claim and as a
beneﬁt they get another bill next year which is most often higher than the one
beforehand. And this is clearly what we want to attack, and therefore we also clearly want
to increase in the performance grid of the managers, the notion of customer satisfaction
to a higher notch than we have it today.
Focusing on ten plus six markets also will let us – will let me get closer to the entities
again. And there is a fundamental change in how we really determine the priorities by
country. There will be very few priorities, this is the beneﬁt of simpliﬁcation, clear
message, few priorities and it will be focused on growth again. We have not been
growing organically enough and we need to get back. And therefore when you look at
the ﬁve large geographies, France and Europe is clearly about getting back to growth.
AXA France has already shown that growth in a mature market with a leadership position
is possible and gaining market share is possible. If the French can do it, everybody else in
Europe can do it as well.
And therefore the big question is there, how can we transform the distribution sales
force? How can we go away from a siloed sales force of agents direct telephone to a
blended distribution where those access points interact together where they are there for
the customer and not in competition to the customer. In Asia it's a diﬀerent ballgame. We
have today very good positions with the joint ventures on the bancassurance side. Our
big focus there is to grow the agency sales force. How can we expand our footprint? How
can we come to positions that are all at scale through moving the agency distribution?
And I'm very happy that Gordon Watson is with us today, because he was the one
recruitment for Asia, where we really have very high hopes that agency distribution will
grow. Gordon, you have done it at the competition and we also wants to leverage your
expertise here, but I would like to you to say a few words, what's your view on AXA in
Asia?

Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Good morning. I am Scottish. So I will speak slowly. That was a special request. No, I think,
it's been – really I think Asia, there's a massive, massive protection gap. The reason I
joined AXA was the last 45 minutes you heard Thomas speaking about, it's very clear and
coherent what we want to achieve. When I look at the outside in, when I look at AXA, I see
innovation. And with the massive protection gap in Asia, there's no one else, I feel that
can really maximize. If you listen to Thomas's presentation, he used the innovation word
about, I think it was 14 times.
Innovation is part of the DNA. That is a huge diﬀerentiator. Also AXA is the only composite
insurer in the region. AXA is the number one global brand for nine years in a row. So it's
my job to take it to the next level, to polish that brand and to make everyone in Asia really,
really feel proud. I want AXA in Asia to be company that everyone wants to work for. And
two of my favorite words that you used were simplicity and empowerment. And I think
empowering the people when the decision is made closest to the business is a very wise
Page 8 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

decision. So empowering people to be all they can be and AXA being all it can be in Asia.
So I really don't want to say too much more. But I can't wait to start, so thank you for the
opportunity.

FINAL

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Gordon. So you see we have high hopes and big plans for Asia. The same is
true for the U.S. You will hear more later, but in the U.S., we really want to accelerate the
growth, make sure that we improve the eﬃciency, and also make sure that we optimize
our capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the international side, that is very much around two things. How can we rationalize
and reduce our footprint. We need to be in less than 64 markets going forward. But at the
same time, how can we also develop in that areas, the growth boosters of tomorrow. On
AXA IM and AXA Corporate Solutions, those are core assets to us, those are engines to
really fuel the growth in the entities on the protection side, on the commercial line side.
So very few priorities, very clear, very focused on growth.
This is only possible with a leadership team that is very much focused on growth and that
shares that growth obsession. And I'm very happy to present to you today the new
leadership team. They are all here. Make sure that you speak to them. I'm very glad that
I've got my ﬁnal team together and that is the team that is really consisting of many, many
operators. Operators that have a great track record in growth. You take Gordon's track
record, you take Jacques de Peretti, you take Antimo Perretta. All people – you take Mark
Pearson, all people that have been operating in large markets, with a long term view on
the business and have really shown that they can grow in these markets. And I'm very
proud that we have this team together now and that we can really accelerate together.
Thank you very much. And I will now hand over to George Stansﬁeld.

George Stansﬁeld

{BIO 16969899 <GO>}

Thanks, Thomas. Hi everyone. Thomas spoke to you just before about the portfolio
segmentation exercise that we've run over the last month with a view to simplifying our
corporate footprint and trying to focus our resources down on the 10 plus 6 markets. I
wanted to spend a few minutes talking to you this morning about an exercise that we've
run in parallel to that, which has been focused on simplifying our organization, simplifying
our operating model and our governance and let me begin where I will end.
The net eﬀect of that exercise is essentially twofold. It will result in a de-layered and
simpliﬁed operating model for the group that's focused on ﬁve geographies and a single
corporate center, which is quite diﬀerent from the model we've been operating over the
past years. And it will result in a 25% reduction in our central cost, our central functions
costs, which equates to about €0.3 billion in annual cost savings and that will be phased
in over the next two years.

Page 9 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

So if you look at governance in this group across a long period, 30 years, we've known
essentially three diﬀerent models; a two-dimensional matrix, a three-dimensional matrix,
and a four-dimensional matrix. During the build phase of the group in the 1990s, we
operated in a two-dimensional matrix, you had AXA S.A. listed holding company in Paris,
and a portfolio of operating companies underneath us. I think it's fair to say we were
highly, highly decentralized at that time. We were doing lots of M&A deals. And after we
acquired company UAP in January of 1997, we had more than a dozen listed subsidiaries
beneath AXA S.A. And we were so decentralized at that time, I think from time-to-time we
used to ask ourselves the question what makes AXA more than a mutual fund of insurance
company values. We never thought of ourselves that way, because there was always an
industrial logic to what we were trying to do and to build. But I think it was a fair question
to ask.
That changed beginning around 2000; we entered into a new phase. And in the early
2000s, we launched a series of minority buyout transactions and we bought back all the
minority interests in all of our operating subsidiaries around the world with the notable
exception of AllianceBernstein, which remains listed to this date.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also in the early 2000s built a lot of what I consider to be the backbone infrastructure
that converted the group from sort of a sum of the parts to a global ﬁnancial institution.
And here I'm talking about things like group risk management, group investments, group
compliance, group HR, a lot of the processes we run there today, those things did not
really exist in the 1990s. They were built in the early 2000s. And that really converted us as
I said from a sum of the parts into more of a institution, global institution. From a
governance point of view, we introduced a third layer into our governance structure in
2006 after we acquired Winterthur when we introduced regions.
The third phase began in 2010 when we introduced global lines. So this added a fourth
dimension to our matrix, and we introduced global lines coming out of the ﬁnancial crisis.
And between 2010 and 2017, we began to build a substantial, sort of, commercial and
operational functionality in the layers above the operating companies. And here I'm
talking about things like marketing, like distribution, like claims and we hired experts into
the layers, at the global lines into the regions, in all cases above the operating company.
When we ﬁnished the portfolio segmentation exercise that Thomas referred to before, in
the beginning of 2017, we took a step back and we looked at that four-dimensional matrix
that I just described against the segmentation and our desire to focus down on the 10
plus six and what we saw was a substantial gap, a gap in terms of the complexity of that
four-dimensional matrix against the simplicity that Thomas referred to and that will be one
of our guiding principles going forward.
A gap in terms of the issues around clarity of accountability, which in a four-dimensional
matrix can become a touch confusing. A gap in terms of our ability to take quick decisions
and take them close to the client and a gap in terms of the cost of operating a fourdimensional matrix of that complexity against what we think is sustainable for the next
phase of the group.

Page 10 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

And we built a new model that we built it really on four basic principles. It's something – a
model that's adapted to the strategic segmentation. And when we looked at the diﬀerent
segments, they have very diﬀerent needs from a corporate center and support point of
view, from a governance point of view. The current engines against the smaller entities,
those are very diﬀerent things, they need to be managed in diﬀerent ways, they need to
be supported in diﬀerent ways.
It's built on the principle of de-layering and simplifying, trying to take decisions as close
to the ground as we can. It's built on the principle of investing in the countries rather than
in the layers above the countries for a very simple reason. If you do not have the right
people with their hands on the wheel in the market, you do not cure that problem by
hiring in people in layers above. And ﬁnally, it's built on the principle that the operating
companies are the principal axis of the new system. They are the center of gravity in our
system and the corporate center will have a more focused role.

Bloomberg Transcript

The result is a system that's based on ﬁve geographies; it's France, it's Europe ex-France,
it's Asia, it's the U.S. and International, and it's the corporate center that will have a
refocused and more limited mission than we've had in the past. It will be focused around
three essential missions; risk and control, which has been sort of our core mission from
the beginning kind of forever; shareholder representation, which is about assessing the
operating performance of our subsidiaries around the world and their strategic
positioning; and corporate management, which is about capital allocation, which is about
M&A, which is about managing our brand, managing our group senior executives around
the world.
So we believe that this model will vastly simplify the interactions between our operating
companies and the corporate center. It will help to clarify accountabilities. It will help us
take decisions more quickly and closer to the ground. This slide is just a graphic
representation of what I was mentioning.
The operating companies become the center of the new system. The corporate center is
focused on risk and control, shareholder representation, allocation of capital. So that's a
much simpler model than we've been operating and certainly much simpler than the fourdimensional matrix that is in place today.
In terms of timeline, we really began to focus on this at the end of 2016. We launched a
formal initiative at the end of April. It took us six months to drill into the organization to
ensure that we had our arms around all the numbers, all the cost, all the headcounts in the
diﬀerent layers of our structure. We announced in October internally, we began the social
consultation. We announced the plan for the future, the new model that we want to
implement. We're in the process of that social consultation right now here in Europe.
We expect to come out the other side of it in early 2018, hopefully before the end of
January at which point, we will implement this model and operate it going forward. We
do not stop there, we will keep in place a transition team that will be focused on how
we're operating this model over the next 12 months after implementation, to ensure that
we get the impact that we're looking for because there's always a tendency with

Page 11 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

something this complex to people to go back to what they knew. There is a tendency to
rebuild out layers that we are going to take out of the organization in this restructuring.

FINAL

So from a ﬁnancial point of view, as I mentioned before, this will result in a 25% reduction
in our central functions cost, which equates to about €0.3 billion in annual cost savings,
that will be phased in over the next two years.
So that's what I wanted to say to you about governance. We can talk in Q&A at the end
about any questions you've got around that. It's been a very, very substantial eﬀort. It took
us quite a number of months to design the new model. We see very clearly where we
want to go now. When we're through the social consultation, we will implement and
begin to operate the new model.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we wanted to shift gears now, and with Gérald talk to you about the U.S. IPO. And let
me begin. I will focus on IPO process and scope. Gérald will talk to you about some of the
pre-IPO restructuring transactions that we're going to undertake and then some of the key
implications for the AXA Group.
We discussed with many of you at dinner last night, and I think many of you have seen,
that AXA Equitable Holdings, which is the U.S. holding company that we intend to IPO
next year ﬁled what's called an S-1 registration statement with the SEC last night. That
document is about 600 pages, and I'll give you a little bit of color on what's in there. It's a
comprehensive view of the business of the company. Despite the fact that that document
is ﬁled and despite the fact that it's public and you can all get it oﬀ the SEC website, we
are still in an SEC mandated quiet period. And we remain in that quiet period until we
come out the other side of the SEC process and the registration statement is declared
eﬀective, which we do not anticipate happening until Q2 of next year. So we are severely
restricted in what we can say about AXA Equitable Holding and its business. There's a lot
of information in the document, I would encourage you to take a look at the document.
But today, we will focus very much on the impacts of the transaction on AXA Group and
some of the restructuring transactions that we will undertake prior to the transaction.
On the right hand side of that slide, there is just a summary of the diﬀerent sections in an
S1. The S1 is the most comprehensive form of registration statement in the U.S. system, it's
for an initial public oﬀering, the document in total as I mentioned is close to 600 pages.
There is a description of the business, the ﬁnancial position of the company and the
strategy and it's been a substantial amount of work to prepare the document over the
past months.
In terms of the segmentation of the business that's presented in the document, we
presented in four segments: Individual Retirement, which accounts for about 78% of the
full year 2016 U.S. GAAP, operating earnings and this is the wealth accumulation and
protection business, mostly annuities; Group Retirement, which is 11% of the operating
U.S. GAAP operating earnings; Investment Management & Research, which is
AllianceBernstein, representing 11%; and the Protection Solutions with, which is life
insurance and employee beneﬁts with a very negligible amount of the overall operating
earnings. So that's the segmentation in the document.

Page 12 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

The document is obviously prepared on U.S. GAAP. The document that was ﬁled will be
updated as we go through the process with the SEC. I would just mention another key fact
that the company has 4,700 what they call Aﬃliated Advisers which are agents more or
less tied agents which sell primarily for the company. There are 200 Bernstein Financial
Advisors and access to another 150,000 distributors through third parties, banks, brokers
and other parties with which we have distribution arrangements.
In terms of timeline, the overview is laid out on the slide. We announced the intention to
undertake this transaction back in May. At that time, we told you that we would ﬁle the
initial registration statement with the SEC before today and we did that last night at 10:30
Paris time. We now go into a process with the SEC which we expect to take four months to
ﬁve months. That would be the normal time scale for a process like this. We will go
through several rounds of comments with the SEC.

Bloomberg Transcript

The SEC has teams which are rather well versed in this, given some other recent
transactions in the U.S. market. We would expect to get several hundred comments on
the document and we would hopefully come through that process some time in Q2 2018,
when the S-1 would be declared eﬀective which would be the point at which we could
actually launch the process.
We've had extensive discussions with the New York Department of Financial Services (sic)
[New York State Department of Financial Services]. It was somewhat fortuitous in terms of
timing, because the New York Department (sic) [New York State Department] was just
concluding what they call it a quinquennial examination in May of this year. The
quinquennial is a regular examination they do on all insurance companies licensed in the
State of New York. And that was very fortuitous, because we decided to – we announced
the launch of this transaction in May.
We were able to get the clarity on a number of issues with the New York Department of
Financial Services (sic) [New York State Department of Financial Services] at the time of
the conclusion of the quinquennial. And that was – that went relatively smoothly and the
discussions were quite constructive, but it was due in large part to the fact that the New
York Department (sic) [New York State Department] was already deep into the company in
the quinquennial and that was very favorable in terms of the overall timeline on this – for
this transaction.
So, with that, maybe I would turn it to Gérald to talk to you about the pre-IPO
restructuring transactions and impacts on group.

Gérald Harlin
Thank you, George. Good morning. So, after you just heard from George, I'll present now
pre-IPO and IPO implications for the AXA Group. So, my objective in this slide is -in this
section is to present the pre-IPO restructuring transactions. As you will see, the three steps
will be ﬁrst ﬁnancing and internal loans repayment, second the recapture of the variable
annuity business and capitalization, i.e. simplify the structure and strengthen the capital of
AXA Equitable.

Page 13 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Next is a sale of AB units from the AXA Group. Part A corresponds to the ﬁnancing and
internal loans repayment, so ﬁrst, as you can see we have the $1 billion, $1 billion capital
enhancement to AXA Group, U.S. holding company. That's something that had been
already announced, when we announced the IPO on May 10. The second operation is
$4.4 billion of external ﬁnancing, because we will – the U.S. will reimburse internal loans,
as you will see in a second and this is something that will be done, implemented before
the IPO. The third step is the loan repayments $1.8 billion internal loan repayments,
meaning that all loans with the U.S. will be repaid.
Part B, as you can see on the left hand side of screen, part B deals with the recapitalization
of U.S. operating entities and the recapture of the valuable annuity business. So meaning
that the ﬁrst step is a capital strengthening of AXA Group U.S. operating companies by
$2.3 billion before year-end, and the second step is recapture of the AXA RE Arizona, VA
business. So that's the second step. That means that it's the recapture of the valuable
annuity business located presently in AXA RE Arizona by AXA Equitable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Part C now deals with the sales from the AXA Group to AXA Equitable Holding of 18% of
AB for a price of roughly $1.1 billion. That's what we can see in the middle part C. As a
whole, we could say that, and that's what you can see on the right-hand side for the AXA
Group ex-U.S. it's $2 billion cash positive that means that the addition of that part A, plus
B, plus C means €2 billion of cash for the AXA Group ex-U.S. So as a whole, the pre-IPO
transactions will ﬁrst simplify the U.S. ﬁnancial structure with all internal loans being
unwound. Second, it will strengthen the capital structure for U.S. operating companies,
and last roughly speaking, we could say that it should be neutral on AXA Group Solvency
II capital.
Bringing out to the consequences for the AXA Group in the U.S. First of all, I mention it
the recapture of the variable annuity business, which is currently reinsured by AXA RE
Arizona. It's been discussed of course with the New York Department of Financial Services
(sic) [New York State Department of Financial Services]. As you know, it will position AXA
Equitable quite well for future NAIC framework, because this type of captive reinsurance
for variable annuity business, most probably will be revised, and it will reduce the liquidity
needs from the captive reinsurance.
So, I should say that AXA – that the AXA Life Re, so that means that the insurance
company, AXA RE Arizona will be used only tomorrow (59:18) for the traditional protection
business, but no more for the variable annuity business.
Let's have a look at the capital levels after the recapture and capitalization. So we could
say that that is the Group's U.S. operating companies will beneﬁt from a CTE98 VA
capitalization, which is quite strong. For non-variable annuity business, we should have an
RBC ratio, risk-based capital ratio of 350%, which means that as a whole, we should have
500% of combined RBC ratio.
Let's move now to the key implication for the group. And I would like to remind you that
we see this IPO is a key step for us to accelerate our transformation toward a more

Page 14 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

balanced risk between ﬁnancial risk and taking a risk, while keeping our Ambition 2020
ﬁnancial targets.
So let's start with the hedging strategy. So the target hedging strategy will have two
fundamental objectives. The ﬁrst one, which is not new, is to protect the economic value
of the valuable annuity business. That's something that we have been doing up to now so
no change on that side. But on top of this, we'll add a new layer, I would say, of hedging
that will means that we will protect the protect the statutory capital in order to have CTE98
levels that I mentioned before, and the most economic scenarios, and to maintain a
CTE95 level even in extreme scenarios. Concretely, and that's what you can see just in the
middle, it means that we will hedge more equities than we did before. And as far as
interest rates are concerned, no speciﬁc change, meaning that we will keep upside when
interest rates will go up.

Bloomberg Transcript

Concretely, it means that the impact this – the additional hedging will be relatively
marginal at the scale of our group, which means that there will be limited impact on AXA
Group IFRS segments. So post-IPO, we'll have resilient VA cash ﬂows. And here what we
present correspond to the – we present the lifetime discounted inforce VA, variable
annuity cash ﬂows, so it's variable annuities and it's lifetime. So that means that it's a full
actualization discounting of the future cash ﬂows.
I should say that it's discounted at a rate of 4%. We do it under four diﬀerent scenarios
corresponding to the four backdrops that you can see on this slide. What are these four
diﬀerent scenarios. First is the base case. It's an expected equity return of 6.25%
corresponding to our own management case. Interest rates correspond to today's
forward curve, i.e. 2.8%. This corresponds to the 10 years T-bond, 2.8% at the end of 2017
and 4.9% at the end of 2027. So we have a positive scenario which we call market
appreciation, which is corresponding to an equity return of 10%, rates moving up from
2.8% to 4.9%. Then we have two negative scenarios. First one with the market share
corresponding to an immediate 25% share on the equity market and then a recovery at
6.25% per year, with rates being quite low, because rates would stop at 1.8% and ﬁnish 10
years later at 2.1%, so more or less ﬂat.
And then the ﬁnancial crisis which is even worse correspond to a drop of an immediate
shock of equities of 40%, then a recovery at 6.25%. And the interest rate scenario is the
same as the market showed, 1.8% in 2017 up to 2.1% only in 2027. So what we can say and
what you can see here are the net present value, €12 billion for the management case, €18
billion for the market appreciation, €10 billion for market shock, €8 billion for ﬁnancial
crisis.
What does it show? It shows ﬁrst that we have extremely resilient variable annuity cash
ﬂows. We have an eﬀective downside protection even in a very strong ﬁnancial crisis
which is the extreme right scenario. You can notice that we have downside which is
limited to €4 billion, i.e. €12 billion which is a base case minus €8 billion which is the
ﬁnancial crisis case. We keep upside and we keep upside sensitivity in case of positive
scenarios., it's €18 billion minus €12 billion.

Page 15 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

So as a conclusion, what's the impact for our group and for AXA? I could say that the post
IPO implication for the AXA Group, its positive on cash, meaning that we should have €2
billion, as I explained. €2 billion from pre-IPO transactions before any potential proceeds
from IPO. It should be resilient. We should have resilient VA cash ﬂows, a diﬀerent range
of scenarios, that's what I just explained in my previous slides.
Next, 40% to 60% payout ratio. By payout ratio, I mean dividend plus eventual share
buyback. Hence, that's targeted by AXA Equitable and it will be eﬀective in 2018. So it will
start in 2018. So as far as Solvency II is concerned, it's neutral on AXA Group Solvency
ratio. And we should have, as I said, an improved balance between technical and ﬁnancial
margin for the group. As far as IFRS are concerned, limited earnings impact from change
in VA hedging strategy. Second, Ambition 2020 target are reaﬃrmed in the context of the
IPO.
So I propose you to have a coﬀee break and then we'll resume our IR Day session.
[Break] (01:06:33 – 01:53:10)

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So welcome back after the coﬀee break, and we're going to do something now which I
call a little bit an IR Day presentation for the geeks, which is all of us. A very important
subject for not only exhibit for the industry. And what we hope to do with this next session
with Gérald is to bring some clarity and some insights into the relationship between cash
and Solvency II and how the two emerge. Following that, as I mentioned that Gérald will
do an update on Ambition 2020, and then we have plenty of time for your Q&A, which
will be Thomas, George and Gérald.
And I hand over to Gérald.

Gérald Harlin
Thank you, Andrew. You said that it's a presentation for geeks, but I don't have the age of
a geek. So the objective of this session is, I would say, to clarify the links between cash
ﬂows and Solvency II operational returns.
Please take it like an educational session, but I believe that it will be key in order for you to
better assess the quality and the predictability of our future cash ﬂows. I've been
discussing this topic diﬀerent times with some of you, and I know that this is an industry
quite important issue. I hope that it will be a way to move, really, the discussion forward.
So I have three objectives here. The ﬁrst one is to give you a clear visibility on future cash
ﬂows and make the link with our Ambition 2020 target that we presented in May last year.
The second objective is to connect free cash ﬂows and Solvency II operating returns. It's
an important point and we could say that with the almost disappearance of the
embedded value, there was a kind of – there is a lack of clarity, and I hope that it will bring
some more clarity. And the last objective is to link to dividend and capital management.
Page 16 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

So let's start ﬁrst with our future cash ﬂows. Here what you can see on the screen
corresponds to lifetime Life & Savings cash ﬂows starting in 2016, i.e. the ﬁrst year of our
2020 plan. You can see the diﬀerent bar charts. What is in dark green corresponds to the
inforce, and what is in light green corresponds to the new business cash ﬂows assuming
that the new business would remain ﬂat at 2016 level, which is a quite conservative
assumption.
The chart; the way it's built, it's built by blocks of ﬁve years, each bar chart corresponds to
ﬁve years. And let's focus ﬁrst on the ﬁrst one covering 2016 to 2020. First point, and it's
quite simple, is that the ﬁrst bar chart corresponds to cumulative cash ﬂows of between
€16 billion and €20 billion for the ﬁve years. In other words, €16 billion for Life taking into
account the fact that last year we posted cash ﬂows from P&C, Asset Management and
Banking, which is mostly the adjusted earnings, we saw small adjustment for the capital
requirement of €3.2 billion makes us comfortable and conﬁdent to reassess the fact that
free cash ﬂows that we expect between €16 billion and €20 billion, cumulative group
operating free cash ﬂows of €28 billion to €32 billion. That the ﬁrst – it's a fact.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then I propose you to analyze a bit more in detail the Life & Savings proﬁts of the last
years. And let me go to this page, so to this slide. You have the cash ﬂows in-line with
what I presented before. What is interesting is to say, okay, the total of these future proﬁts
amount to €90 billion for Life. This €90 billion ﬁrst element quite interesting is to look at
the breakdown between Protection & Health, unit-linked and G/A savings. You can notice
but it's not fundamentally diﬀerent from our earnings breakdown, but 65% of Protection &
Health of these €90 billion of future cash ﬂows which are undiscounted, calculated under
our management case, 65% corresponds to Protection & Health, and 20% on top on unitlinked. G/A savings represents only 15%.
And taking into account, you should take also into account just for you to keep it in mind
that in protection and health, we beneﬁt of course from the future technical proﬁt,
whereas in G/A savings it's only interest rate margin. And the technical proﬁt if you refer
to what we posted one year ago, in 2016 it was €1.6 billion pre-tax, just to give you an
idea. So I repeat that this €90 billion, they are calculated on inforce undiscounted future
proﬁts and our management case, the management case being more or less the base
case where you are expecting equity return of roughly 6% and interest rates more or less
on the forward curve.
So next is to move from Life & Savings inforce undiscounted future proﬁt to Life & Savings
inforce risk neutral discounted future proﬁts. The diﬀerence is €35 billion. So the
diﬀerence between the €90 billion and the €35 billion mostly corresponds to a risk
neutral scenario, the fact that you are projecting your future return at rates which are quite
low, and the discount eﬀect at a level which is this risk neutral scenario, risk neutral
framework, €35 billion.
And next, and that's quite interesting, I believe, is the move from €35 billion to €13 billion.
I remind you that the €13 billion corresponds to the Life & Savings inforce future proﬁts,
including in the Solvency II AFR. What's the diﬀerence between this €35 billion and €13
billion, which is quite sizeable, it's €22 billion?

Page 17 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

This corresponds to three elements mostly. First, the time value of options. Second, it's
two other elements which corresponds to the prudence of Solvency II. So ﬁrst one
corresponds to the boundaries of contracts, and you know that we have a lot of
boundaries of contracts applying, for example, to our Swiss protection business. And the
second is Solvency II market value margin. Keep in mind that the facts, we have roughly €7
billion of market value margin in Life, the fact that we have a signiﬁcant part of our
business, which is Protection & Health, means by deﬁnition more market value margin. So
that's it.
So I could say that the ﬁrst element that we can draw – lesson that we can now draw from
this chart is €13 billion of Life inforce future proﬁts in total AFR out of €58 billion of AFR. So
that means that the future proﬁts in AFR are extremely small, €13 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

So second is what about the €77 billion that you see here just in the middle, the diﬀerence
between the €90 billion and the €13 billion. I would say that this corresponds to future
proﬁts which are not reﬂected in AFR, but which will emerge over time. And with two
components, the ﬁrst component corresponding to €22 billion that would correspond to
the release of the prudential buﬀers. Look at what I said and you can read it between €35
billion and the €13 billion, that's Solvency II boundaries of contracts and the Solvency II
market value margin. And the second element, €55 billion out of the €77 billion
correspond to the release of risk premium and discount eﬀect.
So let's focus now, if you don't mind, about – let's focus on 2016. Zoom on 2016. So we
start again with this €90 billion. It's the same €90 billion corresponding to the inforce and
discounted future proﬁts. So hence, indeed, you remember that I said that the €90 billion
is two components. The ﬁrst component, €13 billion, which correspond to the proﬁt
included in AFR. And we can say that the €13 billion part of this €90 billion, €13 billion
corresponding to the proﬁt in AFR will ﬂow into cash €4.9 billion. So you have €13 billion,
€0.9 billion correspond to the operating free cash ﬂows. No impact on change in Life &
Savings AFR. Why? Because it's already in the end of 2015 AFR because the AFR takes
into account the future proﬁt.
So the second component, which is quite important, correspond to the release for one
year of the €77 billion that I presented before. So this correspond to the release of
prudential buﬀers and risk premium and unwind of discount eﬀect. So you can see that
both for cash but also for Solvency II, it's a signiﬁcant element and it's something which
were not in the opening AFR.
Next is a new business strain minus €1.3 billion, which both aﬀects the Life & Savings
operating free cash ﬂows, as well as the change in Life & Savings AFR. And then you have
the value of the new business that means that during 2016, we brought new business,
which will have future proﬁt that will ﬂow through AFR, and this correspond to €2.8 billion.
And so meaning that this €2.8 billion will indeed feed the €90 billion of what this €90
billion will be at the end of 2016 because it will progressively, in the future, increase the
operating free cash ﬂows, taking into account the fact that most of these €2.8 billion
correspond to Protection & Health. So in total you have cash for Life of €2.19. I remind you
that it's 2016 and the change in Life & Savings so far amounts to €5.1 billion.

Page 18 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

With a few remarks, which is that this is highly predictable, that means that – and this is
important for the future cash ﬂows so the implication of this for the future cash ﬂows is
that it will be highly predictable because a signiﬁcant part is coming from Protection. We
have market leading proportion of Protection & Health, and there will be also some future
prudence, margins that will be released.
So second, remarks that they wanted to make is this new business contributes to the
future cash emergence over the next years, and this explains most of the diﬀerence
between €2.9 billion and €5.1 billion, because doing Protection mostly means that we
have a lot of future proﬁt even in a risk neutral framework which doesn't appear yet in the
free cash ﬂows but will appear tomorrow in the future, in the next years, in the future cash
ﬂows. So that's mostly the diﬀerence between the €5.1 billion and the €2.9 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move now to – on top of the Life, we have the P&C. And the objective, as I told you,
is to have a full reconciliation between total operating free cash ﬂow and 2016 change in
AFR. So you can see here that you have – you recognize the ﬁgures that I just presented
before, the €2.9 billion and the €5.1 billion. Then you have the P&C Asset Management
and banking operating free cash ﬂow, €3.4 billion, €2.8 billion on the change in AFR.
There are some diﬀerences, and for those who are interested, I'll be quite happy to share
it with you.
We could say that most of the diﬀerence is coming from capital gains. Why? Because as
you know, AFR is calculated on the mark-to-market basis, was operating free cash ﬂow. It's
at the time you sell the securities, you realize your capital gains that you get the cash ﬂow.
So it's in the open AFR position for AFR, and it's not for free cash ﬂow. That's mostly the
diﬀerence.
Next is the change in P&C required capital, which aﬀects the operating free cash ﬂow.
And next is the holding cost. I remind you that the way we report on operating free cash
ﬂow, but you are used to it, is before holding costs, whereas for change in AFR, by
deﬁnition it's net of holding cost. So in the end, €6.2 billion for cash ﬂows, €6.9 billion for
change in AFR, and these €6.9 billion correspond to 19 points, that's what we published at
the end of 2016, plus 19 points of Solvency II operating return in full year 2016. So you can
see that the ﬁgures are not very diﬀerent.
We could say that by deﬁnition it doesn't compare fully because one is a pre-holding cost,
the other is post-holding cost. But nevertheless, I could say that the biggest diﬀerence is
really what I showed before, i.e. that we beneﬁt from the future proﬁts in the Life business,
which makes that – and this is again highly predictable and it mostly explains the plus 19
points of Solvency II operating return.
So let me – to make – all of this makes us very conﬁdent in the delivery of our targets. That
means that the group operating free cash ﬂow €28 billion to €32 billion, I explained to
you that of which we have €16 billion in Life, which makes us quite conﬁdent. For the rest
of the business, it depends on technical factors, mostly the combined ratio and you will
see later on, I'll tell you more and update you on where we are. But extremely conﬁdent in
the €28 billion to €32 billion cumulative 2016 to 2020 cash ﬂows.

Page 19 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

Second remark is the cash remitted to the group. We committed on 75% to 85% of
operating free cash ﬂow, we conﬁrm it. I should say that it's before potential U.S. IPO
proceeds. So what does it mean to make and to draw some conclusions. That means that
we are conﬁdent that we will achieve these two targets. It means that it will translate into
reliable and attractive dividends, that we have suﬃcient resources to fund growth and
innovation.
And last is the U.S. IPO that will be reinvested in a previous segment or return to
shareholders. So U.S. IPO proceeds, as I said, on top of these €24 billion to €27 billion. So
they will be, as we said, you remember that when we announced it in May this year, when
we announced the U.S. IPO we said that the proceeds would be reinvested by preference
in previous segments, but it could be also return to shareholders through share buyback.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that's mostly for this educational session. And of course, I expect that you will have
many questions. And I propose you to move to Ambition 2020 update, and then we will
have with Thomas and George our Q&A session.
So Ambition 2020 update. I'm sure that you remember this is a slide that we showed and
we presented on June 21, 2016. And I'm sure that you remember the ﬁve drivers. Let's
start on the left hand side. So this is environment driven that correspond to the interest
rate headwinds. I remind you that 16 months ago when we presented it, rates were a
negative territory and we had, I would say, two diﬀerent assumptions and we said that the
fact that in the end, underlying earnings per share could be between – could show a
compounded annual growth of 3% to 7% dependent on the interest rate assumptions
because in the most negative case it could represent a drag on our earnings of 5% per
year.
Here we have been the center of the four drivers and our own control, which are
eﬃciency growth, technical margin and M&A. So I propose you to come back on each
driver and to see where we are18 months after we started this Ambition 2020 journey.
Let's start again on a few elements on interest rates. So here you can notice that yesterday
we had 10 years bond toward that 41 basis points, which is a quite sizable increase
because it's an increase of 36 basis points compared with June 21. So I was not right, I
told you just before that we were in negative territory. Some part of the curve was in
negative territory but the 10 years were slightly, slightly positive 5 basis points. As you can
see on the top left graph, we are not yet on our best scenario, but we are clearly above
the unfavorable scenario. And I remember at that time that some of you asked us, guys,
don't you believe that your unfavorable scenario is still too favorable. So I believe that
seems to have changed since then, that people are a bit more optimistic on the interest
rate. By optimistic, I mean that people believe that the probability to go back negative
territory is quite remote today, especially with the improved growth in Europe.
Nevertheless, we are more positive and we believe that we should progressively remain
and go back to the base scenario. It doesn't mean that we consider that the rates will go
up much more than the base scenario, so let's keep the base scenario as our best
assumption for the time being. As far as the U.S., which are in the lower half of this slide,

Page 20 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

we are clearly in line with our best scenario, and we have today 2.4% which is a sizable
improvement compared to 16 months ago because it's plus 69 basis points.
I should add two elements. I'm sure that some of you remember that we said that we built
this plan assuming that the equity market would stay ﬂat. Indeed, it's not been the case
because the equity markets went up sharply, I could say, which is good for the unit-linked
business. And the equity (02:17:13) improved by 20% roughly. So it's a good news. It's a
good news. But at the same time, I should say that this is compensated by a bad news
which correspond to the FX rate, because as you know, the euro improved a lot
compared to the situation 16 months ago. So I could say that all these two factors, equity,
ethics, more or less they compensate each other today. We will see, but we assume that
going forward it will be the same.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as far as eﬃciency is concerned, let's move to the other drivers. As far as eﬃciency – so
on eﬃciency, we achieved €0.5 billion in 2016 and in the ﬁrst half of 2017. So it means €0.5
billion over the ﬁrst 18 months of our plan. Its €0.5 billion, out of €2.1 billion. I remind you
that since we started our plan a bit later, that it was quite normal to have a €0.3 billion
only for the ﬁrst year, but we posted €0.2 billion for the ﬁrst half of the year. At the same
time, the savings that were mentioned by Thomas, presented by George, the savings from
leaner central functions will allow us to accelerate the delivery. For the time being, we
could say it will accelerate the delivery. That means that savings will come sooner than
what we thought 1.5 years ago. That means that we're quite comfortable in order to
conﬁrm our 3% underlying earnings per share, combined with earning growth coming
from eﬃciency.
Let's move to growth now. So on growth, as we explained about two weeks ago when we
presented our nine-month indicators, we could say that the contribution from operating
segments is good. Let's start ﬁrst with health and revenues. In line with our strategy,
health and commercial lines are privileged segments, as well as Protection & Health
revenues are plus 5%, where the ambition is between 3% and 5%, which means that more
or less we are in the high end of this Ambition 2020 target.
For commercial lines, revenues plus fee. So it's in line and we have always a strong focus
on commercial lines as mentioned by Thomas in the introduction. For production and
revenues plus 1, we had a low start. We must confess that it was a low start, but we had
some headwinds. I won't go back on these headwinds. We shared it with you over the
previous presentations, year-end 2016 and half year 2017 presentation. We keep our
ambition at 2% to 3% globally.
And for Asia, underlying earnings are plus 6%, and our ambition remains plus 10% to plus
12%. As a whole, we will – the plus 2% that we expected to derive from global growth will
be achieved. That means that we are absolutely conﬁdent today. We have plus, we have
minus, but as a whole we'll achieve it. We'll do this plus 2% UEPS growth coming from
growth.
So let's move to technical excellence. On technical excellence, we have Property &
Casualty, we have Protection & Health, and you remember that we made some

Page 21 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

commitment in term of combined ratio and loss ratios. Let's start with the loss ratios, and
in P&C we had a commitment at 70%. In the ﬁrst half 2017, we were at 70.1%. So we are
there yet, so that means that we are already on track as soon as in H1 2017. As far as
Protection & Health are concerned, in line with my previous remarks, I would say we had
some impacts from exceptionals in France and the U.S. We are at 83.1% in the ﬁrst half. We
have an ambition at 80%, but we are conﬁdent that we'll do it and we will improve to
80%, the Protection & Health combined ratio by 2020.
In the end, it means that we conﬁrm the plus 2% coming from the technical improvement
– from this technical improvement coming both from Property & Casualty and Protection &
Health. In term of a combined ratio, I remind you that we gave two commitments, 94% to
95% for P&C, 93% to 94% for Protection & Health. I remind you that the 94% and 95%
correspond to 2 to 1 points of prior year reserve release. I remind you that in the ﬁrst half,
we had only 0.7% reserve release, last year 1.2%, so that's it and we could say that we have
been quite conservative.

Bloomberg Transcript

Conclusions now. So I would say that we are well positioned for our Ambition 2020
target. First, the macro-environment is in line with our central case, I should say, is back in
line with our central case and there is much more comfort on that side than 16 months
ago. Second on eﬃciency, the leaner central function will help accelerate delivery on our
eﬃciency target. Next, we are conﬁdent that we will reach our growth and technical
targets. And last, a clear capital allocation strategy, meaning that we conﬁrm our M&A
budget of €1 billion before any IPO proceed, meaning that we conﬁrm the 3% to 7%
expected underlying earnings growth per share over the plan period. And just to remind
you that in the ﬁrst half of 2017, we posted plus 5%.
I thank you, and now I propose you to move to Q&A.

Q&A
Operator
A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Gérald. We now come to the Q&A session. And before we get into
it, I wanted to talk again about the IPO in order to prevent any frustration that you will
have in any minute. As George said it, we are not allowed to talk about the IPO other than
what we have shown you today. And so, we really would like to stick to that because we
need to stick to it from a legal perspective. The IPO is very important to us, we do not
want to jeopardize under any circumstances the IPO or a delay in the IPO, so please
respect that. We'll try our utmost to answer your questions, but we would never go
beyond this legal boundary.
Who would like to start with his or her question. Let's go to this table, let's start, Nick.
Sorry, I can hardly see, I think it's Nick Holmes.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}
Page 22 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

Thank you. Thank you very much. Nick Holmes of SocGén. Two questions. So ﬁrst is on
payer to partner, wondered how far you want to go with this. I mean, do you, for example,
want to acquire hospitals, garages for PMC major products? What's the scope? And then
a question on the recapitalization of the U.S., not on the IPO, I stress. But with the
recapitalization, will you consider changing the 300% equivalence ratio that you have,
which is now looking conspicuously high compared to some peers? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you Nick. I suggest that Gérald treats the second question and maybe we do the
second question ﬁrst. And I would do the payer to partner question. Gérald?

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes, about the recapitalization of the U.S., I could say that from an economic point of view,
it doesn't change. So that means that we reinforce the capital of the U.S. company. And
your question about the 300%, maybe we will see. I cannot tell you yet. There could be a
logic behind it, but we will see and we'll update you. But in the end what this means is
that we have a capital position in the U.S. which is quite strong which is stronger than
before. And I insist on the fact that the recapture is a good news because most probably –
as we said, most probably (02:27:26) will put an end to or penalize, I would say, this type
of in internal insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On payer to partner, I mean, obviously as you say the space is very large and we have
taken the last one and a half years to understand that space and to understand what
works and what doesn't work. And going forward, we would like to focus ourselves in
three areas. One is clearly the area of health, the other one is the area of the SME, and the
third one is most likely the area of, I would say, personal assistance. This would mean our
eﬀorts of either buying or building services will be only focused in these three areas. And
we have gone through the analysts and are still continuing it, where do we need to build
and where do we need to buy. And so this is where we want to focus ourselves.
To your concrete questions to hospitals, we always have to be very careful what is the
hospital. And Benoit Claveranne and myself have just come back from Colombia where
we have a large operation that does have a hospital but also medical centers. And if you
ask me going forward, no I don't want to invest into hospitals, but medical centers where
you can do the triage both in a digital way with tele-consultation, but also in a physical
way, is certainly something we need to look at. But then the question always comes, do
you need to do it yourself or can you also partner with somebody and do it together.
Let's stay at the same table and just move next to Nick. I can't see, unfortunately, who it is.
Maybe you quickly say your name and the company you're serving now.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Yeah. It's Colm Kelly from UBS. Thanks for taking my question. So we appreciate the
restrictions vis-à-vis the U.S. IPO in terms of the €2 billion cash release pre-proceeds,
when we think about the cash remittance targets at group, is that included in that number
Page 23 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

or is the €2 billion also incremental, and also what are the plans for the use of that €2
billion, the proceeds obviously earmarked for M&A reinvestment as the additional €2
billion cash release also earmarked for the same use. And also, in the U.S. in terms of the
deferred tax asset and the potential for that to change in terms of U.S. tax reform, would
that have any implication in terms of the RBC ratio for that business.
Secondly on Asia, given the China as a core part of the Asia strategy and growth and the
change in the foreign ownership limits in China, can you just maybe articulate plans vis-àvis increasing the ownership stake of that business, what we can expect to the extent you
can?
And ﬁnally, a question clearly leveraging technology and innovation is core to achieving
Ambition 2020 targets. I suppose the key challenge is articulating metrics that investors
can track in terms of inputs. And also, what kind of – so what kind of metrics are you
looking to put forward that investors can track to show progress, and also what are the
key milestones again that we can track in terms of the progress of that business? Because
obviously, earnings revenue growth are outputs rather than input, so it's more input
metrics than outputs. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you. So I suggest we do the ﬁrst question for Gérald on the U.S. pieces, second
question for George on China and I'll take the third one on the metrics.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
So, your ﬁrst question was about the €2 billion cash release. Yes, there is a cash release,
but at the same time, it doesn't means that it will be on top of the cash, because it will –
you know that we have existing debts, internal debts and so on. So, you are familiar with
this. The second question is about the U.S. and the tax rate. So, we have been assuming
that the tax rate would stay more or less where it is today on the net basis, it's roughly
25% net of GRD (02:31:36) and – and we – it's better and I – we believe that it was more
cautious to assume that it would stay where it is today.

A - George Stansﬁeld

{BIO 16969899 <GO>}

On the China question, I think we're still going through the regulations that have come
out earlier this week. I think we have a joint venture with ICBC on the Life side, with
Tianping, on the non-Life side. We have an Asset Management venture in China, we've
got ongoing discussions in those joint ventures right now, in particular with ICBC about
governance and this change may factor into those discussions. It's a little too early to tell.
At the moment, we hold 27.5% of that – the venture with ICBC. We have a call on another
12.5%, and but it's still short of majority. So, I think we're still discussing what the change
could mean. In China, there's always a bit of ambiguity about how it will actually be
implemented and when, so, it's still early days there.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On the third question around the KPI. So, let us remind again, what is the transformation
about. The transformation is about being more in touch with the end customer, being
Page 24 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

able to increase the share of wallet with the customer and also being able to serve the
customer in a non-siloed way, not agents, direct, and telephone, but across the channels.
And then fourthly, increasing the service revenue for the customer, and I think there
you've got your four KPIs. How often am I in touch with the customer? What is my crossselling ratio or share of wallet ratio and I would focus that very much on the new
customers, because there you can see much of a bigger change. How many digital
agencies do you have that are really integrating this? And then what is your service
revenue per customer? And if you want to know how this works to the majority exactly,
you should ask Jacques de Peretti who sits here. He has implemented most of this already
in France and in the yearly targets that I have ﬁxed with Jacques, those three KPIs are
already a reality. Stay at the same table.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. Michael Huttner from JPMorgan. I had three questions. The ﬁrst
one and I'm kind of stealing from somebody else some questions so I apologize for that.
You still have a system of awarding employee shares, which you then neutralize via
buybacks. This seems a bit cumbersome, this kind of to and fro. Why wouldn't you just
abolish the award of employee shares out for new shares so that we don't have to kind of
worry about it every year or every other year? That would be my ﬁrst question.
The second question is on your slide 3, sorry slide 6. If I look at the pie and I see France,
Europe, U.S., Asia and Other, we discussed that a lot of Other is due to shrink. So, that's
the sum of the 26 countries. The U.S. will shrink eﬀectively you've announced the -- an IPO
and who knows what happens after that. So, how conﬁdent can we be that out of this
reduced pie you can still achieve your target EPS growth, underlying EPS growth of 3% to
7%? And the last one, I will get very excited about disposals. So, I wondered if there's
already anything happening, anything that you can announce tomorrow to keep us
happy? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, Gérald do you want to take the ﬁrst two question? I'll take the third one.

A - Gérald Harlin
So, I just would like to remind you that despite the free shares are concerned they are
hedged on systematic basis, which means that and we announced it and we took the
commitment, it was exactly two years ago, when we presented Solvency II, it was in
December 2015. We said that we would neutralize the dilution coming from these free
shares. Same for the stock options and presently, all the free shares are hedged. As far as
the stock options are concerned, a signiﬁcant part of the stock options, including those
who are not vested yet are hedged. So, that means that most of the dilution is completely
managed.
The second question? The second question is about the other countries. You know that
these other countries, they represent a small part. First of all, it doesn't mean that all these
26 countries will be sold, not at all. But what we said is that we will rationalize it. There will
be some that will be sold, there will be others that indeed will be managed for more

Page 25 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

proﬁt, like a PE company. Just to give you an idea what is at stake. What's at stake is in
term of AFR, I believe it's quite interesting to see what the amount. It's roughly €4 billion
of AFR out of €58 billion. I believe it gives you a good idea. And you got the contribution
to earnings, that gives you a good idea. But the objective is really to improve the
proﬁtability of those and others could be sold.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And then let's quickly complement. On the second question, yes, the IPO is clearly, let's
say, a step of a partial withdrawal. We have clearly announced on the 10th of May that we
want to quote a minority. These proceeds have clearly been identiﬁed to redeploy in
those 10 plus six markets in commercial line P&C, in Health, and in Protection.
Next, let's move to the middle table there.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three questions for me. Firstly was on the
Ambition 2020 targets, you've given updates on most of them but not really where you
are versus your M&A target. Just wanted you to give us an update on where you are on
the deployment of that so far and how much underlying EPS growth has been generated
over the period so far from M&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, sticking on those targets and performance. Asian growth is behind targets by a
distance. How much of that is just to FX versus how much is underlying?
And thirdly, just once if you can help me reconcile the width of the capital range – capital
ratio range going forwards. 170%, 230%, one of the wider ranges and a dividend payout
below 50%. As you reduce the stake in the U.S., how do you think about that going
forwards? Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, do you want to take all three?

A - Gérald Harlin
So, on the ﬁrst – on the M&A target, I would say, that we did, obviously, quite a few with
very small operations at the same time and in line with Michael's previous question, what
we did is that we – you notice that this year, we had roughly €1 billion of share buyback
corresponding to the cancellation, I would say, of the dilutive eﬀect of these free shares
and stock options, but for the time being, that's where we are. But that means that we still
consider that we'll do 1%. 1% was quite modest of the planned period. So, over the next
3.5 years, I'm quite conﬁdent that we'd do it. Your second question was about FX?

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

(02:39:53)

Page 26 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

A - Gérald Harlin
Asia.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

FINAL

(02:39:57)

A - Gérald Harlin
Yeah. I believe that as far as Asia is concerned, we have a signiﬁcant part coming from
Hong Kong and we have been penalized by the drop – the recent drop. So don't consider
that a signiﬁcant part is coming from the FX out of the actual achievement in Asia,
because they've been positive in 2016 followed by negative in the ﬁrst half. So let's be
extremely cautious. So we have maybe a small impact, but clearly small.
The capital ratio, no, we'll stick to it. That means that – I said and maybe it's an opportunity
for me to clarify one point. I said in the presentation on the IPO, that it would be Solvency
II neutral. It assumes of course – of course, the IPO in itself will increase the Solvency II
ratio. But at the same time, we assume that we will reinvest it and that we will reinvest the
proceed just because we don't want to have idle cash and just because we want to stick
to and we – I conﬁrmed and we conﬁrmed the fact that we'll be between 3% and 7%.
Meaning that more or less, after this reinvestment, it will be more or less neutral. And this
being said, it conﬁrms that the 170 basis points to 230 basis points is still relevant.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Next question, we move to the table in front.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Going back to the management
layers, it always looks great on paper when you take out a lot of costs and a lot of people.
Well, great from a sort of ﬁnancial point of view. But, working in big organizations as I
have, when you take out a lot of cost, sometimes you lose the person that does something
that you didn't think he or she were doing that. You can create a lot of risk management
problems, product pricing. If you're getting rid of so much of a structure you've had for a
decade, I mean, how do you manage that risk? It must be a big risk. That's question one.
Question two, in terms of the Life & Savings new business element to the AFR, I
remember you used to talk about payback periods and when do you want to sort of get
that value. Do you have any sort of update on what your thinking is about, how quickly
you want to get that? And yeah, those are my two questions. Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Farooq, thanks for your questions. I would say the ﬁrst one is answered by George and
the second one by Gérald.

A - George Stansﬁeld

{BIO 16969899 <GO>}
Page 27 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

So on your ﬁrst question, that was one of the reasons it took us six months to go through
this process, because we were quite focused in particular and the regulators as well, the
ACPR and the other regulators around the world on what happens to the control
functions. Certainly, the Solvency II, the four key control functions including risk
management, compliance, actuarial. And here we had a pretty clear visibility over the key
people in the diﬀerent layers. Most of them, we had talent lists that we developed long
before we got into announcing this and we are quite comfortable on the whole, that the
sort of core control functions are stable or will slightly increase.
So in the Solvency II key functions, we've been looking hard at that. The areas that reduce
are largely commercial functions, marketing, distribution, a lot of the expert capacities
that we built at the global lines or the region. So this was and is one of the key risks in
doing something like this. We're pretty comfortable with where we are today. Of course,
you never keep 100% of the people you want to keep.
But we've been quite successful in retaining the people that we want to retain. I
mentioned before we'll have a team that will continue after we come out of the social
consultation for the 12 months that follow, that we'll be monitoring those things in
particular. But overall, we're pretty comfortable on the risk and control side of the
equation that we won't drop any balls.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
As you know, the – presently, I would say is that the – our Life business is at a good level of
proﬁtability. As you know and (02:44:56) roughly at 40%, CIR is, let's say, around 14%,
between 13% and 15% which is great. So that means that we are creating value, obviously,
without discussing a long time about the cost of capital, without any doubt, it's above. But
at the same time, I would say that it's obviously we are working and we will work with
Alban (02:45:20) on ways in order to act, to reduce the payback and we have – so we, it's
in our plan to ﬁnd ways in the design of the products to slightly improve the payback. It's
an important point.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Stay at the same table, it's...

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Perhaps cut the microphone, sorry. It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just a
couple of quick questions. Just a philosophical question. You're sort of moving from a
centralized model to a decentralized model. And I guess you're allowing more autonomy
in the individual units, but what are the sort of three or four KPIs that you're using to
measure these units now? Is it cash, is it market consistency, so what is it?
The second question, just regarding the debt of $4.4 billion in the U.S., is this kind of the
all new issued external debt or is there some hypothecation of debt from the group to the
unit, and therefore, what does that mean from a debt to equity perspective and what are
the implications from a ratings perspective? Thank you.

Page 28 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you for your two questions. Let me take the ﬁrst one and then Gérald takes the
second one. As you've seen in the presentation that George has given, there were three
key words that symbolize that new model, freedom in boundaries. Freedom meaning you
have local accountability for implementing your transformation plan and we should only
do one task in one place once.
In boundaries, means that there are very clear boundaries around it and that not
everybody can do what he or she wants. And those boundaries are clearly about what
George said beforehand the regulatory, risk and audit aspects, but also around the
question of capital allocation and investment allocation. We will look going forward, to
much closer where are we allocating our capital, and also where are we allocating our
investments. And that also goes in-line with what I said earlier, this is decentralization
without being blind, because we, today, have a large database of all the local numbers.
We have one source of the tools where we can jointly see where a country is and where
we'll also increase those performance discussion.
So I introduced a year ago, the so-called CEO dialogue that we have a couple of times in
the year, where we let the entity come and where we discuss all the numbers. And this
also in-line with the task that I've given to all the CEOs to write their own equity story to
pitch to us why should we continue to invest and in which projects should we invest. So
freedom in boundaries is the logic of that new model and not uncontrolled
decentralization. Gérald?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. Johnny, answering your question about the $4.4 billion, this will be a real external
ﬁnancing. Why an external ﬁnancing? Because you know that the U.S. should be
standalone. Keep in mind that it will be rated, so an internal ﬁnancing would have less
value. So it will be an external ﬁnancing.
To answer your question about the debt to equity ratio, yes, it will increase. We are at an
extremely low level, roughly 25%, 26% today. It will move to 29%, 28% to 29% and keep in
mind, at the same time, that we have €2 billion. Previously, you remember that we posted
and we reported on a net basis. We move to a gross basis. Why? Because it was in-line
with our competitors, but in term of quality, I believe that, no doubt, that the €2 billion will
be there.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Stay at the same, I think it's John in the middle there.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Actually, it's Oliver. John will... (02:49:19)

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

John is next. But John is next, Oliver. It is very diﬃcult to see. I'm sorry.
Page 29 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Three questions. The ﬁrst is on Protection revenues.
Protection revenue growth 1%. So far, you're targeting 2% to 3%. So I'm wondering what
the sort of – what the driver is to get you up to the 2% to 3% growth over that ﬁve-year
period.
Secondly, I'm just sticking to Protection is on the Protection combined ratio, or more
speciﬁcally the loss ratio. Because I think if you strip out the exceptionals in the U.S. and
France in the ﬁrst half, your Protection combined ratio hadn't actually changed from the
start of the period but you're still very conﬁdent, it seems, about achieving the target. So
I'm wondering what it is that's held back the underlying improvement so far and what
drives that improvement coming through going forwards?
And then the ﬁnal question is, as you say only a small proportion of your new business
proﬁts actually goes into the owned funds. What are you doing to improve that
proportion going forward? And sort of what are the – what are some of the policy design
changes you're looking at, plus any guidance you can give on that front would be useful.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
So, about the 1%, what should we do in order to move to 2% to 3% – plus 2% to plus 3%. I
believe that we are progressing quite well in countries. You remember that we had some
headwinds on the top line. These headwinds being, for example in Switzerland, you
remember this because we had in 2017 – in 2016, a very large contract, so we have this
capacity, normally we should grow. We had also some headwinds of – coming from
Germany because in Germany we had some surrenders of contracts. So, I don't consider,
and it is important, I don't consider that it's a global trend. So, being at 1%, it's not a trend
that we should keep, and we are doing everything in order to be at – between 2% and 3%
in term of top line growth, Oliver.
The next point is the cost – no, the combined ratio. That means that we are, globally
speaking, improving it. We had again some headwinds. We still have, in order to achieve
it, don't miss that, if we expect the 83% that I just showed from these headwinds knowing
that we want to go to 80% in 2020, it's not a big improvement. On top of this, keep in
mind that we'll reduce our cost. So, that means that the expense ratio would improve as
well. So, that's why I'm – I strongly believe we'll do it.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

That was it. Yeah. Now, it's Jon, next to Oliver.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

You never answered my third question about the contract boundaries on new business.

Page 30 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So, contract boundaries of new business. We are penalized by these contract
boundaries of our new business. That means that all the premium, periodic premium,
regular premium that we get in Switzerland on our group pension business, they don't
beneﬁt from the – it's not in – it's in our reported NBV for sure, but it's not in the AFR. So,
that means that it will ﬂow through the regular contract, so that's it. And – but that's also
quite one good point. And it's quite – it's good news because it will feed the AFR and it's
the conﬁrmation that the AFR will grow more than the normal new business value
(02:53:49). But, of course, we would prefer to have AFR including boundaries but as you
know, we didn't achieve it. Who knows, in 2021 when we will revise Solvency II and the
directive, but it's long time.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Jon?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Starting with Asia
and the footprint. I know that you got four out of the six high potential units are Asia and
the only one diﬀerent engine is Hong Kong. And then there's two smaller entities,
including Singapore, Malaysia. I just wondered, given you've got two large regional
competitors on the Life side in Asia. I just wondered how you felt about the balance
between sort of country focus and getting deeper in individual countries and having its
the regional footprints, particularly with Singapore which is at – emerging as a wealth
management hub, being it's a smaller entity. Is that one of the smaller entities that we
might expect you to invest in and try and grow? So, it's a sort of broad question on the
Asia footprint.
Second question. Given what's happening with the U.S. IPO in AB. In time, will the
geographic footprint (02:55:07) mandate of AXA IM expand in any way? The second
question.
And then just ﬁnally, just in terms of getting rid of the two functional business lines, how
do you actually drive some of the things you've innovated at scale into the business unit?
So, you've got the transversal entities. Is everything which is innovative in the service line,
does that actually ﬁt into the transversal entities? Or how do you actually share the
successes from, say, France and get them embedded in other business units? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, let me try and give an answer to these three questions. On the ﬁrst one, in Asia, and
let's get the classiﬁcation right again. We've got on the current engine, Hong Kong and
Japan. We've got certainly on the higher potentials, and Jon, you are right. China,
Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia. And we've got three in the international, Singapore,
Malaysia and India. When you look in Hong Kong and Japan, we are very strong today. In
Japan, we are smaller. We are strong in our segments of Life and Health. So, there is
clearly a question of growing the footprint and focusing again ourselves on the health
business and on the commercial lines business in Hong Kong.
Page 31 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

On the second, which is the high potential, as I said earlier, we have today an excellent
footprint when it comes to bancassurance relationship, and it's very diﬀerent to
bancassurance agreements that other companies have. We, in fact, have joint ventures,
which means we are together for the long term. Based on those joint ventures, we have
always, in all countries, started an agency business, started a non-life business, and in
some countries also started direct business. Going back to what Gordon said earlier, this
makes us diﬀerent in terms of being the only composite insurer in that region, and you
see also a lot of cross-fertilization potential.
Our biggest challenge in those four countries is how do we grow the agency sales force
and how do we grow the activation of the agency sales force. Because on the joint
venture in China, if we take that as an example with ICBC, we are today very strong on the
bancassurance channel. But the agency sales force needs to grow more and the activation
needs to grow more, and that is true for most other countries. In Thailand, we are very
strong on the agency sales force, but certainly in Indonesia and in the Philippines, we
want to progress on this one, and that is the primary mandate of Gordon and his team, to
really get us growing on this one.
Second question was on...

A - Gérald Harlin
Mandate for AXA IM.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Yes. Sorry. The mandate for AXA IM. Sorry. True. So, I mean the U.S. IPO and – the U.S. and
AXA IM have actually very little relationships today. It's very much a relationship between
AB and U.S. And so that's what we also want to strengthen. AXA IM's mandate will not
change due to the IPO. AXA IM's mandate today is three-fold.
First one, we want to serve the AXA balance sheet. Serving the AXA balance sheet in
being – having an eﬃcient machine to deliver good solutions on the ﬁxed income side, to
be in some active equity areas, and to be very strong on the alternatives because we need
to generate yield. This mandate will not change. And also going forward in the strategy of
AXA IM, we want to considerably increase the development in the alternatives.
The second mandate that AXA IM has is how can we copy this model to smaller players in
the market who don't have the scale and the expertise to deliver those solutions? So,
smaller institutions.
And the third mandate AXA IM has, how do we market the alternative asset expertise in
particular to wholesale/retail, because there is today in the market the biggest shortage.
So, the mandate doesn't change and it's a very clear focus for AXA IM going forward,
certainly since we have declared it is a core business.
On the third topic, which is around the innovation. I fully agree that you could have the
impression that by not having the global business lines any more, we would lose
Page 32 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

momentum. And I would say to you, this is not true, because what did the global business
lines do? A) They were steering the businesses. I said to you earlier that we are not giving
up on this, on the country. In Gérald's team, there will be a new team that is called
performance management that will pick up the pieces of the global lines when it comes
to operational performance based on a very new database called Power BI, where we also
see the business in very diﬀerent cuts in one source of the tools.
The technical excellence piece, which is around the question what are the underwriting
standards, what is the right model. Gérald was elaborating beforehand on the Life model,
volume versus proﬁtability, pay back cash. This part will go to Alban (03:00:35) and will
be combined with the Chief Risk Oﬃcer.
And then you have the third part on innovation, which will go into the innovation
ecosystem. So if you take a parametric insurance, parametric insurance has been
developed within the global line P&C. This will move through the innovation ecosystem,
because we now know how it works, and we will accelerate the development and scale it
up. It is important that for the innovations in particular, you have a global balance sheet,
and the global balance sheet on the corporate side is now in AXA Corporate Solutions,
reporting directly to me, and the service hub is in AXA Assistance, which will be part of
the innovation ecosystem. So long answer to a simple question, we will not lose anything.
Let's move over to Andrew, I think it is. Andrew Crean. The tall British gentleman in the
back.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm Irish, actually.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

I'm sorry about it. From a French perspective, it's mostly the same though.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

I had three questions. Firstly, I think a year or so ago, when you were thinking about the
M&A, I think you were thinking about PEs roughly 15 times on your reinvestment. As we
moved forward and markets have changed and a good amount of your reinvestment you
want to do in innovation, could you talk about what the prospective PEs are likely to be on
what you want to reinvest in?
Secondly, when you talk about market conditions for the 3% to 7%, you observed that riskfree rates had improved a bit from the worst case scenario. But corporate bonds spreads
have narrowed further, and you do investment mainly in corporate bonds. So could you
say what your expectation a year and a half ago was for corporate bonds spreads within
the context of when you set up Ambition 2020?
And then thirdly, I think in the S-1, it says that the operating earnings for 2016 were $1.325
billion. And then you gave a ﬁgure of $1.315 billion, i.e. just $10 million less on a pro forma
Page 33 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

basis. I assume that pro forma is to allow for the $4.4 billion of debt and the $2.3 billion of
additional cash. Looks like a tiny adjustment for those two things. I wonder what you're
allowed to say anything on that? I perfectly understand if you can't.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So thanks, Andrew, for your three questions. I guess on the third one, we will have
diﬃculties to answer given what I said earlier. Let me take the ﬁrst question. Gérald will do
the second question.
I fully agree with you. The M&A markets is at the moment not an easy one. You see very
little movements. And what we have done ourselves, we, as I said earlier, want to focus
our M&A activities into those 10 plus six countries on the traditional insurance side and
then into the innovation ecosystem.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have analyzed all the potential interesting companies that we would go after and what
is important in those 10 plus six countries, certainly in the 10, we already have large
operations where we have a very high potential for synergies, so it will help us when it
comes to the valuation.
In the innovation ecosystem, you will ﬁnd very diﬀerent PE multiples depending on where
you look at. One thing you should be assured about is that we'll be very cautious about
the reinvestment and we will not overpay. And this should also give you comfort because
in the announcement of May 10, we have clearly said we want to reinvest the proceeds of
the IPO of the U.S. into our preferred segments, Health, Commercial and Protection, in the
preferred countries, 10 plus six, but not at any cost. If we don't ﬁnd the right targets at the
right price, we are extremely happy to do share buybacks on AXA because we do believe
this is an interesting alternative.
Gérald.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. On your second question, Andrew, about the market conditions of (03:05:27) loans, I
would say that over the last 16 or 18 months, the net is nevertheless positive, meaning that
– why? Because you are absolutely right that while interest rates were improving, we had a
decline in the spreads, which is quite sizable. But at the same time, and – we have been
investing and, again, thanks to AXA IM, we have been investing in high-quality illiquid
assets. We can aﬀord it.
We have more than €200 billion invested in high-liquid sovereign bonds. And we are
investing in CLOs; and by CLOs, I mean AAA, AA CLOs. We are investing in loans, in
commercial loans and so on, and in mortgage. So all these kind of investments, which
makes that. In the end, we can keep a level of – I would say I can expect this year to be at
around 2%, so it's not marvelous. But nevertheless, we didn't – we burnt out (03:06:33) so
much heat by this.

Page 34 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

I think at the same table. Again, I can't, unfortunately, see. Next to Rob.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

It's James Shuck from Citi.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Hi, James.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Hi. So my ﬁrst question was around the cost savings. So the €2.1 billion that you're
targeting, I think at the time you said that you were looking to invest €3 billion in order to
achieve the €2.1 billion. Can you give us an indication of how successful or how much
you've spent of that €3 billion? What kind of – what's your hit rate in terms of projects
you're investing in? How many are failing, how many have been successful? Any stories
behind that would be helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, it's another U.S. question, I'm afraid. The RBC ratio that you show is 500%. Do
we interpret that as a target level that you want to remain at? I'm particularly thinking
about things like potential DTA write-down through admitted assets, which could come
through, and if so, would you defend the 500% and also the NAIC proposals which are
still outstanding even looking beyond the recapture of the entity?
And then ﬁnally, third question. I just wanted to drill down a bit on the 2 points of growth
within the 8% target that you have, because what we heard a lot about today is new
structure, new plans, (03:07:59) partner, all of those sorts of things. It all sounds
incremental, but when I come back to the 2 points of growth, that's kind of unchanged.
Are you able to give any ﬂavor behind the earnings growth? So what are the moving parts
behind that? How much of drag are you seeing from the run-oﬀ of a traditional GA book?
What are the new areas of growth that are coming through? Are we kind of – are you
suggesting that as the model shifts, that that 2 points should be higher?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, James. Unfortunately, your question two is a no-go area for us. Let's focus on one
and three. I'll do one and Gérald will do three. On the investments, and absolutely true
what you said, we did announce those €3 billion investments, and those investments are
also necessary investments because when you think about the transformation, you are
talking about automation of the processes, you are talking about selectively replacing
systems, you're also talking about completely redesigning your IT, and you have seen that
we were one of the very few and ﬁrst ones to move to the cloud, and obviously you are
also talking about investing into this new area of services. We have a very tight process
when it comes to project management.
So, smaller projects will be done in the entity under the supervision of the local
management team. Larger projects will have an international process called AR Gate
Page 35 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

where we have a (03:09:35) AR Gate process where we look at the investment, look at the
investment case at each point of the project. So with this, most of the time, we arrive at
driving the projects in a productive and eﬃcient manner. But it is also clear, as it always
happens in life, that there are mistakes, that there are failures of project. The important
thing is to realize it's early on and to make a postmortem and share this to make sure that
others can learn from what they should not repeat again.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Got it.

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

As far as the GA books are concerned, I would say that we never said that we will put all
these GA books into run-oﬀ. And honestly, it would be a mistake. And one good example
is France. Look, in France, we are the best-in-class in term of percentage of Unit-Linked.
We should be at 45% where the rest of the market is at 30%. But at the same time, we
have net outﬂows in term of GA book of business, which means that we have the capacity
to give and to grown to our clients some GA products which are attractive and which
helps them to do more in term of Unit-Linked business.
And to broaden your question, I would say if you take the ﬁrst nine months of the year, we
have been – we posted AP at 1%, which is not satisfactory. At the same time, it means that
we had obviously some countries where we bundled there, so we are strong at 7%. Good
example of the success combining and not putting absolutely into run-oﬀ GA business,
but doing a lot of Unit-Linked, but also a lot of protection. We are extremely successful in
health, as you know, and other countries like – take as example of Italy. In Italy, (03:11:35)
we had more than slow start and just starting now, so it's recovering now.
So, we have good hope that in the end we'll have the capacity to recover. But at no time
we will put into run-oﬀ our GA business. It could be the case. Look, that's what we did
quite successfully in Belgium because we believe that it was the right choice and the right
decision in order to go out of this guaranteed rate. But in other country, it will help us in
improving our proﬁt. Just one ﬁgure, today, the GA business is 15% of our gross return
premium, which is quite small. But in some countries, it can help us to do more. Last but
not least, look at Asia. In Asia, (03:12:32) that we can achieve some more protection.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move in the middle there.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you very much. It's Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. If you can understand Andrew
Crean's very strong Irish accent, hopefully you can understand mine.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

We're getting used to the Scottish accent now (03:12:51).

Page 36 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

So, quite right. So, quite right too. I've been telling you for years, you didn't have enough
Scottish people in the business.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

First question is on the cash remittance to group, the €24 billion to €27 billion target.
Gérald, can you remind me how the U.S. was treated within that originally? Because the
U.S., I think, was just paying bad debt rather than a cash remittance as such. So, was the
U.S. included within that? And if not, then the U.S. will remit cash in future. So, how does
that aﬀect that target?

Bloomberg Transcript

And second question is really around capital allocation priorities and really just thinking
about there's a lot of statements from yourself in terms of, trust me we're not going to do
anything silly. There's a lot of liquidity to be invested, a lot of retained earnings to be
invested. So, Thomas, can you maybe share your thoughts around the hurdle rates for
M&A and the hurdle rates that your regional CEOs will have to impress you with,
particularly with regards to – or in comparison to buying your own shares back which must
give you a very high hurdle rate probably in the teens?
And the ﬁnal question is just on the capital range. I don't know, Gérald, can you maybe
share some of the science behind the 170 to 230 range? And why that signs would not
change post U.S.? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Blair. I suggest that, Gérald, you answer all three questions because on the M&A
and reinvestment, I've been very clear with Andrew on the high level, but I think on the
hurdle rates, maybe you, Gérald, you can go a bit more into detail.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. As far as – your ﬁrst question, Blair, was about the U.S. So, you remember that back
two years ago, I got the question, I said you can expect €12.6 billion, €12.8 billion. It was
true. Last year, it was more. Why? Because you remember that we sold two buildings and
it was €1.5 billion, something around this. And for the future, we'll see. But I could say that
taking into account the relative size of the U.S., it was relatively small. That's what I can say,
and then you judge – you make your own judgment.
About the capital allocation priorities, what's the hurdle rates for M&A? Hurdle rates for
M&A, it means that you create value. So, I won't give you exactly what I will use in term of
discount rate in order to make our own estimate, but if your question behind it is, today
with very high multiples from time to time, it doesn't make any sense? Yes, from time to
time, it doesn't make any sense, but we have been up to now extremely disciplined and
we'll stay disciplined.
Page 37 of 43



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

In other words it means that you should not miss also 1 point that – and look at what
Thomas said, he said, from now on we expect to invest in current engine and high
potential. In these countries, we have synergies. So, that means that starting from high
multiples, we could imagine to be at quite reasonable levels; I mean, levels that would be
accretive, so long as we would have signiﬁcant synergies, which is the case in these
countries, which is not the case with – in case we would like, which is not the case – but in
case we would like to expand our expand our footprint, not at all. So, that's what I can tell
you. But we are extremely vigilant on that site because prices are extremely high these
days and that's also the reason why we have been quite clear, saying for the reinvestment
of the IPO we might use that leaseback (03:17:04) share buyback.
About the capital range. What's the science behind it? I would say that there is not so
much science, but that it create – it could create some volatility, and we believe that we
want a certain stability in the way we manage, in the way we manage our capital.
Remember you – also that we have some ﬂexibility on the dividend. Normally, the
dividend should beneﬁt from an increase in the and/or adjusted earnings, underlying plus
capital gains. And second, we could expect that we were at 48%, whereas our payout
ratio is at between 45% and 55%. So, we have room for improvement on that side. So,
that's it, and beyond – if there would be any update, but in the foreseeable future we
don't have any intention to update it.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

One more question there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Thank you very much. It's Ralph Hebgen from KBW. Actually, before I say anything, can I
not comment on my accent, please?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

You have a beautiful German accent.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Beautiful. Thank you very much. Okay, that encourages me to actually ask my question
after all. Thomas, you were speaking earlier about the fact that you have been asking the
10 core markets to develop an equity story. And I'm just intrigued to hear this, and I would
like to have perhaps some additional color of what constitutes a good equity story. What
are the metrics you might be looking at? Is it potential growth, is it ROE? I don't know.
And, of course, there is an important second part to this question. What would constitute
the poor equity story and what would you do in such a case? Are there more IPOs
potentially on the cards?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, that's a very good question. So, to make a long question simple, a poor equity story
would be to change nothing. I consider a good equity story an equity story where you
Page 38 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

basically go through the same process that we have gone through as a group, that you
ask yourself how are you positioned in your market, where are you diﬀerent, and where
can you not make a diﬀerence, what does it mean for your portfolio of lines of business,
where are you strong, where are you weak, and are you taking the same logic of having
current engines, having potentials, but also having the international segment on a local
level where you have areas that you want to divest, where you have areas that you want to
run oﬀ?
And then, based on that decision, to really give us some good clarity on how can you
create a growth story based on this portfolio approach, and also what are the investments
required to fund the growth story in the traditional insurance space, but also in the
innovation space. Because again, remember what I said earlier, innovation is not
something equity on the site, it is something that we develop on the site, but the
addressable market is the 107 million customers that we have got. So, this will constitute a
good equity story. I know that it's very diﬃcult to get it right in the ﬁrst place, and Mark
Pearson has done the excess with us. It is also an exercise, I think, internally where you can
really make the internal people responsible and take them on a very exciting journey. And
I know it will take some time to develop it with a couple of iterations. Do I need to make
more IPOs? I hope not, and I'm not intending to.
Any more questions in the room? So, one here. I think it's Michael again.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

I was very excited this morning and last night. I thought the cost cuts would be extra. I
thought there would be extra growth. And what I hear is that the cost cuts of €0.3 billion is
part of the €2.1 billion. So, it's acceleration is nice, but it's not extra. And what I hear is
there's actually no extra growth, we're just sticking to the target. Am I right in thinking
that, yeah, it's great you – we have more certainty on your targets, but there's actually
nothing for us to get excited and to revise our numbers?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Look, this is the glass half-full, half-empty. I would give you the version of the glass halffull. We have started very concrete ambition, focus and transform last year. This is a longterm plan of ﬁve years. We wanted to use this event today to give you comfort that we are
well on the journey and that we are also accelerating. Remember, the title was simplify to
accelerate, so taking some eﬀects that we would have thought come a little bit later, come
a little bit earlier. Today, it's not after one and a half years the time to increase the targets.
Today, after one and a half years, is the clear message, we have thought about this well,
we have started well, we are now in the acceleration phase, and I hope it will not be the
last time until we see you till 2020. There'll be many more interactions until 2020, and due
to the fact that I come from a German culture with a very, let's say, prudent approach, I
would really like to keep it there to leave some room for later till 2020.
Farooq. And then after Farooq's question, if you'll get the mic. We should also have a look
if there's questions on the telephone. There are none? None. Okay. Fantastic. Good.
Farooq?

Page 39 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi there. Just going back to your ambitions in traditional insurance in your key market in
terms of M&A. I'm just thinking, health insurance is very concentrated, you're big in some
key markets but not in others. Commercial P&C, kind of everywhere-ish, and protection is
also – some of that's just growing in market. So, would it be right in thinking that there's
going to be a real focus here on health in terms going into new markets (03:24:05)
existing markets in terms of your M&A focus or you are just looking at everything?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

No. Look, I mean we are focused on 10 plus 6 countries. In those 10 plus 6, on health,
commercial and P&C and protection. And obviously when we are thinking about health in
a new market where we are not present yet, which is part of the 16, it is clear that we need
to either start something or buy something. But we can leverage certainly the big global
footprint that we've got. Because in 6 markets of the 16, we are very, very strong in health.
And yes, you might say, well, health system is very diﬀerent across countries, that's true,
and the private part is always the correspondent to the public part. But the law of the
health business when it comes to waste and abuse, when it comes to fraud, when it comes
to procurement, is always the same.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, yes, we will be looking at organic and at buying. And in some countries, the organic is
the only route because this segment doesn't really exist on a large scale. If you take, for
example, Italy and Spain; in Spain, you've got a very large self-pay market in health. It's
slowly developing, and there is very, very few payers. So, we have to look at it market-bymarket.
Any more questions from the room? Andrew. And Andrew, it's the last question because
I'm looking at the time and we also would like to have a nice lunch with you. Andrew.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Gérald, thank you very much for some of that detailed stuﬀ on inforce. And I was just
wondering, in the journey from €35 billion discounted inforce down to €13 billion, I think
you guided three things. One was the time value of options, one was contract bound
reason, the other part was risk margin, which I think was €7 billion. Can you divide the
other two?
And then the second question, we're all waiting for buybacks. How should we judge when
you are likely to initiate those other than the neutralization ones you've done so far?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald?

A - Gérald Harlin
Yeah. The time value of option I should check, but I told you that out of the €20 billion,
€22 billion, we had €7 billion of market value margin. I remind you that we have €10 billion
of market value margin, but the three others are in P&C. And the time value of option and
Page 40 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

guarantees eats a few billions, but I'll come back to you with a precise ﬁgure. You will get
it in the report. I don't have with me, but we can check it just after oﬄine.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

On the share buybacks?
So, on the – maybe I'll answer it. On the share buybacks, look – and on the question of
when are we making the decision. It's early days, but we are also in no rush. We are not
committing ourselves now to say, look, if we get amount X at day Y, we are going to
reinvest by a day Z. We are now going through the phase of the IPO, you've seen that this
is well on track.
At the same time, we are going through the phase of really understanding where do we
want to concentrate our M&A eﬀorts, what are the potential targets, we're in the process
of understanding net, and when we come to the conclusion of the two streams, how much
capital will we have, what are the opportunities at reasonable prices? We will then make a
decision, are we going to reinvest this in M&A or are we going to reinvest it in our own
stock?

A - Gérald Harlin
It's €7 billion of TVOG. Okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you very much for your question. And I would now like to come to the
conclusion. First of all, I would really like to thank you for coming here yesterday evening
and this morning as a dialog with you is always very important for us and certainly the
questions for me is extremely important and for the whole team, because it really helps us
thinking further and developing.
When you look at it, what have we touched this morning? We have touched three main
things. The ﬁrst one is, I fundamentally believe there is signiﬁcant growth potential in
insurance going forward. We are entering into a new golden age because we have many
new risks, we have many new situations that are uncovered and we can still make a big
diﬀerence in customer service, focusing on making the 20% of customers that we already
serve, serving them better and inventing a proposition of services for the 80% that we –
only received peace of mind from us today.
This is very much in line with the fact that service will be the big disrupter in the insurance
industry and we want to be at the forefront, this as the means to move from a payer to
partner in line with our ambition, what can we do, how can we empower our people to
live a better life. This is our obsession, and growth will be coming from there and growth
will be coming from the 107 million customers.
In order to do that, we are sticking to focus and transform. But in order to get focus and
transform implemented, we need to simplify AXA to accelerate. We have communicated
Page 41 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

FINAL

yesterday and illustrated today four key changes. The ﬁrst one is, we will focus on fewer
countries, 10 plus 6, and not 64 anymore, and we'll focus our transformation and M&A
eﬀorts on these countries.
Second thing, we will shift our portfolio away from ﬁnancial market dependency to core
insurance risk focusing on health, protection, commercial and P&C in those 10 to [sic] plus
six markets, which means we want to get closer to our end customer and really get into a
proper end customer relationship, and that will also mean by ﬁnding a better balance
between ﬁnancial and technical margin that we will decelerate the growth on the
segments that we don't consider as absolutely core and strategic.
Thirdly, we are signiﬁcantly simplifying the organization away from a three-layer concept
to a one-layer concept, closer to the entities, closer to the customer, with very much a
focus on operational management and local accountability.
And fourthly, scaling up the innovation. We have tested a lot. We know what works, what
doesn't work. It is now about scaling up buying and building, and leveraging the 107
million customers to really grow the fee income on our customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Given with these, we conﬁrm the strong progress on Ambition 2020 that we have shown
this morning. Again, I would like to remind you, the ambition has been set for ﬁve years.
We have set it last year. We have started very well. We are in the middle of the range, half
year this year, with 5% underlying earnings per share growth. We are sticking to our
strong operating cash ﬂow step, and you've seen today that there is lots of more fantasy
and potentially beyond 2020 on these cash ﬂows that is not recognized in Solvency II.
On the return on equity, we are even above the range of 12% to 14%, with 14.7%. Having a
very strong balance sheet, that is the absolute sacred cow for AXA. We conﬁrm those
targets. We wanted to also give you today a very clear indication, yes, we are one and a
half years into the ambition, we feel very conﬁdent, and we have made now the big
decisions to really accelerate on this transformation with a new leadership team. And I'm
extremely conﬁdent that we will deliver this ambition and that AXA can really make a
diﬀerence and be one of the most focused, simple and innovative insurers going forward.
Thank you very much for coming. And I would like now to enjoy the lunch with you and
continue the discussion that we have had during that session. Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
Page 42 of 43



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-11-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 43 of 43

