Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

Q3 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Helge Leiro Baastad, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Janne Merethe Flessum, Head of Investor Relations, M&A and Capital Management
Jostein Amdal, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Executive Vice President for Finance

Other Participants
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst
Wajahat Rizvi, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Gjensidige Q3 2017 Results Presentation. This conference
is being recorded.
At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Janne Flessum. Please go ahead,
ma'am.

Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Good morning, and welcome to this third quarter presentation for Gjensidige. My name is
Janne Flessum, and I'm Head of Investor Relations, M&A and Capital Management. As
always, our CEO, Helge Leiro Baastad, will start by taking you through the headlines from
the quarter before our CFO, Jostein Amdal, runs you through the numbers in more detail.
Please, Helge.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Janne. Good morning, and welcome from me as well. Once again, we deliver
a strong overall result. We are really delighted to announce our best-ever underwriting
result this quarter. We report improvements in all segments. And going forward, we will
continue to see gradual positive improvements and eﬀects of proﬁtability measures in the
Nordics and the Baltics. This is combined with continued strong position in Norway,

Page 1 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

supported by the best-ever reputation in the ﬁnancial industry, superior customer
experience, and unique customer dividend model.
The proﬁt before tax expense in the quarter amounted to NOK 1.7 billion; and the
underwriting result was NOK 1.2 billion, corresponding to a combined ratio of 81%.
Premium growth was strong at 6.2%; and the loss ratio was 66.3%, positively aﬀected by
run-oﬀ gains as expected and a lower level of large losses than normally expected.
However, the overall underlying frequency claims loss ratio was also very good.
Continued good cost control is reﬂected in a cost ratio of 14.7%. For better comparison
with our Nordic peers, the cost ratio was as low as 13.9%, if we exclude our Baltic
operation. The ﬁnancial result was NOK 477 million, corresponding to a satisfactory return
on ﬁnancial assets of 0.9%. The annualized return on equity was 22.4%. And Jostein will
come back with more details on the ﬁgures of the mix.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning then to page 3. In Norway, we continue to deliver very good proﬁtability and are
able to maintain a strong and leading position in a competitive marketplace despite
prioritizing proﬁtability ahead of market share. The Private segment's reported solid
premium growth of 4.3% and a very strong combined ratio of 71.1%. We are also very
satisﬁed with the development in the Commercial segment, which reported growth of
1.6% and an equally strong combined ratio of 73.1%.
As shown on the right, Gjensidige last week received the IPSOS 2017 reputation prize in
Norway. I am proud to say that we have, by far, the best reputation in the ﬁnancial industry
in Norway overall. And we achieved the best scores in all categories from social
responsibility, economy and proﬁtability, to marketing information, and environmental
focus. Irrespective of sector, we ranked number six up from eighth place last year.
Reported growth in the Nordic segment was 9.4% underlying 3.4%, driven by growth in
both Denmark and Sweden. Proﬁtability improved, and the combined ratio was 91.4%.
Proﬁtability in Denmark improved, and it is expected to continue to gradually improve
going forward, driven by the measures taken early this year and new measures to come.
Among other things, we have changed the terms related to price adjustments, limited the
use of discounts, started to convert existing customers to new product versions, made
adjustments to Private tariﬀs, and we have re-underwritten a large part of the Commercial
book. We will also soon introduce new and improved tariﬀs in the Commercial book.
In Sweden, we are on track to reach proﬁtability towards the end of the year as expected.
To mention a few examples of measures all undertaken or soon to come in the Swedish
market, we have increased and/or increasing premiums in the Commercial model
portfolio; we are introducing Gjensidige tariﬀs in the Vardia Private motor portfolio; and
we continue to re-underwritten the Commercial property portfolio. Eﬀects from these and
other measures will materialize going forward.
In addition, we are introducing a new customer scoring model, which will improve risk
selection and risk pricing in the Swedish portfolio as well as enabling us to manage our
sales force more eﬃciently. From the ﬁrst quarter 2018, we will begin to report Sweden as
Page 2 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

a separate segment. And from November 1, 2017, we will have a new Executive Vice
President dedicated to Sweden. Sigurd Austin, our Executive Vice President for Claims,
will also be Head our Swedish operation. This is part of a further strengthening of eﬀorts
both in Denmark and Sweden going forward.
The Baltics segment reports solid premium growth of 5% this quarter. And I'm happy to
see that we have turned the corner and can report a positive underwriting result in third
quarter. In other words, we are on track to achieving proﬁtability in the Baltics as well.
From the group overall, we continue to focus on proﬁtability before growth and on
balancing cost eﬃciency measures with strategic investments within our ﬁnancial targets
to ensure continued competitiveness going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to page 4. I would like to elaborate a bit on the Commercial segment
performance this time, as we see signs of improvement in this market. We are the market
leader in Norway for commercial and agricultural lines of business with an annual
premium volume of NOK 7.3 billion. Our market share for Commercial business is around
28%. As for the Private segment, we are able to combine record-high customer
satisfaction with good proﬁtability. This quarter, we delivered a combined ratio of 73.1%.
Over the past few years, the top line growth has been subdued due to the
macroeconomic downturn after the fall in the oil prices. However, proﬁtability has been
strong and improving, proving resilience to macro developments. Competition is still
ﬁerce, but our customer franchise is strong, and the recovery in the Norwegian economy
is expected to give support to the top line. We and competitors operate with general
price increases in the SME segment, which should support continued good proﬁtability
going forward.
We have a very cost-eﬃcient business and distribution model. A large part of our
customer base is SMEs, meaning we can use eﬃcient multichannel distribution model,
similar to what we do in the private market. As much as 80% of our distribution is direct
and only 20% is brokered. And customer retention is strong, with the retention rates of
87% among our SME customers. This gives support to the low cost ratio, which was 10.9%
this quarter.
We deliver a strong value proposal to our Commercial clients based on key competitive
strength. We oﬀer scale and breadth to meet the varying needs of a diverse business
community from farmers, to ﬁsh farmers, to big corporations. We have a strong and highly
experienced underwriting team, as well as risk engineers working with experienced sales
force. And we have a leading accident and health franchise, not just the traditional market
leader for workers' compensation, but also group life and a growing franchise in health
and pension plans.
We are also moving towards signiﬁcant enhanced analytical capabilities to support sales
and activities and targeted renewal processes. CRM activities is established as a tool
across all channels. One example of the eﬀects from our CRM eﬀorts is that we are now
able to utilize 90% of the leads against previously only 14%.

Page 3 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

So what are our key priorities going forward? Firstly, developing people and skills is a
prerequisite to maintain competitiveness going forward. Secondly, we are developing our
digital platform integral to multichannel distribution. And ﬁnally, we are continuously
working with product developments and solutions.
So, to sum up, we are well-positioned for further solid development also in Commercial in
Norway. I'm reminding of you of our unique customer dividend model supporting
retention, not only with Private customers but also with our Commercial customers and
partners.
And with that, I give the word to Jostein for more granular information about the
numbers.

Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Thank you, Helge; and good morning, everybody.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will start on page 6. We deliver a strong result this quarter, driven by good premium
growth, a strong underlying frequency claims-loss ratio, and no large losses. We report
our best-ever underwriting result of NOK 1.15 billion, an increase of NOK 318 million from
the same quarter last year when adjusted for the one-oﬀs in Q3 2016.
The Retail Bank show a continued good development. Together with the Pension
company, they contribute a signiﬁcant NOK 162 million in the quarter. And the investment
portfolio contributed NOK 477 million compared to NOK 700 million in the third quarter
last year. The proﬁt before tax thereby amounted to NOK 1.7 billion, up from NOK 1.5
billion. And for the year-to-date, the proﬁt before tax was NOK 4.6 billion, up from NOK
4.5 billion when adjusted for run-oﬀs last year.
Looking more closely at the development of the underwriting result from the same
quarter last year on page 7, the right-hand chart shows that all segments contributed to
the positive development in the underwriting result. From the left-hand chart, you can see
that the improvement was driven by an improved underlying frequency claims ratio, in
addition to a lower level of large losses. The run-oﬀ in Q3 2016 was operation for
restructuring cost, which was recognized in the corporate center.
Turning to page 8. We report solid premium growth of 6.2% in the quarter. The
underlying growth when adjusting for currency, acquisitions, and the expiry of the
reinsurance program related to the Vardia portfolio was 2.9%. Helge has already
commented on the growth in the diﬀerent segments, which all contributed to the positive
development.
Moving to page 9. The loss ratio was low at 66.3%, 3.9 percentage points lower than the
corresponding quarter last year, mainly driven by lower large losses this quarter. The
underlying frequency claims ratio improved in Private Norway, mainly driven by improved
proﬁtability for property, leisure, and accident and health insurance. As expected, motor
showed a slight increase in loss ratio this quarter compared to last year. Based on
Page 4 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

observed developments in the market, we had further adjusted our motor claims inﬂation
expectation up to 4% to 5%.
In Commercial Norway, the underlying frequency claims level was marginally higher
driven by accident and health insurance and motor insurance. In the Nordic segment, the
underlying loss ratio developed positively and as Helge mentioned, we received further
eﬀects of the measure taken to improve proﬁtability going forward. The segment reported
a lower loss ratio, mainly driven by more favorable underlying frequency claims
development in Private portfolio in Denmark in combination with higher run-oﬀ gains and
lower large losses. The recently acquired Mølholm also contributed positively.
Sweden is still on track to reach breakeven in Q4 this year and be proﬁtable from 2018.
The Baltics reported a lower loss ratio, reﬂects an underlying improvement in the
frequency claims level. The segment reported a positive underwriting result this quarter,
hence, the segment is on track to deliver proﬁtability according to plan. And we are
positive about the prospects for 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

On page 10, you can see large losses amounted to NOK 71 million, which corresponded
to 1.2 percentage points on the combined ratio. The level was lower than – both than
normally expected and lower than the corresponding quarter in 2016. There were no
weather-related losses or events in the quarter.
Page 11 shows run-oﬀ gains of NOK 244 million in the quarter, resulting in a positive eﬀect
of 4.0 percentage points on the combined ratio. This is around the same level as in the
third quarter of last year and close to the communicated level. The lines driving this are as
before, multi-person injury (00:15:17) and workers' comp in Norway, but there was also
contribution from workers' comp in Denmark.
Looking at page 12, the cost ratio was 14.7%, reﬂecting continued good cost control. The
cost ratio, excluding the Baltics, was 13.9% in the quarter, and as Helge mentioned earlier,
at a very competitive level compared to our closest peers. The nominal decrease in costs
was due to the one-oﬀ last year, but then have to see the gradual reduction in costs in the
Baltic, following restructuring and cost-saving initiatives. We expect further improvements
in the Baltics going forward.
Turning to page 13, the investment portfolio of NOK 53.5 billion yielded a satisfactory
return of 0.9% in the quarter. The match portfolio continues to make a stable contribution
to the ﬁnancial result with a return of 0.6%, which is slightly below the previous quarter.
The portfolio amounted to NOK 34.6 billion. A large part of the match portfolio consists of
bonds amortized costs, which yielded a return of 1%. The running yield in this portfolio
was 4.1% at the end of the quarter; and the average reinvestment rate so far this year has
been 2.7%. Unrealized excess value amounted to approximately NOK 1.3 billion. The free
portfolio which amounts to NOK 19 billion yielded a return of 1.4% in the quarter. The
positive return was primarily driven by returns on the investments in equities, properties,
and high-yield bonds. This was partly oﬀset by negative returns from tactical allocations.

Page 5 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

Page 14 shows some highlights from Bank and Pension operations, which continue to
serve their purpose as important retention tools in relation to Norwegian general
insurance customers. Gross lending in the Bank increased by 14.1% to NOK 45.5 billion
compared to Q3 2016. For the quarter, in its isolation, the increase was 2.9% or NOK 1.3
billion. Measured by lending, more than 77% of the Bank customers are also customers
with the general insurance operations. The Bank reported a pre-tax proﬁt of NOK 140
million in the third quarter; and the year-to-date annualized return in equity was 11.5%.
The Pension company recorded a proﬁt-before-tax expense of NOK 22 million. Assets
under management amounted to NOK 27.3 billion, reﬂecting growth of NOK 1.1 billion in
the third quarter. And the year-to-date annualized return on equity was 11.1%. The share of
shared Commercial customers with the general insurance operation is close to 78%.
Last but not least, looking at our capital position on page 15, the rating model is still the
most binding perspective. Excess capital over and above the capital required to maintain
the current A rating was NOK 1.4 billion at the end of the quarter, unchanged from last
quarter. Eligible capital increases mainly as a result of retained earning and the capital
requirement also increases, mainly due to somewhat higher exposure to equities.

Bloomberg Transcript

The capital requirement increases more in the internal model and standard formula
perspectives due to growth in the bank. The rating perspective shows a comfortable
margin of 110%. The solvency margin was 145% based on the standard formula and 173%
based on the internal model. For better comparison versus our Nordic peers, the solvency
margin was 199% for the general insurance operation based on the internal model. All
perspectives are adjusted for a formulaic dividend payout ratio of 70%.
Based on a revision of the group's principal for capital management, the board has
adopted updated requirements for group Solvency II ratios shown on the right-hand side
of the slide. Solvency margin levels are expected to be around the upper end of the
margin ratios in order to support an A rating from Standard & Poor's or similar, ensure
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility for small acquisitions, and organic growth not ﬁnanced through
retained earnings, as well as providing a buﬀer against regulatory uncertainties.
To sum up, we have a solid capital position in all perspectives. We will continue to balance
our capital structure in a disciplined way to support the target return on equity while at
the same time, allowing us some leeway for further bolt-on acquisitions and stabilization
of dividend.
And with that, I give the word back to Helge for some concluding remarks.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Jostein. To sum up, this quarter, we have delivered strong overall result and
our best-ever underwriting result. We continue to experience good competitiveness, and
we continue to prioritize proﬁtability before growth. Going forward, we will gradually see
eﬀects materializing from measures to improve proﬁtability outside Norway, and we are
on track with these measures. We continue to balance cost eﬃciency measures with
Page 6 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

investments in technology, the brand and skills. And last but not least, we have a strong
capital position. And we are committed to our ﬁnancial targets, including our dividend
policy going forward.

FINAL

So, then, thank you. We will now open for the Q&A session.

Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Operator, we are ready for questions, please.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our ﬁrst question comes from the line of Jonny Urwin from UBS. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi there. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two from me. Firstly, can
you just give us a quick update on the pricing sort of outlook versus claims inﬂation? Did I
hear you revise upwards some claims inﬂation expectations there just in your comments? I
didn't quite catch that, but any color there would be great. Secondly, on Solvency II ratio,
so there are some small changes in the target corridors. I was just wondering why really
this, but capital's clearly at the upper end of the ranges. But I'd just be interested to hear
your logic for those changes at the lower end of the balance. Thank you.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

(00:22:13) Jostein will take you through the logic related to the models. But you started to
ask about claims inﬂation. I guess, it's related to motor insurance. We have revised the
expected claims inﬂation for motor near term. And that mean next 12 to 24 month to 4%
to 5%, up from 3% to 4%, previously.
And there are several drivers behind this picture. But the main driver behind higher
claims costs is due to increased prices, driven by higher input prices and more complex
repairs. Part of the inﬂation is due to higher average claims and frequency in electrical and
hybrid cars, as we have discussed before. So, hence, these are market issues, which we
are taking into account when pricing.
And you also asked about prices. Just to remind you about what we have done, we
started price increases in the second half of 2016 and with more strength going into 2017.
And the increase have, on average, been somewhat below expected market inﬂation due
to our analytical, dynamic, and segmented approach to the market pricing. This is
extremely important segment for us, so we need to continuously monitor market
dynamics, especially since the proﬁtability is so good in this segment. But over time, as
we have commented several times before, price increases will have to mitigate expected
claims inﬂation.
Page 7 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

Just to give you a short comment also on the churn, we have not experienced any
signiﬁcant increase in churn. So, the premium volume is stable and competition is ﬁerce.
So that's the updated, I would say, comment on the motor market in Norway. Yeah.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

FINAL

Maybe I should just ask you...

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thanks for that. That's great. Just to quickly follow-up on the claims inﬂation point. I mean,
I guess, we would expect the pricing to sort of converge with claims inﬂation over time as
you matched it out and the sort of underlying loss ratio should stabilize as a result. Does
the outlook now change at all? Should we expect any further underlying loss ratio
deterioration, just as you've repriced to catch up with high level of claims inﬂation? Does
it lead to a further sort of lag in the underlying, if you see what I mean?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

I mean, as we talked about the last few quarters, as the premium increases need to work
through and policies renew and then need to be earned in the accounts, there will be a
time lag (00:25:27) price increases in eﬀect and before you get the stabilization of the loss
ratio. That takes, say, from 12 to 24 months to reach the stable level.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Got it. Thank you.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

And Jonny, on the Solvency II ratio targets, it's a couple of years now since we put forward
the previous targets. And we have had this process with an update of our capital
management strategy recently. And just based on calibrations of the assumptions and our
models, we have concluded just to raise marginally up the lower level of the buﬀer or the
margin. So, ﬁve percentage points revision upwards in the ratios.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We'll now move on to our next questions from the line of Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca.
The line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Thank you very much. Can I follow up on two things, please? One is
the frequency comment on – or rather, the claims inﬂation comment. Other than
(00:26:47) seems to be quite – I mean quite a bit of a turnaround this quarter. Could you
comment on that, because in the previous quarter, we've heard negative issues on
Page 8 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

Commercial health, Commercial property, Baltics. So, have those gone away, and that is
part of the message today, just to clarify, please?
And second thing is just on the model approval. Is it a correct understanding that the only
thing – or rather, a main concern holding that approval back is the guarantees provision,
which actually is only 3 points, roughly speaking, on the Solvency II. So, is that the only
thing that is holding back, or could you just provide an update there? Is there any other
issue? Thank you.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

I could start to comment to claims inﬂation more in all the segments. As I said, Private
motor in Norway is slightly further up from 3% to 4%, to 4% to 5%. Private property is – as
we have commented before, we expect around 4% going forward. But this is, as you
know, volatile due to the seasonality eﬀects in our marketplace.
When it comes to Commercial, accident and health, good claims development for some
time now, continuing. We haven't seen an impact from the downturn, as I commented
before. Commercial property, that's more in line with this index in the market. And the
index for 2017 has been 4.2%. When we moved then to Denmark, we have seen increased
claims inﬂation over time, especially in property and travel. And the picture is more or less
the same as we commented last quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. On the second part of the question regarding – I think, anyway, you asked about
two things in one. One is the partial internal model approval, if I understood you
correctly; and the second is the uncertainty of the capital regulation, if I got you correctly,
Vinit?

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. And then on the ﬁrst part, the communication in a way is still in a way the same as it
has been the last couple of quarters. We have an application with the FSA and still have
some ongoing dialogue, but the ball is really in their court. And we still hope for an
approval this year, but it's a bit out of our control. So, none use on that front.
Then certainly, your point two is the eﬀect of the guarantee provision, which is kind of a
point where we think that the current interpretation on FSA is too conservative. And if our
interpretation is (00:29:43), our solvency margins will be 3 percentage points higher, but
what we report to you is the more conservative version. Just to be clear on that.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Page 9 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

And also just, Vinit, to add, you shouldn't kind of combine and mix the guarantee
provision approval – or not, with the partial internal model approval. So, these are two
separate issues.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

FINAL

All right. Thank you very much.

Operator
We'll now move on to our next question from the line of Paul De'Ath with RBC. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yeah. Hi. A couple of questions, please. Firstly, just looking at the Commercial business,
we see highlights with how well that's going. I just wanted to check in terms of the very
large Commercial business that you write. One of your peers talked about markets
speciﬁcally needing to see some large price increases, because the current year isn't
particularly proﬁtable. Is that something you're also seeing? And are you bringing up
prices there?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then second point is just on Sweden. Obviously, you're more focused on Sweden.
You're going to start reporting it separately for next year. And I guess, the question is
really are you big enough in Sweden, or do you think that there's more in terms of bolt-on
fee can do in that market to increase your market share? Thanks.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yeah. Back to the Commercial business. As I commented, we have a very strong position
in Norway, clear market leader, 28%. As you have seen our proﬁtability over time now, so
we have a very strong proﬁtability. And I will not comment especially on the competition,
but when we see claims inﬂation, also in this market, we have to over time secure that the
price increases are in line with claims inﬂation.
And I commented that we have seen that competitors operate with general price
increases in the SME segment. We will price in line with claims inﬂation. And, of course,
we have to take – the starting point needs of a (00:32:22) strong proﬁtability. So, we have
a very strong and unique position. And I commented ﬁnally that, of course, this customer
dividend model also is contributing enormously in the Commercial segment also. So yes,
continuously, price increase is in line with claims inﬂation. That's the name of the game
also for us.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Paul, in terms of the second question about Sweden, I think what we're saying now is that
we reiterate that we will be proﬁtable, reach breakeven in the fourth quarter and be
proﬁtable from 2018. That is – would become the current setup. We do not believe long
term that the current position is big enough that we can ever reach proﬁtable level with

Page 10 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

the setup we have. But there are no kind of – no signals about the new bolt-on
acquisitions. We will turn around the position we have, which is now approximately NOK
8.7 billion, NOK 8.8 billion in premium and deliver that into a proﬁtable business. And the
increased focus we'll have with a new separate EVP on Sweden. And with the (00:33:35)
we give you on Sweden going forward, you will see at the end, that hopefully feeds
through the numbers for 2018.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Okay. Thanks.

Operator
Our next question is from the line of Wajahat Rizvi with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Wajahat Rizvi

{BIO 19928187 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, and hi, everyone. Just two quick questions for me. First one, are you able to
quantify the impact of lower weather losses in your underlying claims situation, like in
medium and smaller claims, how much beneﬁted have you got there? And the second
question would be on the Nordic segment. So, the turnaround there seems to be quite
sharp, so the underwriting measure impacting measure won't come through that quickly.
Is there anything big happening on the claims side, which you can please allude to?
Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

On the ﬁrst part, I think we haven't provided the numbers. I think we probably might be
able to do it if we wanted to. But we kind of combined the large claims with weatherrelated events in kind of in one number. And I don't think we have any plans of doing it
more granular than that going forward either, so sorry.
In terms of the turnaround in Denmark and Sweden, which is your second question,
there's a number of measures, and I think Helge went through some of them. We're
talking about reunderwriting of the Commercial book, where we raised prices sharply on
the least proﬁtable customers, which made some of them leave. We focus (00:35:15) on
the proﬁtability, so that the ﬁrst and foremost eﬀect are non-proﬁtable customers leaving.
And then, we get to kind of the customers we want to stay onto higher prices.
And this should also keep very strict cost controls, reduce the possibility for the sales
force to use discounts, and so on. So, what we're seeing now is the eﬀect of measures
taken, say, in the second half of 2016, early 2017. And then, we go into 2018, the eﬀects
that we know working into the portfolio will be seen. So, it always have a lag eﬀect. So
what we see now are measures taken, say, half a year to a year ago, and then current
measures we'll feature for 2018.

Q - Wajahat Rizvi

{BIO 19928187 <GO>}

Page 11 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

All right. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

We have one more question remaining in the queue from the line of Steven Haywood
with HSBC. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Just two questions, I think. The $0.04 to $0.05 motor claims
inﬂation up to this quarter, I wonder if you can sort of explain to me how many months
behind are you in your sort of pricing? So, if you see claims inﬂation next quarter at a
higher rate, how many months does it really take for you to put through or to sort of up
your inﬂation guidance? Not for how many months it takes for the pricing to come
through in 12 to 24 months, but how long it takes for you to recognize inﬂation is higher,
therefore, we need to take it to us, really?
And then on the S&P A rating, you still have $1.4 billion of excess capital. I just want to
understand, the capital requirement here, does this include your forthcoming dividend
expectations for the full year, say, for example, does it include your expected 2017
dividend roll-up in this capital requirement of the S&P model? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Okay. I'll answer the ﬁrst part of your question. I think it is a bit hard to be precise on your
questions, Steven, because we, of course, measure claims development on a continuous
basis. And then, you need to kind of have some security that what you see is a change in
trend and not just pure volatility around that trend. That's much of an expert judgment.
So, it's not that we have a set number of months that we need to see the change and then
we communicate. I can't be precise there. We have a fairly quick reaction time from kind
of when we decide that this is the new number when we actually implement into a new
pricing. That's not a very long time, but it's kind of – to be honest, this is the new number.
It is not something I can give a very precise number, I'm sorry.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Just to add, and that's more to the motor situation in Norway. We monitor the
development closely. And with all statistics pointing at the same direction, and you can
read that from the FNH statistic in Norway, we expect competitors to follow with price
increases also sooner or later, because this is a market claims inﬂation.
And I also commented that electrical car and hybrid cars is part of this picture. And when
it comes to electrical and hybrid vehicles, you have to bear in mind that Gjensidige was
not competitive in pricing Teslas and similar cars when they ﬁrst entered the Norwegian
market. And our market share in that segment is also lower compared to our overall
market share in the market. So, it's a very fragmented picture. And overall claims inﬂation,
we are talking about, that's the market claims inﬂation.

Page 12 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2017-10-26

FINAL

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

For your question on the capital side and the S&P buﬀer, remember that we adjust both
this S&P buﬀer and the Solvency II ratios with a formulaic dividend of 70%, which is kind of
the minimum that we say we should pay out according to our dividend policy. But what is
even more important is the starting point which was NOK 6.80 for 2016. And we say we
will deliver high and stable dividends and also growing if our earnings are growing. And
in addition to that, of course, if we build excess capital, we also state that we will pay out
excess capital over time, as you've seen we've done before.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much for your help.

Operator
It appears there are no further questions at this time. I'll now hand the call over back to
speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Janne Merethe Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, everybody, for participating. I just wanted to remind you of the road
shows this quarter, which goes to London, Copenhagen, Helsinki, and Frankfurt. And we
hope to see you. Thank you. Bye.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
This concludes today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation. You may
now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

