Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Q3 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Roland Vogel, CFO and Member of the Executive Board
Ulrich Wallin, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO

Other Participants
Andrew James Ritchie , Partner, Insurance
Frank Kopfinger, Research Analyst
Guilhem Horvath, Research Analyst
James R Oram, Senior Associate
Jochen Schmitt, Research Analyst
Jonathan Peter Phillip Urwin, Director and Equity Research Insurance Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Hermann Haid, Analyst
Roland PfÃ¤nder, Research Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Co
Vinit Malhotra, Banca di credito finanziario S.p.A., Research Division

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins , MD, Head of European Insurance Research and Senior Analyst

Presentation
Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to our conference call
presenting the results for the first nine months of 2017. As always, I'm joined by our CFO,
Roland Vogel.
After years of moderate losses, we saw an accumulation of severe natural catastrophes in
the Third Quarter, particularly in the U.S., Mexico and the Caribbean. Protecting against the
consequences of such events is the central goal of reinsurance. For us as a reinsurer, our
top priority is the efficiently settling of the incurred claims and the support of our clients.
This way, reinsurance can also play a part in alleviating the humanitarian and economic
impacts of natural disasters such as the ones of the Third Quarter of this year.
The national catastrophe losses in the Third Quarter resulted in a large loss burden for
Hannover Re of EUR 766 million. Within this number, Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria,
together with the 2 Mexican quakes, amount to EUR 222 million of net losses. The largest
of these losses is Hurricane Irma with EUR 330 million, followed by Hurricane Maria, it's

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

EUR 221 million; and Hurricane Harvey was EUR 100 million, all numbers are net of
retrocession and before taxes.
Based on the currently industry loss figures reported by various sources as well as the
figures published by the reinsurance industry, it would -- this would give us a market share
in the losses falling on the reinsurance market of around 1.5% to 2.5%. Whilst these figures
are subject to significant uncertainties and recognizing that the reported losses from the
industry fall short of the industry losses estimated by the various cat modeling firms, this
nevertheless would suggest that Hannover Re's market share in the losses is well below
its market share in the reinsurance business overall, which is around 5%. This confirms our
strategy we followed in recent years to have lower market share in the natural
catastrophe exposed business as compared to the overall reinsurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Despite the losses in the Third Quarter, we managed not to fall to a bottom line loss in
that quarter. But maintained a small net profit of EUR 40 million. This, comparatively,
positive result was achieved on the back of a very positive investment income, which,
beside an increase in the ordinary investment income of more than 10%, was aided by the
sale of our quoted expertise, which boosted the realized gains by EUR 226 million. So
sales was not only motivated to absorb part of the negative effects of the natural
catastrophe losses. But also to free up capital, which can be utilized in taking increased
underwriting risks based on the expected improvements and the conditions of the
property casualty reinsurance market.
On the Life & Health business, we saw a drop of the EBIT in the net income, which was
largely due to a one-off impact from our in-force management of our legacy U.S. mortality
business as a result of the recapture of some loss-making treaties. This one-off effect
amounted to EUR 45 million. Otherwise, the very positive development of our financial
solutions business as well as our business outside North America could not fully
compensate for the continuously higher-than-expected claims from our U.S. legacy
mortality business.
On this note, I would like to hand over to Roland, our CFO, who will explain the figures in
more details.

Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Thank you, Uli. After various quarters, which were rather in line also,
we have to report some extraordinary items for the Third Quarter 2017. Still, I will try to
keep my comments as brief as possible and usual because I'm sure you have a wide
variety of questions.
The top line development for the first nine months of 2017 continues to be favorable and
the bulk of our expectations from the beginning of the year. But very much in line with the
first half year numbers. You will see later that this is entirely driven by our P&C business
group whereas our Life & Health business showed a small declining gross premium.

Page 2 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Net premiums increased by 8.4% adjusted for currency effects with a difference
compared to the gross premium development driven by additions to unearned premiums
as the retention remaining fairly stable. Apart from the stable, net retention on the group
level here, it might be worth mentioning that the stand-alone quarter, as Uli already on
mentioned, ended with a small profit and the tax rate is down by quite some margin.
Here, although the profit contribution from lower tax jurisdictions went down, this was
overcompensated by the fact that the realized gains from the equity portfolio are only
taxed at very reduced rates.
Moreover, in Essen, Germany showed a very strong result, which has increased the
minority deductions as compared to the previous year.
On the next slide, the operating cash flow continues to be very positive, also slightly
below last year's average. One should have in mind that the strong increase in our
structured reinsurance business is not very cash flow accretive in contrast, for example, to
nonproportional contracts. Nevertheless, assets under own management decreased to
roughly EUR 40 billion, significantly driven by negative FX or currency effects of around
EUR 2.5 billion due to the strengthening of the euro against most of the relevant
currencies.

Bloomberg Transcript

On top of this development, we paid out last year's dividend, which, overall, was only
partially compensated by the positive operating cash flow of a good EUR 1.5 billion.
In order to understand the development of the IFRS capital position, one should start
reading the next slide on the right-hand side. Shareholders' equity decreased by 8.9%,
driven mainly by factors that we have already mentioned. There was a payment of a
record dividend, including the special dividend that amounted to EUR 603 million.
Additionally, the exchange rate movements as part of the OCI had a negative impact of
EUR 650 million. This especially reflects the currency translation of the capital position of
our subsidiaries. Moreover, the sale of the equities resulted in the realization of some
valuation reserve, which was only partly mitigated by an increase of other asset classes.
Taking all these developments into account, I would circle our capital position is strong.
And you probably are aware that the rating agencies take the same view. S&P just
renewed our rating of AA; and a stable outlook here during Q3. Furthermore, in October,
A.M. Best placed our rating under review with positive implications following the release of
the updated rating methodology.
On the next slide, the P&C gross premium increased by a remarkable 16.1% on an FX
adjusted basis. This is mainly based on the successful new business written by our
structured reinsurance team. Additionally, as a result of our strong position in the industry,
we could grow some selective markets like for instance, U.S. property, China and Australia.
But also the first time consolidation of our Argenta acquisition has contributed for the first
time. Although here in the P&C, the difference between the gross and the net
development was caused by movements of the unearned premium reserve.

Page 3 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

At 30.8% of net premium, major losses were about 4 combined ratio points above the
budget for the first 3 quarters, mainly owing to Harvey, Irma and Maria and the 2
earthquakes in Mexico. The combined ratio of 104.4% is, therefore, of course, clearly
above the full year target compared to last year with more than 1% of the increase. And
combined ratio stems from the Advanced Solutions segment, which we, on the one hand,
write with higher than 96% combined ratios plus some of the contracts were affected by
hurricanes as well. Major parts of these losses will be compensated in the future based on
the conditions of such longer-term agreements. But you should also bear in mind that the
opt in reserving remained unchanged since the end of the Second Quarter. Please
remember here, we had EUR 291 million additional reserves compensated by IBNR
releases. We will reflect the potential positive changes envisaged from another change in
the legal framework whenever we have more certainty about it.
Apart from such considerations, runoff profits have not been extraordinary. And we
expect the level of redundancies to be at the Q2 level. The ordinary investment income
was slightly ahead of expectations, mainly driven by a strong contribution from private
equity and real estate. And on top of that, of course, the disposal of the listed equities
boosted the good investment result even further in this segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

We achieved EBIT margin of 8.9% as a little bit below our target. But given the frequency
of the natural catastrophe losses, the number is a good one especially as compared with
the industry.
Major losses may reach historic highs here in the next slide like the ones we saw in 2005
and 2011. Although 2011 and 2017 on this slide seem to have a very similar gross and net
impact for us, one needs to bear in mind that 2017 also reflects more than EUR 350
million losses from our ILS segment and the collateralized reinsurance, which go in and
out. And if we adjust for that, that means that, on the one hand, our retro cover were a
little bit less effective as compared to 2011 as we had more losses from proportional
treaties, which were not protected by the K-Cession. And on the Irma reached into the
nonproportional whole account protection, on the other hand, it also means that the vast
majority of our retro cover is still available and we could also already offer new coverage
for clients who needed it for the rest of the year. One thing should -- we should really not
forget is the remarkable level of uncertainty about all such rather new estimates.
The large loss here is an interesting one this quarter. As I said, the numbers look very
precise. But they are all early estimates. Maria, for instance, occurred just about 3 weeks
before we had to close our books for the Third Quarter. And that demonstrates the
uncertainty. If you count the 3 major hurricanes together, we are estimating our loss
currently at EUR 650 million. If you add the 2 earthquakes to the numbers, this would be in
the region of EUR 720 million. Including the ILS contracts, we overall had a 50% or 45%
relief from our retrocessions.
The next slide looks completely different if you -- we compare that with the Q2
conference call as the natural catastrophe losses have impacted various markets. Overall,
the total combined ratio came in clearly above the MtCR. Just as a reminder, the
combined ratio for the U.K., London market in direct business line stands out and that is,

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

to some extent or to a large extent, the result of the reserves strengthening for the
change in the Ogden tables over the course of the first half year.
In Life & Health, gross written premium increased slightly by 0.7% on an FX adjusted basis.
That is in the ballpark of our expectations for the full year as well. We have seen growth in
a number of regions as it's China, Australia and the U.S. This was, however, offset by
reduced premium income due to the discontinuation of larger volume contracts in our U.K.
annuity segment.
As reported in previous quarters, the result of our legacy U.S. mortality business had not
lived up to our expectations. This was the case for the reported results on an ongoing
basis. But also in addition, as Uli mentioned already, the preannounced recapture of our
mortality treaty materialized as expected and led to an average result of minus EUR 45
million. From an economic point of view, the recapture was still very beneficial as it will
improve the future results by quite some margin.
In contrast to the mortality, the profitability of our financial solutions business continued to
be excellent. These developments are also reflected in their respective EBIT margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

Income from funds withheld declined by EUR 64 million due to the discontinuation of 2
large financing treaties. As indicated on previous occasions, the profit from the deposit
accounted business, mainly the U.S. financial solution, has grown remarkably. It reached a
level of EUR 139 million, which is reflected in the other income and expenses lines.
Currency effects, on the other hand, had a slightly negative impact.
Looking at the investments, the development in the first 3 quarters 2017 was very
pleasing. The ordinary return of 3.1% is well above the expectation for the full year. And in
light of the strong contribution from private equity and real estate, the ordinary result
increased by an impressive 11.5%. The income from private equity did, however, include
some extraordinary elements, which we cannot expect to reoccur in the Fourth Quarter.
Uli had already indicated the background of our decision to sell our portfolio of listed
equities short after Maria had hit Puerto Rico and a major loss for the industry was
foreseeable. We had realized a bit more than EUR 220 million in gains. According to IFRS,
such profits are really ROE accretive as they increase the profits and they decrease the
IFRS capital as the variation reserves go down. On the Solvency II, the decrease in capital
is not reflected in the owned funds. But the decrease of the high capital requirements for
the equity is reflected so that solvency ratio should be impacted positively. And according
to German GAAP, the dividend-paying German holding company, had a re as he receives
any tax-free profits. In light of such advantages, it was -- the decision was easy to make.
Moreover, of course, we took into consideration the strong performance and the
valuation of the private -- of the listed equities especially in this year. We will further use
equities as a technical instrument and may enter again if opportunities arise.
Before that background, the overall return of the investments was very strong at 3.9%
while valuation reserves were slightly reduced. But the remaining portfolio remains strong
and on a high level.

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

You're on the next slide that is very familiar to you. It shows the overview of how the
different asset classes contributed to the ordinary investment income as compared to
where we are invested. Nothing extraordinary here.

FINAL

And I think that should conclude my remarks. And as usual, I'll leave the target matrix and
the outlook to Uli.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Thank you, Roland. Talking about the target matrix, you can see that we have 3 ticks, or I
might say only 3 ticks. I think the return on investment, as Roland explained, the growth of
the P&C premium as well as the EBIT margin on our very successful financial solution and
longevity business. The remainder of the target, particular regarding the profits, were
impacted naturally by the high (losses) of natural catastrophes in the Third Quarter. In
order to avoid any confusion, let me emphasize that this target matrix is still the one from
the strategy cycle 2015 to 2017. And therefore, it's slightly different from the new one,
which we presented on our Investor Day in October.

Bloomberg Transcript

Coming to the outlook and here in particular to our new guidance for 2017. You will recall
that we gave a profit warning in 21st of September 2017, following the significant losses in
the Third Quarter. Because of these losses, it became evident that one of the providers
of our profit guidance was no longer fulfilled being that the large losses remained this in
the large loss budget.
Regarding the premium volume, we left our guidance unchanged because the guidance
for growth of more than 5% is well supported by the 9-month figures.
Return on investment, we increased to more than 3% from more than 2.7% and that, of
course, reflects the very positive development of the investment income in the first nine
months, not least due to the sale of the listed equity portfolio.
Group net income, we now estimate at around EUR 800 million. And that, of course,
reflects that we are missing the profits from the Third Quarter, which largely was, as you
call in Germany, the black zero. And therefore, we have to do the three quarter profits for
this year. This, of course, is still subject to the proviso that the large losses for the Fourth
Quarter remain this in the budget for the Fourth Quarter being EUR 202 million and that
we see no dislocation in the capital market. I should also caution, I guess, at this point in
time that the loss estimates for the Third Quarter losses are still subject to significant
uncertainties, which would -- which may go either way. I mean, we will see a little bit
clearer at the end of the year. But also then, uncertainties will remain significant.
The dividend payout should not be affected by the reduced profits. But we expect,
provided that the Fourth Quarter is in line with expectation, that we will still be in the
position to pay out the same dividend as last year being the ordinary as well as the
special dividend.

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

Coming to the profitability of the P&C business for 2017 as well as the development of
the volumes, you can see that due to the cat losses above the large loss budget, we are
not expecting to earn the cost of capital on our property casualty reinsurance for this year.
The affected areas, of course, North America as well as the natural catastrophe excess of
loss business. However, also the U.K. and the London market is affected. This, of course,
by the Ogden tables.
On the other hand, our very diversified book mitigates the impact of those cat losses.
And you can see that in the lines of Continental Europe where we have very good
profitability as well as Marine, credit and surety and in particular, the facultative book. So
you can see that a very diversified book of business with below-market average share in
catastrophe-exposed business allow us even at heavy catastrophe losses to still show
somewhat acceptable results.
Coming to the Life & Health business. You can see that our financial solution business, we
expect to continue to be very, very profitable with longevity and morbidity business. We
expect to earn the cost of capital. As far as the mortality business is concerned is the
negative effect, including the one-off effect from our U.S. legacy business will push the
entire segment or subsegment into profitability levels, which are not sufficient to fulfill as a
cost of capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the premium side, we expect a rather stable premium development for the entire
year. There might actually be a slight increase because we already have seen some
increases in the Third Quarter. And we expect that to continue into the Fourth Quarter.
However, it will be largely stable.
Coming now to the guidance of 2018. And I should emphasize that this guidance does not
include the effects of the hardening market, which is expected following the Third Quarter
losses and the reported results of the reinsurance industry for the first nine months of the
year. Therefore, the premium growth, we expect single-digit growth. We haven't specified
low or high single digits that will really remain to be seen based on the actual effects of
the hardening market.
Return on investment, we expect at 2.7%, which is stable ordinary investment income
compared to the average of the last five years. I would say, in absolute terms but also in
relative terms, we see a stabilization here. I think Roland explained that in detail at the
Investor Day in October.
Net income, we estimate back more than EUR 1 billion. Again, that also does not include a
hardening market. At the same time, of course, it's also subject to the possibility of
further recaptures within our legacy U.S. mortality business that might take a negative IFRS
impact. But will have a positive long-term impact on the profitability. In addition, I should
caution that there might also be an unforeseen further acceleration in the actual losses
from that business, which, of course, could have a negative impact as well. Overall,
however, we feel well positioned to achieve again a profitability above EUR 1 billion in
2018.

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

Our dividend policy remains unchanged as the basic dividend will be 35% to 40% of the
IFRS profitability. And depending on business opportunities and capital development,
there's a good possibility that we also will again pay a special dividend.
This now brings me to the last slide, I guess, which is the prospects, the midterm
prospects. Here on the property/casualty side, we feel that things are a little bit more
positive than they have been in previous years because we already see for us find of a
more or less than across-the-board trimming of the reinsurance market on the P&C side.
Of course, more pronounced on the loss affected business. But also we expect firming of
some market on loss business and have already witnessed first evidence of that.
Therefore, we feel that our combined ratio target of 96% or below is achievable in 2018
and beyond without resorting to reduce -- to reduction in the confidence level of our loss
reserves.
With our strong market position, we also feel that we could benefit from the growth of
the market more than the average market player and thus are expecting to slightly
increase our market share. And as a result of that, we expect a positive impact both on
the bottom and the top line of our P&C business.
In Life & Health, we expect a continuous attractive earnings from our U.S. financial
solutions business and the majority of our non-U. S. business.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the overall profitability, the main importance would be the success of our in-force
management of our legacy U.S. mortality business, where we are confident that we could
achieve the necessary adjustments on the rate, in particular on the YRT business.
That said, for 2018, there is some uncertainty on the EBIT contribution due to the
possibility of recaptures, which may result in a negative impact on the IFRS earnings in
2018. But of course, it would be positive for the future earnings of our Life & Health group.
With that, we expect an EBIT between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million in 2018. And
that, of course, would largely depend on to the extent of the recaptures that we are
seeing.
A favorable development of new business and the already mentioned in-force
management give us a positive outlook for the IFRS profitability for 2019 and onwards.
On our investment, I think Roland explained in detail the stabilization of the ROI as a
percentage of the ordinary investment income from 2018 onwards. Then, of course, this
expected increased volumes in the medium term would suggest that we would be able
to increase our returns in absolute figures.
That concludes our presentations. And I look forward together with Roland to your
questions. Thank you very much for listening.

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Kamran Hossain of RBC.

Q - Kamran Hossain

Two questions. The first one is just trying to understand that the context of having the
(XT) portfolio and then what that means for growth. So I look at your 2018 guidance and
you said kind of single-digit growth for the group. But at the same time, you've kind of
freed up this cash, which in my mind should allow you to grow more, especially in P&C in
the coming year. What should we think about there? I mean, is that single-digit growth
really, really conservative? Just kind of any thoughts on that will be really helpful. And
second, in the life EBIT guidance for 2018, what level of recapture is included in that
assumption? And what kind of level of confidence do you have that this will be sufficient?

A - Ulrich Wallin

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks for those questions, Kamran. Firstly, on the guidance, the growth guidance for
2018, this was done really before because it's a plan, which was concluded before we
actually saw the effects of the Third Quarter losses and the effects on the market and it
was also before we were selling our listed equities. Therefore, I think on the P&C side,
this is a rather conservative estimate. I mean, we think there may be opportunities for
good growth on the P&C side in 2018. On the EBIT for the Life & Health, I mean, the EUR
300 million upper end of the range would include of recap -- negative impact from
recapture, I would say, of up to EUR 100 million and of course, I mean, the lower end and
then slightly more.

Operator
The next question is from Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

I just wanted to follow up on the retrocession comment that Roland was making,
suggesting that retro cover was less effective. I mean, relative to the budget, obviously,
2017 has been far better managed in terms of net lease. Could you just clarify what that
comment meant, Roland? And just in that same context, I've noticed that on your line-byline combined ratios, the structured reinsurance and ILS was much worse in 3Q than 1H. Is
it just the same effect? So just as a clarification needed. And secondly, just on the
motivation for the equity sale. If -- you said this several times, I apologize. But just a
clarification, it was done primarily to have more capital to participate in the market
hardening. Will that be a correct understanding? Or was it done also for tactical reason?
But which one was the more important way, is what I'm trying to understand.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well it was both, I mean, because -- I mean, of course, it was the rather neat way of
mitigating the impact because, I mean, the development of the equity markets have been
Page 9 of 20



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

very favorable. So we had much of significantly large portions of unrealized gains on them,
which, of course, are clearly subject to change. And therefore, we thought -- I mean, not
only for the capital base. But also from a result point of view, it would be an opportune
time to utilize those gains. I mean, our expertise strategy remains unchanged. I mean, we
have certain triggers for investment and we have certain triggers for divestment. We were
pretty close to our divestment trigger. But not quite there. But so we just accelerated that
because it became quite handy. I mean, this is basically the motivation. And of course, the
positive effects on the capital adequacy ratio gives us the room to pay and see on the
one hand, of course, to write more business in 2018. But also, I mean, to pay an extra
dividend for the current year, which we deem to be in the interest of shareholders at least
in the interest of our majority shareholder. And therefore, overall, it seemed to be a
plausible thing to do. I mean, on the effectiveness of our retro program, it has to be said
that the growth loss includes a significant amount, as Roland already mentioned, that we
are directly ceding to the capital markets. So this is business, which we accepted and then
just, I mean, make it suitable for the capital markets. So it's really a pass-through. And that
is the majority of the difference between gross and net. Our overall retrocession program
was not that heavily impacted outside an aggregate excess of loss that we bought, which,
of course, was a total to the tune of a little bit more than EUR 100 million recovery. But
look at the whole account, I mean that has attachment point of EUR 350 million for peak
zones and EUR 250 million for nonpeak zones. That was only partly hit by Irma, not hit by
the other losses. And also K, a lot of the losses that are not subject K. So the K result is
still relatively benign for our investors there. Therefore, I mean, the collection was less
pronounced as in 2017. It would have been for us, in theory a lot better for all the losses
would have been -- I mean, accumulated into one loss because -- and then outside the
aggregate is several loss, of course. Our program could be -- would have been suited
better. Needless to say, I mean, the overall net amount of losses that we have from those
events are well within the expected parameters for return periods, say, around seven
years.

Operator
The next question is from Guilhem Horvath of Exane BNP Paribas.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Two questions from my side. The first one is I would like to have your view on this exercise
that's everyone is trying to contribute today in sending out all the reported losses and
trying to reach the USD 95 billion or USD 100 billion total loss for the industry. What is your
view on the fact that part of this is missing? And maybe in line with this, you said that your
-- particularly your Maria estimate was computed very shortly before you closed your
quarter. This estimate materially moved since you closed the quarter? And if yes, in which
direction? And the second question would be on the negotiations. Can you update us a
little bit on what you see in the market today regarding your own business negotiations.
But also the retro, you mentioned that the retro was only slightly affected by the recent
events? And you also said at Investor Day that you expected the retro prices for you not
to increase too much or at least you not accepting higher prices on retro. Is this still the
case?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}
Page 10 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Well on -- I mean, yes, you're absolutely right that the loss estimates are of, I mean, early
estimates and that they have not reached the modeled numbers of, say, I would say,
people say it's anywhere between EUR 75 billion to EUR 225 billion. I must say, I mean. So
far, our estimate tracked pretty well with the advised losses that we have seen so far,
which, of course, are only a fraction of the losses that we have booked. On Maria in
particular, I mean, I would say there are some positives and some negatives. Overall, I
would say that at this point in time, the loss estimate that we have given on or that we
have booked on Maria still looks pretty solid. Overall, I think we will have to watch the
development of these losses in the next couple of years because if you look at the U.S.
domestic losses, which are the least of concern to us due to our low market shares in the
affected areas, I mean, there is such a vast number of individual small and large losses
that it just takes a long time to check -- to adjust all of them. On the Caribbean, I mean, if
you look at Puerto Rico, it's still not fully accessible. It's still largely out of power and while
the structure has not been hit as hard as expected, I mean, BI losses and later
development of losses is, of course, still very possible. So it's early days. But so far, I
mean, our loss estimates compared to what we have seen in loss advices and, of course,
talking to our clients at this point in time looks quite solid, I would say.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe I can add here. We should, of course, bear in mind the comments we had made
about our retrocession being available. So if we just assume there would be negative
development there and the capacity would still be available, at least on the whole
account. As Uli mentioned, only Irma is slightly in it. So there would be a natural ceiling for
developments in our case.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. That's absolutely true. I mean, if we then look at the question of our own
retrocession, well, I mean, it's a difficult one for me to comment because we are actually
in the negotiations -- starting the negotiations for 2018 on our own retrocession. So I'm
not too sure if I should be too open here because you want to play your cards closer to
the chest when you go into these kind of negotiations. But on a more broader note, I
mean, I would still expect that retrocession of prices will increase. How far that will affect
our own retrocessions, of course, remains to be seen and that, of course, depends how
well the negotiators (inaudible) retrocession, who I have to say are still there over the last
five years. So it's still in a rather positive position, I would say. Market overall, I mean, it's
still early days. But we have seen, particularly in the London market, particularly on the
facultative business, I mean, clearly points to increases. In loss-affected areas, clearly, I
mean, significant double-digit increases. But even having been recently been on a
conference in Asia or to the Asian clients that I have talked to, of course, point out that
they not live in the Caribbean nor in the U.S. nor Mexico. But they have some sympathy if
you tell them, well, look in 2011, you had the losses and the rest of the world market
increased in pricing as well. And I think they expect a similar movement for their markets
for the current year.

Operator
The next question is from William Hawkins of KBW.

Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Just one question really. You've been very clear on what you said about the recapture for
U.S. mortality next year. I mean, I'm just wondering if we look beyond that, the EUR 200
million to EUR 300 million, is that a new range that you're also thinking about for 2019 and
2020 because this is an ongoing issue. Or to pick up on what Kamran asked you, I mean,
are we having 1 down year and then hopefully everything sorted out and we're back to
normal, the EUR 300 million or even EUR 400 million that you referred to is the starting
point for 2018?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If things go according to plan, I mean, we have 1 down year because, I mean, the rating
actions that we are planning are really confined to 2018. So from that point of view, 2018
should be the most exposed year. If things go according to plan, of course, then from
2019 onwards, results should be significantly better. And while, of course, I mean, with the
uncertainties that we have seen on the loss development on the legacy U.S. mortality
business in the last couple of years, of course, the confidence with which I'm seeing that is
a little bit less than my predictions normally are. But as I said, if things go according to
plan, 2019 and '20, we should see significantly higher and higher EBIT.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Got you. And given the -- I understand what you just said about wanting to be
conservative. I get that. But I think the first time I heard you mention in answer to Kamran's
question a EUR 400 million figure for underlying profits in 2019. The best I'd heard in the
past is EUR 350 million. Is that higher figure just reflecting the fact that the portfolio is
growing, you've got great financial solutions business? Presumably, that's what it is.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

It's largely growing financial solutions business. It's also a growing international business.
And of course, it takes into account that the burden of the U.S. mortality business would
gradually come down.

Operator
The next question is from Frank Kopfinger of Deutsche Bank.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

I have two questions. My first question is coming back to the disposal of your equities. Can
you roughly at least quantify into how much additional volume growth this would translate,
given that you release capital, which you could then deploy into the -- I would assume into
the P&C business? Then secondly, also on the P&C business, there must be some sort of
underlying negative track from U.S. property per risk business in 2017 so far. Can you
quantify this? And also, say, whether this will be only a 2017 event or whether this is
something ongoing?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}
Page 12 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Well on the property per risk, yes, I mean, the combined ratio sits on that business
normally in the 70s. We are now looking more in the 90s there, which is a significant high
effect. I mean, there will be -- I mean, as this business is reacting to losses on an individual
basis because, I mean, it's largely, I would say, midmarket term product -- property per
risk business. I mean, we expect that to move back to the profitability that we have seen
over so many years in 2018, partly on the back of rate increases, which have nothing to do
with cat losses. But this business is just reactive to losses. In addition, it will also react to
the cat losses. So that -- we see that quite positive. I mean, on the amount of new
business that we can write based on the freed-up capital, that of course depends what
kind of business that is. I mean, of course, it's quite likely that we will increase our net risk
appetite for cat because there are a number of opportunities we are working at on the
cat side. That, of course, in volume terms will not be that significant. But it will be
significant in bottom line terms when you look at bottom lines based on the expected
losses. I think it's difficult to be more precise because there's different capital
requirements on different businesses.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

And I think one should bear in mind that, yes, the disposal of the equities had different
reasons. That is one of which also without that disposals, we would not have held
impaired in our opportunities or potentials to take up market opportunities that is
definitely not the case. Of course, it increases flexibility a little bit more. So this is not a
prerequisite. It just helps. And it was also driven by variation considerations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question is from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I have 2 quick questions. Curious, why you said earlier the K vehicle didn't pick up a lot of
the losses, a lot of losses were not subject to the K-Cession. I mean, given the K-Cession
has 40% quota share of your property exposed -- I'm sorry, cat-exposed business, why
was that? I'm just curious as to why that was the case. Secondly, I want more clarification. I
mean, you're implying that you will revisit the guidance -- 2018 guidance after 1/1 renewals.
But again, just to clarify, to the extent there is any harder pricing, currently, you wouldn't
really be earning materially improved margins until 2019. Isn't that the case?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well on the first question, I mean, the K on the cat-exposed business, the K only takes the
property catastrophe business. So the property catastrophe excess of loss business,
that's only what it takes. And as on the property catastrophe excess of loss, we are
largely writing the higher layer. They have, based on the current loss estimates, not been
affected. So should the losses grow. So will be the impact on the K transaction. But on the
current loss picture, which is more a picture of frequency of major losses very large major
losses, the K is not taking up that many losses. It, of course, works as a very efficient
shield when it comes to further loss development in the future on these losses. And the
second question on how the possible, I mean, margins from increased pricing will flow
through. Yes, partly, they will, of course, not flow through immediately into 2018. But partly
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

into 2019. But if you look at excess-of-loss treaties that are renewed at 1/1 at better prices,
of course, there you have an immediate effect because you get just more premium for
the same exposure. So I would say on the hardening market, as we said in previous years
about half of that -- 40% of that you see in first year and then the rest comes in the
second and the third year.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I guess also there is going to be a bias to norm -- to harder prices in the later renewals
rather than the 1/1, which is why I was also thinking there could be more of a delay in the
(un) through?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well of course. I mean, 65% of our treaty business renew at 1/1. And of course, we will
definitely strive to increase the prices also at 1/1 because that's the majority of the treaty
business they have to renew.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

How much of that is loss exposed do you think or has been exposed to losses?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well I mean, at this rate, difficult to say. But I think it's a smaller part of that. But I mean, as
we have seen in 2011, we expect pretty much also the loss-free business will be subject to
firming in terms and conditions.

Operator
The next question is from Michael Haid of Commerzbank.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Just 2 questions relating to retro. First, on the K-Cession, is it then fair to assume that,
therefore, your K-Cession investors this Q3 was still only an earnings event and not a
capital event? And second question, regarding your expectations for your retro protection
for the renewal, what conclusions do you draw from the Q3 events? And how much your
retro was hit? I mean, I'm not asking in terms of what price expectations you have for the
renewal. But how do you want to change, if at all, your retro protection?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I mean, as far as K is concerned, it's probably still a bit early to say if it was the capital
or an earnings event. But if it's in capital event on K, definitely not a significant one. K is, by
the way, largely renewed at this point in time already. The overall, I mean, structure of our
retrocessions that if you buy, I mean, depending, of course, on pricing, stay pretty much
unchanged. I mean, we will, of course, try to continue this buying aggregate excess of loss
maybe even a little bit more. And on the whole account, we expect that to be largely
unchanged, of course. There is no unlimited acceptability for us of rate increases

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

because, I mean, with our capital base, we can, of course, also increase our retentions.
But at the same time, I mean, this a reason we will, of course, of all our retrocession and
partners' renewal.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Jochen Schmitt of Metzler.

Q - Jochen Schmitt

I have one question on your investment book. What should we think about your strategic
exposure to listed equities going forward? Or will you run this position predominantly on
an opportunistic basis? That's my question.

A - Ulrich Wallin

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 4227302 <GO>}

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I think it's exactly how you described. You may remember that we entered into listed
equity in 2010. Once we went out of it because also the reinsurance opportunities were
remarkably higher. We always said that we are open and willing to invest again if
opportunities arise, then we did that up to an amount of 2% of the overall portfolio. That
is still -- or developed into nearly EUR 1 billion. But we should bear in mind, it was never
more than 2%. So the -- we could run our investment portfolio and we have run it also with
-- in good terms also without the equities. So in that regard, nothing has really changed. If
you invest in equity -- listed equities and you assume that there will be evaluation
increases in the future, then sometimes there is a time to harvest those. And this is what
we did in conjunction with all the other good reasons to do that. And moreover, we are -we have not changed our appetite in our strategy. So we will use opportunities to go in.
And if that develops exactly as it did before, there will be a time to harvest gains again.

Operator
The next question is from Jonny Urwin of UBS.

Q - Jonathan Peter Phillip Urwin

{BIO 6126952 <GO>}

Just one from me please. Just thinking back to your retro program. I mean, I guess, you're
going to want to get that all nailed down, sorted, renewed before you think about how
much you want to write at 1/1. And what do you want to do to your cap appetites and what
I have been hearing in the market is that in this phase that it's going to be quite late
renewal given the uncertainty around losses. The question is how quickly do you think
you'll be able to get certainty around your retro program and get it renewed. Will you be
ahead of the pack perhaps, given it's been less impacted than elsewhere?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I would say on our main facility, the K transaction, we already have certainty. So I
mean that's done. And the rest, I mean, of course, we haven't as yet went to the market
for quotation. But there is a centerpiece already in place. I mean, we are less concerned
with that.

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Operator
The next question is from Thomas Fossard of HSBC.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Two questions left on my side. First one will be on the S&P rating. So Ulrich, in your
preliminary statement, you indicated that S&P has recently updated your rating. Have you
also closed the discussion with them on how much excess capital you're holding on your
AA rating level? And the second question will be on the life U.S. mortality recapture for the
EUR 45 million negative impact on an IFRS basis. Could you disclose whether these in
reverse or quantify how much was the positive impact on an economic basis so EUR 72
million or EUR 72 million like?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I mean, on -- if I may take the later one, I mean, we would have to say that, I mean,
this recapture was fully in line with our plan of the rate increases that we proposed there.
Therefore, a part of that has already been taken into account on the future management
actions at the end of 2016. So that the movement in the economic balance sheet for 2017
on this particular one will not be all that large. But it shows that the future management
actions that we contemplate are actually very reliable and we are able to execute pretty
much in accordance to this plan. I mean, the overall future losses that we avoided that way
were actually quite significant.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

If I may take the Standard & Poor's question. I think what we have to bear in mind that the
Standard & Poor's has changed their treatment in the models, especially of the
reinsurance industry to some extent. So the world how we view excess capital has
changed in two respects. First of all, we are still in communication with Standard & Poor's
about some of the changes, which have cost us excess capital. And on the other hand, we
were living in a world where we assumed that, of course, for a AA; rating, we do need as
reinsurers based on the volatility and the industry risk, we would have to always have a
AAA capitalization. So the relationship between the two. So what we have and what we
really need to stay there has changed. And we are still in discussions with Standard &
Poor's how this will look like. So you could argue from a pure technical standpoint, this has
decreased to some extent, the excess capital. On the other hand, the hurdle we have to
jump over to stay at a AA; rating seems to have decreased also. So that was a little bit of
long-winded answer to your question. But as far as we see and with the confirmation of
the rating where we are, we feel comfortable where we are with our capital position with
Standard & Poor's today. To quote a number as we did before, I wouldn't be brave
enough today.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. And there are still some moving parts in. Maybe I would say mid next year, we should
-- the fog should have lifted, let's put it that way.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Okay, sure. And just one additional point around where is the part of the changing model,
which is potentially the most costly or expensive for you? Is that on the P&C side or is that
on the mortality side of things?

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

No. It's not on the mortality. It's more on the longevity side. It's also a concept that S&P
runs it by, I mean, category of risks. They look at your internal model and always takes the
higher number of their own assessment and your assessment within the internal model,
of course, without using the same correlation metrics in respect of the diversification
benefit.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Okay. So more on the life than on the P&C for the time being.

Operator
The next question is from Roland PfÃ¤nder of ODDO BHF.

Q - Roland Pf Ã¤nder

Bloomberg Transcript

Two questions from my side, please. Did you see business opportunities in the shorter
frame following these net cat losses? Did you see, for example, backup covers already?
And secondly, you spoke about positive spillover effect to loss-free lines. So which lines
do you think will be most exposed to maybe price increases going forward?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well I mean, we have, of course, already written some backup covers. I mean, this is not
huge. I mean, this is just individual backup covers that have been in the market, that some
of them we wrote, some of them we didn't write. As far as the spillover effect, I mean, I
pretty much view the situation a little bit similar to what we have seen in 2011. And if you
remember in 2012 following the 2011 losses, that the impact was not too dissimilar from
what we see this year. We saw basically an overall price increase somewhere of 7%, I
would say. And if you look at the overall business, that should be achievable this time
around as well. That, of course, means that loss-affected businesses have significantly
higher rate increases. And the rest of the businesses would really be dependent on profit
prospects and, of course, also I mean the experience of that business, you will have
differential, I mean, methods of rate increases of those. Of course, I mean, if business is
marginable at current rate, that will get higher rate increases if loss free compared to
business that is extremely profitable where the rate increases may actually be not as
pronounced, if at all. But it really depends on the individual experience and the profitability
of the business. But needless to say, it would mean overall also on the loss-free business,
we will see rate increases.

Operator
The next question is a follow-up of Vinit Malhotra of Mediobanca.

Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

The follow-up question is on the retro again. If K series and whole account both have not
been severely -- I mean, not been hit too much. There is still around EUR 700 million of
retro, which is -- or some kind of offset, which has come in. And I'm a bit confused as to
what could have driven that because in the past, you have provided some scenarios,
maybe 3 or four years ago at your Investor Day, which also included premiums in and out?
Is there some such calculation behind these numbers? Or is it really that there is some
retro. But we don't know or you're not disclosing where it is today?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

No. These numbers are not heavily affected by -- I mean, it's not taking into account the
cat premium and deducting it from the losses as you do if you look at the capital impact.
This includes to some extent reinstatement premiums. But I have to say that
reinstatement premiums in and out are quite similar. If at all, in is a little bit higher than out
because the majority of the recoveries from the retrocession is either K, where we are
not, of course, paying retrocession or the aggregate excess of loss, where we are not
paying reinstatement premiums as well. Reinstatement premiums are only being paid on
the partly affected whole account. I mean, of course, the remainder of the coverage is still
in place. It's very comforting for us because, I mean, should there be a movement in
reported loss numbers that would have us to adjust our figure's output on a gross basis.
As Roland already alluded to, we would be pretty well protected on a net basis for quite a
bit of development there. I mean, the reason that the retro program wasn't that effective
was really, the -- I mean, the significant frequency of losses. So I mean the whole account,
of course, it's really geared to larger -- for the most part, to larger individual losses, let's
say, comes in the Mexican earthquake or even the Harvey. So that's the reason why it's
only hit by Irma.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question is again a follow-up of Michael Haid of
Commerzbank.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Two additional questions. Maybe I missed it. But can you say a word on how the solvency
ratio could have developed in the Third Quarter? I assume that with a profit and with the
release of risk capital from the liquidation of the equity portfolio, it should have increased.
Second question, also relating to the liquidation of the equity portfolio, I saw that you
reinvested some of the money in government bonds. Can you say in what government
bonds you invested in and what the reinvestment rate of this would be?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well if I take the first one. Well it looks at this point in time as if the solvency ratio on the
Third Quarter for the group would actually increase rather than decrease. I mean, there
are lots of, I mean, moving parts in a Solvency II solvency ratio. But it's also related to
currencies and interest rates and stuff. But at this point in time, it looks as if there's an
increase in the solvency ratio. That also, of course, has to do with the fact that we have

Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

our operational risk model being approved now. So from that point of view on a group
basis, we would expect that the probability of an increased solvency ratio is higher than
the probability of a decreased solvency ratio.

FINAL

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

But let me comment on the reinvestment yields and the govies. So Mike, I don't think that
you had the opportunity to be at the Investor's Day, where I showed a little bit the
reinvestment yields also in respect of maturities and currencies and the dependencies. So
we will, of course, invest currency-wise. I think also the equity portfolio did follow the over
-- at least, in overall terms the currency composition. So the largest reinvestment will be in
the U.S. dollars. We will also take longer-term maturities to see the maturity is a little bit on
the govies side to avoid very low interest rates. The same would be true for the euro
investment as well. We should also bear in mind. And I said that before that we will stay or
we will keep the powder dry over the course of the renewal season. After that, we will
have to decide and one should assume today that the reinvestment of these monies
follows the overall reinvestments on average as well.

Q - Michael Hermann Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Can you remind us again what the operational risk could imply on your -- how much
of percentage points in the solvency ratio?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well I think it's just shy of 20% if I remember that correctly.

Operator
The next question is from James Oram of Citigroup.

Q - James R Oram

{BIO 19736003 <GO>}

This is James Oram from Citi. And I've got 2 questions, please. In your report, you
mentioned U.K. motors is one of the areas where you expect to see price increases next
year. It seems there's still quite a lot of debate over the extent to this increases that we
might see and I just wonder how renewal discussions had progressed so far and what
you're seeing there. And the second question was at the Investor Day, you suggested it
was still too early to comment on potential developments in equalization reserve. I just
wondered if you had a clearer picture now. You've got more precise loss estimates for
your exposures.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Okay. As your second question is a difficult one, I would leave that to Roland, of course.
The first one on the U.K. motors is a slightly easier one. So I take that. Yes, I mean, we see
significant increases on the U.K. motor excess of losses, where we play with just an excess
of EUR 5 million, which in a launch have been pretty much doubling in pricing in
reinsurance rate, coupled with the increases in the primary business. So we have more
than twice the price on those. However, I have to say that there is -- on most of them, we
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2017-11-08

FINAL

have adjustment clause that in case the Ogden rate changed again, the pricing will be
reviewed. Because, I mean, the exposure on the upper layers, which we are playing is, of
course, very much dependent on the Ogden rate. So I mean, if you have a layer excess of
EUR 10 million and the rate changes back, say, from minus 0.75 to 0.5 positive, it has a
major effect on the expected losses. It will also, of course, has a major effect on our
reserves we have quoted there. But it will then also be reviewed. The pricing rates will
then be reviewed again.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

So with the more difficult question, the very quick answer could be, no we have not
reviewed or made an additional estimate of the development of the equalization reserve.
6 weeks or 7 weeks before the end of the year, that exercise wouldn't make too much
sense. I would still say that you should bear in mind that the addition and the releases
from the equalization reserve to some extent can be managed and steered. They, of
course, have an impact on the German GAAP accounting of the Hannover Re SE. But with
the retained earnings and the profits carried forward, which we have and the
opportunities to steer that, I would assume this really does not drive our management
decisions to such a large extent.

Operator
There are no further questions. I hand back to the speakers.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much. Thanks for listening to our conference call. And I wish you all a
very nice day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

