Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

Q1 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Maloney, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Elaine Whelan, Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer, Lancashire
Insurance Company Limited
Paul Gregory, Group Chief Underwriting Officer & Chief Executive Officer-Lancashire
Insurance Company (UK) Limted

Other Participants
Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden, Analyst
Anna Hui, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Lancashire Holdings Limited First Quarter 2017 Results
Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Alex Maloney, Group CEO. Please
go ahead, sir.

Alexander Maloney

{BIO 16314494 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, everyone. Thanks for dialing in. Today, we have Elaine Whelan, our group
CFO; Paul Gregory, our group CUO; Denise O'Donoghue, who is our Head of
Investments and Treasury; and Darren Redhead, the CEO of Kinesis. I'm pleased to
report a strong set of results for the first quarter, where our underwriting investment
strategies continued to add value for our shareholders. With return on equity of 2.7% and
a combined ratio of 85.6%, we continue to maintain a healthy underwriting result in a
quarter which has seen some attrition. The losses which we have suffered this quarter are
all within management's expectations, so nothing out of the ordinary. But as we have said
many times, a quarter can be bumpy dependent on the timing of claims.
We have written less premium than in the first quarter of 2016 as we have had a number
of one-off premiums emulating from our (01:18) class, which is generally non-renewing,
and some non-standard annual policies which skewed the numbers. But when they are
just stripped out, comparable income is in line with our expectations. But Elaine will give
more details later.
Page 1 of 9



Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

FINAL

Our investment portfolio has performed modestly better than we expected for the
quarter, generating a 0.7% return. So overall, we're happy with our result for this quarter,
and we are in line with where we still will be at the start of 2017.
The underwriting climate remains difficult, but we're finally starting to see things change.
We have seen the slowing of rate reductions across a number of classes of business as
the realization that there is little margin for further reductions finally (02:04). This is by no
means a hardening of the market, but one of the early signs that the cracks are repairing.
Within the broader insurance market, we have seen a number of people losing their jobs
as tough decisions have been made on classes of business that make little economic
sense. These actions are a sad reality, where we are in the cycle, but equally, a fair
reflection of the lack of profitability across many classes of business after years of rate
reductions driven by over capacity.
I expect this process to continue until underwriting margins become more favorable as
our industry gets to grips with thin margins and issues of expense. Indeed, a lot of the
recent M&A activity in my view has been expense synergy driven. We welcome our CEO
of Cathedral, Andrew McKee, to our business in June. Andrew is one of the final senior
recruits to join Cathedral after a period of considerable operational upgrade.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm delighted at how Cathedral continues to perform as one of the upper quartile
syndicates in Lloyd's in very difficult trading conditions. Kinesis has grown modestly this
year in assets under management and also in the number of investors we have. I take
confident in the fact that Kinesis continues to underwrite only the deals which clear its
hurdles.
Again, as we have said many times, we don't just deploy capital for fees, we are more
interested in being good custodians of capital today to benefit from these opportunities,
which may arise post inevitable cat loss in the future, whenever that occurs.
So to summarize, we are finally seeing the cracks repairing after years of rate reductions,
over capacity of insurance capital, and little loss activity. This will not in itself materially
change the outlook, but we still believe that once enough capital is impaired, things will
change. Until that day, we will continue to stick to our path, and we will focus closely on
producing sensible risk adjusted returns for our shareholders and capital providers across
Lancashire, Cathedral and Kinesis. I'll now hand over to Paul.

Paul Gregory

{BIO 16314515 <GO>}

Thanks, Alex. Despite a few mid-size losses in the quarter, I'm pleased to report that the
group has produced a respectable combined ratio of 85.6%. We've been very happy with
our start for the year across all the underwriting teams within the group. The renewals at
1/1 were broadly in line with expectation, both in terms of market conditions and retaining
the business we want to do. Across most product lines, rating reductions are now in the
single digits, showing that the market is slowing, but where the directions travel is yet to
change in our favor.

Page 2 of 9



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

This trend continued at 1/4. The Japanese property cat renewals were very orderly, and
we maintained our positions with all our core clients. In the Lancashire platforms, there
were some non-annual multi-year impacted premiums this quarter that Elaine will explain
in more detail. We're also likely to (05:02) more of this in the second quarter, which is
non-annual contracts renewing later in the year. The energy market continues to be a
tricky place to operate. Pace of change has certainly slowed even as the environment
remains very competitive. It's certainly much too early to be optimistic about the energy
market improving, but with a stable oil price and a (05:22) customer base, it's better
positioned to contemplate future development plans, which could help future demands.
Thus far, we're very happy with how the energy team have weathered the storm over the
past two years so that we're very well positioned to make the most of any future
opportunities. Cathedral property treaty and D&F lines successfully renewed the business
they wanted to during Q1, with premium year-on-year across the two lines only down by
about 6.5%, which is broadly in line with rate reduction. Across the rest of the Cathedral
business, premiums reduced in line with rates, and we also shared exposures in lines such
as Aviation, Marine and Energy as we continue to employ underwriting discipline. There is
also no premium in respect to the contingency following our decision to exit this class. As
Alex had said, Kinesis had a successful renewal season at 1/1, with assets under
management marginally increasing year-on-year, as well as further diversifying both the
client and investor base. Our philosophy for Kinesis remains unchanged. If we can deploy
funds that won't provide the required returns for our investors, then we'll do so. But if we
cannot, we won't. It was pleasing to be able to grow Kinesis slightly, and diversifying both
the investor and client base built upon the solid foundations already laid in order to
expand Kinesis when the opportunity allows.
Across all the underwriting platforms, our underwriters have continued to execute the
strategy set out to manage and navigate this soft market cycle. As I mentioned last
quarter, we successfully renewed the vast majority of our reinsurance protections at 1/1,
and we're able to purchase broader and deeper coverage, bringing risk levels down,
which gives us more capital headroom than we would typically invest (07:02) to carry.
Hopefully, there will be some improvement in market conditions so we can put this capital
to work via underwriting. But if the market's not improved, then post wind season, we can
review our capital need and take the appropriate actions.
I'll now pass over to Elaine.

Elaine Whelan

{BIO 17002364 <GO>}

Thanks, Paul. Hi, everyone. Our results are on our website as usual. Our ROE of 2.7% for
the quarter reflects decent results in the current environment. We had a reduction in our
net premiums earned this quarter, which is partly due to general market conditions, some
exposure reductions in our Energy and Aviation books. There's also an impact from the
timing of our reinsured renewals as we renewed some coverage earlier in the year. We
had a few losses reported in the quarter, which have led to a slight uptick in our accident
year loss ratio, although nothing was of any great significance.

Page 3 of 9



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

We continue to see, overall, a favorable development on our prior accident years. With a
loss ratio of 37.7% and a combined ratio of 85.6% for the quarter, our underwriting
performance continues to be steady. Our investment portfolio performed well through
another rate hike, which is a return of 0.7%. At both Lancashire and Cathedral, as Paul has
said, we maintained our core books through the 1/1 renewals. Our top line reduction, as
mentioned, due to some exposure reductions in our Energy and Aviation books, some
general pricing impacts from the Cathedral books, but mostly the impact of the timing of
multi-year deal renewals. That impact is most notable in (08:30) that tends to be really
lumpy.
We continued to see a good flow of new business on that book just less than in Q1 last
year. As we previously said, we do expect pricing pressure to continue in 2017, and
(08:48) top line to come off a bit. However, our 1/4 property cat renewals held out well
with only a small reduction and exposure on our Japanese book. Our Energy offshore
renewals were lower mainly due to the tightening of renewal of non-annual policies.
Our city (09:03) premium is higher than Q1 last year due to renewing our group umbrella
cover in January this year versus June last year. (09:11) anticipate our full year spend to be
in line with last year, otherwise, we've again been able to see the advantage of further
price savings replacing our main program and expanding some of our cover. Our
acquisition cost ratio is in line with where we expect to be for the current business mix and
reinsurance program we have. Our losses, as I mentioned, we've had a few losses
reported this quarter, which elevated our loss ratio. None of these claims are significant
individually, and in total, they're less than 10% of our loss ratio. That has our pure attritional
loss ratio running a little higher than the mid-30s, but that's the nature of the book we
write and is not indicative of an underlying trend. I would still view our attritional loss ratio
in the mid-30s. We also had a 2016 accident year energy claim drifting to this quarter. It
has a favorable development on other claims, most of all, general IBNR releases due to
lack of reported claims coming due. Overall, we had net favorable development on prior
accident years of $10.6 million for the quarter.
Investments returned 0.7% for the quarter. Although all of our asset classes had a positive
contribution to the return, most of the return comes from our fixed maturity portfolio. The
market was really prepared for the Fed rate increase, and the increase in yields in the
quarter was offset by narrowing credits spreads. We're continuing to reposition our hedge
fund portfolio, but otherwise, we're happy with the diversification we have in our portfolio
under current duration positioning. The increase in other income this quarter is due to the
tightening of profit commission recognition for Kinesis.
In Q1 last year, some collateral for the 1/1/15 underwriting cycle has been released, which
pushed the recognition of PC out to later in the year. In Q1 2017, most of the profit from
the 1/1/16 underwriting cycle has been released, and therefore, we've been able to
recognize most of the PC. The earnings contribution from the underwriting fees is broadly
in line with last year, and we see most of that coming through in the next couple of
quarters. As there are no losses on the 1/1/17 underwriting cycle, profit commissions could
be about $6.5 million, but the earliest we will receive that would be Q1 2018.

Page 4 of 9



Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

FINAL

And the reduction in our G&A this quarter are primarily due to additional (11:27) recorded
in Q1 2016 due to Cathedral exec departures. Continued benefits deduction is down and
was offset by (11:35) as an additional expenses in relation to the Kinesis renewals. And
reduction in the stock compensation charge are reflected from adjustments to (11:46) and
performance assumptions, they're also entirely due to awards lapsing due to the
departures of Cathedral employees.
We had a small gain this quarter on the mark-to-market of purchase rates (11:57), both
yields grew slightly. Ignoring the soft mark-to-market and any one-off costs, our financing
cost will tend to be around $4 million (12:05). Lastly, on capital, we said last quarter that
the target here of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion of capital (12:10) is well within the expected
rate.
We are clearly carrying a bit more than that at the moment, and we'll keep that through
the coming wind season. Once we see what wind season brings us this year, we'll adjust
that capital balance in November. With that, I'll now hand over to the operator for
questions.

Q&A
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And we can now take our first question from Nick Johnson from Numis
Securities. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Just one question. Also another quarter of price decreases. Just
wondered whether there are any segments where the economics are becoming really
marginal and might be unsustainable. Obviously, you've exited some segments in the
past. I just wondered whether any others might be on the watch list. Thanks.

A - Alexander Maloney

{BIO 16314494 <GO>}

I think it's a good question, Nick. I mean, clearly, margins are tight across all classes, it's
something we clearly look at all the time. I think that we would believe that our loss ratios
are better than the market average, and that's why we can still convince ourselves that
the lines of business we have make sense. I think the only exception to that, and, PG,
correct me if I'm wrong, is the – when we pulled out of the contingency class last year, I
mean, that wasn't a huge book for us, that was in our Cathedral business, but we just
couldn't satisfy ourselves that there was an opportunity to make money in the future. So
we look at those things closely, and I think as a broader comment, you are seeing that
across the piece (14:04) now. People are looking at classes of business that they haven't
looked at for a number of years. I think people are finally getting to grips with the
realization that some of these product lines do not make money, and they can't continue
to lose money. So that's something we see every day now, which is a big change we've
seen. But I think from where we are today, with the classes of business we have, we still
believe that we can make sufficient return across the cycle for the product lines that we
currently underwrite.
Page 5 of 9



Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

A - Paul Gregory

{BIO 16314515 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. I mean, it's certainly something, particularly at this stage of the cycle, that we look at
all the time. We look at every line of business quite regularly, and take a view on the
sustainability of those lines is something we do all the time. And as you said and as Alex
mentioned there, we have a history of if we don't think line's going to be profitable, then
we will take decisions, and that with contingency, as Alex mentioned, and not that long
ago in satellite in the Lancashire platform.
So we're broadly prepared to make those decisions, but as Alex said, at the moment, we
continue to outperform in most of our major classes of business, so we're happy with the
lines we've got at the moment.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

A - Paul Gregory

{BIO 16314515 <GO>}

Thanks, Nick.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

And we can now take our next question from Ben Cohen from Canaccord. Please go
ahead.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Oh, hi, guys. Thanks very much. I just wanted to ask on the net earned premium, if you
could be a bit more explicit – excuse me – about the outlook for the rest of the year. I think
you mentioned that you've pulled out of some areas, but the decline in the first quarter, I
guess, is about 15%. So that seems maybe quite steep.
But if you could tell a bit more about that. And then secondly, how should we think about
the decline in earned premium or in the top line with regards to what your capital
requirements might be going forward once we get through the hurricane season? Would
it be reasonable to assume that it – that they would come down in line with the retained
premium? Thanks.

A - Alexander Maloney

{BIO 16314494 <GO>}

Elaine?

A - Elaine Whelan

{BIO 17002364 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Ben. It's Elaine. We don't typically give very much guidance in terms of premium,
which you know, but we do expect there to be a bit of an impact in terms of top line and
from multi-years this year. It's not as big as it would have been back in kind of 2014, 2015,
we're talking kind of $30 million, $35 million, maybe $40 million now, and that won't
(16:42) sort of completely to net earned.
Page 6 of 9



Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

FINAL

But there will be a little bit of an impact as some of the higher volume of multi-years in the
past runs off. And we are also expecting our non-multi-year, if you like, premium to come
down a bit this year, just a reflection of pricing. So that (17:01) to come through and have
an impact on earnings as well.
And the impact that we're getting in terms of our reinsurance is tightening really. We've
renewed some stuff early in the year that we had in place at June last year. So that really
(17:15) a bit more. So we are expecting top line to be lower, we are expecting the earned
premium to be lower, but that's as much guidance that we're able to give at the moment.
And in terms of capital requirements, we've been saying $1.3 billion to $1.35 billion. We're
probably at the lower end of that in terms of our capital expectations. We've been
focusing on core book for a while now. I don't see anything changing there in terms of the
focus on core book. So any capital impact would just be a function of pricing and
exposure.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

And we can now take our next question from Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Please
go ahead.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon. Just three questions from me, please. First of all, on your prior
year, I think there's been some settlement in the first quarter, which were above your
initial expectations. Just wondering whether there are any other large losses that came
through in 2016 or 2015 that haven't settled yet and would – could lead to some reserve
additions.
In terms of your reinsurance spend, I appreciate you bought forward material to do
spending to Q1 from Q3 last year, and I understand that this is sort of an umbrella cover
for the full year. Does this mean that at the 1/6/17 renewals, you won't be purchasing any
further cover ahead of the wind season? Or do you expect to change your risk profile at
1/6/17 ahead of Q3? And my final question is on the energy market. Yeah, what are your
expectations for renewals in Q2? Is there any sort of light at the end of the tunnel?
Thanks.

A - Alexander Maloney

{BIO 16314494 <GO>}

Okay. We'll go to PG for questions two and three, and then we'll come back to Elaine.

A - Paul Gregory

{BIO 16314515 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Andreas. Yeah, on the reinsurance spend, you're right, we did – we purchased
something mid-year last year. I think it actually just went into Q2. And we renewed that for
Page 7 of 9



FINAL

Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

the full-year at the beginning of January. This year, as we sit here today, I wouldn't expect
to buy anything additional on the reinsurance side. Our appetite in terms of inwards
business at 1/6/17, assuming the market remains as it is, remains pretty static, as Elaine just
referred to, we're looking to renew our core book. But what I would also say is that we
always look, as we walk into wind season, if there are any opportunities in terms of
reinsurance buying that makes sense. So, we'll always review it, but at the moment, our
plan would be stick with what we've got. In terms of the energy market, I don't think we're
at the point where we can say there's light at end of the tunnel. But I would say as the
prices changed, it certainly flowed up quite a lot through 2017 versus 2016. So, you are still
seeing rate reductions, but they are a lot smaller than they were last year. But obviously,
there is a lot less premium in the market, which we've talked about a number of times.
The one thing I would say that's a slight light at the end of the tunnel is I think our clients
have found their feet, they've adjusted to the oil price change, and they're now set up to
be stable. And we've just started to see a few clients look at mothballing a few – a few
projects that were mothballed coming back online. It's very early days, but obviously, that
would be good for demand. But in terms of market dynamics, until there's some capacity
that comes out of the energy market (21:00) then it's still going to be a competitive
marketplace. It's certainly a lot steadier than it was. It's just not moving in the right
direction just yet, but steady is better than the carnage that we witnessed over the past
two years.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Thanks.

A - Elaine Whelan

{BIO 17002364 <GO>}

And on the claims side of things, it was not just settlement, it was a claim that got
reported in this quarter. So it's an energy claim that happened late last year. It's nothing
really particularly unusual. And for something like that to take several months to come
through, that's quite common. It's just a little bit above our attritional levels, so that's
(21:40). In terms of whether there's anything else that can come through, we do have
some balances on our over years (21:46), you can see those in our supplement. We've got
some old political risk claims, energy claims and cat claims on there. There's always a
chance that something can develop adversely, and we do talk about that every quarter.
Our hope is that we've got a good reserve on there. And we'll see some favorable
developments, but sometimes things go the other way. We do take a long, hard look at
those every quarter in our reserve committee and decide what we think we need to
reserve on those books. And hopefully, it's all good there, but things can go against us.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

All right. Thank you.

Operator
We can now take our next question from Anna Hui from RBC. Please go ahead.

Page 8 of 9



Company N ame: L ancashire H oldings L td
Company Ticker: L RE L N Equity
Date: 2017-05-04

Q - Anna Hui

{BIO 19762795 <GO>}

Hello. Just one question on Kinesis. Can you give an indication of what level of property
commission we can expect through the rest of the year or have you taken it all now?
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Elaine Whelan

{BIO 17002364 <GO>}

We've taken most of that. There might be a little bit more that comes through over the
rest of this year. If you look at the property commission that we have for last year, I think
that should give you a kind of fairly good idea of the indication of the overall level. But –
and the vast majority of the collateral is released on this – the 1/1/16 underwriting year. So,
that's kind of done, and there will hopefully be something coming due on the 1/7/16
underwriting cycle, but it's a much smaller capital raise. There's much less than (23:10) so
it won't be very much.

Q - Anna Hui

{BIO 19762795 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We have no further question from the line at this time. So, I'd now like to turn the call back
to our host for any additional remarks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alexander Maloney

{BIO 16314494 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for your questions and we'll talk to you next quarter.

Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. Ladies
and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 9 of 9

