Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Christian Baltzer, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Gianandrea Roberti, Investor Relations Oﬃcer
Morten Hübbe, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Asbjørn Nicholas Mørk, Analyst
Ida Melvold Gjøsund, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jakob Brink, Analyst
Kim Bergoe, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Per Grønborg, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Equity Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Youdish Chicooree, Equity Research Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. This is Gianandrea Roberti, Head of Investor Relations at Tryg.
We published our full year results earlier on this morning. And I have here with me Group
CEO, Morten Hübbe; and Group CFO, Christian Baltzer to discuss the ﬁgures. So after a
few words, over to you, Morten.

Morten Hübbe
Thank you, Gian, and good morning to all of you. We will start on slide 3 with the full year
dividend per share of DKK 6.2, which is in line with our aim of slightly growing the
dividend per share annually. And of course, new this quarter is an extraordinary dividend
of DKK 1 billion or some DKK 3.5 per share, which corresponds to roughly 7.6% total yield.
New this quarter is also that we expect to start a quarterly dividend process from ﬁrst
quarter 2017, really to reinforce our focus on dividend. Our solvency margin is 194%, which
is after deducting the H2 dividends and also after deducting the extraordinary dividend.

Page 1 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

If we look at the results, we think they are overall satisfactory. Actually, as a curiosity, I think
the earnings per share is the highest we've ever had. But of course, substantially impacted
by the one-oﬀs in Q4 and also by a very high investment income.
If we look at the technical result at DKK 2.64 billion. That is an increase of slightly below
4% adjusting for one-oﬀs compared to the DKK 2.5 billion last year. What we see is that
there are areas still causing claims inﬂation and we expect for 2017 average price
increases of around 3%. For the year, we have an ROE in excess of 26% and of course,
impacted by the unusually high investment income and the one-oﬀs.
If we turn to slide 4, we show a satisfactory technical result of DKK 564 million compared
to last year, adjusted one-oﬀs. We saw in the quarter in isolation, a very high amount of
large claims, DKK 197 million compared to the normal DKK 137 million quarterly run rate.
We also had the storm Urd which caused DKK 60 million in the quarter. On the other
hand, we also saw one-oﬀ gains impacting some 6.7% to the combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think more importantly, we're seeing a gradual improvement in the underlying claims
ratio trend, although still slightly negative, it needs to further improve in 2017. That goes
both for the group and for Private. And then, we see a slight improvement in the pricing
trends for car and house both in Denmark and Norway. And then bear in mind, that
investment income in the quarter is boosted by this one-oﬀ property gain of DKK 500
million.
If we turn to slide 5, we see pretty stable development in NPS and retention. In NPS,
we've seen a strong improvement in Private lines, while we've seen a reduction in
Commercial lines. When we look at Tryg Plus products, we've seen slight improvements
with a underlying strong improvement in the Danish market and a slightly weaker
development in the Norwegian market. And of course, the stability of the retention rates
remains a very important part of our business model.
If we look at slide 6, we tried to show an overview of these moving parts and a
comparison on adjusted numbers. And of course, the moving one-oﬀ parts are both the
DKK 500 million positive on investment properties, the DKK 100 million negative on
goodwill write-down and then DKK 250 million negative on intangibles. So, net-net, DKK
150 million positive. And then we show also that in 2015, there was a negative one-oﬀ of
DKK 120 million related to savings plans. So they should really be added to the technical
result in 2015. That's how it comes to an adjusted year-on-year comparison, where the
pre-tax increases from DKK 2.4 billion to slightly above DKK 3 billion and the technical
result from roughly DKK 2.5 billion to a bit more than DKK 2.6 billion.
If we move to slide 8, we see a very positive trend on our top-line development in Q4. Q4
in isolation increases 1.7% in local currencies and the full year, 0.1% in local currencies. For
the quarter, it's clearly Private lines. And of course, the ﬁrst quarterly inclusion of the
Skandia portfolio helps the equation. And then, corporate Denmark also has a positive
trend.

Page 2 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

As I mentioned, very positive in Private lines with 1.3% growth in Q4 and particularly
Denmark, with a 2.7% growth in Q4 and 1.8% growth in the full year. I think Norway is
more challenged due to oil pricing and macro. But I think we see a number of structural
initiatives with a number of new products, new add-ons and new cross-sale solutions,
both in Denmark and Norway, which will further improve our distribution and top-line in
the coming year.
If we look at slide 9, we show an improved technical result in general in Q4. And Sweden,
bear in mind, the 2015 Q4 was impacted by a changed discounting model with a net
impact of around DKK 70 million.
If we look at slide 10, there's no doubt that generally we see a longer-term trend where
prices on car insurance have been going down due to lower risks. But as Christian will
revert to the – there are new trends on claims inﬂation in car. And we see here now an
improved trend in our Danish motor pricing compared to previous quarters. And also, we
see a slightly positive development in-house. So, an improved trend from Q3 to Q4 on
both products. And clearly, we see that as helpful going forward, impacted by conversion
of products but also that in some places customers buy more add-on covers.
If we look at slide 11, we see a very stable development in our retention rates that are
unchanged high. We see that there's a slight, slight drop in Private Denmark, and that was
actually expected as a result of the conversion where we change a very high number of
products.

Bloomberg Transcript

And over to you, Christian.

Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Thank you, Morten. And we're turning to slide 13 where we had explained the underlying
claims development for 2016 and the fourth quarter. We're happy to see that our
underlying development is moving along as expected. We see our Private line having the
slowdown in deterioration, and we expect Private lines in 2017 to start showing
improvement on the underlying claims ratio.
On Group level, we have also seen a slowdown in the deterioration coming from about
200 basis points the previous quarter, now down to 70 basis points. We expect that 2017
will show underlying improvements. And as Morten mentioned, the 3% price increases,
and our saving plans, will reinforce that improvement in our underlying development for
2017.
Turning to slide 14. As Morten alluded to, our motor insurance is, however, a very, very
proﬁtable line of business. We're starting to see a trend that is somewhat new the last
couple of years. We've mentioned it the previous quarters that the cost of repairing some
of the parts has been increasing. We've been mentioning the frequency coming up. And
now, we are showing that on our own numbers, where we are having at full year 2016,
comparing 2016 to 2014 on motor comprehensive, we're actually seeing a pick-up of
about 10% on the average cost per car, and this is for Denmark.
Page 3 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

I think it's important to keep in mind that we're still seeing motor MTPL, our liability part,
being slowing down, and actually still seeing improvement in that. But the comprehensive
is the reversal of that, and actually will give us an overall claims inﬂation on auto that we
need to be aware of, and need to mitigate by price increases and better procurement.
We have now shown these car sales for 2016, and basically, we're trying to show here that
as we don't see the micro, micro cars being on top, we are still seeing being the small
cars, being sold in Denmark. However, the portfolios of cars in Denmark are starting to
kind of show the same similarities, as it was last year. So, the average prices will not, going
forward, be as eﬀective as this mixed of cars as we have seen the previous years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think what one of the things we are trying to illustrate here is that Consumer Price Index
and inﬂation is not – and inﬂation on insurance is not the same. And if you turn to page 15,
we've tried to also allude to the fact that when you look at home insurance, then the
construction cost and home insurance does not tailor with the Consumer Price Index.
Actually, we, in Denmark, have seen for the last two years, that the wages on construction
has been around 4% to 5% increase annually. However, the total cost has been kept down
by lower material cost. It's a little bit the reversal in Norway, where the material cost has
been higher and the wages has been lower. This is predominantly been driven by an FX
rate in Norway.
I think what we're trying to illustrate here as we do our prognosis, and you do your
prognosis, it's important to understand that the Consumer Price Index and the average
inﬂation for an insurance portfolio is diﬀerent from the overall inﬂation that you have in the
market. And we've tried to illustrate on the top curve that the average cost in Denmark
has been increasing over the last couple of years, not necessarily the 1-to-1 comparison
with the Consumer Price Index. However, it does illustrate a continued growth in expenses
in the insurance market.
Turning to page 16, Morten has already mentioned some of the large claims and weather
claims, say that the fourth quarter has a higher level of large losses. However, 2016 is at a
low level. Weather claims, Morten mentioned Urd, still have a – coming in with a low level
of weather claims. So, in total, with the run-oﬀ we're seeing are somewhat comparable
level as in 2015 with the run-oﬀ.
If we're turning to page 17 with our eﬃciency program, I think, for us, eﬃciency and the
cost is our ﬁrst line of defense and will remain and continue to remain our strong focus to
run a very proﬁtable and very high eﬃciency operation. And 2016 has been a year where
we have been putting in a lot of initiatives, and invested a lot in initiatives to get our 2017
target of 14% or below. We do reiterate that our DKK 750 million target of 2017 are in
force, and it's, remember, DKK 500 million on the claims side, and DKK 250 million on
the cost.
I think that one thing to comment on this one is, also that a lot of our claims initiatives
actually are hitting prior year's claims cost. So, as you might not see them in the
underlying claims development at once, we're seeing it when we do our analysis on our

Page 4 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

prior year reserves that we are seeing a drop down, which is also why we are able to have
this higher level of run-oﬀ that we are seeing this year.
Page 18, we continue to show that our initiatives are bearing fruit both on the FTE side,
and if you adjust on our expenses, it is having the traction that we need to get our 2017
target of 14 or below. The cost on the business areas, are however, a little bit higher in this
quarter, but is aﬀected by the a lot of the initiatives that has been put forth in the business
areas.
Turning to page 20, with the investment return. As Morten mentioned, the investment
return in fourth quarter is highly aﬀected by the DKK 500 million property sales. In overall,
it's been a decent quarter for investments. We have seen the bond side reverse a little bit
from the prior quarters' high gains, and we remain having a low risk as a key factor in our
investment portfolio going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next slide, I will not comment to, but it's a detailing of some of our components in the
investment side. And I will turn to page 22 where we display our Solvency position. We're
posting a solid 194 Solvency ratio. As Morten mentioned, this is after deducting the
extraordinary dividend of DKK 1 billion and second half year 2016 dividend. We believe
that our fourth quarter – our quarterly dividend will actually stabilize our Solvency ratio
somewhat, since we will be gaining net results and paying out on our own funds more
continuously, and therefore, have a more stable progression in our Solvency ratio.
On the capital side, the only thing to highlight here is that we still have the DKK 207
million of Tier 2 debt that is not included in Own Funds. Other than that, there is not much
change to this compared to previous quarters.
And on page 24, there is a little bit of a detailing, or diving into the Tier 2, which is more
from a information perspective on what our Tier 2 components are made up of. And
again, on our Solvency ratio sensitivity, which is on page 25, we remain having a very low
sensitivity. The main sensitivity area is on our spread risk.
Back to you, Morten, for ﬁnal remarks.

Morten Hübbe
Yeah. Just one ﬁnal remarks on slide 26, where we reiterate our ﬁnancial targets of 2017,
which is an ROE at or above 21% post-tax; combined ratio at or below 87%, and actually,
an expense ratio at or below 14%. As you know, we have initiated general price changes
of around 3%, and speciﬁcally for property and travel, initiated both claims initiatives and
price changes to manage and mitigate the higher claims inﬂation.
It takes some time before that is fully implemented. We have seen the improved trends
during 2016. And we expect some quarters before that trends into an actually a positive
underlying year-on-year development, but we do expect to see net underlying
improvement in the full year 2017.

Page 5 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

We continue to expect the top line growth between zero and 2% in 2017, which is both,
due to the price changes, I mentioned. The inclusion of the Skandia child insurance
portfolio, but also, we see that we have an improved trend in our sales development,
particularly in our Danish business as the membership bonus is starting to slightly help
the Danish business. So, in general, we think that for 2017, Denmark will pull up the
growth, and Norway will slightly pull down the growth.
And with that, I think we should revert to your questions.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And our ﬁrst question comes from Ida Gjøsund from Carnegie. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open. Ida, your line is now open. You may go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ida Melvold Gjøsund
Yes. Good morning. Three questions from my side. Firstly, you expect the growth in gross
premium income of zero to 2% in local currencies in 2017. As you today announced further
price increases for 2017, I was wondering if you could specify what the other components
of your growth expectations are? And if there are any negatives embedded in the
guidance? You mentioned Norway, could you please specify this a bit more, and
especially compared to your old guidance of growing in line with GDP? And furthermore,
in relation to my ﬁrst question, how does the acquisition of FDM aﬀect growth
expectations? And what assumption have you put in here for cross-selling? And third, it's
about Solvency ratio. Yesterday, you announced that you acquired the FDM insurance
portfolio, what will the impact be on the Solvency ratio? Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning to you. And if I take the ﬁrst two questions. I think, ﬁrst of all, that with
respect to the zero to 2% local currency growth expectation versus the price changes, we
do see a negative impact in Norway, that as we've seen the lower oil price, we've seen
lower economic activity which results in, particularly, a number of Commercial and
Corporate customers having fewer employees, having fewer lorries and vans, and having
lower production, and that caused a volume-wise negative development on the
Norwegian numbers. And I think, if you look at 2016, you can clearly see a trend where all
three Danish business areas are improving their top line growth, whereas, all three
Norwegian business areas are doing the opposite, and that is a trend that is likely to
continue in 2017. And that is the main logic impacting our longer term view of GDP-type
growth levels are unchanged.
And when it comes to FDM, please bear in mind, one, that is a very positive opportunity
for us to work with the strongest motor association entity in the Danish market, and
together, we can do a number of positive new solutions in motor and related areas. I think
that is long-term very positive. I think, bear in mind, that the agreement starts 1st of
January 2018, and not 2017. So, it will not impact the 2017 growth areas. And to be honest,

Page 6 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

I think it's too early to communicate how it will impact 2018 growth. I think we should take
that dialogue as we come further into 2017.

FINAL

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Yeah. And similar to the Solvency ratio, I think let's come back to that when we come
closer to the actual takeover date. Bear in mind, that we do have our Tier 2 capital where
we haven't fully used. So, kind of let's get closer to the takeover date, and we'll revert and
tell you the full impact on our numbers.

Q - Ida Melvold Gjøsund
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of In-Yong Hwang from Goldman
Sachs. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good morning. Thank you very much for taking my question. Just two from me. Firstly,
on the 3% price increases that you're putting through in 2017, the impression I got was
that your competitors don't have the same view in terms of price increases, or they're not
increasing price as much as you. Is that still the case, when you look at the market? And
just how kind of easy will that to be to do for you in a market where your competitors are
seemingly quite happy with their proﬁtability, even with slightly rising claims inﬂation?
And second question is on reserve releases. I think, Christian, you mentioned that some of
the higher reserve releases we're seeing at the moment is as a result of the eﬃciency
initiatives. Is there any kind of quantiﬁcation or numbers you can give around that at all, or
just a feel of how much of the excess of 2.5% to 3% normalized level is from those
initiatives? Thank you very much.

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning, to you as well, In-Yong. I think when it comes to the 3% price increase for
2017, you're posing the right question. I think when it comes to Norway, we're doing
roughly the same as the market, and I think the general competition is doing the same.
And to many extents, Gjensidige is driving the development in Norway more than us. So, I
don't think that's a worry point.
I think in Denmark, you can argue that the transparency of the motor claims trend, i.e., the
higher frequency of claims, i.e., the higher repair costs, I don't think that has been
generally seen and understood by the Danish players yet. So, I think to some extent, we
are, perhaps, an early mover there. But, I think on the other hand, these are trends that
the industry will end-up seeing, and sometimes the biggest players need to see it ﬁrst.

Page 7 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

I think if you follow the quarterly announcements also of our Danish competitors, there
has been more voicing about challenges with frequency in claims trends, in travel and
house insurance and property towards the autumn of 2016 by our Danish peers. So, there
we seem to be experiencing the same trends, and I think that is comforting for us to know
that our peers are seeing the same challenge in Denmark. So all-in-all, I think we should
be okay in that area, and I think the development in customer retention and in top line in
Denmark conﬁrms that this is moving in the right direction.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Yeah, I'll take the other question. With respect to how much our eﬃciency program hits
the previous year's claims, we're not that speciﬁc. However, if you look at some of the
initiatives we have, for example, focusing on helping injured policyholders back to work,
that's very often policyholders or injured people that's been injured for a couple of years
where we try to get them back. And this will deﬁnitely aﬀect our workers comp reserves as
we see and get beneﬁt of that to a larger extent. But an actual number of how much of it
goes to one or the other is not really something we disclose, but we just see that our
initiatives are aﬀecting our reserves, and therefore, also giving us the opportunity to
release more this year.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul De'Ath from RBC. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yeah. Hi, there, and a couple of things for me as well. And ﬁrstly, on the dividend
changes, and change for the special rather than buyback and also quarterly dividends.
Can you give anymore kind of feeling as to why you've made those changes, and why
now, I guess, and why shift from a buyback to a special at this point, that would be
interesting. And then the second thing was just on the M&A strategy. So, obviously, the
FDM transaction that you announced yesterday, just be good to hear your sort of thinking
on where you are in terms of M&A, are you looking at other things, and is there any
particular regions where you feel like you would want to add to the business going
forward? That will be great. Thanks.

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning to you as well. I think on the matter of dividends and the changes there, I
guess in many ways we're sort of taking the next natural steps on a road that we've
already been embarking upon. I think for us, as a management seem, the fact that we
have a high payout and high transparency on the payouts is the most important, the mix
between the methodology is perhaps less important for us.

Page 8 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

But what we've seen is that when we changed last year from annual dividends to semiannual dividends, we saw a lot of our investors being very positive towards that, and we
see that a lot of income investors, both by the large institutional, but also by private
investors have a very, very high focus on dividends in an interest rate environment where
we are at depressingly low levels. So, I think to move from half year dividends to quarterly
dividend was the natural next progression.
When it comes to whether we use buybacks or special dividends, we've had dialogs with
investors to try to grasp whether the preference has changed. I don't think you will never,
ever get a uniform answer, but we are sensing that more of our investors are leaning more
towards special dividends. And we also see that with the current share price, we're going
to buying back shares at high multiples, and that was a preference for our shareholders to
get dividends instead. We're seeing that as a natural next-step. The 60% shareholder is
indiﬀerent, so they have no view, or no inﬂuence at all. So, we've generally been asking
the other minority shareholders, and that is the preference they have signaled.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think when we look at the M&A strategy, it's clear for us that with an ROE target of 21%
post-tax, and with the combined ratio target we have, we don't really have room to make
the wrong M&A acquisitions, and that gives us the discipline we should have. I think if you
look at the recent acquisitions, there's a link between the ﬁnancials and hitting returns that
supports the Group returns, and also to the future of developing our products and our
business.
We purchased the children's portfolio in Sweden, which allowed us to make a strong
proﬁt in Sweden, which will help 2017. And also, at the same time, take the children's
portfolio to the Danish market. We introduced that two months ago. We've already sold
5,000 new policies that will continue in 2017. So, in a way, we have purchased both,
portfolio and earnings, but also a R&D pick-up, if you will, and an opportunity to bring that
to our largest market.
When it comes to FDM, there's no doubt that motor is undergoing tremendous change in
the coming years. And for us to work with the largest and most competent institution on
motor, makes a lot of sense and to bring changes to the market, while at the same time
taking over a portfolio with strong proﬁtability and stability.
I think when we look into the future, there is not a lot for sale in the Nordic region. So, I
would not expect any high number of M&A transactions, but we are scanning the market
continuously. And item number one, looking for opportunities to support our Group
earnings and returns. And two, seeing are there areas where we can add to our product
competence and bringing new products to our existing portfolio and strengthen the
business through that.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Excellent. Thanks very much.

Operator
Page 9 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Per Grønborg from SEB. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.

FINAL

Q - Per Grønborg
Yes. Good morning. Also, a couple of questions from my side. First, related to your
country result for Norway, excluding prior year gains, we are now past 100 in combined
ratio. I know it is Q4, but it seems like you're seeing a continuous strong deterioration of
your proﬁtability in Norway. Can you put some words on what's happening in Norway,
what potentially can't be done going forward in Norway? That was my ﬁrst question.

A - Morten Hübbe
The second question? We can speak with answers.

Q - Per Grønborg
Yes, we can take two more questions. And then the next one, the Solvency ratio at 194,
you say that your capital structure forces you to be disciplined on capital. If this is a level
we should expect going forward that you want your Solvency ratio to be closer to 200, or
wouldn't there – weren't there – or is that the FDM deal that absorbs capital that you're
basically taking into account already now? And my ﬁnal question is, you used to talk
about a 7% margin on your case reserves. Is that still the reserving level you are doing in
margin when you're doing those (33:18) reserves? That was my three questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning to you as well, Per. If I take the ﬁrst question, I think that that you're right
that the pre run-oﬀ combined ratio in Norway in Q4 is unusually high. We've seen an
unusually high number of large claims in Norway in Q4. And we saw DKK 128 million in
Corporate, Norway. We saw DKK 32 million in Commercial SME, Norway. And put
together, that is a very unusually high combination in one quarter in Norway alone, and
these two business segments. So, I think a bit more ﬂuctuation and volatility than
structural.
But having said that, we do see that the combined ratio is particularly in Corporate
Norway seem to generally be too high. We've had challenges with the bigger
Commercial lorry and particular the bus segment, where we have reduced our exposure
signiﬁcantly 1st of January and let go of a number of customers. And then we see that
property segment needs higher rates and higher prices to make sure that there's enough
to capture the larger claims. And then we need to make sure that there's nothing
structural in these larger claims. But it seems to be more a stochastic thing than a
structural thing. I think letting go of some of these bus customers, for instance, that is
where we see a structural issue, and properties where we've been pushing slightly higher
rates 1st of January.

Q - Per Grønborg
Yeah.

Page 10 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning, Per. On the Solvency ratio question, you're absolutely right, 194 is very
comfortable level for company to run their insurance business at, and we're very happy to
have that kind of comfortability in our future earnings potential also. I think we have not
commented on our long-term target. I think we have commented that we see it at a high
level and it will be coming down likely over the coming years, but not to what level it will
come to.
With respect to your claims reserves and the 7% that you are mentioning, I believe that
previously it had been communicated that when we look at the end of the year, we see
how much of reserves we have, and we multiply that with a 7%. Bear in mind that oﬀ our
posting of claims at the end of the year, half of it is reserves and half of it is paid claims.
So, that gets a little bit complicated, and if you kind of like zoom out a little bit, it means
that on an annual basis about 2.5 percentage points to 3 percentage points of our current
year combined ratio is for future run-oﬀs. So, it's more 2.5% to 3% that we set aside
annually for future run-oﬀ. So, the long-term run-oﬀ target is still at the 2.5% to 3%.

Q - Per Grønborg

Bloomberg Transcript

Back to Norway, when I look at your performance versus the largest player in the market,
measuring your own 12-month rolling basis, already ahead of this Q4 report, your
combined ratio ex-prior year gains is now some 13.5 (36:32) percentage points worser
than Gjensidige. This does not seem to me like being stochastic at being a single quarter.
There seems to be a signiﬁcant deterioration we have seen over, especially the last two
years. If we go two years back, you were largely aligned with Gjensidige both on headline
combined ratio and combined ratio ex prior gains.

A - Morten Hübbe
I wasn't aware that your question was a Gjensidige comparison. But if we make that
comparison, which I think makes perfect sense, Per, there is no doubt that if you look at
the Norwegian market for the past three years or so, Gjensidige has been pushing out
signiﬁcantly higher price increases than everyone else. If the markets been doing 3%, they
seem to have been doing 5%, et cetera. And it seems that they are (37:19) is now so well
built into the market that it allows them to do that.
So, I think, clearly that in Norway, Gjensidige is in a league of their own when it comes to
ability to surprise and ability to help the year-on-year underlying development. And I
think, we can only hope that we can have similar advantages in our Danish bonus scheme.
And I think, if you look at the combination of Norwegian macro and the current claims
trends, I think that our expectations for the coming years is that we will see stronger
improvement, both top-line and bottom-line in the Danish market, and then we will have
to work a lot harder for that in the Norwegian market.
I think DKK 160 million large claims in Commercial and Corporate Norway in one quarter
is statistically unusual. But that's another story, that's the quarterly story.

Q - Per Grønborg
Page 11 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Our next question comes from Asbjørn Mørk from Danske Bank (38:36).
Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Asbjørn Nicholas Mørk
Yes. Good morning. Four questions from my side. The ﬁrst, getting back to the one-oﬀ
gains, the 7% level now, the 2.5% to 3% level that you're guiding for, I know that there's a
lot of uncertainties and unknowns relating to workers compensation, but could you just
maybe give us a little bit on how you see the sort of the impact going forward on an
annual basis and when will this sort of normalize? That was my ﬁrst question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second question on your motor insurance. If I understood you correct, Morten, you said
that the price hikes for next year – of this year (39:15) will be mainly within travel and
property. If I look at your combined ratios, we see a deterioration in TPL in 2016 versus
2015, but lastly unchanged on the comprehensive. And I'm thinking if we look at slide 14,
it seems like both claims and the price – so, frequency and the price for claim is
increasing. So, is this sort of a negative spill over into 2017, all things equal or do you think
that we should expect this to be largely unchanged?
Then on your retention, Morten, you said that the customer dividend is bound to show an
improving eﬀect. But if we look at slide number 11, it doesn't really seem like your
retention rate is improving, at least, not in the retail segment. So, is this just too early to
really see this in the numbers or how should we look at this?
And then my ﬁnal question on weather-related claims from Urd, DKK 60 million, how
much of this is – how much is the impact from the storm council? How much have they
covered here or how much is taken by your sideways reinsurance? Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
If Christian takes the ﬁrst and the last question, I'm can take the two middle one.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Morten. The run-oﬀ being at 7% and the journey towards the 2.5% to 3%
is not something we have communicated very clearly. I think you will see a gradual
slowdown of the run-oﬀ over the next coming years. I think what we have internally
thought would be a good communication would be when we have our Capital Market
Day at the end of 2017, we will show more clarity to the future run-oﬀ. But it will not be a
cliﬀ to dive oﬀ and our biggest goal is to make sure that we actually keep up our earnings
to subsidize for potential drop oﬀ in run-oﬀ.
If I should take the last one as a second question, the weather claim up to DKK 60 million
from Urd is our cost. The storm council's claims are not included in these numbers

Page 12 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

whatsoever. They kind of go on a separate account so to speak. So, there's no reinsurance
coverage or sideways coverage in this and it's actually our – more or less our gross eﬀect
of the storm that hit both Denmark, Norway and a little bit of Sweden also, yeah.

FINAL

A - Morten Hübbe
And to your second question on motor and pricing in travel and property, I perhaps could
be more precise on my wording there. Bear in mind that there is a two-year time gap from
when we initiate the price change until we hit all customers, which takes a year. And then,
we get the full earn impact of that, which hits the P&L, which takes another year. So, my
comment on travel and property was mainly that we did a large number of price changes
in 2016 on travel and property, but then, it then takes the full circle of time before that
impacts, so that will be a signiﬁcant driver on the P&L in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

When it comes to the rest of the price changes, the 3% is an average number and we did
price changes to motor in 2016, and that we are doing price changes also in 2017. And
that is also why you saw in the graph of average pricing in motor that the trend improved
from Q3 to Q4. So, we cannot aﬀord only to do price changes in a few products, we're
actually doing it more broadly to the portfolio. And then, on top of that, we are doing a
number of claims handling initiatives to massage down the claims and to try to avoid
them happening altogether.
So, we've been working during the autumn with specialized teams on sewerage and sites
pipes claims. We've been working with the specialized team on jewelry claims. We are
testing new methodology in Sweden on bringing down the frequency of motor claims et
cetera. So, broad 3% on the general products, the time gap and two-year process and
then a lot of processes to bring down the claims frequency.
When it comes to the retention and the question of the Danish membership bonus. I
think, it's fair to say that that the Danish corporate customers are starting to be aware of it.
We've seen a good growth in Q4 in Corporate Denmark. I think it's too early days for
Private and Commercial, but I think we're looking at sort of two opposite movements here
because in the retail segment Denmark, we have now been doing 500,000 to 600,000
policy conversions. And every time we convert all products to new products for existing
customers, some of them end up leaving us. And despite that we've seen a stable
retention rate.
So, I think, in isolation, the conversion should have reduced the retention rate. But we are
only seeing a very, very, very marginal reduction, although stable scenario. And we can
also speculate that that is the early helping hand from the bonus scheme. But I think we
should repeat that majority of the awareness and the advantage of that is ahead of us. It
took Gjensidige, what, three, four years to start to get the positive improvement from that.
And we are still only less than a year into the program.
And then just to give you a little add-on, Asbjørn, you asked a little bit to our – the notes
where we show comprehensive auto and MTPO (45:30) development. Bear in mind that
the numbers that are back there is more aggregated and is also on both Denmark,
Norway and Sweden. And the numbers that we display on page 14 is where we have
Page 13 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

actually zoomed down and try to take all variations apart and see what is the true
comprehensive development on the last three years. So, analytically, the numbers on
page 14 is accurate. And from an accounting perspective, you will see that there is a little
bit of ﬂuctuation back and forth on the note that's back in the annual report.

FINAL

Q - Asbjørn Nicholas Mørk
Okay. If I can just follow up then. If the frequencies continue, if they don't improve with the
mitigation that you're taking now, would that, all things equal, lead to higher combined
ratios or would the price hikes that you have done now and have in the pipeline, will they
be enough to sort of oﬀset the current slate?

A - Morten Hübbe
The frequency that we are alluding to is mostly also on the auto side. So, if we talk about
auto and frequency, if the frequency continues to increase 10-percentage point over the
next two years, I hope not because a lot of people will then get their cars hit, but if so,
then we will have to take mitigation on the pricing side.

Bloomberg Transcript

We don't expect that to happen. But as more cars do come out on the road, it is a natural
event that more people bump into each other. Just, I think for the last two years, about
6.3% more cars are on the Danish roads. So, that's where some of this frequency is
coming from.
Now on the homeowners' side, I think that – I'll say that if the claims is more under control
there and I think also on the frequency side, we're seeing a tailing oﬀ on some of that risk.
So, it's more stability and it's more something that we have a better hands-on control of
than how many cars on the road and bumping into each other, where that frequency is a
little bit more out of our hands, I would say.
And then, I guess, you're going to argue that longer term, it would be logic if we
gradually saw higher earnings in homeowners and concerns (47:42) and travel and slightly
less earnings in motor. So, there could be sort of a more longer-term recalibration
between those products. So, I guess it's both dependent upon the – in isolation,
continued frequency development in motor, and then how much that the market allows
us to recalibrate earnings split between the products.

Q - Asbjørn Nicholas Mørk
Okay. That was very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Youdish Chicooree from
Autonomous. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Page 14 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

Good morning, everyone. I've got two questions. The ﬁrst one is on the member bonus, I
was just wondering whether your extraordinary dividend would be treated the same way
as an ordinary dividend, i.e., potentially increasing the members' bonus to 15%, 16% this
year.
And secondly, I was wondering if you think it's realistic to expect an improvement in the
underlying combined ratio when Commercial lines is still increasing year-on-year. Thank
you.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Good morning to you. I think that with respect to the member bonus, the cash that
TryghedsGruppen is getting out of this is the same, whether or not we do dividend or
buyback. When we did the buyback, the TryghedsGruppen is doing a similar buyback
program, so they were getting the similar kind of cash in their account, so to speak.
On the underlying with Commercial, you're right that we upped their four areas, we do
see the underlying on Commercial being a more deterioration, however, coming from a
very attractive level. I think that our initiative, both structurally and also in our
underwriting, that are going improve that underlying development but we have not seen
that tail oﬀ as we have seen in Private yet.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Morten Hübbe
I guess we can add to question that that structurally our SME portfolio is not as strong as
our Private lines portfolio. So, whether it comes to top-line development in the coming
years or it comes to underlying development in the claims, I would expect that Private
lines will develop better than Commercial lines. And that in Commercial lines, we will be
more challenged and really that sort of making our Commercial SME portfolio as strong
as possible. That is more of a several year journey. So, clearly Private lines will lead the
way.

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Okay. Fine. So, basically what you're saying is, irrespective of the weakness in
Commercial, you are fairly conﬁdent that this year at a group level we should see this
improvement in the underlying combined ratio.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

I think that when we are talking about underlying improvement, we are very much talking
about Private line because we feel there there's...

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Yeah. It's okay.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Page 15 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

It's more, non-volatile so to speak. There is less ﬂuctuation, whereas as we saw in third
quarter, a lot of mid-sized claims can all of a sudden give us a volatility in one or another
direction. But overall, we would see when we probably look at full year 2017 versus full
year 2016, that the underlying development on the group level would be improvement
also. But I think, when we reiterate very ﬁrmly that we believe underlying improvement
especially on the Private segment, that we want to see this where the volatility is the least.

Q - Youdish Chicooree

{BIO 17430923 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jakob Brink from ABG. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Sorry to come back, but on Asbjørn's questions on premiums and what you
have built in and also the claims inﬂation on motor versus price increase, just to make
sure. So basically what are you saying is we're going to see or we are seeing higher claims
inﬂation on motor, you have increased prices slightly and we should expect a slightly
deterioration of the motor combined ratio. Is that correct or did I misunderstand?
My second question is on the expense ratio. I might be wrong here, but historically, I think
it sounded like getting to 14% was quite a task. Since you initiated or gave us that target of
14.0% or lower, you've got this ﬁnancial section mentioned it as well in the report, there's
also been some lower amortization of intangibles, obviously. But then you have to pay
rent of your headquarters. How is all this going to impact the expense ratio and why is it
you can still keep 14%, what has improved?
And then ﬁnally on the one-oﬀ gains, also coming back to that. Just to make sure I
understand this stuﬀ with these. So basically, now, you obviously know that your
underlying claims should improve due to all eﬃciency measures, are you taking that into
consideration when you actually set the price? Or are you setting the price as if you didn't
know those eﬃciency gains would come then you get positively surprised at the 2017
again? Those were my questions. Thanks.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Should I take – Morten...

A - Morten Hübbe
Yeah. Yeah.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

...you can just chime in. I think on the – well, let's take the last one ﬁrst. On the run-oﬀ
gains and prices, I think we've previously said that the eﬃciency program that we put in
Page 16 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

place, half of it is going to go to the customers and half of it is going to our owners. I think
that when we do our prognosis for next year and look at price levels, we do take into
consideration how much do we believe we're going to get for current year in eﬃciency
gains. And thereby, you can say, either increasing prices more or less compared to how
much eﬃciency gains we do get. But there are some of the eﬃciency gains or
procurements that we kind of maybe low ball a little bit in our prognosis and then, if it
comes through 100%, we kind of get a pleasant surprise so to speak.
On the 14% expense ratio, you're right that we have to pay more rent. But bear in mind
that before we had a 0.2% add on to our expense ratio, there was kind of this accounting
rent perspective and the lower intangible write-oﬀs, some of those three are actually
going to give us a zero more or less. And then, you also have the Norwegian tax that you
have to put into that equation and that, the sum of these four are basically going to give
us a zero eﬀect.
So, those are kind of the initiatives that we put in place, so to speak, to make sure that we
can meet our 14% target.

A - Morten Hübbe

Bloomberg Transcript

But there's no doubt, Jakob, then that we have a million questions from our organization
on why should we deliver something higher than 14% because of all these terrible things
that are headed our way. But the reality is that that when you set a target like that, it is not
a linear process where you can predict everything. I think, when we initially set that target,
we probably thought that the macro in Norway would be better, so top-line would be
better.
So, a number of times we've had to install tougher initiatives than planned to reach the
14%. But what we're basically saying is that that our determination to deliver the 14% is so
strong that is beyond question. And also, we think, in the future, a more digital world,
eﬃciency is a main issue. And I think, if you're positioned in a place where you have too
high cost ratios, I think, you will be struggling with future competition. So, it is tough, but
we expect to reach it.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

And Jakob, back to your ﬁrst question which was on auto and the expectation of
underlying development or combined ratios from auto. I think that we are probably
seeing now 10 years in a row where the claims ratio in auto has been coming down slowly.
And the prior year 2016 has been the ﬁrst year where we've seen a slight tick up in the
auto combined ratio.
So we do believe that the price increases that we have, we do believe that our tariﬀs are
adjusted for the new technology. We do believe that all these things are in line that we
will not see that deterioration. But as I mentioned before, we are not in control of how
many cars actually are on the road. And if the frequency does increase, that will probably
come, not necessarily as a surprise, but will mean that we will need to reinforce more
price increases.

Page 17 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. Just one follow-up, if I may, under run-oﬀ gain, sorry, you used to say a few years
ago, you told us – after every full year report, you told us if the reserves were stronger or
weaker than the year before. I don't know if you can give us any detail from that, please.

FINAL

A - Morten Hübbe
Well, I guess, it goes without saying that when we go back a couple of years when we did
the Capital Markets Day discussion on run-oﬀs, we were in a position where authorities
were saying to us, your total margin is so high that we cannot accept that it's higher. So
that is why at the Capital Markets Day, we very openly communicated a plan to gradually
take down our total margins slightly and, as a result of that, have higher run-oﬀ gains than
normal for a number of years, and then, trend towards something more sustainable long
term. So as a natural result of that, we are taking down slightly our – or gradually our
reserving margin completely in line with that communication.
Then having said that, some of the oldest reserves are 20 years old. So this is not a linear
exercise. There are tons of moving parts every single quarter. But we are gradually taking
down our total reserving margin, as we communicated in 2014 at the CMD.

Bloomberg Transcript

The tricky question is, of course, when does it hit a more longer term trend? And as
Christian said, we will elaborate on that later during the autumn to give you some more
guidance on how to see that in the sort of next three-year, four-year, ﬁve-year time
horizon.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. Many thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca.
Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Thank you. So I think I'm seeking some clariﬁcation which IR team has
already been helpful about, but just some more thoughts from you, please. On the rate of
the improvement of the underlying loss ratio we saw in the fourth quarter versus the
previous quarters in the year, now, we've also seen that there was a restatement upwards
for the 4Q 2015 underlying loss ratio, which I understand is due to the EIOPA curve
introduction.
And is it a fair comment that, excluding this restatement, if you like, the rate of change was
not very diﬀerent from 1Q, 2Q and 3Q? And I appreciate that in private lines, maybe the
EIOPA curve discount would not have had that much of an impact, but if any thoughts on
this? And the reason I ask you because is it also a safe assumption that 1Q 2016 onwards,

Page 18 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

the EIOPA curve was already in place, so the trends should now be less prone to some
restatement like this? That would be the ﬁrst question.
The second question is that on your comments on the customer dividend model. So
would you be able to update us if there are any change on or what's the view of the
Foundation on supporting this propaganda to the customers that there is a customer
dividend to be had? Is the Foundation taking any more expenses or anything? Thank you
very much.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Good morning. We're just laughing at the word propaganda, sorry about that. Back to be
more serious, the rate of improvement of our underlying going back (01:00:21) to our
private lines for Denmark and Norway, this is where we'll see – we're seeing somewhat of
a smoothing of the deterioration, and we believe that it's going to be improving
somewhat during 2017. We haven't communicated out any rate of improvement, but I
think we would like to get back to the levels that we have been at before. So we will be
working gradually to get back to those underlying levels.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to the EIOPA curves and the technicalities, I think in that equation is also
some of the Swedish discounting cash ﬂows that was being used in 2015 that has
changed for 2016. I think when you add it all up, deterioration on group level still have
had an improvement in the overall deterioration. And as I mentioned, our primary focus is
on the private lines in Private Denmark and Norway.
And the propaganda Foundation question to you.

A - Morten Hübbe
I think you meant communication, Vinit. But for those of you that are closer to Denmark,
what has happened during 2016 is that we've started both a clear communication on the
customer, membership dividend model or bonus model. But also, towards the end of the
year, we've started communicating more clearly what we call the family story, i.e., more
communication on what does the Tryg Foundation do in terms of saving lives, doing good
for the public welfare in Denmark, et cetera, and how you as a customer in Tryg in
Denmark is supporting and driving that.
We have agreed with TryghedsGruppen for a four-year plan where we will both increase
communication on membership bonus, hopefully, to the positive beneﬁt of both current
customers and new customers. And also, we will increase communication and exposure
of the family story, and hopefully, the understanding for customers and members of how
they support doing good for Danish society.
And I think both are very positive, because we see that the customers of ours who
understand the bonus link and the family and the Foundation link are more loyal
customers who stay longer and they're more satisﬁed. So I think I'm very happy that we
have now a four-year plan to communicate both to the Danish society and customers, on
a continuous basis, because I think (01:03:07) journey in Norway showed the need to do
Page 19 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

this over a longer period of time so that customers and society truly understands and
appreciates.

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

All right. Thank you. Sorry for the use of the word propaganda, just to highlight the
intensity needed to reach out to the customers who don't seem to be realizing that a
check coming in every year. Anyways, thank you and I appreciate that.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Kim Bergoe from Nordea. Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.

Q - Kim Bergoe

{BIO 3842288 <GO>}

Good morning. Just a couple of questions from me. One, about the FDM deal that you
announced yesterday. I know that we are going to get some more details on that later in
the year, but more generally, this kind of sort of aﬃnity or portfolio-type deals, I mean how
do they sort of stack up? Is that something that you're going to be pursuing more often?
And also, given that I mean their result of a bidding process in this company, how should
we think about proﬁtability in that kind of deal?

Bloomberg Transcript

And my second question is just really to just sort of conﬁrm in terms of the large claims in
this quarter that it is just volatility, there is no sort of underlying in that sort of trend. I
understand that most of it is generated in Norway. Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
Good morning, Kim, as well. I think FDM is unusual in the sense that it has both a portfolio
element, so a strong starting portfolio with strong earnings and strong loyalty. So that
allows us to see strong longer term proﬁtability to contribute to the group earnings
target. And then, it has the partnership aﬃnity (01:04:54) element, and then, it has – and
it's only around 20% of the membership base that is penetrated so far, so there's lots of
potential there.
And then, it has the very clear third element, which is also diﬃcult to quantify, which is all
of the moving parts around motor, because motor is going to change tremendously over
a number of years, and for us, to have a strong cooperation with a strong institution on
motor and creating new solutions together, I think, reinforces our ability to have longer
term strong position in motor.
But I think that rather large starting portfolio gives a strong starting point from a
proﬁtability point of view and with our cost ratio levels and our setup, we believe that we
can drive a strong proﬁt from that, grow it with a larger penetration of that database, and
then, bring new solutions on motor to the market. So all-in-all, our assessment is that that
adds both to the earnings targets of the group, but also to the longer term positioning of
the group and our growth as well.

Page 20 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Kim, on the large claims, I think that we will see volatility for large claim. There are no
underlying diﬀerence in our underwriting or the kind of portfolios that we have. I think
you have to think of the large claim as being on average about DKK 130 million, DKK 140
million every quarter. And some quarters, we are around the DKK 200 million and some
we are lower. Large claims need to be looked at an average over a couple of years and to
see that there's no picking up trend. And I think when you look at the last four years of
large claims, I think it's clear that there's no kind of upward trend in our large claims on a
group level.

A - Morten Hübbe
And I think maybe just one ﬁnal comment on FDM. I think you managed to use the word
auctioning or bidding. This wasn't a process with the current supplier and us, and no one
else. It was not a...

Q - Kim Bergoe

{BIO 3842288 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Morten Hübbe
...a bidding process, just to clarify.

Q - Kim Bergoe

{BIO 3842288 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you, Morten.

Operator
Thank you. We have a question from the line of Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go
ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Just a couple of questions, I think. Can you just remind me on
the gain on the sale of properties, what are you going to be investing the proceeds into, I
mean, which asset class of these funds going to go into going forward?
Secondly, you have a slide in the presentation that says 3% claims inﬂation in 2015 by the
Danish FSA. Could you tell us what the claims inﬂation for Tryg was in 2016 and what level
of claims inﬂation you're expecting in 2017 as well? I'm assuming it's quite close to the 3%
price increases that you're expecting for 2017 as well.
And then, just ﬁnally, could you let us know whether your average tax rate, the guidance
you provided, stood around 22%, 23% on an annual basis, please? Thank you.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

Page 21 of 23



Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

FINAL

Yeah. I think those questions are more or less for me and (01:08:20) Morten can sit back
and relax here. On the investment side, you said the DKK 500 million that we gain in our
property sales for some of these properties in Copenhagen, we're going to reinvest it
back into our portfolio with the same spread as we have had before. Right now, when you
look at the investment portfolio, it shows 21% in property. That will come down so that we
are at the 17% to 19% range, which is where we want to be on property.
The type of property investment that we'll be doing is more into property funds where
we'll see a little bit more, is a volatility from that versus just owning the buildings
themselves. So we have to kind of get used to maybe a little bit more, but it's again much
more diversiﬁed and a much more liquid asset to have compared to be previously, which
is what we are striving for.
On the claims inﬂation, I would say that there's no really exact sign of what claims inﬂation
is or has been, because it's everything from frequency to severity that that's building into
this. I think our guesstimate has been that the claims inﬂation for 2016 has been a tad
lower than the 3% price increases that we have been carrying through. And in 2017, we
are prognosing a 2%, 2.5% inﬂation and we will hope or we expect that the 3% price
increases are going to give us that extra underlying improvement. But this is not a
necessarily exact science on inﬂation, but it's our best estimates of how our portfolio is
moving along.
Then your last question was on the – I mean I'm sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

On the tax rate.

A - Christian Baltzer

{BIO 19705595 <GO>}

On the tax rate, yeah, sorry. So the tax rate going forward is between 22% to 23% is our
overall aim, and this 30% tax rate that we had in Q4 is a residual of the ﬁrst three quarters
where we had expected a lower tax rate than what the year ended up being.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. That concludes our Q&A session. So I'll hand back to the speakers for any
closing remarks.

A - Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks a lot for today's call. As you know, we'll be around today in Copenhagen
and then next week in London and other cities. So hopefully, see you there and if you
have any other things, just send us an email or call. Thanks.

Page 22 of 23



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Tryg A/S
Company Ticker: TRYG DC Equity
Date: 2017-01-20

Page 23 of 23

