Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernie Hickman, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Insurance
Chris Knight, Managing Director, Legal & General Retirement, Retail Customer Division
Kerrigan Procter, Managing Director, Legal & General Retirement
Mark J. Gregory, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director
Mark Joseph Zinkula, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Investment
Management
Nigel D. Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody, and thank you for coming to our Annual Results Presentation
for 2016. As you moved through our building this morning to the presentation, you will
have seen many powerful authentic images of what we're achieving at Legal & General,
such as our backdrop which is our regeneration of Cardiff. Technology and scientific
developments are the most exciting for 150 years. And yet never has there been so much
money available to invest so cheaply priced and yet so poorly used.
We are indeed in the second machine age or the fourth industrial age. There are so many
great opportunities to grow and so few that are being seized. We, at Legal & General,
find it inspiring to see that in the UK that the cup of entrepreneurial spirits amongst our
talented millennials within our great universities and cities is overflowing with commercial
ideas. Now is the time to support ambition and innovation by having the confidence to
invest our ways to growth, including converting our many, many start-ups into scale-ups.

Page 1 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

Legal & General has indeed stepped up as our results demonstrate. First of all, a couple
of bits of housekeeping. Here are the usual forward-looking statements. Please switch off
mobiles. And if there's a fire alarm, the home team will shepherd you downstairs. This is
another terrific set of results from Legal & General. Profit before tax of 17% to £1.6 billion.
EPS up 19% to £0.222 and ROE close to 20% and the dividend up 7% to £0.1435.
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of my colleagues across the whole of the group
who delivered not just these results but in previous years as well. I have every confidence
that they will continue to deliver in 2017 and beyond. We achieved these results despite all
of the economic, regulatory and political shocks from Brexit, from Solvency II, from the
legacy reviews, from an annuity thematic review, low interest rates, the abolition of
compulsory annuities, et cetera, et cetera.
The UK is a great place to invest for Legal & General. And as Mark Zinkula and Kerrigan
will explain, the U.S. is looking increasingly promising for us. The group strategy is not
reliant on short-term economic outcomes. We have a resilient growth business that has
delivered consistently strong results since the financial crisis. Our strategy is allowing to
what we believe are six established long-term growth drivers: ageing demographics,
globalization of asset markets, creating new real productive assets, the reform of the
welfare state, technological innovation, and providing today's capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

These have proven to be powerful drivers of our growth. We can look forward to the
future with confidence because our core markets are growing, because our market share
is increasing, and, as Mark Gregory will demonstrate, because our balance sheet is strong
and because we have positive cash and earnings momentum.
Having spoken to many of you at the Capital Markets event about our growth strategy for
the next five years, a critical part of delivering that strategy is having the right team. As
you can see from the slide through a combination of selective hiring and internal
promotions, we have significantly strengthened our management bandwidth and our
technology capability. What is really pleasing to me is the combination of internal and
external appointments.
It is really important to me also that we develop and nurture our internal talent, so that
they achieve their full potential. This includes Kerrigan, Bernie, Chris, Cheryl, Aaron and
Anton. But, at times, we need to look outside for people who will bring more pace and
more energy and a fresh perspective, for example, Jeff, Helena, Paul, Stephen and
Garvan. Furthermore, we have strengthened the board, not just with the Chairman's
appointment, but also Philip, Lesley and Toby's appointments bring rich and relevant
experience to the group.
Mark will go into our financial performance in more detail, but all of our key financial
metrics are really pleasing. This is one of my favorite slides. All our KPIs are strong. Net
cash, EPS, ROE, DPS, all demonstrate the tremendous growth we have achieved. A couple
of line items we rarely comment on are the retained cash which, at £557 million, is not
only a record. It's almost £100 million above last year. Plus the growth in book value per
share of around 10% to £0.116 is also another record.

Page 2 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

In terms of our six growth drivers, we made significant progress in all areas. The number
and size of our achievements in 2016 is more than we have delivered in previous years.
We are, indeed, accelerating our evolution. Some highlights. LGR had record transactions
of over £8 billion. LGIM AUM increased 20% to £894 billion. We now have £10 billion in
direct investments. That's up 40%. UK DC assets grew 24% to £57 billion.
Our GI direct sales grew 20% and we are making significant progress in digital insurance,
in housing, in urban regeneration and SME finance, and that's both the debt and the
equity. This slide also demonstrates that Legal & General is economically and socially
useful providing solutions to society's critical financial needs. What Legal & General has
also delivered is resilience and consistency.
Our net release of cash has grown by – our cash has grown by 13% per annum to £1.4
billion. EPS has also grown by 13% per annum to £0.222 and DPS by 17% per annum to
£0.1435 and our ROE has increased from 15% to 20%.
I'll now hand over to Mark.

Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Nigel, and good morning, everyone. By way of signposting, I'm going to cover
the 2016 financials at a group level, our dividend recommendation, the group's capital
position and I'll take you through the performances of our Insurance division, General
Insurance and Savings. Kerrigan will then cover Retirement, Zink will cover LGIM and Nigel
L&G Capital, as Paul Stanworth is sadly happen to attend a family funeral today.
As Nigel outlined, it's been another positive year in terms of our stock of businesses, 20%
growth in LGIM's assets under management, now £894 billion with £31.2 billion of net
inflows in the year. 25% growth in LGI's annuity assets, now at £54 billion with £7 billion of
annuity business written in the year and 39% growth in direct investments, now at £10
billion across the group.
Moving to P&L, our renamed net cash generation now called net release from operations
was up 12% at £1,411 million, including a new business surplus of £155 million. Operating
profit was up 11%. PBT was up 17% on the back of the strong operating performance and a
positive investment variance on our shareholder assets. And EPS was up 19%, meaning
our post-tax return on equity grew to 19.6%.
At a high-level summary of our capital position, the group's Solvency II surplus at end of
2016 was £5.7 billion, equating to a coverage ratio of 171% on a shareholder basis. And our
Economic Capital surplus grew to £8.3 billion. This slide shows the operating profit from
our divisions, up 12% at £1,902 million. As you can see, LGR had a very strong performance
in 2016, but each of our divisions delivered a meaningful contribution both in terms of
profits and in terms of wider group synergies.
I mentioned earlier some of the growth achieved in our business stock in 2016, but our
strategy is focused on delivering growth year in, year out. And, here, you can see the
Page 3 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

progression we've achieved over the last five years. And this sits at the very heart of our
strategy. And we're confident we can sustain it.
Moving on then to dividend, 12 months ago, we announced our new progressive dividend
policy, reflecting the group's medium-term underlying business growth. In line with our
policy, the board has considered the best trajectory of dividend growth taking into
account sustainability across a wide range of scenarios and the group's anticipated
financial performance. Accordingly, the board has recommended a final dividend of
£0.1035 given a full year dividend of £0.1435, up 7% on 2015.
In terms of divisional performance, I will start with our recently formed Legal & General
Insurance, which combines our UK and U.S. protection businesses. Operating profit in the
Insurance division was £317 million for the year, up 5% after adjusting for the disposal of
L&G France in 2015. Breaking down the Insurance division performance between the UK
and the U.S. and starting with the UK. Operating profit here was up 6% at £216 million. Our
leading retail protection business in the UK continues to perform well with new business
up 5% and gross premiums up 6%.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, operating profits from our UK Insurance business were held back by the
performance in group protection, where the adverse claims experience we reported at
the half year continued in the second half. Bernie has already started the process of
addressing this. Elsewhere in the UK, our Mortgage Club facilitated a record £53 billion in
mortgages in the year. And our Surveying business also had a record year by completing
over 0.5 million surveys.
Legal & General America is the 10th largest term assurance provider in the U.S. and the
fourth largest in its core brokerage channel with gross premiums up 3% at $1,220 million.
Net release from operations for the business represents the dividends remitted in the
year to the group and this was up 10% at $91 million.
Operating profit at L&G America was $115 million and LGA has already paid its 2017
ordinary dividend in February of $100 million. Following a minor equity capital restructure,
all of the dividend will now get paid as an ordinary. In 2016 and previous years, we used to
receive an additional preference dividend of just under $3 million in the fourth quarter.
Operating profit for our General Insurance business was £52 million, up 2%. For what is
predominantly a household book, the profit performance did benefit from relatively
benign weather conditions in 2016, although we did have to absorb the first annual Flood
Re levy of £9 million, which added 3 percentage points to our combined operating ratio
of 89%. Our direct business grew by 20% and now accounts for 37% of gross premiums.
And in 2017, recently signed distribution agreements are expected to increase GI gross
premiums by around 10%. One final point on GI, we expect zero profit impact from the
recent Ogden rate changes.
In our Savings division, which, in 2016, comprised both our Mature Savings and Digital
Savings businesses, net release from operations was down £17 million year-on-year at £99
million. At an operating profit level, increased use of automation, including the use of
Page 4 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

robotics in our Mature Savings business, has meant profits were only down £1 million at
£105 million as we continue to manage the reducing contributions from our book which is
largely closed to new business.
Our Digital Savings business, which included the Cofunds and IPS platforms and Suffolk
Life, made an operating loss of £6 million in 2016. These businesses have now been sold.
Moving on to balance sheet matters and in particular our capital position. The group's
Solvency II surplus increased by £0.4 billion since the half year to £5.7 billion at year-end.
Over the same period, our Solvency II coverage ratio, as calculated on the shareholder
basis, increased by 8 percentage points from 153% to 171%.
On a pro forma basis of calculation, the coverage ratio increased from 158% to 165%. 81%
of our £13.6 billion of Solvency II Own Funds were core Tier 1 assets. And these core Tier 1
assets alone were £3.1 billion more than the group's capital requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Economic Capital surplus increased to £8.3 billion, representing a coverage ratio of
230%. And our AA minus credit rating has been maintained and provides further evidence
of our robust capital position. This slide provides you with a bridge of a £0.2 billion
increase in the Solvency II surplus over the year from £5.5 billion to £5.7 billion. The
operational surplus generation from existing business contributed £1.2 billion.
In your analyst pack, you can see a reconciliation of the IFRS release from operations to
this number. The impact of writing new business in 2016, including the £7 billion of new
annuities, was to reduce Solvency II surplus by £0.1 billion. Your packs also provide a
reconciliation of this number to the IFRS new business surplus. An obvious point perhaps
but, over time, the aggregate cash flows will be the same. So, the only difference
between IFRS and Solvency II is in the timing of the emergence of these cash flows.
Net surplus generation of £1.1 billion in the year represents the combined result of
operational surplus generation less new business strain. Operating variances were a
favorable £0.2 billion in total and included, amongst other things, experience variances in
the year, changes in best estimate liability and capital calibrations, changes in asset mix
and, as per the Solvency II requirement, a change into the capital in respect to the new
business you expect to write in the subsequent year.
Market movements in the year reduced surplus by £0.3 billion as the impact of lower rates
on our Solvency II capital requirement more than offset the benefit to Own Funds of
higher asset values. And, finally, on Solvency II, this slide gives you our estimate of the
present value of Solvency II surplus emergence from the key elements of new business
we wrote.
For example, the new annuity business we wrote in the UK is expected to deliver £693
million of future surplus. And our UK retail protection business, from which we get much of
the benefit on day one, is expected to generate £139 million. This expected surplus
generation from the new business shown on this slide is 9 times the total Solvency II strain
of £100 million we invested in writing this business. Very clear evidence of our ability to
grow the business profitably in a Solvency II world.
Page 5 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

And, with that, I'll hand over to Kerrigan.

FINAL

Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Good morning. Legal & General Retirement delivered strong results for
2016 with both record profitability and record new business sales of £8.5 billion. This was
delivered with a backdrop of a new regulatory capital regime which allowed us to
successfully put into practice our plans for capital-efficient approach under Solvency II.
Turning to LGR's financial results first, net release from operations was up 41% to £592
million. New business surplus increased to £159 million. In part, this reflects the growth in
total new business sales. It also reflects the capital-efficient business model where we
expect to reinsure more of the longevity risk for UK PRT deals than previously. Operating
profit was up 27% to £811 million. This includes the positive financial impact of higher-thanexpected mortality.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, we have not made material changes to our forward-looking longevity
assumptions. Before making such a change, we would prefer to see more evidence that
the higher-than-expected mortality in recent years is a trend that we could extrapolate
many years into the future. Our Solvency II new business margin on UK annuities is 10.4%
and the associated Solvency II new business value-add is £693 million. This was achieved
with a capital strain of just under £200 million.
Let's turn to new business and our eight sources of profit, taking each in turn. We were
pleased to be able to work with Aegon to acquire their back book of 27,000 open market
individual annuitants in May 2016. The deal is eligible for transition relief and we are
comfortable with the longevity risk, as the risk profile is comparable with business we
wrote at the time. Therefore, we have chosen not to reinsure the longevity risk on this
book of business. We see further opportunities for back book consolidation and we'll be
exploring these using the same financial metrics as PRT.
We wrote £3.34 billion of bulk annuity business for UK private sector DB pension plans in
2016, predominantly in the second half of the year. Notable transactions included a £1.1
billion buyout with the Vickers Group Pension Scheme, part of the Rolls-Royce Group, in
early November. The Vickers Scheme has been a longstanding client of Legal & General,
becoming an LDI client in 2007. So we were particularly pleased that we were able to play
a part in the successful decade-long de-risking and ultimate buyout of the scheme.
In late December, we completed a £900 million longevity insurance deal for a UK pension
plan. The pipeline for potential new UK PRT business is around the level of £13 billion for
deals currently being priced across the market, though, as you know, the flow of big deals
can be lumpy. In aggregate, we reinsured 88% of the longevity risk for UK pension risk
transfer business in 2016.
The U.S. PRT business made solid progress again last year writing $448 million of new bulk
annuity business over six deals. This market has significant potential with market volumes
in 2016 around $14 billion and the indications are the market will be even bigger in 2017,
Page 6 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

supported by rising U.S. nominal interest rates. We continue to quote actively in this
market whilst always maintaining our capital discipline. The Dutch buyout market had a
quiet year, but we have seen a large pickup in interest recently. And we'll continue to
support this market as a reinsurer through our reinsurance company, L&G Re.
Our individual annuity business is now in growth mode again. Our sales fell from a peak of
£1.3 billion in 2013 to a low point of £327 million in 2015 following Freedom & Choice in
Pensions. In 2016, this grew 16% supported by an increase in market volume, some
competitors exiting the market and the start of our distribution agreement with Aegon.
We continue to participate in all parts of the market, including standard, enhanced and
fixed term.
As we have done in the past, we provide consistent pricing between external and internal
investing annuities. Our lifetime mortgage market share was 29% in 2016 with sales of
£620 million, over three times the sales of 2015. Last year was the first year in which the
market size exceeded £2 billion. But we see further potential for market growth as more
over 55s access their housing equity to support their financial needs and retirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

We remain disciplined about loan-to-value on pricing. LTV is age dependent and our
average portfolio LTV is 27%. With our operational scale and matching adjustment efficient
structuring, we can offer fair pricing to customers to support expansion of the market
while providing a good risk adjusted return on assets to back our long-dated annuity
liabilities.
The £54.4 billion asset portfolio backing our annuity reserves is a robust and welldiversified investment grade credit and real assets portfolio. The average portfolio rating
is A minus and the portfolio had no defaults again in 2016. We hold a credit reserve of £2.7
billion within these annuity reserves, which can be used to absorb many hundreds of
millions of pounds of actual credit default experience on the IFRS balance sheet.
Over two-thirds of the assets are A rated or better with £7.2 billion of gilts included in the
AA rating band. We continue to build our direct investment portfolio, now at £8.1 billion,
making up 15% of our annuity reserves. This includes £0.8 billion of lifetime mortgages, a
range of private credit assets, including infrastructure, private placements and real estate
debt, and properties with long-dated leases.
Direct investment improved the overall yield and credit diversification of the asset
portfolio and direct investments benefit from underlying security or collateral. The asset
management of the bank book, including direct investing, is our eighth source of profit for
LGR. Combining this with our seven new business sources gives LGR a diverse set of
opportunities for long-term profitable growth in both our corporate pension risk transfer
business and our retail customer business.
I'll now hand over to Mark.

Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Page 7 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

Thank you, Kerrigan. LGIM had another successful year. Our results, once again,
demonstrated the resilience of our business model despite the challenges facing our
industry such as fee pressure, the FCA asset management study and poor performance
of many active funds.
External net flows of £29 billion were positive across most of our main product lines, client
channels and regions. Total LGIM operating profit increased by 3% to £366 million with the
asset management operating profit, excluding a one-off adjustment for discontinuing box
profits, up 7%. We maintained a stable margin of around 50% due to the scalable nature
of our business model. We're growing our market-leading position in the UK defined
benefit or DB sector with a broader range of strategies and replicating the success in the
defined contribution or DC sector.

Bloomberg Transcript

Growth in our retail business is also gaining momentum and we ranked third in net sales in
2016. And our international expansion continues with higher flows across all regions and
particular strength in the U.S. International AUM was up 45% at £177 billion. I'll focus on all
these growth areas in more detail in subsequent slides. The many challenges facing the
asset management industry are also creating opportunities for managers with the right
business model, products, and distribution strategy. We're gaining market share because
we've positioned our business to benefit from several positive industry trends.
There are four product areas in the asset management industry that are expanding:
index, solutions, alternatives, and active specialties. The majority of our assets fall into
these categories. Within the solutions category, we're experiencing strong growth in
multi-asset, active LDI and pooled LDI strategies. And the fiduciary management
proposition that we launched last year is also gaining momentum.
Our continued strong track record in active fixed income is leading to increasing inflows,
especially from UK and U.S. institutional clients. And there's growing demand for a range
of alternative strategies such as real assets. We continue to develop innovative direct
investment strategies for our clients such as the recently launched Build to Rent fund.
We've experienced net outflows from our Index business, largely from UK DB clients who
are switching into LDI strategies. But we're seeing increasing flows into our index funds
from international and retail clients. Our strong position in the market starts with our
fundamental strength in the UK defined benefit pension sector. We're the largest UK DB
pension manager with a 32% market share.
We've also built on our strength in index to become the market leader in LDI with a 45%
market share. We believe we're well-positioned for the continued de-risking of DB
schemes, taking clients through a range of solutions. Our commitment to real assets and
market-leading position in pension de-risking represents a significant opportunity for L&G.
But as the DB market is maturing, it's important that we continue to grow our DC and
retail businesses.
We experienced a 23% increase in clients in our workplace platform last year to more than
2.2 million customers. We have one of the largest and fastest growing master trust in the
Page 8 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

market and total DC AUM increasing by 24% to £57 billion. Last year, LGIM acquired a
stake in Smart Pension, an online auto-enrolment platform focused on the SMEs and our
presence in this market has grown significantly.
Our retail business had net inflows of £1.4 billion in 2016 and positive net flows every
month despite industry net sales flowing to the lowest level since 1995. We're well-placed
to succeed, given the long-term trends in the retail market, such as a rise of index and
multi-asset funds.
Finally, we had another successful year, expanding our international business, especially in
the U.S. Net flows were £9.4 billion as we saw strong demand for our recently launched
index funds and continued growth in our LDI solutions and fixed income strategies. Our
U.S. expansion has been a major success.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've leveraged our strong investment and solutions capabilities and now manage £119
billion of assets and have over 250 clients in this important market. We're expanding into
the U.S. DC segment and developing our real assets capability as we establish LGIM as a
leading U.S. pension solutions provider. We also experienced higher net flows in our other
target markets of Europe, the Gulf and Asia and we're continuing to strengthen our
distribution in those regions.
To sum up, we're confident we can maintain our leading position in UK DB and continue
our strong growth in the UK DC and retail sectors and in our targeted international
markets. Despite the challenges facing the industry, our solutions approach, exceptional
client service and investment excellence, in addition to our focus on value for money and
cost transparency make us very well-positioned to successfully deliver for our clients and
continue to gain market share in our target markets.
Now, I'll hand it back over to Nigel.

Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. LGC delivered good results in 2016, achieving an overall 10% increase in
operating profit to £257 million, a 29% increase in PBT from £73 million to £94 million from
its direct investment business and a 31% increase in direct investment assets from £867
million to £1.137 billion. LGC is delivering on its direct investment strategy and building a
solid platform for growth.
In addition to improved PBT, LGC increased operating profits from direct investments by
75% to £121 million, delivering a net portfolio return of 9%. That's well on the way to our
target range for LGC of 10% to 12%. The traded portfolio, including treasury assets, also
had a strong year, delivering a net return of 7% on its £5.1 billion of assets and a PBT of
£325 million. LGC's purpose is to deliver shareholder value by investing the group's £6.2
billion of shareholder funds in direct investments to earn an improved risk adjusted return.
However, LGC is also reconnecting long-term service with the direct financing of UK
housing, infrastructure and SME capital by building new business models in these sectors,
Page 9 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

whilst providing Legal & General Group with growth opportunities both as an asset
manager but also as an asset gatherer. As the chart summarizes, the business model is to
acquire, develop or scale up these assets and then look to sell them externally or retain
them within the group.
Since LGC was established in 2013, it has been building a track record in each stage of its
business model. In 2016, LGC invested or committed £404 million into new investments,
including a new project developing Newcastle Science Central, a public-private
partnership with the city's University and the Council.
Pemberton successfully raised €1.2 billion for its first fund and is targeting €3 billion by the
end of 2017. In clean energy, NTR deployed 66% of its initial €246 million fund and plans to
launch second €500 million fund this year. We've also delivered strong revenue growth
from our existing businesses, including CALA, which had a record year building nearly
1,500 homes creating revenues of £718 million. This compares to £384 million as recently
as 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've made good early progress on disposals in 2016. We're targeting proceeds of
around £250 million in 2017 as LGC realizes some of the value from its investments.
These include disposals of assets in Bracknell, in Cardiff and Central London. We've
already agreed about £64 million so far this year. Together, this demonstrates LGC's
maturing business and focusing and performing at all stages of the business cycle.
As you can see, since 2013, LGC has increased operating profit at a compound growth
rate of 13%, grown total assets three times to £1.1 billion, increased operating profit five
times to £121 million, all whilst doubling the net return on the portfolio from 4.7% to 9%.
We believe LGC has enormous growth potential. Housing infrastructure and SME finance
will remain the key focus as LGC connects Legal & General's clients with the investment
opportunities to deliver homes, cities and businesses of the future
CALA Homes is planning to build 5,000 homes by 2020. Our Build to Rent partnership will
grow into a multi-billion pound fund and we will bring the manufacturing and finance to the
£143 billion (00:32:32) affordable housing sector. We're already regenerating 10 cities and
towns across the UK. We want to double this, building on our very successful
development model whilst we also want to create the platforms to fund parts of the UK's
£40 billion clean energy market.
And, finally, we are seeding businesses to fund SMEs. We're targeting £10 billion AUM
alongside our international and domestic partners. LGC has a terrific base to increasingly
deliver value across the Legal & General Group. I'd now like to turn to our group-wide
view of 2016 and beyond. We have successfully completed significant decluttering of our
businesses through selective disposals and several simplifications.
Slide four noted the improvement in the management and board capability of Legal &
General. On this slide, we can note the disposal of operations in France, Germany, Ireland,
Netherlands, Egypt and Bahrain, but also that the simplification has helped our retail
investment business to rise from 13th to 3rd and our UK DC business is now £57 billion.
Page 10 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

Much of this success is due to the heads of distribution in LGIM. That's Sarah Aitken,
Emma Douglas, and Honor Solomon who will shortly be joined by Helena Morrissey. L&G,
as a group, is delivering on diversity and diversity is delivering performance for Legal &
General.
As my colleagues have demonstrated, we are performing well. However, we cannot be
complacent. We are in attractive growth markets and we are growing our market share.
But every business, every business is now threatened by technology disruption. We
believe we have selected businesses where we can have a resilient, long-term
competitive advantage as long as we continue to execute well and that includes around
technology.
We've shown on this slide six key technology developments, of which four are already
BAU and where we made good progress in 2016. That's robotics, big data, platforms and
the cloud. We also have commercial plans to develop these technologies for 2017 and
onwards to further improve our performance. The other two key technologies are
blockchain and artificial intelligence. These are on our radar but has yet no meaningful
commercial applications.

Bloomberg Transcript

On our recent Capital Markets event, we said our financial ambition is a similar
performance in 2016 to 2020 to what we achieved in 2011 to 2015, where EPS grew by 11%
per annum from £0.124 to £0.186 and net cash by 10% per annum from £846 million to
£1.256 billion. We have indeed made a good start in 2016 with EPS rising by 19% and net
cash by 12%. We need to continue to execute against our 2020 strategic goals shown on
this slide to deliver a strong financial performance.
As Kerrigan outlined, we're aiming for global leadership in pension de-risking. As Mark
outlined, we are organically building a world-class asset management business. As LGC
has shown, we're on track to become the UK leader in direct investments and also a
market leader in the digital provision of insurance and retail investments. But we also have
important customer objectives, helping people achieve financial security affordably. And
we aspire, as Mark Zinkula talked about, to be a leader in financial solutions and, of
course, a globally trusted brand.
I'd now like to open up to questions.

Q&A
A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Who's going to put their hand up first? A flood of questions. Why don't we start with Alan?

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Alan Devlin from Barclays. I've got three questions. First of all on the
dividend. Can you give a bit more color around your thinking on the dividend driven by the
underlying medium-term growth of business plus you stress the dividend? I wonder if you

Page 11 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

could give a bit more of your view on both of those. Particularly, is the 7% is what do you
think the underlying growth part of Legal's is and hence the dividend going forward?
Secondly on L&G Insurance, can you give a color on what's going on in group protection
and what gives you the confidence that you'll grow earnings in L&G Insurance this year or
is it just an easy comparative? And then finally, on LGIM, I think you had £30 billion of flows
last two years. The forward guidance there on flow is a bit vague. Just wondering what's
going – what's the pipeline like and is £30 billion a good number to think going forward?
Thanks.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Those are all good questions. I have every confidence that Bernie has got an easy target
for 2017 and beyond in group protection, if Bernie picks up that one. On the 17%, it was
about the sustainability across a lot of scenarios. I'll ask Mark to pick that up. Used to be
17%. And on LGIM, the £30 billion is clearly an impressive number compared to lots of
competitors. But can we do better, Mark? So, if, Mark, he goes first.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Yeah. So just on dividend, clearly, we're not giving a dividend forecast going forward, so
that – but clearly, we have taken into account our new dividend policy, which talks about
our thoughts on our underlying business growth going forward. And, clearly, we set our
dividend for 2016 in the context of how we see that playing out. We can get a lot of
scenarios to the board to work out kind of what sort of things could hit the business, both
upsides and downsides and clearly recognizing the performance in 2016. So, we're very
comfortable with the 7% growth in the dividend 2016 over 2015, but clearly, the board will
make its own call year in and year out. But clearly, we are cognizant of our new policy in
terms of how we set that dividend in 2016.

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

(00:38:34)?

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Well, we took lots of different scenarios. I mean, in terms of growth, new business growth
and things which could happen to the balance sheet. And, overall, we're comfortable with
that level of sustainability.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

On the stressing, there was one slide that Kerrigan put up which had the sort of extra
buffer we've got for defaults under various scenarios. And if somebody wants to ask
Kerrigan that question, I'd encourage them to do so. Bernie?

A - Bernie Hickman

{BIO 19334629 <GO>}

Yes. On group protection claims, it's important to remember that we retain most of the
risk for group protection as opposed to retail protection where we reinsure most of the

Page 12 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

risks. There is going to be inherent volatility in the business. In 2016, in our life business for
group life, we have broadly the number of claims we expect here, but the actual average
amount was higher than we expected. In income protection, it was a smaller number of
large schemes whose claims experience wasn't – was poor and we had more claims than
we expected.
So, we understand what happens, but it's not acceptable. That performance is not
acceptable. And so, we are talking a range of actions to address the performance. So,
we'll be repricing the schemes as they come up for scheme renewal. And we'll be
improving our approach to risk selection, making sure we can accurately forecast future
claims, which is at the heart of running this business. And so, whilst those are going to
take some time to work through, it's early, early signs of claims trending back. And so, that
gives us confidence that operating profit is going to improve and it's not in Nigel's DNA to
set any easy targets. So, no, it's not an easy target.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

This is my annual battle on targets. I mean Bernie conned me on the lifetime mortgage
targets in setting last year and easily outperformed them. You're right, Alan. He's been
set an easy target for 2017 and beyond, I have every confidence that he'll deliver. Mark?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

So, in terms of the last couple years let me go back for quite a while. LGIM has been
outperforming the market in net flows as a percentage of opening AUM. We're certainly
well-positioned to continue doing that. We should hold ourselves of that standard for sure.
It won't be a straight line. We have – because we have predominantly an institutional client
base, the flows can be very lumpy.
But in terms of trends, I think, in our newer capabilities and newer markets for index
continue to see an increase in gross flows. And for the most part, net flows where I'm
probably most concerned is an increasing trend towards some of the very large investors
consolidating assets and taking more in-house. Now, those tend to be extremely low fee
index mandates for the most part, but that is a one area where on a net basis you could
potentially see more volatility going forward.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Why don't we have two microphones? Yeah. Sorry.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions, please. First on longevity, I mean, you
mentioned the spike up in deaths and I hear what you're saying. You want to see more of
a trend there before you feel that can be extrapolated. But can you just give us an idea of
sensitivity if you were to move to say CMI 2016, what value could be released?
Second question on – I see the stat, two-thirds of large DB schemes. And you expect to
de-risk by – of some kind by 2020. I've seen that stat before, the two-thirds. I haven't
Page 13 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

certainly seen it to 2020. Can you just explain a bit more about that because that is just
huge and I mean the sector as a whole doesn't have enough capital to deal with that?

FINAL

And the final question on strain. It seems that the demand is ever increasing for bulks.
Whether or not it's back books or DB schemes, supply doesn't seem to be increasing. So,
if you can just talk a bit about strain as a proportion of the price? I think large schemes has
always been about 5%. So, can you talk about how that's moved?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Those are – that's an excellent synopsis of the industry, actually and they are three of the
better questions. And I'm delighted to hand over those questions to my colleague,
Kerrigan Procter.

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the longevity side, as we said, we have a large team and plenty of data. We talked
about 16 million man years of data just from the last five years and we break it up into
many different sectors and we analyze it thoroughly. And as you're making the point,
there's been cold winters and there's been an effective flu vaccine. How much do we
extrapolate of that into the future? And we're still going through that and there will be a
discussion I'm sure in the first half of this year, again, about how much we extrapolate that
into the future.
CMI 2015 seemed to follow the higher mortality more than we were certainly comfortable
with at the time, so that would have been a step too far, I think. Hence, it's why we're still
on the CMI 2014 – adopted CMI 2000 and 2014 model. So, I think, it's unlikely we'll go to
unadulterated CMI 2015 but of course that will be discussions as we go into the first half
of the year.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I think it's fair to say deaths have been much greater than we'd anticipated pretty much
for the last three years or four years. And it's very difficult to quantify that because it
becomes such a big number if you extrapolate for the next 20 years. And there are many,
many actuaries are all rubbing their tummies and patting themselves to try and figure out
what it is. And hopefully, this is the year that with some actual smoke will emerge from all
of these discussions because I get increasingly frustrated by it, as you can see.

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

I think on the two-thirds of DB de-risking, I think, what we're referring to there is broader
de-risking. So, that's LGIM clients moving to self-sufficiency. And we're already about 45%
of inflation interest rate risk hedged in that market already. So, I think, as we go to 2020,
that's the sort of figure that we think. Now, some of those, of course, will go all the way to
buyout or buy and then some will stick with longevity insurance or LDI in its many forms.
So, that's what we meant by that broad perspectives of de-risking there. And then on
strain, the final point is great figures. That was from a range of business. I think it's kind of
mid-single-digits. Strain is sort of the right area. So, low to mid-single-digit. 2016, of
course, was a great year.
Page 14 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

I mean we've built a business model that's particularly capital efficient, whether it's an
Economic Capital or Solvency II, with the direct investment, the lifetime mortgage, the
great terms that we got for longevity, reinsurance and a great capability between
Kerrigan's team and Mark's team to work with client over a long period of time coming up
with terrific solutions.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good morning. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Just to
come back on the dividend. Obviously, for a long time, the group was increasing the
payout ratio. Now, we've got a dividend increase, which is below the growth in cash and
below the growth in operating profit. So, is there an explicit intention going forward to
grow the cover? That's the first question.
Second question on the Solvency II transitionals. There seems to be some issue with the
recalculation. I wonder what that was and I wonder whether you could give us the actual
sterling million balance for the transitional number at the end of the year. And then, just
finally, I just wondered on the annuity book, whether the scope of the matching
adjustment had changed over the year. Was there any opportunity getting further assets
inside the scope? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I think on the first one, there wasn't a target cover ratio. So, it ended as an output
rather than an input into the discussion on dividend. Mark, do you want to comment on the
Solvency II and Kerrigan?

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Yes. So, just on the TMTP points or the transitional measure point, so, yeah, we didn't
meet the PRA's criteria to actually recalculate the transitional we did at the half year –
pretty much the industry I think did at the half year. The PRA particularly point to interest
rate movements as being one of their catalysts for allowing a regular recalculation.
To be actually clear, Jon, we will be able to recalculate no later than in 2017. So this is just a
timing difference between when we can and when we can't recalculate. The reason we
give you on a dynamic basis our view is that the rest of the balance sheet all moves
dynamically, all the features, it's all mark to market. And, therefore, this one bit, if it
doesn't move as well, it just gives you slight misleading figures. So, our view is we're
better off giving you the bigger on a trued-up basis if we would say it. And we'll keep
doing that going forward as well, whether it be good news or bad.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Kerrigan?

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Page 15 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

Yeah. As the MA scope changed, the big change over the year was matches or some
approval for our lifetime mortgage assets where we've put a Solvency II efficient structure
in place. We had £200 million of lifetime mortgages at the end of 2015. So, it wasn't
worthwhile putting that in place for that time. We're also exploring various asset classes
and they'll always need to go or generally need to go through a matching adjustment
approval process. So, we keep looking at that. But the majority of the assets, we're
comfortable with the matching adjustment efficiency of those.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Hi. So, three questions. The first one, I think, on your spread sensitivities on Solvency II, I
think, the direction of those have changed. Between the widening and narrowing, I just
wondered if you could talk about that a bit more and what it means – if it means anything
for cash. The second question was, I think, even in your market moves, even though yields
were up in the second half spreads narrowed, I could see markets were up but I think the
market movements in Solvency II ratio was still only, I think, plus 300 or so. So, I wonder if
you could talk about whether that was different from the sensitivities you provide because
it looks like it is. And finally, can I ask? You've hired Paul Miller for strategy and M&A? Has
your M&A strategy changed there? Is there any plans or is there regional focus such as
the U.S.? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Mark, do you want to just walk through the first two and I'll pick up the third one.

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Yeah. You're quite right. So, we did – the sensitivity to credit spreads did move from the
start of the year to the end of the year. So, spread narrowing would have boosted surplus
at the start of the year. By the end of the year, it had gone in the other direction. This
could be a bit techie. I'll just quickly go through what's going on there. So you obviously
have to think about it in two parts really.
On the Own Funds part, clearly, with spreads going out, that brings down asset values.
But, as Kerrigan said earlier, we have got more assets now into the MA portfolio,
whereas, in the MA portfolio, pretty much the assets and liabilities move together. So, by
spreads widening, actually the impact on the Own Funds would reduce by having more
assets inside the MA portfolio.
And then the other impact is on the capital requirement calculation itself. And here, you're
actually getting a second order effect. Because rates have gone lower, the impact of
spread widening because you start from a lower risk free rate, you add the spread on to
that. Actually that has a bigger proportionate boost to the discount rate used in calculating
the capital requirements.
So, actually, the benefit to the capital requirement of spreads going wider actually more
than offset the diminution to Own Funds from spreads going wider. So actually, they just
Page 16 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

change direction because you've got two moving parts within Own Funds and capital
requirement. And actually they just changed their relative importance over the course of
the year. But that was very much on the balance sheet date at year-end and it could flip
again in the future.
On the market movements, one thing that did happen in the second half, we didn't give a
sensitivity for, before was actually our exposure to inflation. So, again, in the packs this
time around, we have given you an inflation exposure. And, actually, in the second half,
even though rates went higher, actually future inflation expectations benefit by 25 basis
points, more than that. And even though we're well matched for inflation across the – in
our economic view of a longevity risk because Solvency II extends all the liabilities out a
long way. We're not matched against that. Therefore, with the inflation expectations going
higher, that does have an impact coming through the capital and therefore, through that
market movements line.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. On bringing in Paul, I think, the key thing is strategy and M&A and not M&A and
strategy. And I think that emphasizes what we need to do. Our general philosophy on
acquisitions is bolt-on driven. I think we've had a number of very successful bolt-on
acquisitions. I think the other thing that we're finding is there's a huge number of people
who want to partner with us, whether it's in the UK or the United States. And we've had a
lot of success in working with partners, whether it's in Build to Rent, regeneration, in CALA
Homes, the Smart Pension is another partnership, Pemberton is another partnership.
And Paul will be a person who, coming from a very disciplined financial background, will
help us on those. And the last point you raised was about America. Paul has actually done
a lot of work while he was at Goldman's on America. We might as well have him full-time
working for us. I think he's a lot cheaper actually than other things. But, as Mark said, we
have been stunningly successful in the United States.
However, we haven't been quite as successful as I'd like us to be. And I think there are
more opportunities and indeed, the board would like us to be. In fact, the board is – we're
having our Strategy Day in the United States this year for the first time because the
number and scale of opportunities that are coming our way is immense. And we've got to
figure out how do we filter those and how do we prioritize those and which ones are best
for the long-term creation of value for shareholders.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill. Three questions as usual.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Go ahead. All the same. Everyone has got three questions.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Page 17 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

Firstly, on LGIM, flow is strong, assets up 20% year-on-year. I just wondered if you could
talk about what this means for profitability. Seems the cost/income ratio was down a little
bit, just a fraction. Was there any change in margins or was that just the box profits?
Secondly, you just mentioned about bolt-ons but what about bolt-offs, the remaining
Mature Savings book? Are you keen to retain that or could you be interested in selling that
at some point? And, thirdly, was on lifetime mortgages. You've targeted, what, £800
million of new lifetime mortgages this year. Could you give us an idea of how you expect
that to be split between genuine new business versus re-broking from competitors in that
space? Thanks.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Chris Knight, I'm going to ask you to pick up the third question on there. It's a very good
question on LGIM and Mark should pick that one. And I'll just pick on the – the board has a
very disciplined approach to which assets to keep. And we have been sellers of business
as well that is not being in the long-term interests of ownership. And Mature Savings – and
Jackie who's here runs mature savings. We have very grown-up discussions about
whether that should be kept for the long-term or not. And you're right to highlight it. It's
one of those ones that would be under perpetual consideration for us as a company.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. So, in regards your question around the link between asset growth and revenue
growth and margins going forward, all else equal, I do think fee pressure is going to
continue, so it will take more asset growth to generate revenue growth. But, again,
obviously, that depends on the mix of business going forward and so forth. And with our
business model, we do have a very scalable business model really across the board by
design. So I think we can maintain. We've had – and you saw the graph earlier – even as
our business has been completely transformed over the last 10 years.
So, all the growth is coming from capabilities and client channels in geographic regions
that, frankly, didn't exist when Kerrigan and I were to join the firm roughly a decade ago.
But we've still been able to maintain roughly the same margins because we're able to get
the operational leverage from our existing businesses and invest that to grow our
businesses in a very disciplined way and I expect that to continue going forward. And in
regards to the cost/income ratio, yes it went from 48% to 49%, but that's still pretty good.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Could have been better.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

Thanks. On the lifetime mortgage £800 million, the vast, vast overwhelming majority of it
is genuine new business, new to the market. There's a little bit which is further loans to
existing customers and that's a very, very tiny amount which is we're seeing of re-broking
at the moment.

Page 18 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

And you're very confident on £800 million?

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

FINAL

Very confident.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

There we go. It just went down the line.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Hughes, Macquarie. Four questions.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Four questions. Oh, God.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Well, you answered one, so that's three.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

You know what I was hoping for two from you.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

All right. Okay. I can put it to five.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm sure you can.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

So the first one is on the dividend unfortunately. I'm just trying to get my head around the
kind of dividend growth and the Solvency II cash generation. So it's £1.2 billion of Solvency
II cash generation, less the dividend, less the interest, doesn't leave a lot of spare money
behind. And I wonder if you're looking at things in a different way, i.e., excluding the risk
margin? So, if we looked at the new business of minus £0.1 billion on Solvency II, took out
the risk margin, would the cash flows look better?
The second question is on LGIM. Obviously, you highlight the asset management review
and fee pressure within LGIM. Obviously, there was an article back last year talking about
some of the high fee funds you have on the tracker side going up to 1.5%. So I'm
wondering how should we think about the fee compression within LGIM. In particular, are
we going to have kind of cutoff where you rebase a lot of the retail funds down to the
current new business level? Maybe give us a feel as to what the new money coming on is
fee margin versus that going off ?
Page 19 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

FINAL

And then the third question is on the three years to four years of high deaths. So if deaths
have been higher for three years to four years, does that mean LGR is overearning for the
last three or four years and – in terms of dividend? And how does that circle around in
terms of your view on that for you projecting forward continuing high level of deaths to
get to your dividend decision given the Solvency II surplus? Thanks.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

On the dividend, let me tell you, the two hypotheses you came up were not relevant at all
with any of the discussions that we had as a board. So, we can kind of say that they are
just not part of the dividend discussion at all. Do you want to pick up the LGIM?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So, I think, with regards to your question, taking a step back. If you look at the nature
of our assets and our fee to fund ratio is already extremely low. Within the index space, it
is mostly institutional assets that have been very competitively priced and yes, there
continues to be fee pressure in that space, but a lot of that has already played out.
In regards to all of our other capabilities, again, because they're relatively new to the
organization, it's been priced at relatively current terms, so to speak. So going into the
part of our business that would be legacy, index, share classes, this would be a fairly small
part of our overall revenue. I don't have the number committed to memory and I'm not
sure if you know it. We are going through a review and have been for a while of our back
book. So the extent it makes sense to re-price or have clients shift from one share class
to another, we're going through that process. I don't anticipate it being material to overall
financial results when you look at the scale relative to the overall business.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Can we have Oliver?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel. I have two questions.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Two questions.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

So the first is you've not been particularly successful in the past in retail savings, but
you've now hired Helena Morrissey which is a pretty big hire. So I wonder what the
strategy is there and well, let's leave it at that? What's the strategy there?
Secondly, looking at the inflows into LGIM, you've shot the lights out on the LDI side and
yet index has clearly seen outflows. I think you sort of touched on that earlier by talking
about one or two large players. But I wonder what drove the LDI net inflows and

Page 20 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

particularly was that again one large fund? And how easily can we take the inflows which
you're taking into LDI and extrapolate that into future bulk annuity sales?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

What I'm finding very pleasing about today is we used to get no questions on LGIM and
Mark used to sit up here and not answer a single question. And now he's proving to be
incredibly popular. He must be doing a pretty good job on presenting. Take it away, Mark.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. I really miss the Solvency II question. Okay. Regards to retail, so the Unit Trust visits
moved across to LGIM a few years ago, three years ago and we hired new leadership in
that area, Honor Solomon. We brought in largely new leadership and promoted some
people in the organization and so forth, rebuilt the team, rationalized the product offering.
In 2015, we were sixth in net flows, which was the highest ever. Last year, we were third.
Nigel, of course, you can imagine what the target is for this year. But I think we're starting
to hit stride in the UK market and we have increasingly high ambitions for that space.
In regard to Helena's appointment, so if you think about the bulk of our business, which is
this trend from DB to DC and in the DC space, obviously most of the relationships, initially
at least, certainly would be at the workplace. As time goes on, obviously, there's going to
be bigger pools of money with individuals. And we need to engage with those employees
and their broader families and so forth to a greater extent. So Helena is coming in to lead
the build out of our strategy in our business in the direct to consumer space, but, again,
thinking about how our business model is evolving over the next few decades, frankly, in
that perspective.
In regards to LDI flows, we broadly classify our solutions. And there is a lot in there. So I
guess the way that I would describe it when Kerrigan started building the LDI business.
Initially, a lot of the mandates were starting as hedging mandates where we've pension
plans, managing their fund established volatility more carefully rather than assuming an
infinite time horizon where markets being reversed and so forth in their asset strategy.
As time has evolved, increasing percent of those flows are what we'd call active LDI
where we're trying to outperform that liability benchmark, which leverages at an
expanding range of capabilities within LGIM, within fixed income and real assets and multiasset and so forth. And then also as time has gone on, increasingly, our clients – where
we're having increasing growth from smaller and mid-sized plans where this approach
was adopted initially larger plans and pooled LDI strategies or more recently fiduciary
management strategies.
In addition – and we'd expect that trend to continue. So we're seeing increasing
momentum. As I pointed out earlier, that's the active LDI, pooled LDI fiduciary
management concept. And then, in multi-asset, really, across the range of clients which
we classify as solutions, especially in the DC market. But that really cuts across all of our
distribution channels. And, again, we expect to continue to see compounding growth in
our multi-asset strategies.

Page 21 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

We're going to do the last three questions, one, two, three.

FINAL

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Thank you for taking my questions. Just going back to Solvency II, just to
be clear as to why the regulatory Solvency II ratio wasn't provided. I appreciate the
transitional capital recalculation point, but that is part and parcel of Solvency II. So, maybe
just a little bit more color on why that's not provided given the importance of the metric.
Secondly, on the Solvency II disclosure due in May of this year. I suppose regulators in
industry indicating the importance of this. How well-positioned is Legal & General for this
and is there any messages or anything you want to flag ahead of that for investors?
And then, thirdly, you talk about a healthy pipeline of £13 billion of bulk annuities. Can you
give some color on the stock of illiquid assets that are readily available to back that, i.e.,
not utilized for current schemes? Presumably, that's a key driver of the 10.4% new
business margin you can achieve on that business. Thank you.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll answer the third question there because it's – we've already got all of the direct
investments in hand for the volume targets for 2017. So, that's a really, really important
message for clients. The other two questions are a bit tricky, so I'm going to give them to
Mark Gregory.

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Yeah. In some ways, I guess, my answer to the first one, certainly, Colm, is in your second
question. Clearly, you will get the regulatory position in May. We fundamentally believe
that the dynamic base (01:02:46) that we've given you this time round we think is the right
way to do it. Now, in reality, we've still got them all to do or that's someone to do, balance
sheet. We are – it's equivalent to the old PRA returns. We've got to go through the whole
audit process for that balance sheet and that's not yet been completed. When it is, clearly
then, we'll disclose those in the middle of May. But, overall, my message is that what
we've given today is a good indicator of where we expect that. It won't be materially
different from that when you get to see the numbers in May.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

In terms of core messages, I would say, about – well, I'd just get back to big picture. We've
written £7 billion new annuities in 2016. We've paid a good dividend in 2016. We've
accommodated rates going down by best part of 100 basis points and the surplus went
up by £200 million. So, wait for the detail in the returns come in May. Bigger picture, we're
in good shape.

Page 22 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

FINAL

Morning. It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Just one question, if I can.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Very popular.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Can I just go back to the dividend outlook, please? I was just wondering, how should we
think about the dividend cover and the metrics that you prefer to use in the board room.
Is it – should we be thinking about the net release from operations or the Solvency II net
surplus generation or is it the IFRS profits or is it something else altogether?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

No. I think if we look at both earnings per share and net release as the two key metrics.
But over a – Mark did five-year, 10-year and even 20-year models and scenarios when the
board reflected on this. But there's a lot of attention over the five-years to 10-years. And I
think the word that Jon used was sustainability under all scenarios. So we think we have a
very robust and resilient model. So, if earnings or whatever fluctuate around, particularly
on the downside, then we've got sufficient firepower for still projecting a very healthy,
progressive dividend. We will be around, obviously, all of the management team,
afterwards for questions. Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Can I ask one question and a request?
The question is what is the balance between the amortization of the transitionals and the
rundown in the risk margin each year? And then the request is I think one of the problems
we have with the stock is people's worries over credit crises and how that might affect
you. Now, I was wondering whether you might be able to give, at some point, the impact
on your earnings and cash and Solvency II surplus of an average year on credit defaults
and going back over history, the worst years, so that we can actually get a sense as to the
survivability of the business on those situations.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. Those are very good questions, actually. Kerrigan, if you want to answer the second
one and just go through, in an average year, if we have £300 million, £400 million, like,
what you'd see as a couple of sectoral or a country specific or something where you have
a default that run into the hundreds of millions? Clearly, we've had pretty much zero for a
number of years. And, Mark, do you want to pick up the other question?

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Great. Yeah. That's fine. Go first on that.
Page 23 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

FINAL

As you said, we had £2.7 billion in credit default reserves and we did plenty of scenario
analysis on whether it's the whole portfolio gets downgraded by a couple of notches or
whether specific sectors have a more severe downgrade. And that leaves us pretty
comfortable that we can take £700 million of default losses through our IFRS balance
sheet whilst still having enough for our best estimate default provisions after those events
– after assessing those events. I mean, of course -

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

That's quite a big buffer that we've got already on the balance sheet in relation to what
would be a pretty high and a very historic high level of defaults. Mark?

A - Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Yeah. Just a little bit color on runoff of the transitional compared to the runoff of the risk
margin. Again, you'll get more details in May, Andrew. But just as a rule of thumb, we
would expect to have roughly about a third of our day one risk margin still on the balance
sheet at the end of 16 years, whereas, at that point, the transitional will have probably run
off.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to say when I guided towards how you should think about net surplus generation at
the Capital Markets Day in December I'm talking about mid to high-single-digits. I did
allow for the fact that there'll be a slight mismatch between the runoff of the risk margin
and the transitional in giving you that sort of guidance. So it's all in our scenario planning
going forwards.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you for all of your questions today. And, again, thanks to all of my colleagues for
another year. And I'd like to take this opportunity to – a special thanks to Mark Gregory
who is stepping down after 18 years and at least 10 of which have been successful here at
Legal & General.
He's been a terrific colleague. We've worked on many things together. He has a great
team spirit which I think has captured Mark. And I'm not welcoming the analysis we have to
do on Solvency II scenarios because of the complexities. But Mark and I spent many, many
hours in our respective offices struggling with both the sign and the size of changes in
response to various things.
But I look to the future for Mark because, undoubtedly, he is the best cover version of
Jam's singer that I've ever come across. And his version of Down in the Tube Station at
Midnight still ranks as the best single performance of any of my colleagues at karaoke in
the history of L&G. So, those of you who may be joining us for his farewell celebrations,
we're hoping that with a bit of encouragement from a few drinks and a little bit from his
colleagues, he'll present what we think will be an outstanding performance, a bit better
than his message to you really at one of the earlier celebrations.

Page 24 of 25



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2017-03-08

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So, again, we're going to stay around and answer further questions. Thank you for all of
your interest and a high quality of questions that we had today. Thank you.

Page 25 of 25

