Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Jazz Gakhal, Head of Direct Line for Business
Jonathan Paul Greenwood, Managing-Director Commercial
Paul Robert Geddes, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Equity Research Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Iain Pearce, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Welcome everybody, to our First Half Results here at Morgan Stanley. I'm as usual, joined
by John Reizenstein; and in the audience, many of my executive team that I'm sure you
can ask questions of or see in the break after.
So, very pleased to be standing here today, ﬁve years after the Analyst Presentation for
our IPO and share these excellent results; they're the product of a huge amount of work
by our dedicated people. We're reporting our best ﬁrst-half operating proﬁts since
becoming a listed company. Three out of our four businesses grew with premiums up 5%
overall, and our own brand premiums are up nearly 10%, powered by the continued
momentum of our Direct Line brands.
We've delivered a very strong 88.9% combined ratio, and these strong results continue
the momentum we've built. And that's given the board conﬁdence to rebase the interim
dividend up 39% to £0.068, with growth thereafter expected to follow the growth of our
business. Finally, we ended the ﬁrst half having strengthened the Solvency II ratio to 173%
after that rebased dividend, interim.
So turning now to slide 5. These excellent results continue the already positive
momentum we've built over recent years. We've made many improvements across all
areas of the business, driving growth, improving our eﬃciency, improving our core, and
Page 1 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

generating capital. And the great news is that, we believe there's still more to come, and
I'll talk you through some of the actions we're taking a little bit later.
But today, we're a business with momentum in our brands delivering good margins, and
a cost base we can both improve and leverage. And this gives us the conﬁdence to share
with you, today, some refreshed medium-term targets. And these targets are: to continue
to reduce our cost ratio and our commission ratio; to maintain a 93% to 95% combined
ratio throughout the medium-term; to grow the rebased dividends in line with the
business; and ﬁnally on capital, we're now targeting to be in the middle of our 140% to
180% Solvency II risk appetite range; and of course, we maintain our long-term ambition
to achieve at least 15% a RoTE.
With that, I'm going to hand over to John to highlight the key drivers behind the excellent
results.

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'll just give an overview of the main
trends of the ﬁrst half results. As usual, you'll ﬁnd all the detail in the statement. As you
can see from the charts on slide 7, it's another very strong set of results. Starting with
premiums, our own brands continue to grow across all of our Personal Lines products and
Commercial, partly due to another very strong period for the largest of our own brands,
Direct Line.
We reduced our expense and commission ratios in the ﬁrst half, reﬂecting growth,
business mix, and lower payments to partners. Our combined ratio of 88.9% is 0.7 points
better than last year, and well-below the 93% to 95% guidance that we gave reﬂecting
seasonality, benign weather and an Ogden rate. Finally, annualized return on tangible
equity was 26.1%, which is 3 points better than the ﬁrst half last year.
Turning to premiums on slide 8, we've seen continued momentum across the portfolio in
the ﬁrst half with 5% growth overall, mainly driven by Motor. Motor premiums grew by
10% due to a combination of pricing, strong new business growth and improved
retention, particularly in Direct Line.
Home was down 4% due to partner business, while own brands were broadly stable, and
that's despite pricing actions taken to mitigate claims experience. Rescue and other
Personal Lines continue to grow premiums; they were up 8%, as growth in Green Flag
more than oﬀset a reduction in Rescue partners. Finally, in Commercial; Direct Line for
Business grew premiums 13% in ﬁrst half, and NIG was also up a little reﬂecting positive
rating actions. Overall, Commercial premiums were up 2%.
Turning to expense and commission ratios on slide 9; stable costs and growing premiums
have provided us with a leverage to reduce expense ratio in the ﬁrst half. The expense
ratio including Flood Re was 0.7 percentage point lower than last year at 24.6%. This is in
line with our ambition to reduce the ratio over time.

Page 2 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

We also saw a signiﬁcant improvement in the commission ratio, which was down 2 points
to 8.9%. Part of this was due to lower payments to our Home partners, and that reﬂects
lower prior-year releases and higher current year claims costs. The underlying
commission ratio improvement is about 1%, reﬂecting changes to business mix and new
partnership arrangements. Overall, we're pleased with the ratio improvement we
delivered in the ﬁrst half, and are conﬁdent we can deliver lower year-on-year ratios on an
ongoing basis.
Moving on to the loss ratio on slide 10. The headline loss ratio increased by 2 points to
55.4% due to lower prior year releases. And for the current year attritional loss ratio, which
excludes weather, this is broadly stable as Escape of Water claims inﬂations you've seen in
Home was oﬀset by an improvement in the Motor current year loss ratio. I'm particularly
proud of our track record on current year attritional loss ratio, which is clear on this slide.
Prior year releases remain signiﬁcant at £216 million or 14% of net earned premiums. This
was lower than ﬁrst half of last year in line with our guidance. Note, the prior-year releases
tend to be weighted towards the ﬁrst half due to the timing of our actuarial reviews. We
expect reserve releases to be lower in the second half.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd also ﬂag that we beneﬁted from £50 million of releases related to the Ogden discount
rate after detailed individual case review, which indicates we need to reserve less than our
top-down year-end best estimate suggested. So weather was benign with just £9 million
incurred to-date, this is £22 million below what we'd expect for the ﬁrst six months, and £4
million lower than the previous year.
Overall, when you take into account the improvements we've made in our cost and
commission ratio and attrition loss ratio, we're delivering on what we set out to do, mainly
to improve current year proﬁtability. We expect this trend of improving current year proﬁt
to continue. Over time, the balance between current year and prior year will shift within
the 93% to 95% core target. The point where this rebalancing reaches maturity is several
years away.
Now, let's take a look at operating proﬁt on slide 11. Ongoing operating proﬁt increased
by 9.5% to £354 million, which as you can see is due to Motor. This is all the more
impressive when you consider the ﬁrst half of 2016 was a strong comparative.
Motor proﬁt was up £65 million to £234 million due to the Ogden release, a 2.9
percentage point improvement in the current year loss ratio, and higher installment and
other income. In Home, the picture's a little diﬀerent, mainly due to having a particularly
strong result last year. Despite lower prior-year releases and higher claims inﬂation in the
current year, Home still managed to deliver a sub-50% loss ratio, which is another great
result.
Commercial held proﬁt at ﬂat at £30 million. Lower prior-year releases were oﬀset by a
better attritional loss ratio and lower commissions. Rescue and other Personal Lines proﬁt
was also stable as a better Rescue result was oﬀset by lower proﬁts from other Personal
Lines.
Page 3 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

To focus now on the major moving parts in the half, starting with Motor on slide 12. Motor
pricing was very strong in the ﬁrst half as our risk-adjusted prices which exclude IPT were
up 11%, a little higher than the latest ABI ﬁgure. We took pricing actions to manage both
normal claims inﬂation, which remained around the top of the range, plus the change to
the Ogden discount rate.
We deployed our pricing changes to reﬂect our actual experience on large bodily injury,
which meant younger drivers saw the biggest increase. We increased prices more than
the market for these younger drivers, and as a result, our risk mix reduced in the ﬁrst half.
The strong trading momentum, particularly in our Direct Line brand continued throughout
the ﬁrst half. We wrote good volumes and retention remains strong, all of which helped to
deliver Motor premium growth of 10%.
In Home, the picture's diﬀerent although the result is still robust. Escape of Water
continues to drive high claims inﬂation, well above our long-term expectation. We took a
range of actions to mitigate this rising cost through pricing, underwriting, and claims
management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, we increased our own brands prices by 2% in the ﬁrst half, with greater rating
action taken on new business, meaning we wrote fewer, new business policies. However,
we continue to protect the value of our back book and our retention remains strong; this
meant that overall, premiums are broadly stable, while policy count increased a little. The
pricing environment in Home continued to lag (09:22) claims inﬂation in Q2. Although
there was some signs that the market has started to respond to Escape of Water claims
inﬂation.
Not a great deal to say on investments. You can see, we generated income of £93 million
below AUM, a little better than last year due to slightly high gains. The higher gains
occurred in the ﬁrst quarter this year; the outlook is unchanged on gain. We don't expect
material gains in the second half.
The income yield was 2.5% in the ﬁrst half, although we expect to come in near a 2.4% for
the full year. Our investment strategy is defensive at present given the uncertain market
and political outlook. We've a long cash position on the expectation; some might say,
hope that yields will rise.
Finally, a few words on capital and dividends, starting on slide 15. As you can see, we
generated around £280 million of capital in the ﬁrst half, which is broadly in line with IFRS
operating proﬁt post-tax. There was a small movement in the SCR, which was due to some
minor modeling adjustments. So we ﬁnished the half with an overall surplus at just over £1
billion post the interim dividend.
Turning to dividends on slide 16, as Paul said earlier, we rebased the regular dividend to
reﬂect our conﬁdence in the group's ability to continue to deliver strong proﬁt and capital
generation. We've rebased the regular by 39% increasing interim dividend at £0.068.
Going forward, we expect to grow the regular dividend by 2% to 3% per annum in line
with our business growth.
Page 4 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

Finally, our solvency ratio on slide 17. Paul mentioned, that in normal circumstances, we
will target the middle of our risk appetite range. As you know, we consider special
dividends at the year end. In that context, it's encouraging to report a ratio of 173% post
the interim dividend.
So despite being up against a tough set of comparatives, and the challenging team's
(11:18) environment in Home, we again outperformed and delivered excellent results in the
ﬁrst half, albeit with a tailwind. Paul?

Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you, John. As I said at the start, it's been ﬁve years since our IPO Analyst
presentation. And I'm really proud that we've delivered excellent service for our
customers, and great returns for our shareholders.
With that in mind, we thought it was worth taking some time this morning to update you
on the DLG proposition and share with you some of the latest initiatives that we're
working on.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our proposition starts with the customer. As you can see on slide 19, we have the two
leading general insurance brands in the UK with Direct Line and Churchill.
We've delivered a step-change in our Net Promoter Scores by improving our phone and
digital journeys and through investing in our people. We've given our customers
innovative superior propositions that are unique in the market, and we work extremely
hard on our pricing, step-changed our price competitiveness, while still hitting our target
loss ratios.
In combination, our own brands have been growing strongly, in particular, Direct Line,
where you can see on right-hand-side, we've just celebrated passing through 4 million
customers. And we still have a lot more ambition.
On slide 20, we outline the attractions of the DLG proposition. Our scale and our own
brand momentum forms the ﬁrst part of proposition. Second, we have a proven track
record of disciplined underwriting, claims excellence and cost control, which has enabled
us to write this business at good returns.
Thirdly, our business is highly cash generative, supported by a very simple and highquality balance sheet. And this means we have been able to generate the capital to
deliver high dividends and to rebase the regular dividend. Finally, the diversity of our
business, and the investments we're making for the future means we can adapt to meet
the ever-changing needs of our customers.
And over the next few slides, I'm going to give you some insights on the actions we're
taking to grow current year proﬁtability and support the growth in our dividends. It's split

Page 5 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

into three areas. First, we plan to maintain steady revenue growth by investing across our
products, channels and brands, and by exploring adjacent opportunities.

FINAL

Secondly, costs remain central to our plans, and we are investing to improve our cost
competitiveness. Third, we constantly strive to improve our underwriting claims and
pricing capabilities and have numerous exciting initiatives here too.
Let's start with revenue growth on slide 22. As you know and as shown here, we went
through a period where we right sized the company, we shed unproﬁtable business and
started to build the capabilities needed to grow proﬁtably. And having turned the corner,
we've been consistently growing at attractive margins. And our target is to continue to
leverage our competitive advantages and grow our valuable owned brands and the
overall business. We never stopped investing throughout our rightsizing, building our
capabilities on PCWs, reversing our Direct Line brands and building our new Direct Line
for Business oﬀering.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will continue to invest in these areas and we plan to deliver even more new and
unique propositions for our Direct Line customers, as well as supercharging our Churchill
brand for the PCW market. Our Green Flag Rescue business has delivered double-digit
growth and we plan to continue this. Having just appointed a new managing director,
we're ready to challenge the two market leaders in this space and we recently launched a
highly competitive new TV advertising campaign.
Aside from these brand activities, we see many new opportunities to leverage our
strength. In Commercial, we're making things easier for our SME customers and more of
this in a moment. It will make easy for our existing customers to meet more of their
insurance needs with us by our Next Best Action initiative. We also see opportunities to
expand our quote footprints from our existing model to quote in new areas.
Finally, we're also pushing into adjacent categories, where we think we can use our
capabilities and scale to make things easier and better value for customers, such as our
investment in Roadserve, which will help us to provide aﬀordable and convenient car
servicing to our motor insurance customers. Overall, we expect these actions to support
2% to 3% growth in our own-brand policies.
Moving now to costs which remain a major component of the plan. As we rightsize the
business, we reduced our costs and that allowed us to maintain our expense ratios. Now,
we have growth momentum, we can start to leverage our platform, open the jaws and
improve our cost ratios. As you know, we're targeting to reduce both our commission and
expense ratios in 2017 and beyond. This is key to us growing the current year proﬁt
contribution.
We outlined here just some of the many actions we've taken to drive further eﬃciencies
through our ﬂexible and agile technology and process. We're using robotics for high
volume repetitive tasks (16:47) and we're targeting to automate 35 processes by the end
of this year. We're going to continue oﬀshoring where appropriate using both South
Africa for voice services and India for back-oﬃce services. And now, we have over 1,000
Page 6 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

FTEs overseas. Enabling our customers to do more for themselves has been an important
part of our improved eﬃciency. In the past 12 months, we doubled the number of
customer online interaction. But there's still a lot more we can do here.
We're also investing our own capabilities with some key senior hires in the past 12 months
from outside the insurance industry, bringing best practice and expertise into the group.
Last year, we brought in a new Chief Procurement Oﬃcer. He's already delivering
signiﬁcant savings on IT contracts and on claims indemnity spend.
As part of our upgrade to our IT infrastructure, our new CIO is undertaking a redesign of
our operating model with an ambitious cost reduction plan by retirement of old expensive
legacy systems and more eﬃcient ways to procure capacity for our new IT estate. We still
have signiﬁcant investment to get where we want to be, but we are moving into an
exciting phase.
Our third and ﬁnal priority is delivering excellence in pricing and underwriting. We
believe we're good at this already as demonstrated by our strong ﬁnancial results. We've
improved our attritional loss ratio to a really attractive level, and we intend to remain
(18:13) this whilst increasing our competitiveness to support further growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having created a competitive position in PCWs over the past ﬁve years, we believe we can
see more on this channel. And this opportunity is underpinned by forward initiatives and
even greater use of third-party data.
Amongst the long list of claims initiatives, we're seeking to further expand our accident
repair network, which gives us real cost and service control whilst still allowing us to
support some unique customer propositions. We're also investing in new initiatives for the
long term. As part of our IT transformation, we're implementing a latest generation
pricing in June, which will allow us to respond quickly and creatively to new opportunities
and to new data sources.
In the medium term, we're also building an entirely new pricing approach from our
existing model. We intend to run this alongside our existing pricing model to expand our
competitive quote footprint. This will take time to build and test, but it's an exciting
prospect for us to build from scratch with the newest techniques (19:15) data and
technology available.
Now before I wrap up, I'm going to share with you in a bit more detail one of the
initiatives I've spoken about and that's Direct Line for Business. You may recall the Direct
Line virtuous circle from the full-year results, shown here on page 25, showing how Direct
Line have high-value customers allowing us to invest in better service and unique
propositions, attracting high-value new customers and keeping the existing. And so, the
virtuous circle continues.
All of these things are equally true for Direct Line for Business. Indeed, the two sides of
the business have many of the same customers.

Page 7 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

So, turning to slide 26. The DL4B as we call it launched just under 10 years ago. We
started by oﬀering the obviously adjacent categories of van and landlord insurance,
where we leveraged our Personal Lines in Motor and Home expertise. As you can see
from the chart the DL4B has grown rapidly over its 10-year history and now accounts for
over £100 million of premiums and over 450,000 policies. Today, over 85% of the
business comes from landlord and van and here we still see signiﬁcant growth
opportunity from unique new propositions, and they also continued both the beneﬁt from
many of the same initiatives growing our Home and Motor businesses in Personal Lines.
The remaining 15% of the DL4B is made up of targeted small and micro business shown
here in yellow. And we believe there's signiﬁcant opportunity for us to grow our share of
this market. We're excited about the prospects for the direct market and smaller
microinsurance. The total market will continue to grow driven by economic technology
and lifestyle trends. And within this, we believe that about £3 billion of the total market
have the characteristics to go Direct. And we want DL4B to be instrumental in creating, in
growing and in taking a good share of this market.

Bloomberg Transcript

The smaller micro segment is a heterogeneous market made up of many diﬀerent trade
segments from builder to shopkeepers, hairdressers to web designers, consultants to
cake makers, butchers to B&Bs and everything in between. And whilst these businesses
are very diﬀerent, there are four common features that cut through and will drive
customers to buy their insurance Direct.
Firstly, many small business owners believe that commercial insurance is complex and so
can be a little a daunting to do on their own. Having a strong familiar brand in Direct Line
is a great asset. And we're going to add to that speciﬁc marketing to show that we
understand each market and profession that we enter.
Second, we recognize that many small businesses need help in understanding the type of
cover they need. Looking for example at the Hair and Beauty profession, there are 10
diﬀerent product covers needed to cater for all the potential requirements. And so, it can
be hard to understand which ones you need, especially if they're written in insurance
language.
So, we thought an interactive cover with it using plain English to ask simple questions that
are built on the previous answers that the customer gives. At the end of the wizard,
shopping basket and paying for cover modules reﬂect their business and their need.
Thirdly, our extensive research has revealed the insight that each business owner feels
their business is truly unique. Traditionally, small businesses have been oﬀered packaged
products with little ﬂexibility to add or move section, which can leave customers either
with too little or too much cover.
So we've build modular products, so the customer can create a truly bespoke policy that
exactly meets the needs speciﬁc to their business. And ﬁnally like any Direct Line product,
customer expects a really easy purchase process and good value. So, our brand new end-

Page 8 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

to-end digital solution that allows customers to pay their business insurance in minutes
and at the competitive price including easy payments and documents online.

FINAL

In April, we launched a pilot product on our new platform for the Hair and Beauty trade.
And we've asked Jazz. She's in the room with us. Runs Direct Line for Business. She'll run
you through how quick and easy and good value it is to buy a Hair and Beauty policy on
your smartphone. Play the video.

Jazz Gakhal

Bloomberg Transcript

Our customer starts from the Hair and Beauty insurance landing page and clicks to get an
online quote. This brings her to the insurance wizard where she's asked four questions in
plain English about her business that she can answer. This is helping her to personalize
her policy. She's a hairdresser and runs a mobile business and has no employees. She can
see that the policy has already started to be personalized, because she's not presented
with building all contents covered and she runs a mobile business and not from a salon.
She's interested in taking eﬀective (24:14) taking covers, is a bit unsure about what this
cover this. So, she clicks on the question mark, which brings her help facts in plain
English. She would like to take the cover, so clicks. She moves out the basket, an icon
she's familiar with from many of the retail websites, and sees that she's got mandatory
public and product liability cover as well as the eﬀective (24:33) taking that she's just
added. She clicks to continue. This takes her to the risk capture where she'll provide the
rest of the information. She can see that the system has retained the information that she's
provided in the insurance wizard such as the fact that she's the head of a – she proceeds
to complete the rest of the ﬁelds.
The system has retained the information that she's a mobile business, so she didn't have
to repeat this. And also the fact that she has no employees. She selects her liability limit
from the drop-down list and provides the information required for eﬀective (25:23)
takings. She reads and agrees that she can comply with the important statements, and
conﬁrms that she's had no previous losses in the last ﬁve years.
She's pleased with the price that she receives, and the fact that the price and the excess is
broken out under each cover section. This provides transparency that she needs to decide
whether each section is value for money. She decided that she'd like to see the price
without eﬀective (25:51) takings, so a click from the bin icon to remove this cover.
This updates the price automatically. She also sees when she scrolls down that she still has
the option to select the covers that were presented to her in the insurance wizard that
she's rejected at the time. She can also see the eﬀective (26:11) takings have been added,
so she could re-add this at any point. She's completed her quote.

Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

All on the smartphone slightly speed it up, Jazz, yeah. Slightly or a very quick typist. We've
had fantastic feedback from customers recognizing both the ease of the journey and the
Page 9 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

ability to create their own tailored policy. A quote for me perfectly captured it. This is
interactive and more fun to do because you're picking up the things and putting them
into a bundle yourself like a shopping basket. You almost feel as if you're building
something yourself. I've never come across anything similar to this before.
So, we're oﬀering SME the opportunity to conﬁdently ﬁnd the right cover for their unique
business at the right price. We're going to transform the way customers buy insurance
Direct and watch this space as we plan to further – to roll out further products from later
this year.
So that was just one of the many initiatives we believe will help support future growth.
And today, we are a business with momentum in our brands, delivering good margins at
a cost base we can both improve and leverage.
So, to sum up. As John has outlined, we've delivered another half of excellent results, and
the business has real momentum. And having shared some exciting plans, you can see
why I'm hugely energized by the prospects for our business. This gives us the conﬁdence
to extend our combined ratio target beyond our usual 12 months target and to materially
increase our regular dividends by 39%.
With that, I will hand over to questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

All right. Give us a second. Excuse me. All right. Start over; actually we don't need
microphones (28:06).

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Good morning. Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Three questions. Firstly on Solvency II, you talked
about targeting to run the business in the middle of the range. What's the timeframe then,
if you have to look at – as in terms of direction of travel, how quickly we reach there?
Secondly, on Commercial Lines business. Is it possible to get the split of combined ratio
between the NIG book and the Direct business you have? You've also talked about – and
third is on the Commercial business itself, the expense ratio still looks fairly high. So then,
how should we think of this business in terms of the long-term on combined ratio total as
well as the expense ratio side? Thanks.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So, I'll – in reverse order, that's normal. So, Jon here runs the Commercial business, I think
he'd agree that the expenses remain an opportunity.

A - Jonathan Paul Greenwood

{BIO 17958326 <GO>}
Page 10 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

As across all over the group, yes. Yeah. We don't speciﬁcally split out the proﬁtability of
the two bits of business. Suﬃce to say and I think we said this previously, DL4B is
comfortably ahead of our group RoTE targets. And with Neil, Neil's task is to get the NIG
business towards it. Already operating at its own we think is attractive for us in terms of
generating real proﬁt. But it's still not quite at the group's target. So, Neil is busy
executing real underwriting and pricing discipline and getting right away in the
commercial market.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. On the new policy on the target capital (29:41), we're going to operate in all sense
of it at the middle of the range, well, it's from now. And why haven't we taken it down to
160 now? Well the answer to that is because, as previously stated, we talked about
specials once a year at the year-end when we've got the full results and we've got the
business plan. So the ﬁrst time, we'll consider it special is then, but the 160 applies
straight away.
(30:06). Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. A couple from me please. I was just curious on your IT program expenses. What's
the updated timeline for that? When do you expect those to fall away? And then you
mentioned that you're looking for a steady footprint expansion as a revenue opportunity,
just wondering if that's primarily driven by Direct Line for Business or there's other
footprint expansion in the other segments as well?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yeah. Absolutely. So, it's both for the products on the DL4B, but actually important in
Personal Lines, there's still part of the market we don't quote competitively or quote at all.
Quote at all is going to be not just one initiative we know we need to go carefully. So,
there's a number of initiatives behind that.
And then quote competitively is another opportunity, which we mentioned the alternative
pricing approach for the bunch of very, very clever people doing lots of very exciting
maths and with new models. And our objective there is to think about that as an
additional pricing model so that we can increase. Because at the moment, our limitation
of our competitive quote footprints are single pricing engines behind our multiple
brands. So if we can get a second alternative, non-correlating alternative pricing model,
that could signiﬁcantly increase our portion of the market that (31:22) competitive because
quoting at all is less important than quoting competitively.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Our key program is a multiyear thing, and this thing we've launched today is quite a big
deal. The Direct Line for Business platform is complete end-to-end new solution, I
encourage you to all go on it and where I (31:40) tend to be helping these professionals
for the day and get a quote on it. So, that's fantastic. This is going to be a multiyear
program in terms of the cost, John, therefore, what they're for?

Page 11 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

FINAL

I think we said before it's the same, we're in the sort of £80 million to £100 million a year
investment. Much of which gets capitalized, but not all and that's probably going to
continue for a while. But eventually, we will get through much of that and then it should
reduce somewhat. But it'll still be – we're still be spending tens of millions in a business of
this size, which is becoming quite a hi-tech business.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks John.
Thanks. Just two questions if I may. Firstly on the medium-term target, can you give a bit
of idea of what medium term, is it three years or a bit longer? And then, what gives you
the enhanced conﬁdence to put out these targets for multiyear, in particular in an
environment where next year, we may see some changes around Ogden rate and with tax
reforms, et cetera, and volumes could come down. So, maybe a point to fact is that
maybe you got cost ratios coming down, that gives you a bit of ﬂex should pricing come
down or do you caveat it, depending on what happens?
The second question is on the Ogden release, which is about a quarter of the charge you
took six months ago. You highlight that it's individual bottom up. But can you give more
color in terms of what speciﬁcally drove the releases and how we can sort of maybe read
that a bit forward. And I'm (33:03) released still reserve that negative 0.75% to 1.08%.

Bloomberg Transcript

(33:07)

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yeah. Well, the period of medium term appears to be taxed oﬀ (33:11) our businesses
plan, our business plan extends to 2020 at the moment. The – I'll do the Ogden one,
anyone do the Conﬁdence (33:20) one. The Ogden one – I'll give you an example of one
of the things that we discovered when we did the bottom-up review because we got more
than 2,500 multiples in injury claims. And remember that the best estimate we gave at the
year-end was done under very tight conditions, very ratable conditions.
So, just to give you one example, the impact of the interest rate change, yeah, (33:51). Just
to give you one example of one of the diﬀerences that we observed. The impact of
reduced longevity at minus 0.75% is much greater than it is at high rates and there's a real
complexity there. And you really only see the impact of that when you get into every
individual case and look at the longevity of those cases as opposed to a model, a model
group. That's just one; there are a few others like that which came through. And obviously,
we are conservative in our reserving. We have been for quite several years and we were
with Ogden as well.
So that's really to explain that. We still reserve at minus 0.75%. We still price at minus
0.75%. And so, hopefully that answers your question. You want to deal with this?

Page 12 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, I think on looking at it a bit further. I mean it's probably there is – we got a good run
at delivery in the last ﬁve years. I think part of what's driven our conﬁdence is that we keep
trying out the good 93% to 95% or better cost and our business has now been growing
for a while and I'll say we got a bunch of new initiatives coming through which we
continue to feed that.
Now, clearly, we're not totally unaﬀected by market cycles. So, a few words on that. I think
the ﬁrst thing is we think 93% to 95% is kind of setting appropriate balanced level of
proﬁtability that we think can grow at. Growth is always a secondary target to us to value,
the 93% to 95%, and long term 15% is what kind of guides us. So, should the – we always
reserve the right to shrink in a market or pull back from market if we don't think we can
get the value that we want. How to protect the 93%, 95%, you have to go get on costs.
And again, we've got a good track record of doing the costs, to maintain the expense
ratio that we need to hit. So, that's what we're doing in a downturn. Yeah, (35:44)

Bloomberg Transcript

(35:47), Deutsche Bank. Three questions for me, please. First, I think, John, you
mentioned that capital generation is kind of in line with IFRS proﬁt. I was just wondering in
terms of development of capital expenditure in the second of the year, so it's £38 million
in the ﬁrst half and last time it was some surprise that number was a bit higher than usually
expected?
Secondly, are you able to provide some sensitivity of your solvency ratio to change in
personal injury discount rate? And ﬁnally, I think, on solvency. Can you tell what
assumption you have made for PPO propensity in your Solvency II post Ogden? I think
one of your peers reduced the PPO propensity assumption by half after the event?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
I'll deal with the ﬁrst and third. I'm going to go ask you about the second one again
because I didn't get it. We said – yeah, CapEx, certainly, I mean, you're right. In the ﬁrst
half, we said, £80 million to £100 million, it could be a bit high in the second half, but it's
going to be within that range, £80 million to £100 million.
Propensity, we are now at 16%. Checking with Paul (36:45) over there, it was higher, so we
did reduce it, as a result of the Ogden rate. But it wasn't double, so it comes down by
some 10% but it hasn't halved.
Do you want to ask the second one again?

Q - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, the second one was, are you able to give any sensitivity of your solvency ratio to
change in Ogden rate?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Page 13 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

We've got some sensitivities there. I can't remember the whole time whether we've got
the one with (37:09) Yeah, we haven't got it. We haven't got it.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

We'll take that away, and come back to you.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yeah.

Q - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. (37:19) you show a price change with 11% for Motor. You say claims inﬂation at the
top end. So, how much do you think you can pocket in terms of underlying loss ratio
improvement going forward, although considering the upcoming reinsurance review?
The second one is related to this. I'm a bit confused by the messaging on page 10, as well
you said the mix is going to change more underlying less reserve releases, but then on
page 24, you say you maintain attritional loss ratio. What is now the story? Is it stable or
improving? And why the decrease is improving?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then on the reserve release on page 37, you switched from a gross to a net picture
and you show quite a sharp break in 2014. So, why did you switch your reporting? What
do you want to tell us with this, showing quite signiﬁcant break in reserve releases on a
net base?
Good. (38:16) rate. So, we priced on a like-for-like basis about 11%, slightly ahead of what
the ABI set the markets on. The ABI 11% increase IPT. So, if you want, on a like-for-like
basis, we're a bit ahead.
So, let me tell you the inbound pressures. So underlying claims inﬂation is, say, running
around 3% to 5%, Ogden gross cost, we're saying, is about 7% to 8%. So, that might say
are we price enough. Going the other way, we've got some good trends on bodily injury.
So, we are conﬁdent that we are the right side of pricing claims inﬂation for us.
Now, also remember that's gross – re-pricing gross claims costs. So, obviously we are –
we'll a little bit better than that in 2017 where of course, it's largely reinsured. Our view is –
our forward-looking view is for a rational re-pricing of reinsurance arrangements and it's
very too early to say whether it will be rational. Clearly, if it's not rational for us, it won't be
for the rest of the market. And obviously that will have pricing implications.
We also have the optionality that some others don't have to negotiate half of the
reinsurers because we don't need to buy every single layer just to sort of having a balance
sheet. So we're working (39:38) those negotiations, I think, conﬁdently.
So, conﬁdent that the attritional Motor improves from this price?

Page 14 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

Yeah. I mean obviously we price gross Ogden now. So, unless the reinsurers are going to
jump in (39:56) kind of what I would regard is irrational, we already priced Ogden where
the right side of loss ratio aligned given both Ogden and the underlying currency
inﬂation, partly explained the fact we're doing well on body injury.

FINAL

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Just on the second question then, so we're distinguishing between our expectation on
attritional loss ratio and our expectation on currently operating contribution. So, we're
saying on the latter that if you look at the past, we're saying this will continue. We've got –
we're targeting to improve our current-year performance and the totality of our currentyear proﬁt will improve. And that obviously reﬂects growth. It reﬂects what we're doing,
expenses and commissions, and so on and other income, everything except prior year.
Now, on attritional loss ratio, we've been very stable. It's come down and have been very
stable. We're very proud of that. Looking forward, we will continue to invest in improving
it where we can, but we also see a few – the obvious headwind. So, when we – in the
relation with Nationwide, for example, that will cause an uptick in our Home attritional loss
ratio because their performance is very good on a loss ratio basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we're not saying we'll get dramatic improvement in our attritional loss ratio for the
group as a whole, although we'll be doing our best to protect it, but the other ratios will
improve. And I think as we grow, we'll get that improvement now as well.
On the third one, 2014, we went from a £3 million deductible on the insurance to £1
million, as part of our general derisking over time. And we're showing net, so you can see
the impact of that. Now what you could reduce from that slide is maybe we are buying too
much reinsurance or overpaying or overestimating the risks of those layers and we
shouldn't be doing that. That only shows one dimension, which is the loss ratio
dimension. Of course, there's another dimension, which is capital utilization. So, the
reason or a big reason we buy more insurance is for capital management purposes and
we look at it very much on a return on equity basis.
And obviously, the higher layers cause new capital consumption for the long-term. So, the
higher layers give you the PPOs and that will – you might get your loss ratio better one
year, but you're going to then have that drag on your RoTE for 20, 30, 40 years, which is
why this is not probably only dimension we look at that. But hopefully that does answer
that particular question. Now in addition to 2014, certainly when we ﬁrst reserve for it, it
looks like a bad year time, it's actually performing better than we thought.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks. Ed Morris, JPMorgan. Two questions, please? The ﬁrst is on sort of technology
investments you're making and how it relates to cost savings. Some of the techniques you
showed looked quite advanced. It would be helpful if you could bring to life some of the
areas where you think you're not so advanced, where you should improve, what
capabilities do you not have that should get better.

Page 15 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

And the second thing is the Churchill brand, you talked about supercharging that. Can
you just explain how the strategy is slightly diﬀerent for Churchill; because it sounded like
it's more about price rather than diﬀerentiating your brands from the market?

FINAL

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll try and take both. So, Churchill has a slightly diﬀerent job to do as a brand than
Direct Line. Direct Line needs to say to everybody, every month; whenever they're in their
insurance purchase cycle, remember to come to the shop called Direct Line. Churchill, we
don't have that task to do. Churchill just needs to – when someone's go to the shop, call
the price comparison website, at shelf edge, persuade people to spend a little bit more
money on a better brand. So its marketing channel is a bit diﬀerent than that.
It's still a brand. It still have beneﬁt as a brand. The fact that customer is choosing a brand
for a bit more money, tell us a lot about the quality of the customer, and that's what's
valuable for us to do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it's a slightly simpler task, it'd be a less expensive, less elaborate thing than Direct Line
reboot, but still worth having. Remember, we didn't talk much about Privilege, but
Privilege is our kind of price rising brand that's there, where we'd want to see a kind of –
towards the top of the competitiveness in price comparison website.
So we just think that, as a brand, sometimes just need a bit of extra love (44:02). And
we've got fantastic award-winning marketing team that progressively say, okay, let's try
and reboot Direct Line, most recently within Green Flag and the next point of call will be
Churchill.
In terms of tax and cost savings, yeah, we talked about doubling the amounts of customer
interactions online. It's still not where we think it can be. And we do think there's
opportunity for customers as they kind of expect now, they do more and more things
straight, direct on the smartphone. And you saw an example in Direct Line for Business,
how simple it is if you can get it right. It's kind of, for many instances, the way people
would like to interact.
We don't see, by the way, the demise of people in the equation. We do have a fantastic
contributor, which we'll continue to invest in, are fantastic at understanding and meeting
customers' needs and product expertise, being empathetic when people have a cold. But
there are some tasks where our person isn't adding much value, and it could be done
direct both in claims and in terms of sales. So, that's one of the kind of key areas.
And then, there's some back-oﬃce things; we can be more eﬃcient how we deploy
prices, for example, in these systems.
Yeah, (45:08).

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Page 16 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

Hi, Dom O'Mahony from Exane BNP Paribas. Thank you. So three questions if I may; and
the ﬁrst is on combined ratio guidance. So if I remember correctly, excluding the Ogden
write-back, you're running at about 92%, and obviously, your guidance this year is 93% to
95%. Is that explained entirely by the fact your reserve review cycle is in the ﬁrst half of the
year or rather speciﬁcs, would actually, do you think, take you back to that range or is
indeed it's just a sort of a way of providing leeway, seems to be diverse to me (45:41)?
The second question is just on the pricing, pricing in Ogden. As you say, you've priced in
Ogden, I think entirely, it's my temptation what you said (45:51) coming to the market as
well, more broadly. And the reason I ask is this, there was some view in the market that the
pricing would gradually increase as the reinsurance cycles kick in. And with that point of
the question, will it suﬃce if it wasn't already, and then your reinsurance kicks in 2018,
does that mean you actually headwind into 2018? So is there a headwind?
And then ﬁnally on Direct Line brand in Motor, which as I understand is powering a lot of
the growth. Just want to understand where that growth is coming from. Is that coming
from taking share within sort of the direct channels, or from the Avivas, for example, of this
world? Why is it actually pushing back on the share of PCW as the share of channel?
Thank you.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very good. So on (46:41) I mean, I don't think customers wake up every morning and say,
I'm a PCW customer, I'm a Direct customer. (46:46) customers will probably go on price
comparison website and check prices, and then go online and bought Direct Line very
simply.
So these are not two kind of parallel universes. Certainly, PCWs are still three quarters
weighted by most insurance today was for us – it's about half that for us, so it's about kind
of 36 for us (47:10). So that ratio – so there deal successes also coming from both; these
are kind of fungible populations of people.
What we tend to ﬁnd, what we said last time is by someone choosing to come to direct to
us, they are going to ﬁnd themselves (47:25) values quality that values brands, and that
tell us it's a valuable customer who can then aﬀord to get (47:31). So that's a really nice
thing before going on Direct Line.
And as we get conﬁdent, as it works, as we can acquire customers Direct as we can on
PCW is we keep feeding it. There's a real success story, and we haven't listed this with
awards, but we continue to win awards in Direct Lines customer service for marketing
globally outside insurance. It's a fantastic success story which we'll continue to pour you
with on subsequent months.
The market has – so I don't think we've got the headwinds, because we've done what we
need to do on Ogden. As I said, the only thing is, if the reinsurers are irrational on how
they price it, we're going to have to look at the cover we buy or wrap up. But I would say
to our guidance that we've – Ogden, we think, we've dealt with on pricing.

Page 17 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

Our competitors, I can't really speak for them because, obviously, their input costs might
be diﬀerent to ours. We said we've got the oﬀset from the fact we're doing well on bodily
injury. So, we'll have to wait and see.
And then, we've obviously taken a slightly diﬀerently view to the market on where the
Ogden costs should fall in terms of, we think, young drivers are disproportionately
aﬀected, because they tend to have their own passengers that are disproportionately
aﬀected by that long term.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
For vehicle?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Sure, Yeah.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
So again, you're right on reserving, and that's one thing. And the other thing is weather
because we assume that we take until 31st of December, we could get all the way, all the
year's weather, right. So we began to see the level, it's now going to be average, for the
rest of the year, we assume it's going to be getting colder for the rest of the whole year.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Ravi?

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I just have one question please on the home
insurance. And you've referenced that you could upgrade just quite a lot of the Escape of
Water claims inﬂation, and therefore, your policy count come down a little bit. Can you
give us a sense as to kind of the broader competitive dynamics in Home Insurance market
others are growing by the cross-comparison channel? To what extent is that also
impacting top line and is this capable to inﬂation, kind of industry-wide trend from what
you're observing?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
So, do you think it's industry-wide? The market has priced a bit, which most of this kind of
background trend is positive. We priced a bit overall. We priced more signiﬁcantly on new
business, and that hits our new business volumes.
And pricing is only one of the three elements that we're going to use to tackle the Escape
of Water. Some of it's underwriting, and some of it's also claims initiatives. Our aim is to
Page 18 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

get back to where we want to get to for 2018, as I said. So all of it went by in 2017.

FINAL

We think it's industry-wide, as we said, caused by the trades. This is water coming through
ceiling, that's a plumber, that's an electrician, that's a chippy, that's a general builder and
those are inﬂating trades. And we had a little bit one quarter doesn't (50:16) make a
summer, we've had one quarter slightly better trend on Escape of Water, but still early.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous Research. Firstly, you gave in Commercial
that you're above a 15% resi (50:35) in Direct Line for Business, and below NIG. Could you
do the same thing in your Motor account between the Direct Line, direct brand and your
PCW (50:46)?
Secondly, a high-spec couple of questions, you can dodge it if you want. If...

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I can talk to the ﬁrst one (50:57).

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Ogden may or the Commission may suggest that Ogden is over £1 million, this is going
down the PPO route, what would be the impact of that on your Solvency II capital
position?
And then, thirdly, what is your assumption that sits behind your industry assumption, your
market assumption that sits behind the 2% to 3% policy growth? Is that against the market
growing 1% or what?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. Three good questions. I mean, I think we do view our Motor portfolio as a portfolio,
so we don't break our RoTE by brands. But you'd be right in thinking if we did
directionally, Direct Line will be higher and our PCW brand will be lower; as we've
indicated, but I'm not going to tell you against what thresholds.
Ogden?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
So I can't give an answer straightaway. I mean, for the future, it wouldn't make that much
diﬀerence because we'll be insured. As long as we stay at £1 million for reinsurance, we
wouldn't get many more of those or in fact, any more of those.

Page 19 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

Now, that's a decision we'll only take on an annual basis. But I suspect that if that were the
law, then we'd be more likely to keep the £1 million reinsurance than if it wasn't the law
where we probably have more discussion and option. So it'd only aﬀect back book, and I
think that will only aﬀect the unapproved part of the back book. So we'll go away and
have to think about it. Clearly, PPOs are more capital intensive than normal volume, so it
will cost some money on capital, you're right.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

To recap my ﬁrst answer; when I said higher (52:39) than each other, so I'm really being
very unhelpful to answer it. On the industry assumption, I mean, I think, listen, we're in a
fairly stable market size, we think, in some policies. The thing which we've indicated,
obviously it's car technology, car sharing, autonomous cars. I think if you take it kind of 10,
15, 20 year basis that might change. So I think – but I think, we're relatively safe on a – I'd
say, relatively kind of benign on an ISP basis. And in terms of the cycles, we're not
prejudging exactly how cycles will play out other than our behavior in previous cycles has
been to get the loss ratios that we want to cope with the volume.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Policy count.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No. I think, policy count, we'll continue to be – I'm just looking at my – two people that run
big categories. Yes?
Very gentle growth for this foreseeable future. Very gentle.
Fairly, yeah. Maybe.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

The SME?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

SMEs could be more positive.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

What I'm trying to get to is, sort of 2% to 3% represents market share gain?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, some market share gain, we'll reference some market share gain.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Page 20 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

FINAL

Hi, Iain Pearce from Berenberg. Just a couple of questions from me. On the Nationwide
agreement, you said that all have negative eﬀect on the loss ratio in Home. Could you
give us some details on how that aﬀect the commission ratios in Home and whether that
will oﬀset and whether you should actually see an improvement in your combined ratio
there?
And then also, I think there were some delays that you were talking about in transferring
that across (54:18). Can you give us maybe some more details and the time scale of when
you expect that portfolio to go across?
And then secondly, on the footprint particularly in Personal Lines Motor, could you give us
some details on what your footprint roughly is at the moment, and where you see that
potential getting to, and so what the rationale you see for increasing that footprint?
Whether you're seeing attractive segments to the market? Mix pricing segments that you
were not potentially in at the moment and that sort of – type of things?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I'm getting the last one. I mean, we're kind of – we're around two-thirds of the
market, which we quote. You never want to get to 100%, I don't think you've got much
appetite for drunk-drive convictions for example, but I think it could be more.
So, there's deﬁnitely headroom and the nice thing is, it's pretty – it should be kind of quite
linear. We're going to tackle it in (55:01), the same is true on Home, so we don't dispatch
today or – SME we don't to do, I think, buy-to-let with students. Then we have some
underwriting restrictions (55:13) in what we said is the competitive quote footprints
initiative in alternative pricing.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
NBS. On the ratios, yes, the loss ratios, that will make, I'll say a little bit higher, when that
goes. Obviously, you will have a beneﬁcial eﬀect on commission ratio. Obviously I can't –
you might be able to check it out when it happen, and try and work it out. But it's not
something we're going to be able to say because it's not disclosed thing, but it will come
down. We also will see commission ratio reduction for, if you like, better reasons than that.
We see the business mix and all the changes improving our commission ratio as well as in
H1 coming oﬀ.
Expense ratio, it provides a bit of a challenge on the expense ratio, because, obviously,
the volume goes, but we get – we have some ﬁxed costs that we can't easily remove. And
obviously, dealing with that is part of our overall cost plan, and we've said we want our
expense ratio to come down over time. So that's part of our plan.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

And still the very, very end of this year. So, I think our expectation on the timing, that
actually means we won't write any GWP next year, it will start with our NEP. Yes, Alan?

Page 21 of 22



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2017-08-01

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

FINAL

Alan Devlin from Barclays. Two questions; ﬁrst of all you're your alternative quote engine
(56:25). I mean, how exactly does that work? Is that quoting diﬀerent quoting from
diﬀerent brands or diﬀerent distribution channels, et cetera?
And then on the – just on the reinsurance, is your working assumption that you keep if
pricing is rational that the layers are – you continue the current layers are; given the lower
layers are more working now, would you consider everything will matter? Thanks.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I mean, I think we always have said there will be layer of reinsurance rationally on a cost to
capital basis. So we'll do that again this year. We're just saying, which marketing the cars
of our reinsurers is their choice have a bit of those negotiations.
Look, I'm going to say a bit (56:57) in terms of pricing. But – because it's – we're going to
do some kind of quite cutting-edge staﬀ, and we've got some extraordinary kind of
people working on it, but we're talking about some very interesting things. So I think it will
be the subject that probably another one of our like, they also do deep dives and we can
announce a bit more.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of brands, we are kind of open minded about exactly how you deploy it whether
it's a new brand or you put it under existing brands or whether you do some sort of
algorithm to blend the best of the two qualities. So those are still in consideration. But it's
very, very exciting and some quite encouraging early modeling results.
Right. Thanks. I think, we've got historic early ﬁnish here. So thank you very, very much for
coming and we'll see you next time. Join us for coﬀee. Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

