Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

Y 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chris Figee, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jos Baeten, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michel Hulters, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Bart Horsten, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the ASR Conference Call on the 2016
Annual Results. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the
conference over to Michel Hulters, Head of Investor Relations at ASR. Please go ahead, sir.

Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon and good morning to those of you listening in from
the US. Thank you for joining this conference call on ASR full year 2016 results. Presenting
today are Jos Baeten, CEO; and Chris Figee, CFO. Jos will start today's call with a
summary of the full year results and he will also discuss some strategic highlights and
business progress. Chris will then provide further detail on the ﬁnancials and he will talk
you through solvency and capital as well. Following these presentations, we'll have ample
opportunity for Q&A, but please also have a look at the disclaimer in the back of the
presentation for your -- to use [ph].
Having said that, Jos, you are on.

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Page 1 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

Thanks, Michel. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 was, to our opinion, without doubt a
successful year for ASR. Our strategy of value-over-volume delivered on its promises and
we are proud to report a very strong set of ﬁnancial results for 2016. Throughout the year,
we have been able to keep our business momentum at a high level and our full year
performance is in line or sometimes even better than our medium time -- medium-term
targets. But make no mistake, these targets are challenging and it's hard work to get these
results, and we will continue to work hard and that's a promise.
We will discuss our ﬁnancial performance and strategic developments in more detail, but
let me start oﬀ with an overview of some of our key metrics and those are on slide two.
The highlights on this slide clearly show that our performance in 2016 has been strong on
almost every key metric. Our Solvency II ratio is robust at 189. This is based on the
standard formula, as you may know, and after deduction of the proposed dividends
already, before dividend ratio by the way was 194.

Bloomberg Transcript

Quality of our capital remains high as well with Tier 1 capital alone representing almost
160 of the SCR and then there was still plenty headroom to maneuver in both terms of Tier
1 over 1 billion and Tier 2 almost 700 million. Our operating result was up 11.5% to almost
600 million, and this yielded an operating return of more than 14% compared to our
targets of up to 12%. The strong capital position combined with the business operating
results and the return on equity above target showed strength of our franchise. This
performance triangle is key in assessing how well we are doing. We are particularly proud
on the combination of a solid return on equity, robust solvency and low leverage.
Then the operating expenses, those went down by 1% and this already includes the
absorbed regular cost base of EUR13 million from the business that we acquired as well as
IPO-related cost. The focus on continuous expense reduction delivers results. In our Nonlife segment, we've been able to keep the combined ratio in the 95-ish range, ahead of
target of 97. Please bear in mind that this combined ratio already includes signiﬁcant
claims from hail and water damages in the ﬁrst half year of 2016.
We noticed recent comments in the industry on exposure to bodily injury claims. We have
only limited exposure to this. With reserves amounting up to almost EUR400 million, i.e.
less than two-third from our annual operating proﬁt. We do not expect any adverse
developments from this.
Our business generated more than EUR300 million organic capital in 2016. This is in line
with the guidance we gave at our IPO and is still based on our original investment return
assumptions. For your reference, in 2015, we generated EUR264 million of organic capital.
When we also take into account the additional capital generated by excess investment
returns and operational eﬃciencies, the total capital accretion amounted to EUR475
million. Chris, will come back to this later.
This last number is of course before dividend. Our strong solvency position enables us to
remain entrepreneurial. As we have said, everything above 160 basis to be an
entrepreneurial to pursue proﬁtable growth and pay an attractive dividends to our
shareholders.

Page 2 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

Now talking about dividend, this is signiﬁcantly up to driven by strong ﬁnancial
performance and conﬁdence that we have in our business. We have decided to raise the
dividends to EUR`187 million. This is up from the EUR170 million last year, and also exceeds
the guidance at IPO of discretionary dividends for 2016 of EUR175 million.
Our strong solvency enabled us to also participate in the recent sell down from the Dutch
State. We purchased 3 million shares in this transaction -- roughly 66 million. In doing so,
we reached the limits of our current mandates to buy back shares. And as already said
several times, at the upcoming Annual General Meeting, we will request a new market
consistent mandates to buyback our shares. This may provide us the ﬂexibility to
participate in further sell downs by state.
So, let's now turn to our business portfolio, and show some strategic developments
during the past year. In slide three, this is slide three. In 2016, we have also made
considerable progress in executing our strategy and optimizing our business portfolio. I'm
sure you're familiar with this matrix in which we plot our businesses and this slide
highlights some important developments and achievements.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the top left of this slide, in box A, are our businesses that provides stable cash ﬂows and
here we focus on organic growth.
Disability is a key product line in this segment, and a proposition that combines disability
and health, the so called Doorgaan-proposition is gaining traction. An advantage from
this combined oﬀering is the increased retention levels of the proﬁtable disability
products. Both in disability and P&C, we were able to grow our premium levels. Market
share data is not available yet, but we believe that we have been able to grow our market
share signiﬁcantly, whilst at the same time maintaining a very healthy combined ratio.
Our funeral business has successfully completed the integration of AXENT. This was
executed very well ahead of schedule and we've been able to absorb the business with
minimal additional headcount. When we acquired the business, headcount was 62 FTE
and we now run the same portfolio with only 29 FTE.
Now it is integrated to actually, can achieve the cost beneﬁts from the migration to our
low-cost platform. Our funeral business will now turn into integrating NIVO, which was
acquired at the beginning of last year. This should be done at the latest in the ﬁrst quarter
of 2018. Further on, we remain interested in funeral books. However, it may take some
time before a book becomes available.
In the capital-light space that's in box C, at slide three, we have made further progress as
well. We've acquired BNG Asset Management and the integration and acquisition in the
meantime has been completed. So the business today is fully integrated in our own
business.
Another example is the launch of the Dutch Mobility Oﬃce Fund. In December last year,
we brought the oﬃce portfolio from NS to Dutch Railways. This portfolio comprised 15
oﬃces and 9 oﬃces were included in the newly found ASR Dutch Mobility Oﬃce Fund. In
Page 3 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

February, we sold the other six oﬃces. Clearly, we have strengthened our position in
Asset Management and fee-income business as promised at our IPO. Thirdly in this
segment C, we're also pleased to see organic growth in DC business. This has been
accelerated over the last year. Assets under management in DC, more than tripled and
sales doubled.
And ﬁnally, the acquisition of SuperGarant and Corins have been completed, and
together with the existing distribution activities, we expect this to show further traction in
2017.
In box B, on the left angle down are the large service book -- service books that we
manage. Maintaining a low cost base is crucial. We've expected declines in particular
individual life portfolio, roughly 50% in the next 10 years, we are verbalizing the cost base,
so that our cost key base with the declines of the book. We are on track in realizing a
medium-term cost decrease.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, box D. As you already know, we're also there to (Technical Diﬃculty) slide of the
operating results. The operating results increased EUR62 million to EUR599 million. Lower
earnings in the Non-life segment was more than oﬀset by an increase of EUR110 million in
our Life segment. While the combined ratio remain strong at 95.6% in 2016, exceeding
the target of 97%, the operating results in Non-life was mainly impacted by the lower
direct investment income, the hailstorms in June and lower contribution from the
equalization system in health. The lower contribution was by the way EUR16 million -- 16.
The P&C business performed well, including the absorption of the hail and water damage
claims, which impacted us by EUR25 million earlier in the year. The increase of EUR110
million earnings in Life is primarily related to the positive contribution of the acquired
companies, EUR22 million and a higher investment related result on swaptions. The
increased release of realized gains reserve compensated the lower direct investment
income as you may notice.
The operating result of non-insurance activities showed a decline of EUR15 million, mainly
due to higher interest expense in the holding of EUR17 millions. This is related to the
issuance of the Tier two subordinated debt to EUR500 million in September of 2015.
Acquisitions contributed to an increase of the operating results by EUR8 million in the
Distribution and Services segments.
So, let's now turn to slide ﬁve. Not only the full year went well, also the quarter-by-quarter
developments show the strengths of ASR. I'm especially proud of the quarter-on-quarter's
combined ratio.
This is already the 12th consecutive quarter that are combined is below 100. This in
combination, with the organic growth of our Non-life business shows that structural
underwriting loss making Non-life business is not necessary to grow our top line.
On slide six, on cost, one of the key drivers of solid operating earnings and long-term
value creation is our ongoing focus on cost discipline, which has become part of our
Page 4 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

culture and daily operations. In Non-Life, the expense ratio improved from 8.9 to 8.3. In
Life, the expense ratio was also better 11.7 instead of the 12.3 of 2015. All-in-all, operating
expenses decreased from 5.75 to 5.69, a decline of 1%. This picture by the way is actually
somewhat distorted by the acquisitions we've done in 2015 and 2016.
On a like-for-like basis, that means including the full annual cost base of all of the
acquisitions, the 2015 comparative cost level would have been EUR604 million and this
will then result in a decline of 35 million. So we are able -- we have been able to absorb
the full cost base of the acquired businesses. Measures taken to reduce our cost base are
fully on track and on a target.
So let's now turn to the Non-life segment, which is on slide seven and let's have a closer
look on this segment. In the Non-life segment, our underwriting expertise is market
leading. All Non-life product lines showed combined ratios below 100 and we are proud
of that. Even including the impact of hail and water damage claims, we've been able to
keep the combined ratio in a 95-ish range better than the target of 97.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also noteworthy is the favorable development in our expense ratio, as I already
mentioned. Market developments towards more rational prices allowed us to both grow
our top-line with an overall growth of 6% in the P&C and Disability business.
Operating result in the Non-life segment continues to be strong. The exceptional hail and
damage -- hail and water damage led to a speciﬁc claim cost of 25 million after
reinsurance. We also, by the way, experienced an increase in the number of large claims
roughly 7 million relative to multi-year historic averages, which have been covered in part
by reinsurance contracts, by the way.
Even after those, our P&C combined ratio has remained strong without unduly relying on
reserve releases. The underwriting results of the Disability business improved. This is
driven (Technical Diﬃculty) volumes reﬂecting the recovery of the economy in
combination with the expertise in claims handling, prevention and reintegration.
Our Health insurance businesses reported lower earnings due to lower beneﬁts in
combination with higher claims estimation from the Dutch National Healthcare Institution.
In addition, we also experienced higher dentist claims for supplementary health
insurance. The total eﬀect amounts to a decrease of 25 million, but still delivering at the
IPO target of 99% combined ratio.
So now let's turn to our Life segment. That's on slide eight. As you may now, our Life
segment comprises three major product lines: individual life, which is 40%; pensions,
which is 50% in terms of reserves; and ﬁnally funeral insurance, which is 10%. Although,
by the very nature of the product, we would expect funeral to increase gradually in the
future.
Gross written premiums of the Life, total Life segment rose by 10% to more than 2 billion.
The decrease in the individual life portfolio was more than oﬀset by the growth in the
funeral business, including the acquisition of AXENT and NIVO, and our pension business
Page 5 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

due to the acquisition of De Eendragt. The DC pension also contributed to the growth,
including customers switching as a result of the commercial integration of Eendragt.
Single premiums in the Life segment increased by 162 million to 734 million. The increase
includes the transfer from the funeral portfolio of NIVO and the pension contract for
AstraZeneca. New business went up by 60 million to 152 million in 2016. Excluding NIVO,
by the way, the underlying growth of the Life segment was 8 million. In the pension
business, the shift from capital in terms of deﬁned beneﬁt products to capital-light
products is making progress. We, as already mentioned, noticed a doubling of new
business.
From an earnings perspective, and I'm on slide nine, the Life segment is a major
contributor to the overall group earnings. The operating result rose by 110 million, driven
by higher income from, ﬁrst of all, the realized gains reserve, the shadow accounting from
a higher contribution from acquired businesses as well and from a higher investment
related to result on swaptions, whose gains also feed through our capital gains reserve.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also beneﬁted from some portfolio management decisions and Chris will discuss
those later. Important to note, as the bar chart on the top shows, the lower direct
investment income is oﬀset by higher regular contribution from the realized gains reserve
on the shadow accounting. This shows the stabilizing eﬀect from the shadow accounting
method under our interest rate hedging program.
Operating expenses in the Life business, including the additional costs of acquisitions,
which by the way were 8 in the Life segment decreased by 2 million to 203 million. Due to
the successful integration of the acquired businesses into ASR ICT platform, we were able
to capture scale beneﬁts. As a result, the cost premium ratio improved 6 -- 0.6 percentage
points to 11.7.
During 2016, further steps were taken to achieve cost savings ambitions.
As discussed, this includes the migration of several product and system combinations into
a new single platform. Overall, the Life segment delivers very good returns. The operating
return on equity increased to 11.9, while the life insurance margin rose to 3.7 being 3.4 in
2015.
Turning to slide ﬁve to the various activities in non-insurance. These are performed
broadly in line with expectations. In the Distribution and Services segment, we have
acquired SuperGarant and Corins and we expect them to get away with the existing
distribution entities of Van Kampen Groep and Dutch ID to gain further traction this year.
In the Banking and Asset Management segment, the acquisition and integration of BNG
asset management has been completed and showed early success in winning an asset
management mandate of 1.7 billion. The operating result of ASR Bank was lower than
expected, reﬂecting actions to further improve the organization.

Page 6 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

So now let's move to the comparison with our IPO targets. I believe in the past year, we
have delivered the proof that we are executing our strategy diligently and consistently,
without -- with our equity story. Our one quote in the reports we've seen this morning
summarized it even better and the quote was ASR continues -- ASR continued
undisturbed on its behalf of over-delivering on its IPO promises and we couldn't have
said it in a better way. Our ﬁnancial results are strong and proﬁtable, and our balance
sheet is robust.
As I mentioned in the beginning of the call, make no mistake, it is hard work to get these
results and these targets are challenging in the Dutch insurance environment, and I'm
conﬁdent that our ambition stems high in any fair comparison in the Dutch market.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on slide 12 to ﬁnalize, year-on-year, we achieved better ﬁnancial results, driven by
strong business performance. And the steady increase of operating results has enabled us
to also increase the returns to our shareholders. Over the past years, we have built a solid
track record of paying dividends. The proposed cash dividend of EUR1.27 per share is an
increase of 12% compared to last year. The return of cash to shareholders is also
underpinned by our recent share buyback of 3 million shares in the sell down of the
Dutch state.
This year, in 2017, a new dividend policy has become eﬀective. The annual dividend will
be based on a payout ratio of 45% to 55% of the net operating result attributable to
shareholders, i.e., net of hybrid costs. We applied, by the way, as you know, a boundary
condition based on our Solvency II position, where we would not consider to pay a cash
dividend since the Solvency II ratio fall below 140. The proposed dividend of 187 million is
fully in line with the new dividend policy.
And now for more ﬁnancial detail and further information on our solvency position capital
generation, I will hand over to Chris, he will continue to build momentum towards slide 22
and 23.

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Thank you, Jos. Over to the ﬁnancial update and continuing on the momentum that
characterizes our funds or (inaudible) for our Company. Moving to page -- turning to page
25, I'll take a few pages that I'll talk shortly about the few pages that I will elaborate more.
Starting with the ﬁnancial update, that is page number 14. As you can see the increase in
operating results, whether we look at the IFRS results, which is up 4%, already operating
result which is up 11.5%, we've seen an increase in results.
Details are in the appendices A to E, just a reminder on this page, the diﬀerence between
operating result and IFRS result are the capital gains and incidentals. On the investment
side with this year had a more normal year in terms of capital gains of around EUR170
million, which is kind of where we were in the long run in terms of capital gains. You might
argue it's slightly lower than normal because we created a bit less in our land portfolio.
And last year we had exceptionally high capital gains as we rebalanced our equities
portfolio.

Page 7 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

In terms of incidentals, last year we had a negative EUR93 million incidental relating to the
provision for real estate development. This year we had a EUR100 million plus positive
incidental from the ﬁnalization of the modernization of our pension scheme, will report of
the previous unconditional inﬂation commitment. This elimination of inﬂation exposure
led to a EUR100 million reduction of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations, so plus.
Overall IFRS results are up about 4%, operating result up about 11.5%. Operating ROE this
year at 14.1% similar to the 14.5% operating ROE we had last year. Actually the decline in
the ROE was solely due to the higher base in the appendix. Appendix C you can see the
ROE calculation, and the denominator in the ROE calculation moves up from 2.5 billion to
2.9 billion. So the small decline in ROE seem to decline because the denominator went
up. Had we have the same denominator as last year, the ROE would have been 16%.
Moving on to the investment portfolio, page number 15. The portfolio increasing value to
about EUR57 billion. Details are provided in the appendix H and I, there you can ﬁnd
breakdowns by asset class, and buy back asset classes. Couple of points to make. During
the year, we made a set of tweaks to the portfolio to further optimize our return on capital,
especially in the Solvency II context. And we basically continue to rotate out of equities
and shifted to credits to mortgages and real estates.

Bloomberg Transcript

In this move, the direct investment income of our book went actually up 3% despite lower
interest rates. The direct yield -- the direct IFRS yield speaks about 2% to 3% -- 2.5%. If we
include release from share of account in the capital gains reserve, the direct yield is still
safely above 3% and it appears to stay there for the plan periods.
Highlighting mortgages and real estate, our mortgage book is now 18.6% of the total
asset base. Gross mortgage production was EUR1.3 billion, the net increase EUR700
million mortgages. Our book is now at 50:50 splits between government guaranteed and
non-government guaranteed, and we would like to point out about 75%, three quarters of
our mortgage book either has a government guarantee or loan to value of below 75%.
Given this high quality nature, you will understand that the performance is good, that the
book is developing very hopefully. The arrears numbers, mortgages in arrears, marketed
arrears are less than 1.5% of the mortgage portfolio and the actual default or foreclosure
costs are less than 1.5 basis point. So a very healthy solid mortgage book that we see
quite a lot of client demand from institution investors wanting or desiring to invest in our
mortgages and we're turning it into a mortgage product.
In terms of real estate, Jos already alluded to the fact that we acquired the oﬃce portfolio
of the Dutch Railways, EUR275 million, eﬀectively we warehouse these assets over the
year-end. We bought them in December and they're on our balance sheet. In January, we
saw EUR60 million of non-core assets, replaced EUR20 million already in funds or thirdparty clients. The remainder about EUR200 million will be part on our own book and part
managed for third parties in a new funds.
So please note that EUR275 million oﬃce acquisition and real estate is actually a step
towards another asset management, real estate asset management solution.
Page 8 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

In real estate please note about 40% of our real estate portfolio is in land and people say
they don't make that stuﬀ anymore, so we're very pleased with our own land business.
The yield of the vacancies in our real estate portfolio is in 4.3%. For those of you with a
more black perspective on the world and on our risks, the exposure to Italian banks is a
EUR130 million all in ﬁxed income. All in what we see is high quality institutions, exposure
to Monte dei Paschi is EUR7 million only in a senior bond. So the amount of direct risks
from some of the remainders of the crisis is very, very limited.
Finally, we made a number of changes in our liquidity portfolio to deal with swap spread
exposure and to lock in our swap spreads, but we'll talk more about that when we get to
page 25. Now let's ﬁrst turn to page number 17, when we kick oﬀ the discussion on capital,
key developments in cash and capital. This is one of the pages that I'll talk about very
shortly, because just going through the numbers, Solvency II stand up over 189%, post the
foreseeable dividend is to 194% pre-dividend compare that to 180% in our day one report,
meant a total accretion of capital since the beginning of the year of 14 percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Organic capital accretion came out at 9% in line with the IPO guidance. During the year,
we had number of comments and the suggestions to harmonize and update our
deﬁnition. We'll talk about it later. Important to mention that the 9% is through the
existing the old methodology. So we met our targets not by changing the model but by
delivering on our goals.
Dividends at EUR127 per share, if you add back the cash dividend, if we add up the cash
dividends of EUR187 million plus the 66 million shares we bought back or the value of
shares we bought back. In January, the total cash return since IPO is EUR253 million or
8.7% of the IPO valuation. So we hope and trust that those who had conﬁdence in our
stock at IPO were duly rewarded.
Moving on to page 18, continue to build momentum on SCR developments. Some people
call be old fashioned, but I found that I'd like to look a book value. In this chart, you can
see IFRS equity book values indeed so we'll see eligible on funds. IFRS equity moved up
from EUR4.2 billion to EUR4.4 billion, if we exclude the hybrids from 3.6 to 3.8. So an
increase in book value as hybrids were up 6% over the year.
If you look at the equity base that we use for ROE calculation, which you can ﬁnd the
appendix moved up by 5% during the year. Eligible owned funds up to EUR6.3 billion,
actually hybrids moved up by 4%. So if you take diﬀerent book value licenses where it's
Solvency owned funds, where as IFRS and actually hybrids or without realized capital
gains, all by all means the book value of the group went up.
And we think in the long run, despite in the long run book values are good guidance for
the development of any company. So we're pleased with the continuous accretion of
funds of book value.
Page 19, it's group solvency ﬁgures. Page 19 depicts the own funds and the required
capital, eligible own funds of EUR6.3 billion required capital of 3.3, divide one but the
Page 9 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

other we get 189% post dividend. So, we'll see couple of points mentioning worth on
stock.
Tier 1 as I said 84% of total funds, Tier 1 ratio 158%. So a pretty solid construction of
solvency, signiﬁcant headroom available. We've noticed some discussion in the market
around Tier 3 and Tier 3 capacity of tiering risks. Our DTA of the group is EUR11 million,
which compares to the total growth headroom of EUR501 million for Tier 3 capital. So the
net headroom in Tier 3 capital is EUR490 million, 501 minus 11. That means even if our
DTA goes up, even if interest rates move to Tier 3 capacity or Tier 3 tiering is not at risk.
Of course when you -- if you were to use the Tier 3 space, you can think about your ability
observe any changes. But at this point in time, no tiering risk to the solvency of ASR.
In terms of eligible own funds, in the year, we observed a decline in volatility adjuster,
which moved from 29 basis points in the beginning of the year to 18 for half year and 30
at the end of the year. So eﬀectively, a drag or a headwind of around 9 points of solvency.
So when you compare to 180 day-one to 194 pre-dividend, please note that is after
absorption of a 9 point VA drag, so to speak. Just a little bit of color around the
underlying accretive capacity of the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Double clicking or viewing in on the required capital in the Appendix, Appendix G, we've
got a little more intelligence or data on the sources of the change in capital. If you go at
market risk, our market risk is still 49% of the pre-diversiﬁcation required capital, where
we wanted to be. Remember, we are an insurance company of an investments fund, so we
believe that market risk should hop around the 50%, could be a bit up, a bit below, but
not too far oﬀ, and 50% is the number we feel pretty comfortable with.
Inside the market risk bucket, during the year, we lowered allocation or capital allocation
to equities. We lowered capital allocation to currency risks and we increased capital
allocation to spread risks and to leadership risk, that actually is a reﬂection of the portfolio
(inaudible) and with a slight increased allocation to the long-term interest rate shock,
which is a technical phenomenon as the curve changed during the year, the curve
steepened during the year. The interest shock, the capital charge [ph] for a shock and
solvency too went up. But by and large, out of equities, out of currencies into corporates,
credits and into real estate, that's the delta behind the market risk number.
Other capital components, the life risk charge went down for the year. In the Life bucket,
we had an increased charges for longevity, mainly which is a second order eﬀect on the
changing interest rates, oﬀset by reduced lapse risk. Remember, our mass lapse insurance
and due to lower cost risk, which is a beneﬁt from the increasing integration of AXENT. So
in Life, an increase in longevity more than oﬀset by a decrease in lapse and cost charges,
counterparty risk went up due to the allocation of mortgages and LACDT, a small support
to capital from Delta and LACDT and we'll come to talk more about it later, and no doubt,
in your questions.
So in summary, we look at the capital requirements. We had reductions in required
capital, or an increase in availability of capital, if you wish. Through reduce charges for
lapse risk cost equity, currency risk in LACDT and we allocated more required capital to

Page 10 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

spread risk, real estate risk, counterparty risk and our business P&C to some extent
longevity risk. And please note, real estate reﬂected the 275 million eﬀect of warehousing
we did on real estates for their own oﬃce fund.
So in summary, looking at our numbers, we believe we've got a rock solid solvency
number, strong tiering, no tiering risks and we are pleased with the level and the quality
of our solvency. And again, from our perspective, well controlled massive developments
in the underlying solvency components, where we continue to assess the sources and
uses of capital to optimize our balance sheet and to provide good returns to all our
shareholders.
Page 20, organic capital creation. Let's go into the delta of our solvency development.
And for the half year, we'd like to break down the delta solvency in underlying
components. Now, one word of caution here. Any breakdown in the delta solvency is
judgmental by nature, right. The industry, insurance industry is still trying to ﬁnd stable
ground here. We aim to run at the forefront of capital disclosure and share how we think,
but any bucketing of delta capital has an element of judgment to it.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we'll follow on the approach we took last year by deﬁning organic capital generation,
organic capital creation in three buckets: operational, net release of capital and technical
movements. And the remainder, the category other is called market and operational
developments.
Let's start with the technical movements, work away from right to left. The box technical
movements contains the UFR unwind and equity transitionals. The UFR unwind for the
year was a 110 million or about 3.3% of SCR. Also it includes in this metric the equity
conditional, the amortization of transitional rule for equities. After diversiﬁcation, it's about
0.7 SCR points. So the total technical movement in techno drag is 4%.
Please note again, this has nothing to do with management skills or whatsoever. This
purely is a technical shift between stock and between ﬂow. It's almost like running up on a
downward moving stairway on a running escalator. You have to run faster than the
stairway to make progress. The annual drag from this point was about 4 percentage
points in the last year.
Second bucket, net release of capital. This consumes or contains the release of SCR, the
release of risk margin and investment in the new business. The resulting number here is
5.7%. Think about SCR minus new business and risk margin of equal size, so the 5.7 you
can divide into two, half of it is the reason to risk margin and half of it is release of SCR
minus new business divestments. The SCR release was tilted up a bit because the lapses
on our nominal life has moved up a bit during the year.
In our country, people redeem or have redeemed their mortgages more than they used
to do, so we used to run at unnatural unexpected lapses about 50 basis points a quarter
that has moved up to 60 basis point a quarter and has been stable throughout the year.
So some acceleration of release of capital through the redemption of mortgages, but

Page 11 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

again, pretty well sustainable, 5.7% in terms of net release of capital, 50-50 between risk
margin release and SCR minus new business.
And then we've got the operational capital generation as compared to excess returns,
technical result, the fees and then holding costs and hybrid cost. In total 7.2% of the one
capital, with excess returns the largest component and the technical results exceeding the
holding cost. So this gives an approach where our business generates about 7% of capital
plus release of capital 6%, (inaudible) up partially by 4% technical drag in stock and ﬂow.
Measured in euros, it gives 301 million of organic capital creation or 9% of day-one
solvency, which is in line with our guidance and expectations. The 301, you can break
down into own funds and SCR charges, on average 230 million increase in own funds and
38 million in lower SCR charges.

Bloomberg Transcript

The bucket other, market and operational developments, it's for a second year in a row,
it's now a plus, so that we outperform, we add, what we have had for the last two years
over and above the organic capital creation. In this bucket, you've got a number of pluses.
You have excess returns over and above the assumption in the OCC. The cost beneﬁts,
lapse insurance, LACDT positives are a plus. Negatives would be the decline in the
volatility adjuster, negatives would be increase, for example, allocation to interest rate and
to real estate and ﬁnally, some modeling changes, but all modeling changes together has
-- are basically canceled out.
So where does it leave us compared to the model, which we used at the beginning of the
year, we have delivered on our guidance 9% 300 million capital creation, up from 264 last
year. It was not an easy environment. Second important point to note, the operational
capital generation exceeds to release, our book to business generates more than the
release in the book. This is the way we manage our company. We are a book of business
about capital generation, not just capital release. And in the way we manage our
company, the fact of other was again a plus over and above the OCC.
To give you a little more color, we have moved to page 21. You can see the movements in
numerator and denominator, the delta in all the funds and the delta in recorded capital. I
will not spend too much time talking about, it's more for your perusal. But again, you can
see about 230 million net increase in own funds and the 38 million beneﬁts in required
capital. If you multiply the 38 by the average solvency of 1.84 during the year, you get to
the 301 OCC. Again, here it shows the operational capital generation, 242, is the largest
component of what we deliver in terms of organic capital increase.
And ﬁnally, please note, market and operational developments, the required capital
element that -- of that is only 2, so 2 million in required capital from market and
operational developments, that is kind of actuarial speak for, there were no major net
modeling changes to speak of. So it is a modeling changes and (inaudible) canceled out
and did not lead to a massive increase of the required capital. So page 21 elaborates
further on the organic capital generation.
Now, cap gen going forward, right. I would ask you can move to page 22, the deﬁnition
going forward.

Page 12 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

As said, interaction with investors and analysts, we've got lots of feedback on the way we
calculate the OCC. We have been challenged if we're not too conservative, especially in
the assessment in the long-term spreads.

FINAL

We've conducted a fairly thorough analysis of with use of some external support and
looked at UFR unwind's traditional spread assumptions and what have you. And with that,
we've updated our models.
Again not with the purpose to meet our goals but with the purpose to be market
consistent in our assessments of organic capital generation. After the assessment, we will
do it better to move the transitional rule for equities like others do to the bucket
marketing operational and we've adapted our spreads. Most notably, we moved up the
spreads and mortgages, equities and real estate. We stratiﬁed bond spreads, we are
diﬀerent -- diﬀerentiated the core copies and noncore governments and also that's be
true and responsible, liquidity does come at a price. We observe some industry
participants imply zero spread for government bonds (inaudible) that is not realistic,
government bonds do provide a drag compared to the solvency curves.

Bloomberg Transcript

We estimate for the medium term, spreads on core sovereigns are minus 20 basis points.
Using this, we get a reﬁned number of EUR348 million for capital generation in 2016. So
on a market consistent methodology, market position way of measurement we get to
EUR348 million of capital. The Delta -- think of it like this, take the starting OCC of EUR301
million, add about 40 million from excess brands and deduct EUR15 million, one-ﬁve from
the negative rack from government bonds and add EUR24 million on the full-year basis
from the reclassiﬁcation of transitional.
That will give you about EUR348 million to EUR350 million for the year. Going forward,
we'll work with deﬁnition. The long-term investment margins are what they are, long-term
investment margins. So we tend to -- intend to keep them stable from now on.
The one thing we will continue to assess is of course, the government bond spreads, the
interest rates and swap curves move. At this point in time, it's fair to assume that there is
drag of any one, any insurance company holding government's bonds, that is roughly the
price for holding liquidity.
Page 23, an alternative view on capital accretion. As we said before, OCC, Organic Capital
Creation issues one way to slice and dice your Delta and solvency. In reality of course, this
is (inaudible) assumption, on assumptions you make on spreads.
We've shown you how we deﬁne it, what we fully transparent, but these missions make
the number. The numbers can't be changed into number at the beginning of the year and
number of the end of the year. Those are hard numbers or audited numbers. Anyways to
give you full disclosure and we'd like to lead this pack here, we've also provided you with
an alternative view on Solvency developments, namely resources and uses of SCR.
Again this is the number based on the ﬁgures, starting of the year, ending of the year,
solvency. And if we include all the relevant elements, the sources of capital were EUR674
Page 13 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

million and the uses of capital EUR386 million, out of which EUR241 million was returned
return to capital providers, namely dividends EUR187 million and hybrids EUR54 million.
So EUR674 million minus EUR386 million gives an accretion of the business EUR288
million and our total returns of capital providers (inaudible) is EUR241 million.
Why do we believe this model is important, because it reﬂects that we want our business.
We strive to outperform the long-term investment margin. Excess returns don't show up
OCC, they show up in the pocket of other. And the pocket of other made therefore
sometimes have a structural component to it. So we strive to outperform the LTM that
were mandate to do and that shows up of course in sources of capital.
Secondly, we were a life book that's eﬀectively closed kind of grows to M&A. Post M&A
we'll restructure the acquired business, we take out costs. When cost are out of and
acquired business and taken out, that add solvency not through OCC but in the pocket of
other namely to lower costs. For example, integration of AXENT and we expect
integration of NIVO will lead to cost savings that will show up in the component of other,
and actually it is a source of capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we believe assumption change of business developments do contain something
today, which were the heart of our business model, but cannot be captured in the OCC
number. So this means where the capital accretion of the Group, bucketing sources use of
funds is a good way of looking at how this business develops, how we run our shop and it
was EUR288 million or EUR455 million pre-dividend. And as you remember, in January,
we used our chunk of this, buying back 66 million shares.
So we think it's only fair to complement our Company traditional capital generation
numbers with capital accretion sources and uses of funds.
I understand you're all are getting tired, so it's a few more slides to go hand there. It is
almost like the game of cricket. So, once you understand the rules, you're ready for team,
so two more pages to go.
Interest rates. As you can see in this page, the impact of interest rates on stock and ﬂow.
Interest rate sensitivity is limited, stable, not so much because we changed our hedging
policy, but because the increase in interest rates in the last half year -- last month of the
year and reduced the convexity of our business and the convexity change reduced
interest rate sensitivity.
More importantly, it is actually a sensitivity of SCR to a lower UFR. On this page, you can
see the solvency ratio about diﬀerent levels of who you are. 189 is where we are today. 178
is used to be -- or 178 at 3.7, the number that's used to be contemplated by Europe and
the number of other ﬁgures.
Please note the bottom end of 2.2. In our industry, everybody -- the participants,
regulators are all struggling to deﬁne what is the long-term across the cycle of UFR, what's
the right rate to use.

Page 14 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

And there's a long debate whether 4.2 is actually relevant number to plug in as a UFR.
Internally, we started picking out a few, then what if we've plugged-in the long-term
investment yield that we're making today. And basically, you should not discount your
long-term liabilities at the rate that's higher than you made today, because, then you'll eat
up your insolvency or at the rate of (inaudible) because then you understate your
solvency, i.e., what if we plugged in a UFR into the investment yields.
We knew that still have a solvency safely about 100%. The IFRS yield on our book is
around 2.3%, 2.5%. So in today's market, the long term direct yield is probably
somewhere between 2% and 2.5% as Capital Gains, of course, if rates move this thing
moves up.
So what we did was, we plugged in a 2.2 UFR and asks ourselves the question, at that
level, which is somewhere close to where the long-term direct yield is, we'd be still be
safety about 100%. Because that means we could freely distribute cash or invest in future
ventures. And again we found a solvency level after SCR shock, after tiering of 142%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that means, with this level, we could have responsible for ﬁnancial management if you
are conﬁdent on future distributions. We have developed a fairly advanced set of
modeling technology to analyze and test this and play around with diﬀerent numbers.
We will adjust if rates move, but for us a UFR that is linked to your investment yield, should
give you a more economic value in the standard model. Although we understand that
maybe you get to contradictory (inaudible) but in the economic view in a standard model
is what we strive for. So we believe this is the way forward for the industry. So, it's not our
formal policy, not an internal model, but the way to think about economic solvency.
Also in this page where it proves hand by (inaudible) demand, we have totaled of the
impact of diﬀerent UFR levels on capital generation.
As you can see, lower the UFR to the (inaudible) ambition level we'd reduce our solvency
EBIT but also we can still save oﬀ the hurdles and also increase the annual ﬂow, the annual
capital generation. So, you can see that move between stock inﬂow and various solvency
levels.
We need to say strategically, we wouldn't mind if the UFR will be lowered. And again, you
can also see the impact of government bond spreads and a EUR7.7 billion core
government bond book is spread in the OCC of 20 basis points. The cost of interest rates
a EUR15 million throughout the year, that is the cost of -- the cost of liquidity.
Page 25, some ﬁnal observation on LACDT and on swap spreads. The loss has been sat
on LACDT. I got a lot of rules to be set on LACDT, a few points by us. Our regulators put
us new guidance in February about how to think about LACDT and how to model it.
Remember, last year this time around, we as a group markdown our LACDT considerably.
Other prudence, other anticipation and we will deliver the dependence on future ﬁscal
proﬁts.

Page 15 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

Before we developed the model during the year, we received feedback on a day one
model and moved on. To the best of our abilities, a DB guidance, it is supposed to be
implemented by June has been reﬂected in our models. Some points may require some
further clariﬁcation, but our models appear to be fully in line. We do not expect any major
negatives.
Actually, some points could be a small positive, depending on how we interpret some of
the more complicated elements of the year of the guidance. For full year 2016, we've got
our LACDT on the Life business at 60%, Non-life at 70%, basic health at 0%,
supplementary health at 25%, which is in line with the model that we used and although,
as far as we can see it's consistent with the DNB guidance. It has very limited use on
component for and future ﬁscal proﬁts and is robust against ﬁscal year 2015 historical
ﬁscal years falling out of the equation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So when it comes to the complex world of Solvency II in combination with those taxes, it's
better to be lucky than to be smart. But we believe when you plan well, when you
anticipate well, you increase the art of being lucky. So this development shows that in the
industry in its ﬁrst former year of Solvency II, things are still in discovery mode. From our
perspective, LACDT has been implemented and very limited to no material downside.
On swap spread hedging, please note in Solvency II, your liabilities are discounted on the
basis of swaps. Any assets comprise a larger investment are not swap related or at least
priced on the basis of the government curve [ph], i.e., an almost 8 billion of government
bond portfolio are liquidity book. In this space, the swap spread widening, which as we've
seen in the last year has supported solvency across the industry. Also we have beneﬁted
from this. Given market developments, we have decided to lock in some of these
beneﬁts, whilst maintaining liquidity thresholds in our portfolio.
On a relative basis, you sell government bonds and increase swap exposure, and in total,
we trade about 4 billion in transactions and eﬀectively we sold long dated core
government bonds, buying back short dated credits, short and medium term government
bonds from France, Belgium, Spain and Ireland plus some of the receiver swaps, with this
-- with the intent to lock in the swap spread beneﬁt.
At this point and after few last weeks in January, we believe the swap spread exposure of
the group has been halved. That means at least half of these swap spread beneﬁt has
been locked in and the swap spread exposure has been halved signiﬁcantly. We think it's
a way to be ahead of any changes in interest rates, ahead of any changes in swap spread
developments.
So in summary, Solvency II is and will be a complicated world. It has market (inaudible)
eﬀects, tax eﬀects, second order eﬀects (inaudible). In our risk management, we aim to
identify opportunities and threats early and anticipate. That means that our group is well
prepared for any changes in LACDT and is well prepared for any changes in the world of
swap spreads.

Page 16 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

Finally page 26, the numbers, I will not repeat them to you anymore. We hope this
presentation has shown you that our performance in 2016 has been strong on nearly
every metric. We delivered on our promises and especially, we're proud of the
combination of operating performance, a solid ROE or market consistent capital
generation or capital allocation.
Very pleased with solvency levels, up to 189% standard model with no tiering risk, not just
capital gains underpinned by strong technical result from our business, a combined ratio
of 95% range and low ﬁnancial and double leverage, which you'll ﬁnd in the Appendix.
And again, the increased dividend to EUR1.27 per share shows the conﬁdence we have in
ASR's operations and I wouldn't if I'd liked [ph] to share the good fortunes with our
shareholders.
That concludes our presentation. Giving back the ﬂoor for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will start the question-and-answer session now. (Operator
Instructions) Your ﬁrst question is coming from Mr. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. Go ahead
please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Cor Kluis, ABN. Few questions. So ﬁrst of all on Disability insurance, the
(inaudible) legislation, can you already give kind of any idea what impact might be on the
premiums for 2017 and 2018 because last year, the Disability premium went up 4%, but
this could be somewhat more material positive?
And second question is about the internal model. Could you give an idea what the impact
would be, if you put your own internal model, much higher with the Solvency II ratio be
then? And third question is about the AGM. I thought you asked for a share buyback
request of maximum 10%. Why, given the shadow overhang and the possible for a strong
capital position and cash ﬂow? Why are you not asking for larger share buyback, yeah,
possibility?
And last question is about -- it's more technical thing, the size of the realized capital gain
reserve. What's the size at the end of 2016 of that ﬁgure? That were the questions.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thanks, Cor. Let me start with the question on Disability. It is too early to give ﬁnal
guidance on how the season went, but for a ﬁrst view on it is that a lot of smaller
companies decided to return to the public system. So in terms of number of customers
that returned to the public system, we've seen more go into that system than expected.

Page 17 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

In terms of premium, so in terms of new business, we see a neutral eﬀect until today. So
probably we will not fully meet the expectation we had for the medium-term, but this was
only the ﬁrst year, and we think it may require a little bit more time to meet the top-line
growth target. But those are only the ﬁrst views on it because numbers are not ﬁnal yet,
and new business is still coming in.
And the main reason for that is that we have kept to be disciplined in our underwriting
and premium. We could have done more if we had wanted, but we -- as we have done
before set to the Disability management, you were allowed to do as lot as business as you
want, as long as you stick to the underwriting principles. And we have seen a fairly
disciplined market, but not everybody was as disciplined as the market in general. So
some participants have been fairly aggressive and we've decided not to take part in the
aggressive pricing. So that's that on Disability.
Then the question on why don't we ask for more than 10%. Well, in our view, we have
every year an AGM, so we can every year ask for a new 10%. And in our view, there should
be a balance between the year-on-year generated capital and the capital return. So from
our point of view, given the developments in solvency uncertainty, where (inaudible) ends
up with UFR, we have said, well, the total return of capital should be balanced with the
capital generation. And then to our opinion, 10% should be suﬃcient on a year-on-year
base.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

On your question Cor on the internal model where do we sent, well, we do not have an
internal model, right. An internal model is a fully (inaudible). The closest thing we have is
an ECAP model. The ratio of the ECAP model is 226%, but (inaudible) this is not a model,
it's got the same rigorous validation process as the Solvency II standard model has.
On your question, will we move to the internal model? At this point we have no plan.
Reason is we believe the regulator will always look at both models when it comes to
distributing cash and capital to shareholders. And if I look at the banking sector, I'm not
sure the banking sector will provide guidance, but we can see like an harmonization or
internal movements and obviously internal model and standard models move toward
each other.
Stepping into a model with a ﬂoor, and I ﬁnd an internal model with a ﬂoor, it just
becomes very expensive version of a standard model. So we believe at this point in time,
it's not sure whether it's the best way to spend shareholder money to go through all the
lengths in validating and approving the ECAP model, if the solvency is what is because we
already are at pretty safe level.
You had a fourth question, and I can't even read my own handwriting. You -- what was
your point again?

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

The realized capital gain reserve?
Page 18 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Realized capital gain reserve at the end of the year is about EUR3.6 billion, actually it was
still a net addition to that reserve. And to give you some color, we believe that the release
from that realized capital gains reserves. In the planned period, assuming rates stay
relatively where they are, we'll be similar in the next three years is about last year. So, if I
look at the amortization schedule, amortization pattern of that EUR3.6 billion. If rates stay
roughly where they are today, the contribution of that will be same, but actually the
planned period, as it was last year.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay, it's very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is comes from Mr. Albert Ploegh, ING. Go ahead please.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, thank you for taking my questions. I got basically a few on the capital generation. First
one to be clear on the new methodology on slide 22, you mentioned the move to
transitional equity rule to the operational variance in market bucket so to speak. So, ﬁrst of
all, I thought it was something like EUR45 million per annum and is then correct I think the
EUR348 million that's printed on the slide of the new deﬁnition that it is -- they're not
including that drag while the EUR301 million is included, so to have that at least clear.
The second question I have on the capital generation is little bit on the noncore sovereign
bonds, with minus 20 basis points where I think on slide 24, you mentioned that basically
has a drag of EUR50 million or so on the capital generation. But how to square that with
the actions taken to basically locking in the spread, because on the -- like you also
mentioned in your opening remarks. So is basically the starting point for 2017 already
meaning that maybe that the EUR50 million drag is already reduced by 50%? And I'll
leave it for now for that.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. Albert, on the transitional rule, in the movement from EUR301 million to EUR348
million with a plus of EUR23 million from the traditional rules that was moved out. So
there was a negative in the EUR301 million that no longer occurred in EUR348 million, it
was reduced during the year. Two eﬀects, one is diversiﬁcation kicked in, due to the
portfolio developments, the impact of the traditional rule post diversiﬁcation was a bit
less.
And secondly, we sold some equities, reduced equities, part of the equity that we have
been divested will subject to the transitional rule so that left amortize, if we've got that
equities. So partially, it's technical. It's a diversiﬁcation eﬀects. Secondly, the equity base
that was subject to traditional was lower.

Page 19 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

In terms of noncore spreads, the EUR50 million drag is one going forward, it's actually a
bit less than last year, I agree with that. Because the government portfolio -- government
bond portfolio will decline. So we know EUR7.7 billion is the portfolio that we have where
we are at today. That's a small decline.
And in terms of what the swap spread had to do, the swap spread has basically is not so
much to look at the spreads, but looking, I would say the delta in these spreads. I mean,
the spreads widened in the last years, the swap spreads, that supported our solvency
levels, I mean you discount your liabilities at a higher rate than you discount your assets,
and we wanted to lock in that beneﬁt.
So that means the swap spreads reverse and the spread declines, you don't lose that
beneﬁt. So, the swaps spreads itself does not to do much on organic capital creation, but
it protects -- it aims to protect the stock of solvency that we have.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay, very clear.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Steven Haywood, HSBC. Go ahead please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thanks very much for the presentation. Just a couple of questions, can you go back to
your sort of core and noncore sovereigns. I know obviously, one is now minus 20 basis
points, excess spread and other is plus 50 basis points. In reference to slide 36, can you
deﬁne which bonds are core and which one are non-core?
And then secondly, when you talk about the UFR changes on slide 24, I just want to know
your opinion about what you think is most appropriate to use whether you should use a
direct yield or the total yield including gains, whether you do use the sort of 2.2% or
whether you use over 3% as you're assumed UFR? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

The core, we deﬁned German government -- Dutch and German government bonds as
core, all the remaining in Europe is actually noncore. So Dutch and German's are core, the
rest is noncore. In terms of what is the right level to use, I mean look, the direct yields,
which is coupons, dividends, rents, et cetera it's between 2% and 2.5% at shadow
accounting release. The actual yield that we make on our portfolio is larger, we made last
year EUR117 million capital gains. If you look at the average of the last three to four years, it
is always been in EUR170 million to EUR200 million range of capital gains. So the actual
yield one makes is over 3%.
So if you think about the fully economic view of our probably number over three is
justiﬁable. However, capital gains ﬂuctuated over time, we may have a bad year and their

Page 20 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

capital losses. So we saw it from a long-term prudent perspective, we'd like to work with
direct deals. But we could understand that you could -- that is arguably, arguable that you
could move it over to three including a fair amount of capital gains that's kind of
adjustment goal that one can make. We believe in terms of being prudent and being fair
to our policyholders, the direct yields we can observe and bearing defaults that will
happen year-on-year on-year. So you can actually, you can bank on that.
But your point is valid, you could argue that the yield you make, the return you make is
probably about 3%.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

That's great. Thanks very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Mr. (inaudible). Go ahead please.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

When was -- I think you may have given this another color, when was the broad timing of
when you did the swap spread lock in i.e. the EUR4 billion transaction? And more
generally, has that increased your spread sensitivity the Belgium and France sovereign, I
kind of presume it does. And actually, are you able to give the kind of sovereign spread
sensitivity overall for the Group?
And then ﬁnally, can you give it any indication on how Solvency II is developed so far this
year given we've seen because some quite signiﬁcant sovereign moves overall? Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

(inaudible) thanks. In terms of when do we execute the swap spread change in step since
September. It was actually done in Q3, Q4, maybe Q4 and the remainder actually in
January, we said it was a series of trades. Also we started doing this by shooting 30-year
bond futures, because the most eﬃcient are liquidity we are doing it. So we thought,
liquidity in the market was too limited at some point we owned two bigger share of that
market.
So we moved to a peripheral spread swaps. It did expose, increase exposure to those to
your noncore bonds, pay 36 you can see the holdings and France government bonds
went up from EUR800 million to EUR1.4 billion and Belgium from EUR600 million
speciﬁcally into EUR1.2 billion.
So, a increase of almost EUR800 million, EUR900 million in government bonds from
Belgium and France. We still feel very comfortable holding those government bonds,
especially if they have a mid-term maturity.

Page 21 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

We do not get disclosed sovereign spreads, since it at least something to pick up and to
think about going forward, There is no issue around it, we just haven't disclosed, we have
not contracted that much. But you can see on page 36, it changes in the portfolio.

FINAL

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your last question, the development of solvency during the ﬁrst six to seven
weeks of the year, without giving any numbers we have seen a fairly stable development
until now.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Okay, very good. Thanks very much, indeed.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Matthias de Wit, KBC Securities. Go ahead please.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, hi, good afternoon. I'd like to start with a small follow-up question on the equity
transitional. Could you comment what the remaining beneﬁts is to the Solvency II ratio at
this point in time and how that beneﬁt amortizes over time? Then secondly I had a
question on the organic capital generation of EUR348 million for 2016. I guess it is based
on the start of the year balance sheet or averages whereas there are some changes in mix
rates in the meanwhile.
So just eager to get your comments on how that number could develop into 2017, so how
we should think about capital generation in 2017? And then my last question is on LACDT.
I noticed that the beneﬁt to SCR increased to 586 from around 500 at end of H1. So what
is exactly the key driver behind that increases within the life business where you moved
from 50% to 60% and is there any conservatism less in your current approach or do you
think it's currently it's fair, taken into account some regulatory risk that, that might remain?
Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Matias, on the acquisition, let me look at that, I don't have that number of top of my head.
We'll look it up, we'll feed it back IR team back to you. In terms of the OCC that was we
signed on the beginning of year, asset mix last year 2016, see just the beginning of the
year, asset mix and for 2017 will be also used to beginning of the year asset mix.
In terms of where are we on that number, one thing we learned throughout 2016 is a
number especially interested components, pretty sensitive to interested movements in
2016, which always reshapes long term view development and especially the UFR and
Wind, of course, it's pretty volatile and sensitive to rate moves.
What I can say the business performance that underpins that is behind or underneath this
OCC, we feel very comfortable with the performance of our business. I mean the year
Page 22 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

2017 is only a couple of weeks old, but it has kicked oﬀ in the same notion as we ended
last year.
So in terms of business wise, this company is still performing at the same level as we
ended last year. Rates have stayed stable moved up a bit in the ﬁrst half of the year, but
we need to see how the development OCC is a number that is very young, vulnerable to
interest rates, not so much of total solvency numbers, that built ourselves relatively stable
but in the slicing and dicing the OCC has a rate volatility.
This could be, a headwind could be a tailwind. So we ﬁnd it hard to give at this point a
major guidance on this number, but it's safe to say that the business trading has gone up
to a good start. The investment portfolio hasn't changed much during the year, sort of
give you some clue going forward and we just need to see how rates develop. Just give
you a feel for sensitivity for example, one point of combined ratio better or worse is about
EUR5 million to EUR6 million in OCC. So when you go -- when you go and want to model
this, that's kind of where the sensitivity is and the rest is really all about rate movements.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of (inaudible) on P&C business remained stable, 75% there were no view yet of
the famous component for, so no use future ﬁscal proﬁts. On the 60% in life has very
limited -- I think it's 58% of the 50% is DTLs and historical proﬁts, no future proﬁt. So it's a
pretty stable solid number. The use of component for our future ﬁscal proﬁts has been
limited substantially by the D&B regulation or these you have to make pretty strong
assumptions to substantiate signiﬁcant users component for that something that we will
look into a quite a bit of work and dialog in the industry to understand exactly how to
interpret some of the rules.
Some points we may have interpreted conservatively. We believe the 60% is well
supported, is a conservatism left in the number or realism left in the number. That's one
thing for sure. I still think it's a responsible number. Downside risks to (inaudible) are
limited from our point of view.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, that's very clear. And if I could just follow up on the organic capital generation, also
the bit of diﬃculties in analyzing how or in getting a sense of a sustainable recurring SER
release because there were a lot of changes in the organic numbers. So is there anything
you could say in that respect?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

I think on the SCR release, the number we've provided you for the full year was about 6%.
If you look at the ﬁrst half year, is about 3.5%. So the total release of capital ﬁrst half year
was 3.5 and 5.7 for the full year. The diﬀerence between the two is an increase in new
business. You may see our numbers are P&C, while it has grown by 80 million, disability
has grown by 20 odd million and the growth in our non-life business took place in the
second half of the year.

Page 23 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

So we believe something like a 6% release of capital is not a strange number, but the
main driver, actually how much new business we write and again from H1 to H2, you can
see an increase in volumes in what we see is proﬁtable non-life business. So we were
happy to spend some capital release in organic growth in our business. But I think the
number we produced so far has been relatively stable and you could play going forward.
The key driver here is amount of P&C and visibility, while we were more able to attract.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

All right, very good. Thanks, Chris.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Bart Horsten, Kempen & Co. Go ahead please.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, good afternoon. I have a bit of a bad line, so hopefully you can hear me well enough.
Also on capital generation, if I may. You gave us an indication I think in your guidance on - for net operating life results of 75% to 80% translating into capital generation, generally
within life is that bandwidth still valid or do you think that would move upwards as well?
And I was wondering a little bit whether you will be revising (Technical Diﬃculty) payment.
Is that a periodic schedule? So that's on that topic.
Second one, you said that your life insurance margin went up from 2.4 to 3.7. I recall that
and during the IPO, you already stated that you expected the life insurance margin to go
up. It went up higher than I had anticipated. Is that a level which is fair to assume going
forward, do you see further improvements.
And my ﬁnal question relates to the right buyback shares. I think the lock above the NL 5
will end at April 17 and your AGM, it will be in May, probably the NL 5 will sell down
before your AGM. Do you have an opportunity to participate or where you can only do
that after the AGM? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Thank you. On the Life Insurance business, the capital conversion ratio from the life to
proﬁt, and to cap generation, it is a bit lower than we thought, simply because the share
of capital gains reserves, sort of accounting contributions in life business was higher than
last year. So going forward, it's probably easy to model of the OCC number than to model
of the life proﬁt conversion ﬁgure, but the chunk of the share of capital gains release in life
was higher than last year.
So, the conversion ratio, this year is in the lower end of the bandwidth that we provided,
simply because there was larger capital base. I think going forward it's better to model of
the actual number of folks you see. For the life insurance margin, it dropped to 3.7, it
moved up faster and more that we guided to anticipated IPO (inaudible) be stable
number, if I look at the life insurance business. I have no reason to doubt that this thing
will change materially.
Page 24 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

So the plateau where we are appears to be sustainable. In terms of assumptions, we tend
to have Q3 as the assumptions quarter. So normally we have once a year when we update
all our non-economic assumptions, cost assumptions, lapse assumptions tend to take
place in Q3 with some overﬂow in Q4. And unless there is in the -- during the course of
the year, a really striking phenomenon that you have to take into account, but normally, as
most insurance companies, Q3 is assumption season in our actuarial family. So that can
we -- tend to just happen.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

And on your last question, do we still have room to maneuver if and when NL 5 would
decide to further sell down before the next AGM and after the like period has ended.
Well, the answer is as simple as clear. We've used our full capacity with the ﬁrst buyback
opportunity because we wanted to give a strong signal to the market. So if and when NL5
would decide to do refer to sell down before the next AGM, we will not have room to
maneuver in terms of buying back shares and that there is -- not the limitation is not our
capital position or the unwillingness to do so, but just we're just not allowed to do so.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you. Yeah.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

It is probably fair to say we do have the intention to participate in placings during the year
as we've done in the past. The magnitude, the timing is out of our control, from -- our
shareholder to decide, the magnitude depends on the time in hand, but it's our intention
to support the sell down by the state as you know in the past.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. And if I may, I just a -- one other question, I would like to ask and that's
on your development of your DC business. It's moving quite okay and it triples in assets
and it doubled. Could you tell us what the recent dynamics are? And is there also some
capital release already shown in '16 from this move from DB to DC, if I assume that these
were mainly existing clients which you have? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

The increase in our DC portfolio were mainly new customers. So we were happy with
welcoming new customers, so that didn't lead to signiﬁcant releases in the DB book. And
the main driver behind that is our improved product and I think some of the other market
participants decided not to be as active in this market as they were before. Today, we see
three to four active pension insurance companies in the Netherlands, actively involved in
new business. So I think the market becomes pretty small in terms of number of providers
and that's helpful in acquiring new business.

Page 25 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is coming from Mr. Kunal Zaveri, JP Morgan. Go ahead, please.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Kunal, you're asking question? I'm not on your line. Hello. Can you hear me?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

(multiple speakers)

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

There's a bit of a confusion. This is Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just few questions.
First of all, can you give us a bit of color about UFR drag because if I understand correctly
and if I remember correctly, at ﬁrst half, it was 2.2 points and at full year, it's 3. something,
3.5 points or something? So your capital UFR drag in second half went down compared to
ﬁrst half, whereas given what interest rates have done, it should have gone up materially
UFR drag. So what's going on there? That's number one.
Secondly, going back to slide number 22, you are using some spread of core sovereign
bonds of minus 20 basis points and non-core of 50 basis point. I mean, what's your
thought process behind it because if I look on Bloomberg at the moment, I mean yearend spreads for, say Germany were 60 basis point minus, for France it was 40 basis point
minus? So your core sovereign spread should be like minus 50 range as well as your noncore sovereign -- I mean if I look at, say France, Belgium, Austria, super national
everything was negative and you are assuming 50 basis point positive. So what's the
rationale behind using this because these are like market consistent data, which we can
track up every day on Bloomberg? So that's the second one.
And third, like, can you give us some color about your Life earnings, which -- it is on slide
number, say nine? There is something called an additional investment results. Now
looking at the slide, it looks like it's roughly 60 million, which includes M&A as well. And
in the previous slide, you mentioned M&A is 20 million. So that means additional
investment income is 40 million. That's a big jump from 440 million to 480 million. What's
driving that because majority of the asset allocation safety you've done is like in second
half, so any thoughts on that would be great? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

On the -- in terms of the UFR grant, we do (inaudible) in every period from the beginning
of the period interest rate and the ending of the period interest rates. So we look at the
UFR contribution as for Jan 1st and the UFR contribution as on 31st of (inaudible) and that
is the number we use in our analysis. So rates through the year had a re-shapes
development.
Page 26 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

So beginning of year, end of the year rates we put into our model. We used the constant
zero model, which you may see other people doing in funny averaging method. We've
used a constant (inaudible) model that we used in beginning of the year and end of the
year solvency. That reﬂects where we believe the right way the UFR drag developments. It
does front-load some of the UFR drag instead of averaging it over time, but we're using
beginning of the year, end of the year numbers.
In terms of the long-term investment spreads, this is, as we had said, we slice and dice to
slightly build up solvency over time. The number that's harvest is beginning of the year
solvency, end of the year solvency. And then you've got the solvency accretion, which is a
number that you can't argue with, adjusted delta is sold with the new achieved. OCC is a
way of bucket again to what is a sustainable, replicable in the level of capitali generation
and (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

Long-term investment margin are reasonably stable across the cycle and again, some of
these numbers are a bit more optimistic. In real-estate, the direct investment yield is still
4.3%. I think in -- if you look at the numbers that comes out, 3.7% applying our spreads.
On equity, we use 3% the actual return you make on equity is larger. So the spreads we
make is actually a blend of direct income plus capital gains across the cycle where we
believe in terms of core government bonds, there is a clear drag today on holding those.
Other, they may yield better and again, in other categories, for example real-estate or
equities, we still have a fair degree of conservatism.
Across the whole -- across all categories, we believe in the long run, this is a bankable set
of indicators, especially if you take into account the capital appreciation of some of the
other investments. Mortgages are 110, the actual spread is higher, the default cost is
virtually nil and we also absorb those not completely in the numbers. The 110 is also really
conservative. So across the numbers, we feel this is a sustainable, defendable, bankable
number across the cycle.
In terms of the Life earnings page number nine, let me give you -- there's a shade -- sort
of shaded bars, let me just give you the numbers that are in those bars. In 2015, the top
number is 441. If you go down the F '16 for swaptions, 146 for shadow accounting release,
173 for investments and 107 for other. That ﬁlls that chart. If you to go to 2016, the slide 51,
breakdown is 57, which is doing shadow account release from swaptions valuation, 65
from M&A and additional investment result, M&A and the acquired businesses. 212 for
regular shadow accounting release and 105 from investment yields.
If you look at those numbers, investment result plus the regular release was at 319 last
year, 317 this year, so pretty stable number. On top of that is additional results of M&A of
65 and a 67 contribution of earnings from capital amortization, the capital gains from the
swaptions portfolio.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear, but that's what I was trying to get some clue about, this 65 million, the
second bucket in 2016. I mean, if I look at slide number eight, for example, it mentioned
that operating result from your acquisition was 22 million actually. By the way, this was
Page 27 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

FINAL

same at ﬁrst half as well. So I don't understand how this happened as well, and number at
ﬁrst half unchanged at second half as well.
So, I mean even if you say 22 million of acquisition beneﬁt, that still means that additional
investment result is like plus 43 million. That's quite a lot on the base of 440 million. I
mean, what's driving that? Is it asset re-risking or is it some sort of capital gains, which
may or may not disappear, any thoughts on that because, see, the only thing I'm trying to
understand is this 40 million number sounds a bit large given the base of 400 million?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Even it makes out large on the base of 400 million, but on the basis of a 30 billion odd
investment portfolio, we are actually talking about something like 10 basis points, 13 basis
points of additional returns. So the 40 billion odd is the right number, 65 minus 22 gives
43. The 43 is a reﬂection of few things. Some increase in shadow accounting release.
Secondly, you may recall in our half-year result post Brexit, we re-risked our portfolio a bit.
We took advantage of widened spread at that point in time to take a bit more risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in the second half of the year, we added more risk to our investment portfolio, partially
by buying them. What we thought are underpriced UK loans. We allocated more to
equities and to mortgages. So during the year, the re-risking paid oﬀ. I mean, the 40
million is a lot against 400 million. But again, the 30 billion odd investment portfolio,
you're looking about 10 basis points to 15 basis points additional return. So that put things
in perspective from our point of view.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

And sir, this is recurring for next, say, whatever is the life cycle of the business basically, it's
not like a one-oﬀ something like that?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

So we believe -- if I look at our mid-year plans, at least with the (inaudible), we can foresee
this as a fairly sustainable number.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

And sir, just going back to UFR. I mean, so how should we think about UFR because if you
take a mid -- I mean, starting and ending and in between interest rate remain zero, then is
that the right way of reﬂecting the UFR drag or I don't know the answer as well, but just
any -- because the thing is that, interest rates went down in the second half, second half
interest rates were deﬁnitely much lower than ﬁrst half, and your drag was actually lower.
So I just got a little bit confused here.

A - Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Kunal, this is Michel. Can we take this oﬄine and --

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}
Page 28 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

Yeah, yeah. Sure, that's good. Thank you. Thanks a lot for your answers.

Operator

FINAL

(Operator Instructions) The next question is coming from Mr. Arjan van Veen, UBS. Go
ahead please.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you. Just a couple of follow-up questions. Firstly, it doesn't sound like the LACDT
change you made will be in line with the new guidance is particularly material. So if you
can give a bit of color on that? And secondly, you gave us a lot of very clear guidance or
commentary around the buyback, but can you also make it maybe give a bit of color
around, you did a couple of bolt-ons during 2016, what's the outlook for potentially more
bolt-ons going forward? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think we're actually very pleased that the LACDT guidance, VNB was a -- I think that
guidance was not material to us, there should be no material negative. There was a small
positive, a couple of points that it added to our capital, but that was -- if you look at that
way our capital developed, it's kind of oﬀsets by warehousing of the real estate portfolio.
So net-net impact on our capital is limited. But again, and I guess our key messages here
is, LACDT is not materially negative impact on our business, actually it's a small positive,
more to come, who knows, that depends on how the market will interrupt the number,
but it's certainly no negative on the -- on LACDT to us.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

And Arjan, on the bolt-ons, we are open for business, our solvency position is strong. We
can continue to look for options. On the other hand, we have very strict investment
criteria. And if we look at businesses is to acquire, they should at least meet our ﬁnancial
criteria. So we more often have set no to options over the last two years, than we said, yes.
If you take a look at slide three, where we show our portfolio, we would be willing to look
at options in the non-life area if there would be a non-life book for sale, then we deﬁnitely
would have a look at it as long as it comes at a right price. We're very interested in funeral
business, because it hedges with our longevity and in the area of business and
announcement opportunities, the fee business.
In terms of distribution we -- I think for a time being we are down, and we are particularly
looking at business that can strengthen our assets under management, our fee business.
And in sector B, we're in the middle of converting our own portfolios to a software as a
service book.
We are halfway, and if that's done then we also would be in consolidating the Dutch life
insurance business market, especially the smaller insurance company. So we are open for

Page 29 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

business. We have very strict valuation in terms of ﬁnance metrics, and we never comment
on particular deals where we are looking in at the moment.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, that's very clear. And thank you for your additional solvency disclosure, its market
leading (inaudible) 24 is very helpful. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is coming from Mr. Matthias de Wit, KBC Securities. Go ahead please.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Thank you. Just some small follow-ups. On Solvency II you stated that part of the increase
in the ratio in 2016 was linked to cost savings. Just wondering if that's positive alliances or
is this more linked to changes to your cost assumptions? And then secondly on the risk
margin release, just wondering if you could provide somewhat more color on the
amortization pattern of that release, because I think it could be quite long in nature?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then lastly on the Banking Asset Management, the numbers -- the operating results
dropped quite signiﬁcantly, but I guess it's mainly linked to startup costs, so -- and
integration costs. So, could you conﬁrm whether that's the case, and also going forward,
what could we expect from this business line in 2017 and 2018? Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. On the cost savings, there really was integration of AXENT funeral business at
Ardanta. And we are -- we believe, we're pretty convinced that I believe that we have the
lowest cost operating in funeral business. Remember, in our Q3 call we said there were a
number of FTEs that came in and number of FTEs were left. I think we do this with much,
much less people from 60, 70 people to less than 30 people for the same portfolio, so
that is reﬂected in the cost -- lower cost charges in your best estimate liabilities, so it
provides a capital uplift.
In the solvency model that's your result, actually in the bucket and variances and others.
So marked another that's where it shows up in terms of -- in the capital chart in the life
business, in the Delta capital it shows up in the bucket variances and others. So in terms
of stock its lower life capital charges in terms of ﬂow, it shows in the bucket of other.
Where in terms of the ramp up of the risk margin, let me -- because risk margin release is
something that happens over a signiﬁcant period of time. So, in the coming years we
believe that that is still risk margin release to come. It is somewhat I think front loaded, so
it's not an equal number over the entire period.
So the ﬁrst years will be a bit higher than the latter years as the life -- individual life book
runs oﬀ. So, the exact pattern is not something I cannot -- at hand here, but --

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}
Page 30 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

And I guess so for the UFR beneﬁt is the other way around, I guess. So it starts high and
gets lower over time or?

FINAL

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

So you get -- the UFR unwind, the UFR directly higher in the ﬁrst periods and moves down
over time. And the oﬀsetting risk margin release is high and low over time, so there is a
plus and a minus that are both higher in the early years.
In terms of Banking Asset Management segment, two things in place. In our bank, we'd
rather be small bank and the proﬁt of the bank this year was more a ﬁnancial proﬁt and
operating proﬁt they were more in the shape of capital gains on the ﬁxed income book.
So you can see the IFRS proﬁt in the segment actually keeping up really well, but the
operating proﬁt lower.
And in terms of the business, we believe that asset management is a growth business but
we made cost in terms of launching the oﬃces fund. We made cost in terms of hiring
people. We had integration costs of P&G without the full-year results kicking in. So there is
really more cost preceding returns, it's the investments rather than underlying
performance issue. We believe that if our funds kickoﬀ and if our goals materialize, this
will be -- so the proﬁt contributed going forward.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, very clear. Thanks, guys. Thanks a lot.

Operator
There is an additional question of Mr. (inaudible) Mediobanca. Go ahead please.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yes, good afternoon. Just one question to clarify probably in answer given before, but the
EUR348 million of capital generation, you've indicated that you're locking in some core
spreads during H2 and then early 2017, does that eﬀectively mean that half of that
portfolio should be assigned a 50 bps excess were done rather than the minus 20 bps
excess were done which is basically inﬂating that EUR348 million further or not?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

I'm not sure I understand your question. So, could you please elaborate?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Well, on the slide 25, you indicated EUR3.8 billion has moved from basically core to shortdated noncore severance. And I assume the EUR348 million you reported on the new
framework takes into account the average mix of the portfolio in 2016. So the fact that the
mix now is more towards noncore sovereign, although it is very short-term favor, but it's
still noncore sovereign. Should we assume that there is an incremental excess return
compared to the EUR348 million?
Page 31 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, the EUR348 million actually is based on the beginning of the year portfolios,
beginning of the year 2016. So compared to portfolio at the beginning of the year, you'll
see a relative decline of core for the noncore. So it's actually the swap spread trade
support the operating cap generation rather than diluted because the 348 was based on
the Jan 1st portfolio, and now we have a portfolio that has more yield than the assets.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, so your answer is yes, basically?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Mr. Chairman, there are no further questions. Please proceed.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, thanks for the time you took to listen to our story and hopefully, we were able to
reﬂect on all your questions in a proper way. To close this call, again, we were very happy
with the results we could present today. We delivered upon our promises. And as said in
my introduction, it was hard work and we intend to keep on doing so to deliver at least in
line with our promises also in 2017, and hope to see you all in person somewhere over the
next period. Thanks, and have a good day.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude the ASR conference call on the 2016 annual
results. You may now disconnect your line. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 32 of 33



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2017-02-22

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 33 of 33

