Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

Q3 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kiyoshi Wada, Group Leader, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Group
Tsuyoshi Hattori, Senior Managing Executive Officer
Unverified Participant

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings' FY
2016 Q3 Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised that during the
presentation, all the lines other than the speakers' lines are put on mute. And this
conference call is being recorded.
Before we begin, let me remind you that the presentation may contain forward-looking
statements based on the current projections, and they entail risks, as well as uncertainties.
Actual results may, therefore, differ from the current projections.
With that, let us start the conference call. Mr. Wada, please?

Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

My name is Wada from the IR Group of Tokio Marine Holdings. Let me explain the
overview of third quarter fiscal 2016 results of Tokio Marine Holdings, which was
announced today. In this conference call, I would like to use the PowerPoint material
available on our website under News, Release & Topics to give you a presentation for the
first 15 minutes or so. Then we will be taking questions afterwards.
Now, I will start with the overview of consolidated results. Please turn to page 2 of the
PowerPoint material. Net premiums written and life premiums are as shown on the slide.
Consolidated ordinary profit increased year-on-year by 26.2% or by ¥65.5 billion to ¥315.7
billion. Net income attributable to owners of the parent increased by 26.1% or by ¥47.2
billion to ¥228.1 billion.

Page 1 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

FINAL

Progress of the net income against the fiscal year projection is 81.5%. Adjusted net
income, group profits KPI will be explained in more detail on page 4. It excludes effects of
provision for catastrophe loss reserve and amortization of goodwill associated with the
acquisition of TMHCC, et cetera. Adjusted net income increased by ¥76.9 billion to ¥319.9
billion.
Next, I will explain the factors related to consolidated ordinary profit. Please turn to page
3. In the Domestic Non-Life business, due to increase in net premiums earned, decline in
net incurred losses relating to natural catastrophes and decrease in net provision for
catastrophe loss reserve, underwriting profit increased.
On the other hand, last year, there was increase in dividends income from overseas
subsidiaries relating to acquisition of TMHCC whereas this year, there is a rebound of this
factor, which led to decrease in net investment income.
As a result, Domestic Non-Life business overall saw a decrease in ordinary profits by
¥46.4 billion year-on-year. Domestic Life business saw a decline in profit due to decrease
in gains on sales of securities and rebound of reversal of contingency reserve for variable
annuities last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overseas subsidiaries saw increase in profit due to profit contribution from newly
consolidated TMHCC despite the stronger yen.
For consolidation adjustments, negative adjustment decreased due to decrease in
dividend payment from consolidated subsidiaries of TMNF, which led to decrease in
consolidation adjustment by ¥100.1 billion year-on-year.
Now, let me explain about adjusted net income. Please turn to page 4. Adjusted net
income is a group profit KPI based on consolidated net income, then excluding factors
unique to Non-Life business, such as impact of reserve provisioning as well as gains and
losses on sales and valuation of fixed assets in order to understand the underlying profit
coming from business activities.
Year-on-year changes along the process of reconciliation from statutory accounting net
income to adjusted net income are the two points explained on the slide. TMNF provision
for catastrophe loss reserve decreased, leading to decrease in reconciliation amount. At
the same time, TMHCC consolidation led to increase in reconciliation amount due to the
amortization of goodwill. As a result, adjusted net income increased by ¥76.9 billion to
¥319.9 billion.
Now, I will turn to Domestic Non-Life business. Please turn to page 5. For net premiums
written for private lines of insurances, auto insurance increased their top line. But there
was an impact coming from fire line of insurance due to shortening of insurance period,
which led to net premiums writtten of minus 1.2% year-on-year or a decline by ¥16.8 billion.

Page 2 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

FINAL

Line-by-line situation is explained on page 7. Net incurred losses of private insurance
decreased by ¥32.9 billion due to factors such as decrease in net incurred losses relating
to natural catastrophes occurred during the term and reaction from large losses which
happened last year despite the increase in provision for reserve for foreign currency
denominated outstanding claims due to progression of yen depreciation.
Business expense for private lines of insurance decreased by ¥4.3 billion year-on-year
due to decrease in agency commission payment coming from net premiums written
decline. As for catastrophe loss reserve, mainly due to lowering of the provision rate of
auto group, there was decrease in net provision by ¥35.5 billion year-on-year. As a result,
underwriting profit increased by ¥103.7 billion to be ¥99.7 billion.
Next, net investment income and others. As detailed on page 8, net investment income
and others declined by ¥147.8 billion year-on-year to ¥146.5 billion mainly due to a
decrease in dividends from overseas and domestic subsidiaries. But please also note that
this does not affect our group-wide consolidated earnings since dividends from
subsidiaries are almost eliminated in the consolidation adjustments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sales of business-related equities have amounted to approximately ¥97 billion since the
beginning of this fiscal year, and sales gains are approximately ¥70 billion. In addition to
these factors due to an increasing gains on sales of fixed assets, net income declined by
¥63 billion year-on-year to ¥193 billion.
Next, to review our combined ratio performance, please go to page 6. For private lines of
business, loss ratio on an earned/incurred basis dropped by 3.7% for the year (08:05) to
57.7% mainly due to a decrease in net losses incurred related to natural catastrophes.
Business expense ratio increased by 0.1 point year-on-year to 32.2% due to a decrease in
net premiums written. As a result, for private lines of business, combined ratio on an
earned/incurred basis decreased by 3.6 points year-on-year to 89.9%.
Next, let me discuss Nisshin Fire's performance on page 9. Underwriting the profit of
Nisshin Fire grew by ¥1.1 billion from a year ago to ¥5.1 billion. This is mainly due to an
increase in net premiums written and decrease in net incurred losses related to natural
catastrophes. Meanwhile, net investment income and other declined by ¥1.1 billion yearon-year to ¥0.6 million due to a decrease in interest and dividend income. And net
income stayed at ¥3.8 billion, flat from a year ago.
Next, I will discuss TMNL. Please go to page 10. ANP of new policies declined by 6.2% from
a year-ago since we restricted the sales of individual annuities. But if we exclude longterm saving products, ANP of new business grew by 5.7% year-on-year due to an
increased sales of protection products, which we have been focusing on, supported by
new household income term insurance product. ANP of in-force policies grew by 4.4%
year-on-year, thanks to the successful acquisition of new business.
To touch upon key figures under JGAAP as indicated on this slide, net income declined by
¥4.8 billion year-on-year, ¥11.8 billion. But core operating profit increased ¥2 billion year-

Page 3 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

FINAL

on-year to ¥24 billion since net provision for underwriting reserves decreased due to the
limited sales of individual annuities.
Last, but not least, let's review the performance of International Insurance business on
page 11. In the International Insurance business, net premiums written grew by 33% on the
local currency basis due to the contribution of TMHCC and steady progress of various
growth measures. But in yen term it only grew by 12% year-on-year due to the
appreciation of Japanese yen.
To break this down by region, North America grew significantly certainly due to the
contribution of TMHCC. Philadelphia and Delphi also grew their top lines on the local
currency basis. Thanks to rate increases on renewal book and acquisition of new business.
But due to the stronger Japanese yen, their top line declined in yen term.

Bloomberg Transcript

Europe grew its top line on the local currency basis due to the successful expansion of
business at Tokio Marine Kiln, but it also declined year-on-year in yen terms due to
stronger yen. Reinsurance business went down, mainly due to the absence of an increase
in multi-year policies, which were recorded in the previous year FY 2015.
Next, to discuss business unit profit of International Insurance business, please go to page
12. Business unit profit grew by 51% on a local currency basis due to the contribution of
TMHCC and steady progress of various growth initiatives, but it only grew by ¥24.8 billion
over the year to ¥120.4 billion, in yen terms, due to the appreciation of the Japanese yen.
North America grew its profit, thanks to the TMHCC contributions. Philadelphia and Delphi
also grew on a local currency basis due to an increase in the investment income
associated with the growth of their underwriting books, but the profit declined due to
stronger yen.
Profit from Europe grew due to foreign exchange gains and absence of large losses,
which we recorded in FY 2015. Asia declined due to large losses as well as lack of one-off
factors which boosted the profit in the previous year.
Breakdown for our three major businesses in North America are included on page 13 for
your reference.
This concludes my presentation, and we would now like to entertain questions that you
may have during the rest of the time. Thank you.

Unverified Participant
Thank you, Mr. Wada. Now, we would like to start Q&A.

Q&A
Operator
Page 4 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

Our first question will be from Mr. Muraki of Deutsche Securities.

FINAL

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you for the opportunity. My first question is about the domestic and the overseas
businesses. We want to know about the large claims that have occurred in both markets.
Please let me know, for the domestic market, the loss ratio went up due to FX, and so it's
really difficult to see what's really happening, but I would like to know to what scale the
large-scale losses are happening compared to the usual times.
And also for the overseas market, in Brazil and Asia, I believe there are some impacts
coming from such large losses, but overall in the third quarter, how was the situation
compared to other times? And my second question is just a confirmation on some
numbers, three months ago when you adjusted your projection, the overseas natural
catastrophe losses, you were budgeting ¥36 billion, but looking at the actual occurrence
of natural catastrophes for nine months, and also for the final quarter, which is October to
December quarter for them. How was the situation and what was is the forecast for the
full-year basis?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Operator
My name is Watanabe (15:35) from the Corporate Accounting department. Regarding the
Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire's large losses, I would like to tell you the situation for the large
losses last year. Net incurred loss was ¥3 billion, a little over ¥3 billion last year. In the first
half, we had (15:56) fire accidents, et cetera. So last year, in total, we had the loan
payment of over ¥10 billion. For this fiscal year, we don't really have such large losses, so
there is a reaction that we are (16:10) this year versus last year.

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

Continuing on to the large losses from the overseas market, from the International
Business Development department. My name is Hattori for Asia. We have had large loss
on year-on-year basis. Of the difference of ¥5.9 billion, there was an impact coming from
the increasing marginal distrust (16:37), yen appreciation. So, the impact coming from the
larger losses is several billion yen.
In Latin America, a similar impact happened in Brazil. And on top of that, the loss ratio
(16:54) of entire market went up. So this is not just something happening in Brazil, but the
bad result is the large losses, and also large impacts, and also FX impacts as well as the
repair cost impacts for the auto business, and we are now executing a recovery plan from
this worsening of the loss situation.
Regarding the natural catastrophes, in the third quarter, net incurred loss was ¥19.5 billion
full-year basis, on budget it's ¥36 billion, and we have Hurricane Matthew, et cetera, in Q4.
However, we are still maintaining that ¥36 billion of natural catastrophe loss budget. And I
believe it is going to sit within ¥36 billion by the end of the year.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Page 5 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

Next question is from Ms. Tsujino of JPMorgan.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you very much for this opportunity. Now, as it was just mentioned with regards to
overseas, Hurricane Matthew, is the losses incurred by the hurricane in the order of (18:18).
I believe that was the magnitude that we were informed of before. And so that means
that we still have about ¥15 billion or so buffer. And so, do you believe that you still have
ample buffer left by ¥11.5 billion? And that is my first question.
And secondly, related to the sales of business-related equities, I believe that you have
sold more than ¥97 billion so far this year and your target is ¥100 billion or more this year.
Does it mean that in the fourth quarter, you're not going to stretch yourself and not going
to sell more? Is that the right understanding?

A - Tsuyoshi Hattori

{BIO 2408931 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is Hattori from International Business Development Department of the Holdings.
With regard to Hurricane Matthew, as we responded in the second quarter conference
call, the magnitude of the losses incurred has not been revisited. And therefore, it would
reverse the nat cat losses. We believe that the actual losses are going to be within the
budget.
However, of course, there are some further losses incurred by large scale accidents, and
we still are monitoring the numbers. And therefore, we are not able to give you the final
number just yet. However, we don't think that we're actually going to be too different than
what we have initially budgeted for.
So you know that there are some losses that are actually incurred, because of large asset
(19:44). We are not able to give you specific comments with regards to specific accidents.
However, there were several large losses that we already factored into the revisions that
we announced earlier.

A - Operator
My name is (20:00) from Financial Planning Department of the Holdings. Let me answer
your second question with regards to sales of business-related equities. As we have
communicated traditionally, of course, we need to be mindful of our corporate customers
and that is the reason why we have been carefully negotiating with the customers before
we sell their equities. And we have already achieved close to ¥100 billion worth of sales.
And to your second – to your question as to whether we are going to accelerate these
sales furthermore. We believe that we'll be able to stick to our schedule based
negotiations. If we're to look at the market condition itself, but we don't think that we're

Page 6 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

going to actually change the pace, speed of the actual sales. And we are sticking to the
initial target of achieving ¥100 billion or more per annum. So I would say that we are even
more confident that we can achieve the target this year.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

Operator
The next question will be from Daiwa Securities, Mr. Watanabe.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

This is Watanabe speaking. I have two questions. My first question has to do with ESR.
What was the estimation amount at the end of the December? If you have the number,
let me know.
The second question has to do with the premium rate for the auto insurance. So, there is
(21:32) reducing the advisory rate, and if that's going to happen then are you going to
lower your premium for auto?

A - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is Matsuo (21:42) from Corporate Planning. As of the end of December, the ESR
number has not been calculated, and we cannot answer that question.
Second question?
My name is (22:01). There was a decision to lower the advisory rate from the rating
agency, and I know that decision was made. However, as for the specific level of the rate,
nothing has been decided, and there's nothing more that we can tell you from our side.
The loss ratio for this term was 60.5%.
However, we do estimate escalation of the repair cost and also there is going to be
revision of the credit law, as well as the revision of the (22:34) tax. And therefore, we are
expecting worsening of the combined ratio and therefore for April 2017, our auto
premium, it is probably going to remain the same. However, for the further rate revisions
that they talked to about, we would like to look at the market situation and other factors
relating to the loss ratio.
Thank you very much.
There seems to be no question at this point in time. Thank you for your patience. There's
seems to be no question a this point in time, so Mr. Wada over to you.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}
Page 7 of 8



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-02-14

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for attending Tokio Marine Holdings FY 2016
Q3 financial results conference call today. If you have any further questions, please do not
hesitate, but contact us anytime. Thank you very much for your attendance.

FINAL

Operator
With this we will now like to conclude Tokio Marine Holdings conference call announcing
FY 2016 Q3 results. Thank you very much for your attendance today. This is the end of the
call. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 8 of 8

