Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje, Head of Investor Relations
Lars Aasulv Løddesøl, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Odd Arild Grefstad, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Matti Ahokas, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Storebrand Analyst Call. My
name is Anna, and I will be your coordinator for today's conference. For the duration of
the call, you will be on listening-only. However, at the end of this presentation, you've got
opportunity to ask questions.
I will now hand you over to Kjetil Krøkje to begin today's conference. Thank you.

Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Storebrand's second quarter 2017
conference call. My name is Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje, and I'm Head of Investor Relations at
Storebrand. Together with me I have Group CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad; CFO, Lars
Løddesøl; and Head of Economic Capital, Trond Finn Eriksen.
In the presentation today Odd Arild will give an overall view of the development in the
second quarter and year-to-date 2017, and Lars will give some more depth on the results.
The slides will be similar to the analyst presentation released this morning and are
available on our webpage. After the presentation, the operator will open up for questions.
To be able to ask questions, you will need to dial into the conference call.
With this, I now leave the word to Storebrand's CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad, who will start
the presentation on slide 2.

Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}
Page 1 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

Thanks, Kjetil, and thank you all for joining the call. Let's move directly to the results. The
group results before amortization and write-downs was NOK 878 million for the quarter
and NOK 1.549 billion for the ﬁrst half. It's very satisfying to see that the operational result
has a positive development due to growth within savings and good cost control. In
addition, a strong ﬁnancial result characterize the overall result for the quarter.
The growth within savings continues, while the guaranteed products are in long-term
runoﬀ. Growth in savings is illustrated by an asset growth of 18% within unit-linked
compared to last year and 9% growth in asset management. Retail bank has a strong
growth of 28% within retail lending, and by this we are the fastest growing bank in the
Norwegian market. The underlying solvency position is increased by 5 percentage points
during the quarter to 152%, and the solvency ratio including transitionals are 163%.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we then move to slide number 3, this slide illustrates the two-fold strategy we have been
implementing consistently throughout the past ﬁve years. The two-fold strategy will
continue to be important going forward, with capital-light growth within savings and
insurance and capital release from the guaranteed back book, which has reached its peak
capital consumption level or peak capital.
If we then move to slide number 4, we can take a look at the changes in the solvency
position in the quarter, and to explain the 5% increase in solvency there is three important
factors. First, model and assumption changes causes a 2% point reduction in the quarter,
and among other things, it's a small change in the cost allocation in this element. The
second is that Storebrand has achieved a very good result in a quarter, which has
contributed to increased solvency position. The increase in the paid-up policy portfolio
reduces the solvency in the quarter. Summarized, the strengthening from the operations
are 3% points, which is somewhat higher than they expect on a quarterly basis.
The third element is impacted by good ﬁnancial markets in the second quarter. This
means that we have not only achieved the expected risk premiums in the market, but also
achieved returns beyond what we can expect on a normal quarter. The increase in interest
rate has positively aﬀected the solvency position. We have chosen to look at this as
economic variance, and that contributes with 4% points in the quarter.
Then on slide number 5, we have the movement in Solvency II ratio described as we used
to present it to you historically. It is worth noting that a 50-basis-point parallel shift of the
interest curve (04:57) will – from today's level will still give a solvency ratio without
transitional rules of about 140%.
Then if we move to slide number 6 and give us more update on the costs. We had a ﬂat
nominal cost level between 2012 and 2015. At our Capital Markets Day in 2016, we
announced a new target to a ﬂat nominal cost between 2015 and 2018. Since we
announced the cost target, our cost base has been aﬀected with a NOK 60 million
increase on annual cost from the new ﬁnancial tax in Norway. And we have also
reallocated costs in order to support areas within strong growth, such as asset
management and the digital development. In the same period, the number of employees
has been reduced by 12%, that is 220 employees, from the beginning of 2016. We are

Page 2 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

now at a run rate of approximately NOK 800 million a quarter in costs and we will, of
course, continue to have strong focus on cost improvements also going forward.
Then let's move to slide number 7. I have already discussed and commented on the
strong growth within our savings area. A few comments now on insurance. The
proﬁtability within insurance is good, but the growth within insurance is lower than we
want to see going forward. This is caused by the shift from expensive external distribution
to more cost-eﬀective internal distribution. This, and even more the transition to a new
disability pension project in Norway, implies a lower growth rate for insurance in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we can move to slide number 8. This quarter, Storebrand Asset Management has
passed NOK 620 billion in assets under management. This study from PVC (sic) [PwC]
(07:29) shows that we have a very competitive cost/income ratio compared with even the
large asset manager with substantially more assets under management. This means that
we have a very eﬀective scalable platform in our asset management, and the reason is
that we have a cost level at around 8 to 9 basis points of assets under management.
To continue with asset management, let's move to slide number 9. One of our main
growth engines have been the Swedish mutual fund company, which has grown by 20%
annually over the last nine years. We are now the ﬁfth biggest fund manager in the
Swedish market after the four big Swedish banks. We see the strongest growth within
external assets, discretionary mandates, and in the Swedish retail market. Revenues from
the Swedish part of the asset management now amount for 32% of the total revenues in
asset management and 40% of the assets under management. We are now further
strengthening our distribution capacity in Sweden and also utilize our full scale, our full –
our scalable Nordic asset management platform in the Swedish market and expect also
strong growth going forward.
Then let's move to slide number 10, and now we are back in the Norwegian market. And
ﬁnally, the Norwegians will get individual pension product, as we call IPS with real tax
incentives. The Norwegian Parliament introduced the product in connection with the
revised national budget in 2017. The IPS scheme enters into force from 1st of November,
2017. Savings up to NOK 40,000 per year are tax deductible in ordinary income. And in
addition, there are deferred tax return and exemption from wealth tax.
The government has now enabled private pension savings with real tax beneﬁts. And
there is a great need for increased pension savings in Norway and we look forward to
enter into this market.
Storebrand is well-positioned for individual pension savings with our pension expertise,
sustainability-focused asset management, and several world-class funds with good
historical return. This market is, of course, starting from zero, and it will not be a boost on
the result on the short term. But, of course, this is long-term money and with a strong
growth proﬁle going forward.
Then ﬁnally let's move to slide number 11. As I mentioned talking about the cost earlier,
we now shift our activity into more digital solutions. On the operational side, it is worth
Page 3 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

noting that we have made successful payouts from the new Swedish core system. This is a
large undertaking in the Swedish subsidiary (10:59), and it's great to see that it's running
as planned.
During the quarter, we have formed new important partnerships that further digitalize our
business model. Storebrand has partnered with the ﬁn tech app Dreams for distributing
savings. Launch of Dreams in Norway, in cooperation with Storebrand, will take place this
autumn. The app was launched in Sweden in 2016 and has currently 80,000 registered
users in Sweden. We have also developed Norway's ﬁrst and only electrical car in France
in cooperation with Norwegian Electric Vehicle Association. This product will be launched
in August, 2017.
And lastly, we have piloted our insurance Chatbot this quarter. It is really interesting to
interact with it. And given that it is the ﬁrst version, I'm quite impressed and excited about
rolling out this technology in that business.
And by that, I give the word to Lars to go a bit deeper into the numbers.

Lars Aasulv Løddesøl

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon, everyone. Please refer to page 12, key ﬁgures. In the upper left-hand
corner, we show the results split into operating results, ﬁnancial results, and special items
typically of a non-recurring nature. This quarter the operating result is a solid NOK 565
million. We have previously communicated that this ﬁgure will come in at approximately
NOK 500 million per quarter, and gradually grow from there.
With the numbers we present today, we conﬁrm this trend. A normalized result will be
somewhat above NOK 500 million going forward. Please note, however, that the results
will swing around the normalized number and the signiﬁcant market movements naturally
will impact the actual future proﬁtability.
We have been able to harvest good premiums in most asset classes this quarter, which
has generated good returns to customers and the company. The good returns have been
used to build a high book return and additional buﬀers. We have also generated an
unallocated result of NOK 3.7 billion, which will be allocated between owners and
customers at the end of the year. Part of this result will be used to formally ﬁnalize the
longevity reserves strengthening, while the majority of the rest will be used to further
strengthen our buﬀers.
Earnings per share after tax and adjusted for amortization of intangible assets come to a
strong NOK 1.89 in the quarter.
Please turn to page 13. The top line, fee and administration income, is once again growing
in the quarter and year-to-date. We have gone through a period where the runoﬀ of
revenues from the guaranteed business has been faster than the growth in front book
revenues, but this is now turning. The results from the insurance business are also
improving in the quarter and year-to-date.
Page 4 of 10



FINAL

Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

In the reported numbers, it looks as if the cost line has been growing, but this is explained
entirely by a one-oﬀ gain of approximately NOK 100 million in the second quarter of 2016.
The underlying cost level is developing according to plan, and there is generally good
cost discipline across the group. The ﬁnancial results are strong. This is explained by the
previously announced sale of our shares in Formuesforvaltning that generated a gain of
NOK 88 million, combined with strong returns on company funds and proﬁt split from the
Swedish guaranteed business. The tax charge in the quarter is only 4%, as the gain from
the proﬁts from Formuesforvaltning sale is exempt from tax and because of estimated
return taxes from last year.
Please turn to page 14. The top table in this picture is the same as on the previous page.
The bottom table splits out the results into three categories: savings, insurance, and
guaranteed. We see the improvements in all three areas, despite the previously
mentioned one-oﬀ gain in the comparable numbers from 2016. Under other, we include
the result from the sale of Formuesforvaltning shares. Excluding this, the underlying
number is around zero, which is around normalized for this area going forward.
In summary, we have delivered a good result so far this year and the group ROE ended at
13.4% for the quarter and 10.9% year-to-date.
And with that, we open up for questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We already have three questions coming through, and the ﬁrst one is from
Paul De'Ath from RBC. Please go ahead, your line is now open.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Yeah, hi. Thanks for taking my questions. A couple, please. Firstly, on the DB to PUP
conversion rates, there was another NOK 5 billion that moved across during the quarter.
Was that kind of larger than you had expected and/or was it kind of in line with ongoing
expectations? And I guess on that, how does that impact anything going forward? Does it
change anything around the speed at which capital could come back to shareholders?
That's question one.
And then the second point was just on the insurance business, looking at the claims ratio
in the quarter, it improved signiﬁcantly, particularly in the health business, which I think
was due to dissolution of reserves within employers' liability. I just wanted to check, is that
kind of a one-oﬀ prior year gain coming through? Obviously, we expect a much lower
claims ratio going forward in that business. Thanks.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Okay. So I'll take the ﬁrst question, the conversion from deﬁned beneﬁt. In the ﬁrst – or at
the year-end last year, we had a slightly higher conversion from deﬁned beneﬁt to paidPage 5 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

up policies than we anticipated, as explained in the ﬁrst quarter. What you see in the
numbers in the second quarter is that we have in the – due to the change in disability –
public disability pension in Norway and a consequential change in the legislation around
disability insurance for occupational pensions, all of our occupational pension coverage
that was previously included in deﬁned beneﬁt plans by force goes into paid-up policies.
And that's the main explanation of about NOK 5 billion of the conversion in the second
quarter.
It must be said, however, that this disability portion of – that becomes paid-up policies has
a lower guaranteed rate of return and a much shorter duration. It only has a duration until
people retire, not after the retirement. So it's a short duration and a low rate of guarantee.
And the change taking place as a consequence of the legislative change in disability
pension has been ﬁnalized with this, so there is no more to come. So from here on, we
expect normal transition away from deﬁned beneﬁt to paid-up policies at a declining pace
going forward. And in terms of what it means for dividend capacity and other things, it
has been truly been absorbed by the solvency numbers, and thus as such has no further
impact on any solidity numbers.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. On health and group life, there was an eﬀect from dissolution of reserves in the
quarter. We have an overall combined ratio of 88% in the quarter. If you adjust for the
dissolution reserves, we are in the targeted range of 90% to 92% combined ratio. And
that's what we're going to continue to target going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paul De'Ath
Great. Thanks very much.

Operator
And the next question comes from Matti Ahokas from the Danske Bank. Please go ahead.
Your line is now open.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. It's Matti Ahokas here from Danske. Two questions, please, both on
the fee and admin income in Q2. Firstly, you mentioned that the margins in Sweden on
the unit-linked side were improving. What was the reason for this? Was it one-oﬀ or
should we expect that the margins remain at this level?
And the second is actually slightly the same, but on the DB business in Norway. The
reserves, as you said, fell quite a lot, but then the fee and admin income went up. Was this
because it happened late in the quarter, or how come the margins also in that business
improved during the quarter?

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl

Page 6 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

If I take the ﬁrst question. I think we said in the ﬁrst quarter that the deﬁned-contribution
margin or unit-linked margin in Sweden was a little lower than we expected going
forward. And if you look at the quarterly numbers, they typically vary a little bit around
these levels from quarter-to-quarter. So I think you can basically look at the average of the
ﬁrst and the second quarter as an estimation as to where it's going to go forward, and we
don't see a trend in these numbers neither positive nor negative. So that's basically just a
normal variation.
[05JRJM-E Odd Arild Grefstad]Yeah. On the DB portfolio in Norway, yeah, I'm afraid it's
little bit of the same answer. If you look at year-to-date number, that should be okay
estimation going forward. And there's some [ph] prioritization (21:31) on when these
diﬀerent contracts are billable that comes into the numbers.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Great. Thanks a lot.

Operator
The next question comes from Peter Eliot from Kepler. Please go ahead, your line is now
open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. If I could just follow-up, ﬁrst of all, actually on one of Paul's
questions. Just to clarify, that NOK 5 billion was transferred, could you – apologies if you
said this, I missed it. But could you say how much of that was from the change in disability
legal deﬁnition of customization (22:12)? And then, my ﬁrst main question was the Q1
results, you very helpfully showed us the capital requirement of the ﬁrst parts of the
business and guaranteed business is like NOK 15.8 billion. Are you able to give us an
update on that at all?
And then secondly, the ﬁnancial result for SPP, I guess, was quite a bit higher than the, I
guess, what we sort of estimated from the sensitivities that you provided. I'm just
wondering if you could give us a little bit of color on that.
And then ﬁnal point, just to prove I'm paying attention and just to prove I'm trying to
understand the growth of the unit-linked reserves in the quarter, in your presentation you
show NOK 151 billion. But in your supplementary information, you show NOK 71 billion for
Norway and NOK 83 for Sweden, so NOK 154 billion total. Just wondering if you could
clarify what the diﬀerence is or which number I should be going on there. So, obviously,
makes it a double – the delta across the quarter is doubled on one versus the other. Thank
you very much.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
If I pick up on the ﬁrst one, the conversion from DB to PUP. I said NOK 5 billion was the –
only the conversion of the disability proportion. In terms of savings, we see approximately
NOK 1 billion in terms of conversion per quarter. And as I said, that is declining. So last
Page 7 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

year with NOK 7.6 billion, we estimate a similar number this year, and then going down
from there, and then in addition consist NOK 5 billion from disability.

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yeah. Second question on capital requirements development, we haven't given update
on that, Peter, and I don't think we're going to do that whole exercise each quarter.
Basically what's happened is that the solvency ratio has been improved. And in that sense,
that capital has been tied up, but it's not any large changes as such in the distribution
between the various product lines.
On the SPP ﬁnancial result, main deviations here from the sensitivities was the slope of the
curve that changed the discounting as it uses the same discounting as the Solvency II
interest rate curve with the Smith-Wilson extrapolation model. This has an eﬀect that can't
(24:55) be read out from the sensitivities. And in addition, we had some returns from real
estate, which is ultimate reﬂected in sensitivities.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Yeah. I can also add to that that on the interest rate curve in Sweden, we are using the
volatility adjustment similar to the one we used for our solvency calculation and volatility
adjustment of 1 basis point during the quarter, which also has minor eﬀect.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And on the last question, Peter, in my supplementary, I still get NOK 151 billion also on the
unit-linked Norway and Sweden combined. We can compare notes afterwards, but I can't
ﬁnd the NOK 154 billion right now. But it might be a mistake somewhere. So if that's the
case, then my apologies.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. I was just adding the two numbers up at the bottom of page 12. But that's great.
And apologies if I'm not paying attention on the ﬁrst point on the transfers. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is now
open.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Well, thanks for taking my question. Just two from me. So, ﬁrstly, on slide 4 the solvency
walk. Thanks for providing that again. I just wondered why the treatment of new paid-up
policies is included in the model and assumption change rather than the operating
earnings. Is that because of the sort of one-oﬀ nature of the NOK 5 billion conversion?
And if we didn't have that NOK 5 billion, would you include it in the operating earnings? I
guess, I'm just trying to ﬁgure out, because, obviously, you're giving 5% to 10% Solvency II
cash ﬂow generation guidance. That is after the paid-up conversions, I assume.

Page 8 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

And secondly, the buﬀers in Norway, they've obviously trended down for quite some time
now. You mentioned that they're going to be sort of topped up at the end of this year. I
just wondered where do you see the appropriate level for those buﬀers once the top-up's
been done. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
I can start with the walk of the change in the solvency position. The changes coming from
conversion from DB to paid-up policies has to be viewed in connection with the surplus
return in the portfolios. It's quite technical, but the way we get the reserves from our
systems make this somewhat hard to separate. That's why it's included in the economic
variance, as such.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

So every quarter it will be included in the economic...

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Yes, it will.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Well, it says – you're splitting it once, say, this (28:23) in model and assumption changes
rather than the...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. Sorry, Jonny. It's two diﬀerent things. The one that's on model and assumption
changes is actually an assumption change on how we invest new paid-up policies. So it's
more, I would say, a correction of the model on how we invest new paid-up policies. So
we say that when you now get new paid-up policies, which has high buﬀers and have
more risk capacity, we will invest them in slightly more risky assets than the average paidup policy. This gives us slightly negative eﬀect on the solvency calculation. So that's just
a...

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

It's basically a one-oﬀ model change. That makes sense.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Yeah.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

And it also, obviously, makes you expect – give you a higher expected return.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Sure.

Page 9 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2017-07-13

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I think it was a question about buﬀer levels as well on paid-up policies. And it's diﬃcult to
say exactly what is the right buﬀer level, because we have diﬀerent sub-portfolios here,
and some of these portfolios are truly reserved with all the necessary reserves, other have
very little reserves, and we are trying to build that up. The more reserves we have, the
better we are suited to deal with future ﬁnancial volatility or market – volatility in ﬁnancial
markets. So I think the maximum in all portfolios is around 8%, but it's never going to beat
that area, but somewhat up from 5.3% makes sense at the current – in the current market.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Operator
There are no questions coming through, so I will now hand the call back to you. Thank
you.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Okay. Then I just want to thank you all for joining the call. For those of you who have not
had a summer vacation yet, we wish you all a nice summer vacation. And I hope to see
some of you in London tomorrow. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handset to end this
call. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

