Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Aviva PLC Capital Markets Day 2017
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew David Briggs , Executive Director & CEO of UK Insurance
Christopher Esson, Group IR Director
Euan George Munro, CEO of Aviva Investors
Mark Andrew Wilson, Group CEO & Executive Director
Maurice Tulloch, CEO of International Insurance & Executive Director
Thomas D. Stoddard, CFO & Executive Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Research Analyst
Andrew Hughes , Insurance Analyst
Andrew John Crean, Managing Partner, Insurance
Benjamin Edward Bathurst, Equity Analyst
Blair Thomson Stewart, Head of the UK and European Insurance
Colm Kelly, Associate Director and Equity Research Insurance Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Jonathan Michael Hocking, MD
Oliver George Nigel Steel, MD
Ravi Tanna, Equity Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Warsaw for our Capital Markets Day 2017. Thank
you, all for making the journey across to snowy Warsaw. To get the day started, I'd like to
invite Mark Wilson to the stage. Before I do, I'll just do the usual disclaimer.
Mark, please, kick us off.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Well morning, everyone. Morning, Chris. I thought you were going to read through it for a
second, I'm glad you didn't. We promised you snow, we delivered. Then we're promising
a few more things today. And we'll deliver those as well.

Page 1 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

So we've called this session Cash Flow Plus Growth Upgraded. And you have seen this
morning, we have upgraded pretty much all of our targets. And that was a good night last
night. It was good to see you so focused on the activities in Poland last night. There was a
couple of (inaudible) but you're all, obviously, looking pretty chirpy this morning. So I
guess, you are used to that sort of activity. And I'm glad you've got clear heads, because
there's a lot to go through today. Essentially, we will be answering the questions that you
and the buyer side have been asking. Where will our growth come from? We're going to
spend a lot of time on that. What are we doing with debt? We're going to be crystal clear
on that. And what are we going to do with all that surplus capital and cash we've built up,
our cash pile? And lastly, where is the dividend going? So those are the key questions that
have been asked. And we're going to answer them. And if you go away with nothing else
but 4 messages today, I want you to take these 4 messages. First, we are upgrading our
growth and cash targets. And these are very achievable. We haven't missed a target yet,
just to make that point. Second, our earnings quality has improved, markedly. We'll take
you through the details of that. And as such, we are increasing our payout ratio. And Tom
will spend a fair bit of time on that. Third, we have a very large pile of cash to deploy, GBP
3 billion to be precise. And that will reduce debt and increase earnings. Fourth, the quality
of our remaining franchises is top drawer. We've done a lot of disposals. And it's top
drawer both in the U.K. and internationally. And you'll see some of that today. That's the
reason we're actually in Poland. We want to show you that.
Now, of course, what happened? We had all these disposals. We had this group that was
a bit of a mess. And we've had all these disposals and now what we have left is what I
believe is great franchises that are on good markets and sometimes, I think, just how
good they are, historically, has got lost and all the noise that surrounds results. But the
other thing is that our results are also much, much simpler. I know a lot of you have
commented on that. And they're clean and simple results. And so you can see it without
the noise. Now, we've dragged you all the way to Poland, looking outside into white snowy
Poland, because we want you to get to meet the team. There was a lot of good noise
and discussion last night. As you saw, we brought lot of our CEOs and some of our key
team members. And we want you to get to know the depth of our team, because frankly,
the franchises are only as good as our team. I'm hoping you like what you see.
And -- but today, it's about shining the spotlight on a few things. It's about looking at the
strength of these international businesses, because a lot of you haven't seen them.
Remember, 42% of our earnings now are outside UK Insurance, 42%, which gives us a
nice hedge. And it gives us a lot of diversity. And we think we're in the right place with our
perimeter.
Said today's presentations, they'll cover 4 topics. I'll start by updating you on our
ambitions and our strategy. That's first. Tom will take you through the financials,
particularly, focusing on capital management and the strength there. On the international
businesses we've got Maurice, somewhere in front of me. Oh, there he is, right in front of
me. And he'll provide you with an overview. And we'll have breakout sessions with our
leadership teams in Poland, Canada and France. And we'll finish the day updating you on
some tangible progress, proof points with digital. Now, I know everyone has a digital
strategy. Yes, I get that. So today, this will be a show-you day on digital, not a tell-you

Page 2 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

today. You will see our new IP, you will see our live products, that have just gone live a
couple of weeks ago. I'll leave it to you to judge. Tell me what you think later on.
So where are we? Well we've delivered the FX. And I think we have delivered the FX and
then some. We've exceeded every target we put out over the last few years. And now we
have somewhat of an embarrassment of riches, I guess, on our balance sheet. It was hard.
It took the vast majority of my team's time and my own time over a number of years. But
now we are much leaner and much effective. We have got much focus -- much more
focused on what we think are the leading franchises. And we'll show you that today. So
what I am saying is the pruning of our orchard is complete. The pruning of the apple trees
is complete. We're now entirely focused on growing and strengthening the businesses.
We have upgraded our growth forecast. So on growth, our ambition is to do better than
mid-single-digit. And we'll cover -- Tom will cover that in a bit more depth later. And it's
very achievable. Our markets and large segments within those markets are growing well.
And the fact is, you can see the results, you can see the market. The fact is. And
particularly in the large markets, we have picked up market share. We picked up market
share in most of the segments in the U.K., for example. But it goes much wider than that.
Now just to be clear, market share isn't how we measure. But the market share on the
growth and revenue is just a function of the fact of where we are as a group. We also
have the capacity. We got the appetite, we got the balance sheet. And we were
restricting our growth for a long -- many years, because we didn't have the balance sheet.
We have the balance sheet, we have the capability, we have the team. And more
importantly, in uncertain times, particularly in places like the U.K., we have the brand. And
when the times are a bit tough but that's the big brands that attract customer numbers,
you can see that. And I think we have now a bit of the innovation to also to capitalize on
the market opportunities. And we're doing that. Now, capital optimization is a lever to also
drive higher growth and also drive higher cash returns for shareholders.
And as we were going through the fix phase, it was quite hard to be specific on the
numbers. It was hard because we didn't know exactly. There was always so much
uncertainty. And we built in a lot of extra contingencies to make sure we delivered. Now
we are at the stage where our confidence levels are much higher. We've had Solvency II
for a few years. We're pretty confident in what's happening. Every time we go through a
set of numbers, we seem to get more than we thought we would, that's a good problem.
But what we're doing today is, we're going to be much more specific on the numbers for
you. Then, again, you be the judge. We are telling you today how much cash is available.
And we are putting numbers specifically around paying down debt, about investing in our
businesses, organically. And on returning capital. On earnings, the quality has improved
markedly. And as such, as you read this morning, we are upgrading our dividend payout
ratio target. Now digital is also a key enabler of our increased growth ambition. And in
fact, has been the key enabler of our growth this year and in some areas it surprised us.
And we'll talk about that later. But the fact is we got leading market IP. And we're now
bringing all these together in some pretty cool propositions. And what we're doing with
that, we're particularly in the early days of that, would be winning some big partnerships,
like HSBC. Put that as a tick in the digital column. But of course, digital isn't just about
innovation and cool IP and products and distribution, it's also about efficiency and it's also
about the customer service in particularly, in the back office. And I've been in Bristol and
Sheffield, recently and seen what they're doing with the TCC and digital and that's

Page 3 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

actually what's driving the business. And maybe a trip in the future would be worthwhile
for some of our investors to see as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Later today, we've got Chris Wei and the team here. And later today, he'll take you
through some of the propositions; we'll bring it to life. And we're going to be a little bit
judicious what we say, as some of the stuff is not market censored. But certainly,
commercially sensitive. But again, have a look, tell us what you think.
Now this slide here, composites win in a digital world. Over the past 10 years or so,
undoubtedly the best performers in the insurance sector, have a look at their prices, have
been -- have a look at their multiples, they have been specialists and monoline, single
country monolines, that's just a fact. My thesis is we're now entering a period of
generational change. I believe the next decade will be the decade where composites
come to the fore. Now digital is the key catalyst for this. But there's also scale, which is
more necessary than ever, regulation, brand, disintermediation and the right -- and also
balance of product mix and big data, they're also key ingredients. So why do I believe in
the thesis? Well in the digital world, particularly where we have a disintermediated world.
And our industry is not immune. We have large composite insureds with strong brands
that have 4 key structural advantages, you can see on the slide here. The first of those is
more data. If you're a monoline with single country, you just do not have that. But it's not
just more data, it's better data, it's the ability to cross analyze the data between product
categories and underwriting. This gives us a major advantage in how we price risk. You'll
see some of that today. We don't have to ask questions of customers over and over
again. This reduces what we call the repellent factor for customers, many of whom, in
fact, most of whom, I expect customers in the room to test the inquisition each time they
want to buy a product. That's the whole reason that an intermediaries have been forced
into the equation. And it allows us to target customers and effectively underwrite them at
really good margins, much more effectively. That's the first benefit of a composite.
The second one is lower cost. We don't have to spend a fortune on acquiring the
customer. And what we do is spread the cost across a greater number of customers. By
the way, digital also helps the broker journey and other journeys. So that we can still make
that simpler and cheaper as well. So the price actually at all channels. And like just a few of
our peers, not too many. But a few, digital is allowing us to improve efficiency in settling
claims and administering the policies and serving the customers. And this is something our
UK Insurance team is already doing very effectively. Part of -- a big part of the composite,
since we put those businesses together. And I've done a few trips in the last month, I was
surprised how quickly they've taken it on. And Andy, I guess, may be able to talk about
that throughout today.
The third thing, it's more capital efficient by a big margin. The fact is, Solvency II was a
game changer. And it's one of the reason we've picked up market share in places like the
U.K. and France and Italy and others. Solvency II was a game changer. It enshrined into
regulation what we already knew and that is that insurance is about diversification, it's
fundamentally about spreading the risk. And finally, Solvency II recognized that and that
helped us. It gives us a more effective balance sheet. For the first time, with the
introduction of Solvency II, diversification is locked into those capital standards. And it give
us -- gives us a significant pricing benefit over the monolines or over single country
Page 4 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

insurance companies. And it makes sense. We only have one monoline of scale and that's
actually Canada. And the fact is that's our most volatile business. Interesting, isn't it? So
we want to be composite.
The fourth thing is deeper relationships across the composites. But particularly in life and
savings, there is an element of trust in the relationship. The lower you are down the trust
curve, it's more like more than chance, it's more of a transactional arrangement. The
higher up that trust curve, that's a longer-term relationship. And the more products you
can sell, the fact is that they stay longer and it's basically less of a commodities trade. And
our research shows that clearly. As a result, composites in the disintermediated world are
uniquely positioned to serve more of the customer needs, which leads in turn to staying
longer and leads in turn to much higher margins. One of the biggest factors in margins is
the retention. That is very clear. You know the fact is that the composite model works well
for customers. It's simpler, it's quicker, it's easier and cheaper. It works well for us. And
with our digital, brand and balance sheet, we're pretty well positioned.
So it's interesting. Since some of the recent investor days hosted by our peers. And we
had a look at them all, I'm sure some of them are having a look at us today, there seems
to be alignment across the composite sector in terms of the strategic priorities. Improved
focus. So less countries, a few said that, customer centricity, innovation and technology,
pretty similar. These are all words you will have heard repeatedly in recent weeks. And
they're right. We certainly agree with this. Aviva is moving in a similar direction. And we
started the same journey four years ago. We've already trimmed down our business,
we've already got to the countries we want. We started that digital journey. We got our
systems together; We have improved focus in fewer countries. But I believe that
composites are best place to deliver all the stuff we're talking about. And I think, we will
out -- compete the monolines over the coming decade by a significant margin. Now
different composites are not in the same markets, that's an important point. They don't
have the same balance sheet, they don't have the same risk, they don't have the same
guarantees, we don't even have the same products, not even close. And it's fair to say
we're in different stages of our journeys, some are in the fixed phase, some are in the
trim down phase. We're in -- we just are in different phases. So ultimately, the question is,
who will be the winners? Which 1 or 2 composites will win? Which 1 or 2 can execute the
digital? Which 1 or 2, it might even be 1, might be none, will have the right focus? Which
ones have the courage to actually diversify their distributions separate off digital? Now the
answer to that question, certainly, isn't mine. And that's for you and your investors to
decide. And those questions I'll leave to you.
Now, over the past 12 months, we have delivered tangible results on our strategic capital
allocation. We've drawn capital from Spain. We have announced disposal of Friends
Provident International in Taiwan. We've exited some bank insurance relationships that we
thought -- yes, some of them were too expensive and JVs in France and Italy. And we've
taken out the businesses that were a drag on our growth. Spain, we exited. We have the
ex-Spanish CEO here, because we realized we couldn't achieve our growth targets in
Spain. It was that simple. He came to me and said, "We can get 2% or 3% growth, maybe
a bit more." And we said, "That's not enough. If you can't get that, we'll exit you." So we
did. Now what we have now is a streamlined simpler group of businesses with
competitive franchises, faster growth and far better earnings quality. I'm happy with the

Page 5 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

perimeter. For now -- I'll say for now though, we are done pruning the apple trees. But as
a management team, as you'd expect, we will -- this will be continually reassessed,
because that's the nature of the group, that's the way we operate, it's about the
numbers. Now, there's still a couple of small tendrils that we are going to tie up. But we're
now left with just 2 categories. We have the Oaks and the Acorns. We have 8 Oaks, which
are the major markets. These are businesses that contribute a significant portion of our
operating profit and cash today. And it's these businesses that will drive the majority of
the operating profit growth in the next couple of years. Then we also have 8 Acorns,
which are the strategic investments for the future. Now across these Acorn markets, we
are exposed to some large populations, low penetration, growing economies and,
importantly, we have strong partners that will give us bit -- plenty of business potential
there. And of course, we have digital that you'll see today. And digital is the icing on the
cake. That is the potential to really turbocharge the growth.
Now, one of the most common questions we get from investors is "how will you grow?"
So we can give a bit more detail on that today and this slide is an important slide. Let me
start by saying from the businesses we have left, this is an important fact, in the
businesses we have left, we already have a pretty decent track record; just look at the
numbers. Though I do accept that this was a bit hard to see before, because it was
shrouded in noise. Well not anymore. Over the last three years, we have grown operating
EPS by 5% CAGR. Just to be clear, over the last three years, we've grown operating EPS
by 5% CAGR. And this is no mean feat in a tricky environment where we also have been in
the middle of restructuring and de-risking. We also had to contend with Brexit, low interest
rates and economic -- challenging economic growth in some of the markets, some of the
larger markets. But despite all this and despite all these headwinds. So there is no
excuses, we have still managed to grow by 5% CAGR. Now, I wouldn't say inversely,
because we didn't want to grow in some segments or some markets. But in all of our
target areas where we wanted to grow, we have done that and more. And we have been
intensely focused on margins. We have been intensely focused in terms of GI underwriting
and operating expenses. So what about the future? Well the assumed was done, I guess,
that's why you have a market. But the assumed was that to grow you need to be
concentrated in emerging markets. But ladies and gentlemen, I believe that is the old
paradigm. That was so 15 years ago. For example, growth rates in Europe now are
outstripping growth rates in parts of Asia, like Hong Kong and Singapore, just as an
example. And I think we need to focus on market-by-market and stop this generalist
approach of saying, a region equals growth. It does not. Markets equal growth. And just
because a market is well developed or well penetrated or vice versa, does not mean that
it is ex growth. That's a naÃ¯ve and outdated assumption, particularly, in the digital world.
I'm not going to stand here and tell you that all our markets are going to sustain and grow
at many multiples of GDP, some will, others won't. But with the markets that we have left.
And we chose them specifically, like the U.K., there are new and expanding profit pools
that we are extraordinarily well positioned to tap into. And unlike emerging markets. And
this is important, there is now far less competition in a market like the U.K. There's fewer
players to compete with and getting fewer. We have the biggest brand. And we can grow
and that's exactly what we've been doing. Our most recent results in the U.K.
demonstrate that we have been able to do just that. And I can tell you that trend has
continued. Across each of the 4 major product lines that you see on this slide here, we
have, in fact, delivered double-digit growth and operating profit. We have delivered
significant improvements in market share. We have delivered significant improvements in
Page 6 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

top line as well over the past 18 months. Since we got our act together and since we've
pulled the businesses together in UKI, it certainly accelerated. And in a funny way, I think,
Brexit's actually helped us, because people have gravitated towards the big brands. And
with the expanding asset pools in the long-term savings, which you can see in the top of
that slide there, this has got enormous potential, enormous opportunity in there and the
annuities market. And we have got our continued implementation of digital and
composite strategies, that's right across all the customer groups. We're seeing that
particularly in the corporate business this year, which was earlier than we expected. So we
have got plenty of confidence in the growth outlook. If you disagree, I suggest you have a
chat to Andy at the break. But it's not just a U.K. growth story, it's just not. Because the fact
is that 42% of our operating earnings are earnings outside UK Insurance. So we are nicely,
what I call, balanced for Brexit.
In fact, if you want a safe ship in the Brexit storm, then I would suggest we may be just
that. We have the balance sheet, we have the brand, we have a safe ship in a Brexit
storm. And we got 42% of our earnings outside the U.K., which is a lovely hedge.

Bloomberg Transcript

Across our international business, we have positions of strength. And you can see that in
the slide, the next slide. Hopefully, you can see them in the next slide. Now you can. And
we're delivering growth of margins in these respective markets as well. It's one of the
reasons we're in Poland. In life, we are growing volumes and net flows. But we are also
continually improving the mix of business. We are increasing the contribution of fee and
protection business. Just like in the U.K., our strategy is capital-light. And that's an
important point. It's part of our success in generating so much capital off our balance
sheet.
In GI, we're growing premiums while maintaining a pretty attractive combined ratio. In
Asia, Singapore is getting real traction with the FA model as the traditional agency model
dies. We're positioned pretty well there. Of course, Aviva Investors delivering some pretty
good performance. And we've targeted continued strong double-digit growth from them
for the foreseeable future. Euan is nodding his head, that's good. So very strong doubledigit growth.
So look, I'm not saying growth is easy to come by. Growth is never easy to come by. But I
am saying that the franchises we have left have a pretty decent track record. And we see
plenty of opportunities to grow. And we are moving into a new phase. And we have the
capital to be able to do it. My team and I have spent far more time on innovation and
growth than we do on the fix. Because the fix is done.
And what is perhaps difficult for you all to see externally is in the change in the mindset
and the approach of each of our teams because we have just shifted that emphasis. It's
what we talk about. I don't mean growth in top line. That comes as a result in it. I mean
growth in bottom line and growth in profitable revenues. It's a fundamentally different
thing. Now Maurice and the team will take you through more detail on the international
businesses throughout today's event. And I think that will help to illuminate this point.

Page 7 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

So what about digital? Insurance is one of the last frontiers for digital disruption. It's
interesting, isn't it? And there's a few reasons why this has taken much longer than other
industries: capital intensity, which most startups, even large tech firms can't do; regulatory
interaction, even simple firms like taxis in the U.K. are finding the regulators a little bit
more difficult now, it's a whole lot more difficult in insurance; supply chain management
complexity; claims; the cost of customer acquisition; of course, the fact that unlike, say,
banking, it is much harder to disaggregate the value chain. That's why composites are well
positioned.
But digital is inevitable. And just like insurance -- and just like it has been in all other
industries, our leadership role in terms of digital in the industry is a function of our
intellectual property, of our IP. And we've made some progress in critical areas; we will
show you that in the sessions this afternoon. We have all of our customers' systems
talking to each other. That is quite a feat. We didn't understand how complex that
plumbing was. I'll come back to that. As a result, we now have a single view of the
customer across all their product holdings. It's convenient for the customer. It's helping to
improve the cross-sell and retention and allows us to improve efficiency and service
quality.
In all of these pieces of tech in our infrastructure, it's also the coming together, once it's
starting to snowball. And for the first time, we have proof points. We have developed
something called Ask It Never, which uses our proprietary and publicly available data to
underwrite and price products without asking customers any questions, or very few. This
fundamentally changes the customer experience, you're going to see it today. And
removes one of the biggest barriers that have historically discouraged customers from
consolidating their insurance with a single supplier and has stopped them going direct.
And we believe. And our pilot testing adds a whole lot of confidence to this, that we can
develop a self-reinforcing cycle, where more service and convenience, not asking
questions, plus better value for money plus entanglement tools, which you'll see a bit of
today, massively improves customer retention and increases product take-up and the
ultimate improvement in product and margin and pricing power. It just all sort of comes
together. And we can further strengthen our customer expedition and retention through
initiatives like our Digital Wallet, putting payments on our Digital Wallet. So we control the
transaction flow. And that's many, many, many billions of pounds per annum. And more
about that at a later date.
Importantly, this is not just a play on direct to consumer front end. As you have seen with
some of our recent announcements, our digital IP is also making us the partner of choice.
You can see on the slide, world-class partnerships. Now this one surprised us. Well it
certainly surprised me. Some of my team were saying, "Well it didn't surprise me." Well it
did me. And I think the underlying systems on the consumer side took longer than I
thought. And they were more expensive. And it took us years to do the underlying
plumbing and will take us years to actually finish it, frankly.
But the partnerships, on the other hand, were much quicker than we anticipated. Now we
have expanded some pretty big deals, our relationship with HSBC. They tell us it was
because of our IP. What about Tencent? They went into that because of our IP. What about
Page 8 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

RBC, which is a pretty big relationship? Again, a major part of that was our IP. We have
their board and their senior management come and see our digital garage for a couple of
days last week. They said they've never seen anything like it. It's our IP. And so we've had - you saying, "Where are we getting at?" Well actually, the quickest outcome was through
our partnerships, which probably surprised us all.
These are all examples where the IP and not the price -- we don't pay big sums -amounts of money for digital through banking relationships. That is old. We get those
relationships because of our IP. That's just the new world, ladies and gentlemen. And I
might add, what can I say, we have a number of pretty good ongoing discussions with
some other large partners, more of that later but not today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now there's -- for the past few years, our focus has been on building IP, it's been on
connecting all the plumbing together. And the individual parts are now starting to come
together. We're systematically turning on the taps of our individual customer groups. And
you will see much more of this in the market over the next few months. We do what we
call sprints. So every 6 weeks, we have got major releases of functionality. And this just
happens now continually every 6 weeks. I think four years ago, it happened every six
months. And now we've just fundamentally changed the way our IT works. Okay. So you'll
see all that today as well.
Now what about capital and cash or more specifically excess capital and excess cash?
Now it's not exactly new news that we have capital in excess of our desired range. But the
size of it, I think, will surprise you a bit. And today, we're going to be a little bit more
specific. At our 2016 Capital Markets Day, it seems more recent than that -- what was it?
Was it about July last year, wasn't it? I think someone was telling me last night. So we
probably -- maybe shared a little bit earlier.
In our 2016 Capital Markets Day, we announced a target of GBP 7 billion of remittances. I
know quite a few people thought that was -- around the room probably thought that's
going to be bit of a stretch. Well today, the remittance figure is going to be GBP 8 billion.
This is partly due to proceeds from disposals. But it's certainly mainly due to some better
than we expected capital generation, which seems to be continuing. That's partly because
we were selling more capital-light products. We repriced products. We were able to crosssell products more effective than we thought. And we just also got to understand
Solvency II better. So every time we look at the capital generation, just seems to be
coming along nicely.
As a result of this, we expect to have a total cash pile at the group center to deploy of
GBP 3 billion over the next couple of years. That's our deployable capital above, well
above the range of GBP 3 billion in the next two years with GBP 2 billion in 2018 alone.
And I'll choose my words carefully. And at least GBP 1 billion, at least GBP 1 billion in 2019.
So what are our plans for deployment in 2018? We plan to use GBP 900 million, I am very
specific in that number, to pay down some very expensive debt. This is a no-brainer. Now
to be clear, to be really clear, I am comfortable with our current level of debt. And I
fundamentally disagree with any analysis that suggests that we have a peer group for

Page 9 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

debt for any comparison. Because any comparison must be risk-adjusted. And we clearly
have the lowest guarantees. We don't have the same risk on our balance sheet. We have
the most stable balance sheet. So how can you compare levels of debt? And given we
recently got upgraded to AA by Moody's, there's now some strong external vindication of
this view. But nevertheless, we are still paying down GBP 900 million of debt. So I guess
that takes that issue off the table.
But importantly and the main reason, to be frank, is this will save us a huge amount in
terms of cash paid out each and every year in interest expense from the group, okay? So
if you put it all together, it's over GBP 100 million actually. The remaining GBP 1.1 billion of
the GBP 2 billion, that's next year alone because you've got more the following year, just
to be clear, will be split between bolt-on M&A and capital returns. We do have an appetite
for M&A. We just did, what was that, GBP 140 million, was that -- GBP 130 million. GBP 130
million in Ireland few weeks ago, you saw that. We do have an appetite for M&A or bolt-on
M&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

You should not expect the entire GBP 1.1 billion to be returned in the next year in 2018 or
indeed the entire GBP 2 billion to be returned over the next two years. Obviously, you
have the debt on top of that as well. But you should not expect the entire GBP 2 billion.
We do have an appetite for some M&A. And we will continue to look for attractive deals
that will strengthen our franchises and importantly be accretive to growth. That's, that
word there again.
And given we have pruned, we've done a fair bit of pruning, given we have pruned our
lower quality earnings, some M&A is a very legitimate way to assess growth. And we are
extraordinarily good at it. Every sale we have done and every acquisition we have done in
the past five years has exceeded to you what we said it would. I think that gives us a little
bit of headroom to do some amount of M&A. But we do expect, to be very clear on this
one, too, we do expect capital returns to form a material part of the deployment strategy
as we progress through 2018 and '19. And if you listen closely to Thomas's presentation,
he may provide you some more numbers.
And given we -- deploying that surplus capital will naturally be accretive to growth. But it is
not just the quantum of earnings that we have improved; it is also the quality of earnings.
And I accept that historically, our quality in some areas was more suspect. But now the
businesses we have left, our core franchises. And this slide is important, are delivering
strong earnings and delivering strong capital generation. This in turn leads to higher levels
of sustainable cash flow. And one reason for focus on capital-light, which uses less capital,
has generated higher capital than we have expected. So the quality of the earnings, just a
normal growth, is key. You don't actually see that on the slide. But you can add that to the
slide when you think about it.
Now we're also improving the earnings quality by exiting the businesses with lower
growth prospects or businesses that didn't contribute cash up to the group. A pretty
good example of that was the FPI disposal. So the FPI disposal contributed to us in terms
of operation earnings but didn't contribute GBP 1 up to the group. So it was low-quality
earnings. And I know some of you were worried about losing earnings. But it's simple that
it wasn't contributing to us. We are using the proceeds on the debt. You can see on that
Page 10 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

part there. We've been using the proceeds to reduce high cost debt and strengthen our
business. And so that also at the group level adds to the quality of the earnings because
it's all cash.
Then the first part there, we simply -- because we finished the Friends Life integration.
And we now have much lower integration and restructuring costs, again improving the
very cash conversion, the quality of earnings to the group. So the reduction in debt, I
should have added, also improves quality of earnings by over GBP 100 million.
So what does all this mean? Operating profit turned into net income. Net income turned it
into cash at a much higher proportion. Cash accrued. So better quality earnings, higher
cash conversion. So we are upgrading our dividend payout. It's pretty simple math. This
makes our dividend payout affordable. And so what we've done, we spoke to the board.
And it's very appropriate that we progressively increase our payout ratio to 55% to 60%
of operating EPS by 2020. And ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the facts, we have
grown dividends by double digit in each of the last three years. And it looks like that sort
of growth will continue for quite a while longer. I think that is appropriate, given the quality
of earnings increase.
Right. So let's bring it all together. At this event last year, we outlined 3 expectations.
Today, we are reaffirming, we are updating and we are upgrading those expectations. On
cash remittances, upgrading that to GBP 8 billion. And this gives us a very large pile of
cash, GBP 3 billion to be exact, allowing us to reduce debt and improve growth. And our
dividend payout ratio target has also been increased to 55% to 60%, a consequence of
the improvement in earnings quality. This means our dividend shall continue to grow
strongly. I don't think it's much more complicated than that.
And so that is, ladies and gentlemen, cash flow plus growth upgraded. We will have Q&A
later. But for now, I'll hand you over to Mr. Tom Stoddard.

Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you, Mark. Okay. As you'll have noted already, we're doing a bit of
everything: growing earnings, increasing the dividend target, returning capital and seeking
bolt-on acquisitions. The point of my presentation is to help simplify this mix for you and
to give you a better sense of our priorities.
So to be clear, I want you to take away 3 messages. First, I'll remind you that our balance
sheet is strong and getting stronger. Second, I'll outline how our business unit profitability
turns into capital and cash flow and fuels a growing dividend. And third, I'll talk about how
we plan to redeploy about GBP 3 billion of excess liquidity over the next two years.
So big picture, we're getting stronger across the board. Our #1 priority is to deliver
growth. We've improved our quality of earnings by focusing on a narrower set of
businesses. And we'll keep improving them by reducing integration and restructuring cost
to a minimal amount next year. As you know, we've worked hard to rebuild the balance
sheet. And so we'll continue to maintain strong capital and liquidity. But we will also
Page 11 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

redeploy some of it to grow earnings, consistent with the growth opportunities Mark
outlined for you just a moment ago. And of course, we're trying to make the dividend
sacrosanct while increasing it in line with our business performance.
Aviva's investment thesis remains cash flow plus growth. So my remarks today will focus
on the sources of that cash flow and growth, which primarily means the middle part of this
page, the green box with the Oaks. The Acorns are important to us as well. But they're
bets on the future. They give us extra growth options on top of our current 8 major
markets. And we'll manage them for option value over time. More important today, as you
can see in the green box, is that we have a diverse portfolio of Oaks across our 8 major
markets, consisting of the U.K., France, Canada, Aviva Investors, Poland, Italy, Singapore
and Ireland.

Bloomberg Transcript

In each of these markets, we're seeking scale positions, where we own 100%, or close to
it, of the enterprise and can pursue a true customer composite and Digital First strategy.
Today, these markets are our sources of consistent earnings growth and cash flow.
Now I'm going to focus for a moment on our 2 biggest Oaks: first the U.K. and then
France. You need to understand that the financial outcomes and increased targets we are
talking about today are being driven by improvements in our underlying businesses,
starting in the U.K. We have very strong U.K. franchise and created a unique operating
model, combining life, GI and health insurance into a single, very large and very powerful
business. We've been exceeding our targets for U.K. insurance and as a result of hard
work and smart risk management, we now expect to exceed our cash remittance targets
from this business by about GBP 1 billion. We're ahead of the game in optimizing for
Solvency II and are succeeding in making this a capital-light business. We had double-digit
growth across all go-to-market segments in 2016 and again at the half year 2017. And
believe we can keep growing without a lot of capital strain. Now that's an important
underpin for our decision to target a higher dividend payout ratio. We also see attractive
market opportunities to expand, particularly across our corporate business, by leveraging
our brand strength and TCC and digital capabilities. Pension pools are just one example
of where we can be opportunistic, as we've seen with some of the sharp increases in
sales volumes this year.
Finally, I need to point out that, as we've said in the past, our back books can be a source
of value from time to time. Longevity trends appear to be favorable against our GBP 50
billion annuity portfolio. So even while we maintain what we believe to be a prudent
position relative to industry benchmarks, we may have relatively significant reserve
releases this year and perhaps again in 2018 unless trends reverse.
Now moving over to France. We're also feeling more positive about this market as well.
And since it's the second largest contributor to the group, this is meaningful. Back at the
end of 2016, we were concerned with progress on expenses and capital optimization in
France. So we put in new management. The positive change since then is palpable. And
the spirit in feeling evident in that business today. And Patrick will talk later about what he
and his team are doing to pursue growth.

Page 12 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

From a financial perspective, we're now making better progress in France, especially in
terms of capital management. We now expect the dynamic volatility adjuster, DVA, to be
approved for use locally in France, although, that benefit would be reversed out in our
consolidated group model, which is governed in the U.K. and where we cannot take credit
for the DVA. So nevertheless having DVA in France would enhance the stability of our
capital position there and support center liquidity and not having it at the group level is
just another source of prudence in our Solvency II position.
For 2018, we're also working on a new French supplementary pension fund, FRPS, which
will provide better risk management and benefit local capital. Finally, I should note that
France has been a source of slightly higher interest rate sensitivity for the group,
especially in a very low-rate environment. So we've been watching this closely and taking
steps to limit it further. The bottom line is that we've much more confidence today in the
dividend paying capacity of our French business than we did a year ago. So with our 2
biggest engines in the U.K. and France humming along, let me come back to the overall
earnings outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

To put this in perspective, please bear in mind that we've had to do a lot of cleaning up
and cleaning out in the process of turning Aviva around. The hard work is done. But the
payoff is still to come. So as you can see from the chart, 2018 will still be a bit of a
transition year for us. And we should begin hitting full stride in 2019. Now I think a lot of
you like to focus on the headwinds to our performance. So let me start there and talk to
you about what I see.
First, we have perimeter changes in the aftermath of divesting businesses, such as FPI,
Spain and Antarius. So while our quality of earnings and growth potential goes up from a
more focused footprint, there's nonetheless some foregone operating profit and we'll
address that partly through capital management.
Next biggest drag is Canada where the market is having a tough year. We're taking rate
and other another actions and still consider this to be a very good business. But it's not
flying as high today as it has in the past. Now I also need to budget for significant change
spend over the next couple of years, some of which I'm very happy to do, such as
investing in our digital and IT capabilities and some of which, for example, IFRS 17, promise
more, shall we say, elusive potential benefits.
Now some of this spend will show up in the corporate line. So don't be surprised if you
see that increase. At the same time, we continue to drive efficiencies across the business
and are reallocating resources to invest in growth, which takes me to the tailwinds listed
on the slide.
First, we're expecting our major markets to keep delivering organic growth in excess of
5% per year. And in the cases of Aviva Investors, Poland and Singapore higher still. We will
also benefit from continued asset re-risking in our U.K. annuity business and as I've -- I
mentioned before, we may have some significant contribution from longevity in the back
book. These contributions may only be short-term temporary factors. But they will help
finance and pay for the change spend noted in the headwinds.

Page 13 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

We're also benefiting from foreign exchange impacts in our non-U. K. earnings in 2017.
And finally, we have capital management, including share buybacks and acquisitions, which
should be EPS accretive and help us to deliver as per past guidance. Accordingly, we're
maintaining the target of mid-single-digit growth in operating earnings per share for 2017
and 2018 and targeting growth above 5% beginning 2019. But I know you're all wondering
how to convert profits into capital and cash flow. Unfortunately, there is not a straight line
from one to the other, nor do Solvency II accounting make it easy to predict future growth.
And all the optimization work we've been doing, part 7s, model changes and such,
doesn't make it any easier to follow. So we spent some time trying to strip out capital
actions and look at underlying run rates implicit in our plans on a more normalized basis.
From that analysis, we worked out the recipe you see on the slide. This is not an exact
science but should provide a pretty good rule of thumb to compare us on future results.
Now based on our existing business mix, we would generally expect to convert about
80%, give or take, of our after-tax, after minority interest, IFRS operating profit at the
business unit level, into surplus capital generation or OCG. And it's a higher ratio for GI
business. But U.K. Life is a little bit lower because of annuities. Around 90% or more of
underlying business unit OCG should convert to cash remittances paid up to the center.
We have some financing and other costs to pay at the center, which will be reducing as
we pay down debt, with the rest of the cash flow ample to cover the external dividend to
shareholders. Much of our business, especially on the life side, is self-funding on a
Solvency II basis. So we don't need to retain a lot of OCG in order to support growth of
5% or better. Now on a steady state, OCG and financing costs including the cash dividend
payable to shareholders, should offset and the Solvency II cover ratio be stable. But we're
not in a steady state yet, in fact, we're doing better than that. Over the course of 2016,
'17, '18 and '19, we have had and will have significant other capital actions on top of the
underlying result, which enhance our capital position overall. But distort the simple picture
I've painted on this slide.
Typically, we might get a big model change approved late in the year and then need to
convert that into liquidity and a cash remittance from the subsidiary in a following year.
This is one of the reasons why we're now building up excess liquidity for redeployment
over the next couple of years. Our pipeline of capital actions is also one of the reasons
why I expect that our Solvency II cover ratio will tend to trend up above 200%, all else
equal, over the next year and possibly longer. At some point, it should stabilize. But our
OCG has been exceeding our dividend and capital return. So we will have to work actively
to convert it into cash and redeploy it through acquisitions or additional capital returns.
Now coming back to the slide and ignoring the other capital actions, you should be able to
take further comfort in our sustainability of the dividend and our ability to grow it over
time.
Nevertheless, some of you may still be wondering why we are increasing the payout ratio
target. Now 3 simple reasons. First, our underlying business, particularly in U.K. insurance,
is outperforming our prior plans. It's ahead on becoming a capital-light business and that
alone justifies the higher payout. Second, our quality of earnings has approved. As you can
see from the chart on the left, we're eliminating the cash drain of paying integration and
restructuring cost below the line. Now if you deducted these from operating EPS as if they
were dividends, our effective payout ratio would already have been above 50%. So as we

Page 14 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

save this cash, we're better positioned to deliver it to shareholders instead. And we
focused the business and divested cash-poor FPIL earnings. Third, we expect to save over
GBP 100 million of debt interest costs. So we can add this amount to the amount we pay
shareholders. That makes us happier, frankly. So we intend to keep the dividend growing
as the business grows and enhance it further, grading up toward a 55% to 60% payout
ratio by 2020.
Now moving on to the balance sheet. I'll go a little bit faster through these final few slides,
this is just a reminder. We've been on an improving trend on ratings and welcome the
Moody's upgrade to AA last month as recognition of the hard work that we've done.
We've returned an extra GBP 800 million to investors this year and still, our Solvency II
cover ratio grows.
Now, this next slide is another reminder that our capital position is resilient to stress. We
are tightly matched and have a high-quality investment portfolio. If we were to hit -- if we
were hit today with another crisis like the 2008 global financial crisis or the 2011 sovereign
debt crisis, we would still be in a solid surplus capital position. Also, recall that right after
the Brexit vote, we set aside another extra GBP 300 for commercial and residential
property exposures. So we've done the prudent thing there. This effectively captured
about a 10% one-time fall in property prices. If anything property price indices held up
better than this. But we're happy to leave this prudence in place now. Any way you look at
it we're resilient to a whole range of stresses. Now I think our capital investment risk
team's rate up there as good or better than any in the industry. Over the last five years,
we've created plenty of capital, while cleaning up the balance sheet and protecting
against potential stresses. We've exited the wrong kinds of exposures, such as problem
commercial mortgages and latent GI risks, while putting ourselves in a position to grow
both organically and inorganically.
Our hedging and investing activities served us well. So as a result, our center liquidity is
growing significantly. As you can see here before redeployment, liquid assets at the
center would have trended up to over GBP 4 billion over the next two years. We returned
GBP 800 million in 2017 and expect to redeploy another GBP 2 billion-or-so in 2018 with
more to follow in 2019. From a risk management perspective, we try to maintain at least
GBP 1 billion at the center at all times and we calculated 2-year forward look at ins and
outs under a stress scenario to make sure that we carry sufficient liquidity. So the question
is what are we going to do with the cash?
Well flipping to the next slide, you can see that our current expectation is that we would
repay without refinancing the 2 tranches of hybrid debt available for first call in 2018, this
totals GBP 900 million. I'd also expect at least GBP 500 million of additional capital
returns, either through liability management or share repurchase activity. And we could do
both. The swing factor is M&A. We don't depend on it. But certainly, would like to find
more bolt-on acquisitions, such as Friends First in Ireland and RBC General in Canada. Our
focus for M&A is in our 8 major markets. And our appetite has increased. But if we don't
make acquisitions, we will have more to return to investors. In 2019, I'd expect more of the
same. We're being a little less specific the further out in time we look. But the thought
process is very similar. We prioritize steady growth in the dividend first. We repeatedly
look to reduce the cost of our debt and we take a disciplined approach to evaluating
Page 15 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

acquisitions, choosing to return capital to shareholders unless we find deals that: one, fit
strategically; two, are more financially attractive; and three, we can execute well.
Now before I close, let me try to preempt one of your questions. The answer is, no. I
don't think our capital redeployment over the next two years will get us to 165% Solvency
II cover ratio. Matter of fact, I don't even think it will get us below 180%, the top end of our
working range. We'll have even more work to do on investment or reallocation to get
there. And we're working on it. In the meantime, our cover ratio is trending higher. So that
brings me back to our expectations and ends my messages with Aviva, aiming higher on
EPS growth, delivering more cash and boosting the dividend payout ratio.
Thank you. Maurice? Over to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Thanks, Tom. Hi. Good morning, everyone. I think in our last Capital Markets Day
presentation, I stood in front of you as Chairman of Global General Insurance for Aviva.
Since then, Aviva has strengthened our international focus, bringing together operations
in France, Canada, Poland, Italy, Ireland and Turkey. And it's my pleasure to stand here
today as CEO of Aviva's international businesses. Today, I want my presentation answer
the following 3 questions. Why does Aviva's international footprint look the way it does?
What is our competitive advantage in each of these markets? And how will we exceed
groups' target of mid-single-digit growth? Think of my session as an introduction into
high-quality international franchises. And you know what, later this morning, you will have a
chance to deep dive in Canada, France and Poland with our market CEOs who are here
today. So why I am so confident about growth in these markets? Well first, we've
significantly reduced, as Mark said, the number of markets we operate in and our
footprint, I believe, is now compelling. We have 13 million customers and access to 300
million people. Our businesses provide exposure to some of the world's largest insurance
markets. They are mix of attractive business units that offer both cash flow and growth in
emerging markets such as Poland and Turkey. Secondly, we have recent macroeconomic
tailwinds in a number of our markets, such as a pro-business reform agenda in France,
high-economic growth rates in Ireland, Poland and Turkey, the easing of a banking crisis in
Italy. Thirdly, we have some first-class distribution and partners. This is one of the areas
where I think people underestimate the Aviva International story. We have unique
competitive advantages, designed to win in each of our chosen markets, let me come
back to this later. And ultimately, they are all tasked with the same objective of delivering
controlled, calculated and well-managed growth. So let me highlight the relevance and
size of international businesses, excluding Asia. GBP 1.3 billion of operating profit was
generated from international businesses. This represents 36% of the group's total. Life
VNB is a third of the group's total. Over half of the group's general insurance premiums sit
outside the U.K, diversifying our GI business. This split is weighted heavily in favor of
Canada, which represents 30% of the group's net written premiums, having grown nicely
since the acquisition of RBC in 2016. From a capital and cash perspective, the international
businesses over a third of group. And recent modeling changes, which Tom alluded to, in
France have allowed us to reduce the volatility in the capital position and improve the
Solvency ratio. I expect dividends to increase consistently over time. Now at Aviva, we
focus on capital allocation, not shrinking, deploying resources only in markets and
segments we believe we can win. And occasionally, we choose to hold back dividends just
Page 16 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

as we did in Canada with the acquisition of RBC, the deal which has proven to be
excellent. These figures show that international is a very important contributor to the
group's overall growth ambitions.
Let me tell you a bit about our markets. And specifically why I'm excited about their
prospects. France is the fifth largest insurance market in the world. I think we can all agree
that the agenda of the new government is positive for business too. We have world-class
diversified distribution with leadership positions in 5 distribution channels. We have the
fourth largest agent network of almost 1,000 tied agents. And are 1 of only 2 players that
continue to grow their agent network. We are the number 2 direct player in the market
with Eurofil. The direct market in France continues to grow attractively. We also own UFF,
the leading wealth management network. In France, our competitive advantage is clearly
our owned and diversified distribution, part of our challenge is to optimize these assets to
fuel further growth. And I'm very excited about Patrick's plans. And he'll tell you more later
this morning. Canada. Canada is the eighth largest insurance market in the world and
benefits from a stable economy and political system. You know, over the past decade, our
Canadian business has outperformed the market by being a leader in pricing,
underwriting and indemnity management, all competitive advantages for our business. It
has consistently been one of the better performers in the Aviva group.
Now, as Tom alluded to, 2017 has been a difficult year for the Canadian market. And for
Aviva Canada. We've seen increased frequency in the monoline, an increase in nat cat
losses above our long-term average from floods to wildfires, to windstorms. And most
notably the elimination of favorable development. Our response to 2017 is multi-pronged
and underway. And you'll hear more from Greg on those details later today. I should add,
however, that the integration of RBC was textbook. We've grown the written premiums by
25% at the half year. And we expect to continue to outperform the market in the future.
Poland. It's easy to be positive about Poland and not just because we're here on this
snowy day. As we heard last evening, the economy is growing strongly. We are nearing full
employment. And insurance penetration is still relatively low. Hopefully, over the course of
the day, you'll get a real sense of the ambition that we have here in this market. We are a
composite player. We have strong positions in each segment. We're the second largest
life insurance provider, a leading protection player and have a growing GI business. And
we benefit from a highly recognized brand in this important market. Our competitive
advantage is being technically sound at insurance. We have one of the lowest-cost income
ratios in the market and consequently some of the strongest returns in Aviva with ROEs
consistently in the mid-30s.
The business has enjoyed a strong track record of growth, being one of the most
advanced in Europe on its digital agenda and having recently announced a new
bancassurance deal with ING, Aviva Poland is set for future growth. I'll let Adam share
some of the excitement of his plans with you later today. Italy. 7th largest insurance market
in the world. This is also a market where the asset flows are extremely positive, perhaps,
arguably, the best in Europe at the moment. And we've seen net inflows north of GBP 2
billion. We've grown strongly in this market in the past 12 months. In fact, our market
position has improved from 12th to seventh in those past 7 -- 12 months. We are a
composite player with life, general insurance and our asset management business. Our
unique competitive advantage has been a -- has been product innovation and leveraging

Page 17 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

liability management skills from the group. The distribution model at the moment is
dominated by bancassurance partnerships in the life business and by a large multi-agent
network in general insurance. We started to diversify our model and have grown through
the IFA channel, notably through Fineco over the past 12 months. Turkey, Turkey is an
emerging market. We like the demographics of the market, a population of 80 million
people with half of those being under the age of 30. We've seen rapid growth in Turkey
and have a tremendous partner in the Sabanci group. The market is changing rapidly. And
we are well placed to capitalize. The market cap of our Turkish business currently stands
at $600 million. We make no secret about our ambition for this to be a $2 billion business.
We have great digital capabilities. When Turkey announced auto-enrollment earlier this
year, we were ready with our market-leading platform, both in terms of functionality and
cross-sell capability.
And lastly. But not least, Ireland. Ireland has some of the highest GDP growth rates in
Europe. John Quinlan, our Irish CEO, is growing the business strongly. We announced 12%
constant currency operating profit growth at half year 2017 to GBP 42 million. And a record
core of just under 85%. We also have high ambitions for the future and the prospects for
a continued growth are excellent. Our competitive advantages are scale, our strong
brand, our technical insurance skills. And we benefit from leveraging U.K. GI and also
Canada. Growth prospects are even stronger, now that we've just announced an
attractive deal for the business, Friends First. So let me talk a little bit about Friends First. I
think this acquisition epitomizes both on M&A and Aviva. It is absolutely consistent with our
smart deployment of capital to boost key markets. For consideration of EUR 130 million,
which is 0.8x embedded value, we have 250,000 more customers and a market-leading
group risk and protection offering. We will become the market-leading composite insurer,
with 1.1 million customers, roughly 1 in every 5 people in Ireland. We will maintain, of
course, our #1 position, which is growing handsomely in general insurance. And our
ambition in life is to grow from #4 today to #3. The deal will be accretive from year 1. And
we will significantly exceed our hurdle rates thereafter.
Let me talk a little bit about our partnerships. The success of international business is built
on diversified distribution and strong partnerships, which you can see on this slide. As
CEO of the U.K. General Insurance previously, I built a strong pipeline of partnership
opportunities from HomeServe to Carphone Warehouse, or the deal announced early this
year with HSBC in the U.K. And I am determined to do the same in this new role. Each of
our markets adapts to find the best solution for its market, with the customer at the
forefront of what we do. The best model for France was a strong proprietary distribution
isn't the best model for Canada, which has a tremendous broker network and
partnerships with RBC.
Here in Poland, we have great partners in Santander and a new exciting partnership with
ING, which we expect to grow strongly. Italy is a market where I want our new CEO,
Ignacio, to take time to develop his own thoughts around strategy. We have partnerships
with 2 of the largest banks. And the IFA channel is growing. But the Owned channel is not
yet fully developed. Ireland is a market that we've talked a lot about already. But with a
brand recognition second only to Guinness it's no surprise that our direct GI business is
doing well. And in Turkey,

Page 18 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

(technical difficulty)
with a strengthened relationship with the Sabanci Group bodes well for our future. Across
markets has not just established financial services that we have strong relationships with,
we also have arrangements with innovators and disruptors, such as Tesla in Canada, to
provide insurance on new models, which helps us understand how future trends can
become future opportunities. And hopefully you'd agree that the breadth and strength of
our owned channels and distribution partners positions us favorably to capitalize on the
growth prospects prevalent in our international markets. And our funnel of deals is strong,
very strong. So stay tuned. We've seen that international is a relevant contributor to the
group's results. We have a strong and experienced management team, a compelling
footprint, great distribution assets and partners. And as you can see from our slide, the
business already has a track record for growth. And I want to increase the pace. The
numbers in the charts are in constant currency; let me highlight a couple of figures for you.
I-Life VNB: France is obviously the largest contributor. Italy has recorded some
tremendous growth in its life business with VNB growing from GBP 63 million in 2014 to
GBP 124 million two years later in 2016. And we did this by improving the quality of our
products. We reduced the guarantees to close to 0 and have a selection of highperforming assets that we can use to back our products. On Poland, the life numbers
have been impacted by regulatory changes including the asset levy. But the returns
remain spectacular. And in terms of net written premiums, our international markets have
seen good growth. But I still believe there's more to go at. The GI business in Europe is
working closely with Canada, the U.K. and Ireland, where we have world-class pricing,
underwriting and data analytic skills. So our life and GI premiums are growing. It's all well
and good. But you may be thinking, are we growing by increasing risk for Aviva? And how
are we managing our reserves?
I want to focus here on 2 markets where comments are often made about the nature of
the life product sold and about the high level of guarantees. And as you can see from the
slide, we've taken positive actions in both markets to review the guarantees being
offered to customers. Patrick will spend more time on the product mix in France. So let me
give a little bit of color for you on Italy. We've reviewed our products and adopted our
offering -- adapted our offerings, I should say. Overall, we do see average guarantees
from 1.8% in 2014 to 0.8% in 2017. This is a trend that I expect to continue. 98% of our
business in Italy is now sold with no or 0% guarantee. And notably, the hybrid product is
selling very strongly through both our IFA and bancassurance network. The hybrid acts as
one product with a combination of with profit, unit-linked and protection features, thereby
reducing the risk and improving the profitability. Roughly 65% of our hybrid premiums are
invested in unit-linked funds. In both France and Italy, we are able to achieve the trick of
reducing guarantees while broadly maintaining portfolio yield. This is exactly what we
should be targeting to secure healthy margins and to continue to grow our profits.
So let me sum up. I believe I've shown the collective strength of international businesses.
But let me come back to my 3 opening questions, Aviva's footprint. We are now in
selected markets, both large and emerging, where we have a competitive advantage.
And I believe we can win. I've spoken about the competitive advantages of our markets.
But to sum this up, it's about strong underwriting. It's about technically sound pricing. It's
about the power of distribution. It's about working with the U.K. and international

Page 19 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

colleagues to source skills that we don't have. We are focused on growing the top-line
profitability, acquiring new customers, increasing our multiproduct holdings and
developing new partnerships. We have delivered sustainable profit growth. And our major
cash contributor to the group. I look forward to delivering my parts of these upgraded
targets. And I certainly believe we will be able to deliver a growth higher than the midsingle-digit target. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Thanks very much, everyone. So we're going to move into questions and answers. Please,
in the interest of sharing, can we limit to 2 questions per person? We do have plenty of
time. So we will get around if there are things to follow up on. So any questions?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I don't think you're going to reach 2 (inaudible) questions so..

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Chris, it's Andy Hughes from Macquarie. I'm not sure if the beach ball really works quite as
well in Poland, to be honest.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a snowball.

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

A yellow snowball. Thanks, guys.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Your lucky day, Andy.

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

A couple of questions on the M&A side of things, really. So if we've understood what you
are saying correctly, you don't think you have to pay up for bancassurance partnership
because you've got the sort of technology. So I don't -- that doesn't sound like that's part
of the M&A budget to buy distributions in bancassurance. And the second point you made
was there's no huge increase in restructuring costs, which also suggests that obviously, if
you did a bolt-on M&A would normally associate increase in restructuring costs with the
M&A. What am I missing in the kind of -- how do you spend the M&A budget without
increasing the restructuring costs or spending on distribution? Because it sounds like you
need to spend on distribution to get the growth in the core markets.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Page 20 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Maybe I'll answer just the first bit of that. So I think bancassurance agreements, particularly
in Asia, gotten totally out of control. And we signaled our intent with EBS. Looks like we
made a pretty good decision. We -- then we focused on RBC. So the RBC, basically, was a
good deal for both parties. They are delighted with it. So are we. And remember, we
basically bought their business at a fair price. And I think like any 15-year exclusive
bancassurance deal being thrown in for nothing, it sounds like a good use of capital.
You're saying HSBC. That deal was about tech. Now I'm not saying we wouldn't pay
anything. I wouldn't rule that out. But the sort of money that is being paid, particularly in
Asia, I'm not interested, fundamentally because the new paradigm isn't about
bancassurance. The new paradigm is about digital anyway, or at least doing
bancassurance in a digital way. And that's what HSBC wanted. That's what some of our
other partners wanted as well. And it's doing the digital way. So no one wants to move on
and pay anything. But the focus for us is, while we're winning them. So far, it's just on tech.
I mean, it's that simple. Do you want to talk about restructuring? Well there will be some
restructuring in some of these, for sure, right?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the fundamental point there is that Aviva, in past years, lived with too much
integration restructuring cost below the line. So Solvency II was below the line. There were
lots of other things. And effectively, there was an incentive to try to throw things over the
line and hope nobody would notice. And of course, in the real world, it's actually all
expense. It's all cash out the door. So effectively, what we're trying to do is absorb that
above the line. So it doesn't mean that there couldn't be integration and restructuring
costs. But we're trying to absorb more of that above the line. And so the quality of our
earnings growth going forward should be much stronger as a result.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I mean, bluntly, the half year results, what you didn't see so clearly, some of the stuff that
would historically have been below the line, Tom threw it above the line. And we still had
really good growth, as you saw. So we had just been pulling out enough because part of
our thesis is the simplicity of that.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And we still will have integration and restructuring cost below the line this year. But
basically, I'm trying to put a moratorium on that so that we're the minimal amount from
next year onward.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I noticed the very polite way that Chris is giving the ball. I would just throw it. But...

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

I'd probably drop it. It's Blair from Merrill. Two questions. Tom, you talked about liability
management. I think you mentioned GBP 200 million in debt savings. Maybe I got that
wrong.

Page 21 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

GBP 100 million in interest savings.

FINAL

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

Yes. I thought it was GBP 100 million. That answers that question. But could you maybe just
expand a little bit on at least GBP 500 million of liability actions that you'd talked about?
That would be interesting. Then just on the capital ratio. You didn't say too much about
that. But presumably, still building it, the 5 to 10 points that you've talked about previously.
So hence the comment that it was going to go up to above 200%?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. Let me give more color on both of those. So what we said was that, of the capital
management, at least GBP 500 million would be capital return in 2018. So that either will
be liability management or share-repurchase activity, or it could be both. And I think from
my perspective, we did a share repurchase this year. It'd be very easy to flip that switch
and do another one. Question would be, when to do that? What size? But actually, we've
seen some interesting ideas on liability management. And in addition to the GBP 900
million of debt that we have in 2018 and another GBP 200 million in 2019, we still have
some other expensive securities in our capital structure. And I've seen some interesting
ideas on how to potentially repay some of those and reduce our interest expense still
further. So my priority is to work through some of those ideas. And if we can do them on
an economic basis, that's probably what I would try to figure out first before just simply
defaulting to another share repurchase. Then in terms of what's driving the capital ratio
up, some of it is sort of that natural increase that we talked about before. Now as we
increase the dividend payout target, that will start to use up some of that natural growth
in the cover ratio. But on top of it, I referred to the fact that we've got a pipeline of other
capital actions. So we have other things that we're doing that will add to capital over and
above the natural run rate. And so that'll continue to have us up higher at each of the next
several year ends, everything else equal.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

We don't want to be there, of course, though, do we? Yes. As Tom said...

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

We'd rather be going that way than the other way. But it means then we have to redeploy
it.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Two questions. The difference between the GBP 7
billion and the GBP 8 billion cash remittance, could you tell us how much disposal
proceeds you had factored into the GBP 7 billion relative to the GBP 1.5 billion disposal of

Page 22 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

proceeds that you've actually achieved? And secondly, could you talk a bit about -- you
talked about increased corporate costs related to our first half '17. And you talked about
them being offset by increased longevity reserve releases. Could you put some numbers
around those 2 things?

FINAL

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Let me take the second one first. We're not putting numbers around -- on longevity
releases or the IFRS spend. But again, I just want you to be aware that we've got some
offsetting factors there. And so as you think about our -- they're going to be different
magnitudes, in terms of how you look at all of this. But that will be one of the factors that
we need to work through. And again, we've got lots of actuaries and external accountants
debating this right now. So you will just have to take a look at it in our results. But frankly,
the trends against the GBP 50 billion book suggest they could be pretty significant.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And I'm sure you can work that out yourself. But we're not going to give it all today to you
to make it that easy. But the -- I mean, one is of a different magnitude to the other.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And I'd say on the divestiture proceeds, we've done better than what we've planned.
Chetan Singh and the team have done a great job in terms of divestitures. So we've
realized better prices than we were planning on. But we're also getting better capital
generation and more capital actions, in particular, out of our U.K. insurance business. And
so it's a combination of both higher proceeds and greater special remittances out of the
UKI.

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Is that 50-50?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

No. I don't think it's 50-50. And again, we had sort of a range of estimates on this. So it's
probably more on the UKI being more capital efficient and bigger capital actions in the UKI
than it is on better divestiture proceeds. But again, Chetan's team has executed very well
on the M&A side.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I mean, you can work it out from the disposals with a better head. But...

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And again, we work in ranges as opposed to point estimates. So when you're running a
divestiture program, you're not counting on a specific number. I know it's been several
divestitures. So it's -- that's why it's sort of hard to say, is it x hundred million or y hundred
million.

Page 23 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

Q - Jonathan Michael Hocking
It's Jon from Morgan Stanley. Just 2 questions, please. So on Slide 26, where you've got
the liquidity buffer sort of building out. And this is not to scale. But that seems to suggest
there's something beyond the numbers that you're talking about today. I wonder if you
could sort of talk about that. Then secondly, just on the U.K. I know it's not the subject for
today. But looking at annuity business as being sort of step change there in terms of
growth, particularly in bulks, what is the size of appetite? I know you've always held prices
at the small end and the middle end. Can you actually step up into the larger schemes?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Let me just take the first one first. And I'll also ask Andy to comment there, too. So we
have got a bigger appetite. And if you look in other areas of growth, actually, we hired a
really talented guy called Tom Ground, who has broadened and, I guess, showed us our
competitive advantages now. And that is effectively we have a great balance sheet, which
you need. And that we have a -- I think a market-leading asset origination program now.
And we also have a brand. And one of the things we've talked about in Canada here, we
do have a desire to move into bulks in Canada as well. And we've got the brand to do it.
So you'd expect us to see more in bulks than we've done in the past. We've shown that
recently, with some we've got, we're getting some decent margins in it. And so we're
going to use the advantages we've got. Now we're still not going to do the big jumbos,
although we'll look at stuff in the market. Andy, you've been looking at this closer. Do you
want to...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes. I'm conscious that -- and the buildup to those people, they're interested to hear
about how are we going to grow. And also capital actions. We've covered the capital
actions. We're covering the international, how are we going to grow. Let's just give you a 2
minutes on the U.K. So we're -- basically, in the U.K., we're benefiting from both the
structural growth across the market as a whole. And we're gaining share at the same time.
I'll give you 3 specific examples. If I take long-term savings. So workplace pensions and
platform. Last year, our net fund flows were GBP 2.8 billion. This year, we're looking at
approaching GBP 5 billion of positive net fund flows in long-term savings. So strong
growth there. If I take bulk annuities, to each of your question, last year, we did GBP 600
million. This year, we're approaching GBP 2 billion for the year end, assuming everything
comes in that we're expecting to come in by year end. So again, strong growth there. If I
take corporate GI and the U.K. market. So over the last six months or so, our growth there
has been double-digit. But in particular, what we're focused on there is the profitability of
that business. We're not going to go at it hell for leather. So our core for corporate G.I. is 3
or 4 points better this year than it was last year. So it's a strong improvement in
profitability. But I think what I get excited about when I look at all of that strong growth is
actually the sustainability of it as a result of the composite model. So not only do we have
the cost in capital efficiency of being a composite player, which means that we can be
competitive and generate decent margins at the same time as we grow. But in particular,
it's the composite model in terms of relationships. If I just take the corporate market as an
example, over 70% of our revenue and profit in the corporate market is coming from
corporates that are meeting multiple needs with us. So effectively, what it means is
whenever they are doing something, we will almost always get the opportunity to pitch
our competitors. One, because they tend to be monolines. The relationships means we
Page 24 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

almost always get the chance to pitch. Then we've got to be good enough to win. But if
we are good enough, if we're on a par with the competitors, we will tend to win far more
because those corporates would rather concentrate with fewer players. So I believe those
are structural advantages that gives us a sustainable competitive advantage. It means
that, in the U.K., we can significant outgrow the market profitably over time.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

First time ever, we have been able to give you proof points of the composite. And -- but
frankly, it's the first time ever where we're actually running it as one U.K. business now.
And that was incredibly difficult to put those businesses together. It was quite painful from
a regulatory perspective, politically, everything else. But that is now starting to work. And
that's what you see.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Picking up on the question on liquidity. You're right. The chart isn't drawn to scale. So you
shouldn't take your ruler out and try to figure out exactly what's implied there.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

You know they would.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And in my remarks, I've said that we're trending over GBP 4 billion in terms of liquidity. As
we look at this, my team's trying to build in conservatism and contingencies et cetera. And
as I've mentioned, we managed liquidity looking at a 2-year forward look of the ins and
outs that we have under a stress scenario so that we are trying to manage liquidity very
carefully. So again, I've been pleasantly surprised and pleased with how well we're doing.
But again, I think that's a reflection of good work done by the team and sort of a natural
bias towards conservatism and our financial management right now.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. So I'm looking at Slide 21. Am I right in thinking that a 55% to
60% payout ratio is implicitly as full as you can go, that you'll -- you're not actually
generating any excess capital on top of that? Because that's what it seems to suggest.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. The way I think you should look at this is that what we're trying to reflect is a fully
normalized basis. So if you were seeing cash significantly above the dividend at that point,
then you would expect cash forever to sort of build up into an infinite amount. And we
don't need those kind of buffers. We have buffers in the business. We have contingencies.
And so this would be reflecting a fully normalized basis, trying to pay full amounts of cash
out to shareholders. Now I think as I'm looking now at our capital position building up over
time and a lot of that capital accumulating in the subsidiaries, I think effectively, we're
holding too much at our subsidiary levels right now. So I'm looking at trying to revisit that
and to see whether we can't get more efficient with our remittances and try to drive that

Page 25 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

conversion of OCG into cash higher than what we're reflecting here. And that would allow
us to have even more capacity in the future.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Oliver, you remember when we announced the 50% power ratio target. I think you might
have asked the same question. And I said then, well, let us get to that first. And then we'll
see what the quality of earnings is in it. Let's get to this. You -- we've given you the last
three years a double-digit growth. You're going to get, in the foreseeable future now,
more double-digit growth. And I think that's a fairly satisfactory position. But let us get
there.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Higher than 90?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

I'm sorry? Yes, higher. It should be 90 or potentially above. And again, I'd caution
everyone, these are rough rules of thumb. So this is not a precise, exact science. This
depends a bit on business mix. But this will allow us to talk to you a little bit about what's
happening on an underlying basis and work from there. We may actually be a little bit
better than that here. But as we've tried to model it out over a longer period of time, we
think this is a decent estimation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. Just a couple of questions, please. The first one was
on your internal reinsurance optimization activities. And I guess following on from your
comments that you just made, it looks like you've stepped up to quite a large extent, the
amount that you've reinsured internally between GI, life, France et cetera. I was just
wondering what the progress you've made on that is? And how much more you can seed
from those entities? And to what extent that enables more extraction of surplus from
subs?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. We've made some progress. So we used that basically to create liquidity out of
diversification benefits, primarily in the U.K. with our life in G.I. business. We do a little bit in
France. But we haven't extended that reinsurance vehicle to Canada or to other parts of
our business. So I would say there's -- that's still a fraction of the theoretical diversification
benefit that we have in the group. So that contributes some of the liquidity. But not an
enormous amount.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

The second one was kind of related to that. But in terms of the U.K. cash remittance uplift,
obviously, some will have come from what you've just referenced. But also, I guess the
Friends Life synergies and asset optimization on the back book, could you give us a feel
for the rough split of where the sources of cash are coming from?

Page 26 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I would say, if you think about the additional cash that we're getting here, it's much
more fundamentally about capital synergies and capital efficiency in the UKI business. It's
much less about our internal reinsurance vehicle. And it's more about fundamental
improvement, either on a one-time basis because of capital efficiencies and model
improvements or based on moving to a more capital-light model in the U.K. insurance
business.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Because it's just generating more, right? So you've got generation. I mean, it's fair to say,
Friends continues to give us more than we expected. It looks like it was a good deal. But
the -- I would focus on the capital generation of business, which has been strong. And it
sort of continues.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(Angel Consagra), HSBC. Two questions, please. First one is given your comments on the
leverage for the group that it will go down and you're comfortable, is there any possibility
that you would be raising some more debt to have more excess cash or capital at the
group to use for M&A or maybe capital returns in the future? And the second one was
around the U.K. bulk strategy. Given this chart here, it seems that you have zero capital
strain across all your businesses, including the bulk sales. What's actually -- so from your
excess capital, do you expect more to deploy to bulk annuities if you get a chance? And
what's stopping you from doing GBP 5 billion of sales in a year?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Do you want this one or me?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

No. I'll take the first one. Look, our basic plan right now is to reduce leverage, especially to
the extent that it's expensive debt. And by the same token, I look at where rates are
today. And in the past we've done a little bit of senior debt funding. As I look further out
on our capital structure, if we found an interesting acquisition or something else to do and
I wanted to finance it with some low-cost senior debt before rates start to rise up ahead, I
wouldn't rule that out. But that's not sort of the basic plan right now. I've got plenty of
liquidity. And I don't really need to do that. But if I felt the world was starting to look scary
and thought it was better to have more resources in the organization, again, I wouldn't
rule that out. Then in terms of capacity for more bulks, we certainly have capacity in the
balance sheet. So the balance sheet is not really constraining us. And it's more what's
happening in the business.

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes. So I always think about the bulks in 3 bits. You've got the smaller end. We've been a
market leader there for a number of years. You've got the midsize. That's the bit we're
actively moving into, such the Pearson GBP 600 million case. And you don't got that kind
of jumbo side. We're not particularly targeting the jumbo side. But as Mark said earlier, we
Page 27 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

wouldn't completely rule it out. But the 2 things I'd say: First of all, we have a stock of GBP
60 billion annuities already. And about GBP 3 billion of that pays out each year in terms of
annuity payments. So we write GBP 1 billion to GBP 1.5 billion of individual annuities. Then
I've just said, we'll approach GBP 2 billion this year of bulks. So basically, even at GBP 2
billion year of bulks, our stock of annuities is broadly -- is growing marginally but not
significantly. So we could do more than that quite easily. And we wouldn't be changing our
risk profile. On the capital side of it, that's the whole point of the composite. Because the
risks diversify with the general insurance risks, with protection, with long-term savings
across the business as a whole and with our international businesses, it's pretty capitalefficient for us. So even if we did write materially more bulks there as we have done this
year, written materially more bulks, yes, there is a capital strain. But it's relatively marginal
in the size and scale of the business and diversifies well. It's not going to materially hold
back our dividend-paying capability because we're a composite and we have the multilines to get the diversification.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I mean, fundamentally, we have a structural advantage from both capital and underwriting
and a structural advantage on the TCC, which is why it's one where we've been seeing
increased sales. It's structural. It's structural because you don't get composite businesses
anymore. So we have a structural advantage as the markets move. It's that simple. Yes?

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Just a follow-up question from the last one. Can you
just talk about the asset re-risking in annuities and how quickly you can achieve that? And
what's the follow-on impact on group earnings growth?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

(inaudible) that?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes. You go. Yes. You go.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. It's -- we've got a significant appetite for liquid assets right now. They work quite well
with our annuity business. And so that re-risking is going on naturally over time. Some of it
is affecting the new business. And some of it is also in our existing book of business. So
the Friends Life annuity portfolio that we picked up was heavily in bond. It was not really
optimized for Solvency II. So we can do some work there but also do some work on new
business as well. And so some of it just depends on our ability to source high-quality liquid
assets. So that would be something that will happen over the next 2, three years as we
move up.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I'll tell you where we're going. We're...

Page 28 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Maybe we could comment on the liquid assets.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Go for it, yes. Good prompt, Andy.

A - Andrew David Briggs

Just on the assets. We're building an origination engine and it's actually -- there's a
benefit for third-party business as well because some of the assets that we can originate
are brilliant assets. But it doesn't work on their Solvency II capital. So matching rules. But
they're really appropriate for pension funds. So we are building a third-party business and
infrastructure there to liquid landing opportunities at the same time as meeting Andy's
demands. So it's one of these benefits and synergies you get. So we expect -- we
probably originate in total across third party and for Andy's business about GBP 4 billion
this year of -- this is gross infrastructure private placement debt, structure credit and real
estate debt, for example. But we're planning to ramp up to a very significant in the next
few years moving GBP 5 billion, GBP 6 billion, eventually GBP 7 billion origination. We don't
expect that necessarily that's going to be met with demand from the Life business. But
we are building a third-party business. And obviously, defined-benefit pension plans love
this. So this is a great opportunity for me and the investment management business to
build a leading franchise on the back of something that we have to do anyway corporately.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Just to be clear, you guys recall a few years ago, we identified this as a weakness. And it's
taken a few years build it up. We now believe, in terms of scale, we have the capability of
-- to generate the most assets than anyone and the liquids, that's particularly helpful in
the bulks. So it's just turned from a relative weakness to relative strength. And we
invested a fair bit of money in doing it. And that allows us to (inaudible) annuities. But the
realization we had, bluntly, was because we needed those liquids in the rest of our bulk,
which increases the yield of (inaudible) and increases better diversification as well
because we needed it. Basically, the realization was we said to Euan just go and build it
and keep going. Because we have such an appetite, we will either take it internally or we'll
take it with new bulks. And that's one of the reasons it's working. So it was a change of
realization the way we were doing it, it was not that effective and that was a few years
ago. Then Andy after that.

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Just maybe a question for Andy, coming back to the U.K. you talked fairly optimistically
about growth. You've seen a lot of margin expansion, helped of course, by the stuff
Euan's doing. You've talked about the annuity side, basically small amount of growth you
got the legacy book running off, quite a lot of growth on the saving side but it is low
margin. So my question is where is the growth going to -- do expect to come from, is it
volume? Or is there still some margin to come? Because you haven't touched on endyear margin targets. You are at the top end.

Page 29 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

(inaudible)

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

I know that but it's half of your business. You are at the top-end of some of your margin
range targets already.

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes. So I am going -- I have kept comments to volume rather than margin today. But the
margin guidance we've given historically kind of holds good. So in long-term savings, 25 to
30 basis points, I'm not expecting to grow there. But I'm expecting to be in that range.
Annuities, the new business range we gave I think was 7.5% to 8.5%. Again, we'd expect
to be in that range on annuities next release for new business. What we basically saw,
Blair, was that a lot of the margin expansion came about as a result of the cost and capital
efficiency benefits of bringing the U.K. business together. That will play-through and most
of the growth going forward will be driving the volumes in those margin ranges. The one
kind of variable in that is how much back book and liquids that we do on the annuity side.
So if we do more of that, then that is upside beyond the range. The range is kind of more
-- excuse me, a relatively lower level of that, that we receive. But it is the structural growth
and then a lot of people think about the U.K. market as ex-growth. It just isn't the case
because of the shift from DB to DC, the aging population all to enrollment. There are
strong flows coming in to the both annuities and long-term saving markets as a result of
that. And we're well placed to take advantage.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes. Strongly in 3 areas. So we're seeing increasingly employers are stopping ongoing
accrual in their DB pension scheme and putting those existing people into a high
contributing DC scheme. So for example, we secured the scheme for a major steel
manufacturer earlier this year that did that, we've got a number of examples of that.
We're seeing a lot of money coming to platform space where individuals are choosing to
surrender their DB pension and transfer across to DC. Then we're seeing a strong flow in
pipeline of business in bulk annuity. So we've got 3 drivers, some into long-term saving
some into annuities. Because that GBP 1.5 trillion of assets that are in. The U.K. Life market
is GBP 1.75 trillion of assets, DB is GBP 1.5 trillion. Life players don't play in that GBP 1.5
billion of DB. As that shifts across into the U.K. Life sector that is going to drive that GBP
1.75 trillion that we do play in, up significantly. And the back book is only GBP 300 billion,
GBP 350 billion of that. So the back book legacy bit is an element of drag there. But it's
relatively modest.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

There's one other overlay to that as well. It's not just margin of volume, the third one is
which part of the value chain that we're taking. So what we're seeing is that Aviva investor,
Page 30 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

for example, is getting much more. So let's for example, your platform is getting really
very strong inflows. Was only two years ago was getting 12%, now we're getting what
28%? Give or take of the flows again to the Aviva investors. So we're are picking up much
more the value chain as we move into the digital wallet on payments, we're going to pick
up that bit of the value chain as well.
So it's actually margin, volume -- systemic volume and picking up more of the value chain.
And you can only do that with the infrastructure we built. Real important not to miss it, it's
going to be quite simple. I think Andy's next, it's in your...

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

This is Andrew Hughes from Macquarie. I've quick question on DVA in France, is that in the
GBP 7 billion or GBP 8 billion, the local DVA agreement. And even if you get it, I'm just
wondering how big it is? Then I seem to remember in France there was a delay of a year
because of the intermediate holding company get dividends the holding company. So
even if you got the DVA local agreement today, it would kind of be touch and go for 2018
so.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes. We can talk about that little bit more in some of the break-out sessions later. But
what I would say is that we've got a model application in now, pending approval, we don't
have approval for it yet. So it's not in any of our numbers. But we would anticipate getting
it at a local level, which again helps with our stability of capital here and our dividend
paying capacity from France at a group level, it gets reversed out. So it won't affect our
overall cover ratio.

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

It is not in the GBP 8 million -- GBP 8 billion remittance as you're talking about.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

We haven't changed the numbers because of that.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, exactly. We haven't counted on that -- in that number.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Because we haven't done it yet, right?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And you are right. There will be a lag, there will be a delay. We're not looking on trying to
strip capital out of subsidiaries.

Q - Benjamin Edward Bathurst
Page 31 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

It's Ben Bathurst from Societe Gen. My question relates to Slide 21 up on the screen there.
Do you have a view yet on whether the 80% is still going to apply on an IFRS '17 basis, or
is it safe to assume that, that's going to go down?

FINAL

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. What I would say is that we don't have a view on what IFRS '17 will look like when that
goes live, whenever it does go live. What I would say is that you ought to concentrate on
the capital generation and the cash that drives the dividend and whether the IFRS number
goes up or down. We'd effectively adjust the payout ratio at that point in time. It's really
the underlying capital generation that's driving the dividend, it's not the IFRS number.
We've just tried to give you an IFRS bridge here to give you a rough rule of thumb.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And just to be on the hobby horse, I think IFRS is nonsense. And...

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

You think accounting is nonsense.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It is. And we'll manage the business on a Solvency II basis. I think there's a lot of water
to flow under the IFRS bridge. And I know a lot of investors share that view. There's been
a couples of instant papers out later. It's something I'm pretty active in, I don't know, I'd
expect to see it delayed frankly. Just to be a little bit controversial to help the day.

Q - Unidentified Participant
And since Blair has opened you up asking about targets in other operations, I'm just
wondering, if I can ask Euan about his targets. I mean the aims -- the absolute return
market's been a little bit more difficult this year. So just wondering in view of that, how
comfortable you are that you can achieve your pretty punchy targets?

A - Euan George Munro

{BIO 2307409 <GO>}

I think the only targets have disclosed their double-digit growth in earnings, which we're
pretty confident about for the foreseeable future. I accept AIMS returns haven't been
particularly exciting this year. But matter of fact this of -- as of strategy, in a multi-strat
funds haven't done particularly well. And in terms of a marketplace where simply owning
the market, beta has performed very well. Those kind of strategies aren't doing so well in
retail space. But what we are finding is an institutional marketplace is where particularly for
big insurers, big pension funds where they can't really countenance just buying S&P SPDR
and relying on that with the market going up. We've got liabilities, we've got to have
responsible investment strategy plus the advice by consultants. We've got tremendous
loyalty. And we're still seeing flows in from the big consultancies for large corporate
pension plans. So we have seen some outflows from retail wholesale investors, who not
surprisingly are looking at the performance seeing that they'd have done much better
with a simpler balance fund structure or something of that nature. Where we have the
opportunity to explain to skilled investors, CIOs, consultants, the investment philosophy
Page 32 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

FINAL

and why it is and what we're worried about that we've been protecting against that hasn't
really materialized in the year we've been in. Those are good conversations. And we're
still seeing flow.
So this year, you can expect to see good solid flow into AIMS despite the performance.
But I think if you remember the progress chart IPO up for my business about a year ago,
we talked about 2016 being a year of a really the ambition for Aviva Investors was to be
the one to watch to get ourselves onto the map as a respectable fund manager. This
year, it was all about consolidating that position and winning mandates. And 2018, the
strapline was diversified excellence. And what we are seeing is we're started to win in
number of other areas so we've had some quite big institutional wins in areas like global
high yield, a good pipeline and alternative income strategies. And so I'm kind of
encouraged to -- by the end of 2018, you won't just be talking to me about AIMS, I hope
AIMS is still a (hero) Proposition. And I'm doing all I can to make sure that the investment
performance is more exciting than it's been in the last 18 months. But it won't -- Aviva
Investors won't be defined by AIMS.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. First question just on the remittances, obviously the 90% of remittance
from business units to group is quite a high number. It's how you view the progression
going forward. Does that include an expectation to more thinly capitalize subsidiaries to a
greater extent from here? And secondly, confidence around those remittance ratios in the
context of, as you mentioned, the annuity business will be lower given capital intensity
where also some of the international businesses like Canada and Poland has quite strict
regulators. And in the past, there's been issues around drop capital and some of those
subsidiaries. So just confidence around achieving these levels of remittances albeit they're
estimated numbers rather than (inaudible).

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Firstly, what Tom's alluding to before, we've actually been building up a lot of both capital
liquidity in those businesses. So what you're seeing in the projections doesn't naturally
take account of it. That's what Tom was saying before, that he got further what we can
do, we think it's probably building up too much as well. And -- but that actually wasn't the
reason for the upgrades in the targets, we can go there as well. So that's why we just got
to a whole lot more confidence. We had been building it up. One of the reason bluntly is
when you bought in Solvency II, when you have -- I don't know how many actuaries you've
got, about 1,500 of them, probably a few too many. When you have so many layers upon
layer upon layer of actuaries, you build up conservatism in the business. And that means
the business have been building it up. We can go there, we haven't yet. Does that -- so
that helps you make sense?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, I'd simply confirm that, that the way we drive these figures was not by trying to
squeeze more out of subsidiaries but actually I think that's an area of potential upside in
those numbers. Then in terms of your other question around trapped capital, I mean,
you'll hear more about Poland and Canada today, you can talk about that. Actually we've

Page 33 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

made progress here in Poland. So we don't have a whole lot of trap capital in a number of
places. So again, we feel pretty good about that number.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

FINAL

I think, as Andy's point before on France, for example, DVA isn't built in these figures,
although we know, we got it. And that will be -- that will come later.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Just the second question, then following up on your comment on IFRS and speaking to a
number of you yesterday evening, I mean, given the lack of relevance of IFRS for a life
insurance business, given IFRS '17 is on the way, given Solvency II disclosures and the
ability to build out that, is that an opportunity to move away? Obviously, you still have to
report IFRS. But is it an opportunity to move away? Or is there appetite to move business
metrics away from IFRS more toward capital and cash flow as you run your business, given
IFRS is creating nothing more than constraints that are not necessary?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

That's a tough one because the generalist investor that maybe investing across sectors,
not just insurance or financial services, is used to looking at IFRS. So that's one of the
reasons why we're trying to tell a simplified story here because we do want to be
attractive to generalist investors without a lot of the complexity. In terms of how we run
the business, we primarily are focusing on sort of Solvency II metrics in terms of we're
valuing -- internally we look at an economically value-added model. So we're running
based on sort of the real cash and capital internally and then translating that into the
external reporting that you're seeing here. So as much as we might love to deal with only
one set of accounts, we're going to continue to have to run with multiple sets of accounts
for the foreseeable future.

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean, again. I think you meant to achieve what no horticulturist can do, which
is turn an apple tree, one into an oak, another one into an acorn, for now, I think were the
operative words. Could you explain, where you are with India? I think you are 23rd out of
the 24th private companies, what is -- what's your thinking there? And particularly in Italy, I
think in the past, you've just said you don't control the brand, you don't control the
distribution. And that was the reason it was an apple. I don't think either of those things
have changed. So why is it an oak?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me start with India. So India is currently under strategic review. But rather than you
automatically determine those 2 words means something, let me add a little bit more
color. We actually like the market dynamics. I mean what's happened with the (Andahar)
system and 98% of the population being in the digital ecosystem either by ocular or by
fingerprint. We think actually bodes really well. Our challenge in India is frankly, we don't
have the right distribution. So it's under strategic view. And obviously, if we can find the
sort of partners that we like then it's probably an attractive market for all the fundaments
that I speak about. And if not, then it's probably we'll have further decision to be taken.
Page 34 of 36



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

Q - Unidentified Participant
Could you be a bit more definitive?

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

I think we'll exit if we don't get the right partnership model.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

But we would expect -- you can assume we're active in that market. And you can assume,
we think the market has potential. So for the life deal, we'll do it. The other key element,
of course, that we have seen before, we've hinted before is that the 15-year path, the
contractual arrangements in that joint venture changed in the 15-year timeframe. So we
now have much more ability to choose -- influence the outcome of discussions in that
market. And the market has changed. So when the environment changes, you reassess. I
don't think we said it was an oak, I think we said it was an acorn, didn't we? What did we
say it was? It used to be an apple tree. So we've turned an apple tree into an acorn. Pretty
clever.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Let me comment on the Italian business. So on the Italian business, we had a strong year
last year. Our operating profit before (inaudible) interest was GBP 250 million, we saw
strong growth as I alluded to, we have gone from 12th-in-the-market to seventh-themarket. That's on the back of strong sales, largely coming from a hybrid product, which is
30% with profit out of par guarantee and 70% unit-link. There's a small protection
wrapper in that. It isn't -- the assumption is it's all from the 3 bank insurance partners, now
2 as you know. A big part of those sales are also coming from IFA channel Fineco. The
reason we put a new CEO in is to distribute, we like the market. But the distribution
strategy is not sound. So obviously, we want to grow our IFA channel, we want to grow our
own distribution. The comments, because I should comment on Banco Popolare, listen
that was the deal where they came to us. We didn't like the terms. And quite frankly, we
had a strong contract. So we played the put option. What we actually lost there was
general insurance. We lost about GBP 40-odd million of operating profit, it was general
insurance. So if I was to look at what I can replace quite easily through IGI brokers, it was
the Banco Popolare deal. So we're committed. But it's the same as France. We put a new
CEO in France. And you got to give them time to build the right strategy. But it's a market
with fundamentals that we like, it's the 7th largest insurance market in the word. But we
are going to reset our strategy, that's why it's now there as an oak.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) Another question for international. You mentioned about this ambition of
traveling the market GAAP of Turkey. Could you talk about the capital requirement that
you would need to achieve that? And what's a realistic timeframe for that to be done at
like as part of our thought process?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Page 35 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-11-30

I'm not going to go into the specific capital requirements today. But let me give you a little
bit of the ambition. Our partner in Turkey is the Sabanci Group. So they also own Akbank.
And we look at that market, 51% of the population is under the age of 30. Auto
enrollment went in on January 1. And like most jurisdictions, it's a thinly margined product.
But we're well positioned to probably acquire a new million customers. And with our
platform that then gives us the chance to look at cross-sell opportunities. So the business
has been growing strongly. The CAGR at the half year was 20%. And what I will say is, it's
accelerated from there. So it's a market with our partner that we're quite comfortable
with that target and that's the target we've actually shared publicly in the Turkish market.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Maybe there is -- I could feel another analyst day coming on in Turkey, which is pretty
interesting market. Turkey is -- Turkey in market side, thus I think it's like Asia was 15 years
ago. You don't have the same level of competition. Distribution in brand is important here.
we're #2 in this market, we are #2 in that market as well. That's the market I really, really
like. 80 million people, fast growth of government, that's earned some pretty interesting
stuff across the board, I guess. But pretty interesting stuff in terms of particularly savings.
And with -- all I am saying, I think we signed up over (1 million) customers in last 12 months.
So I mean it's a big, big growth at big, big numbers.

A - Unidentified Speaker
The government needs to fix the opt ratio for us but that's their concern as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Time for one of 2 last questions.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. So we've got coffee. We've got some of it. The afternoon is focused on these
other growth markets. So I think Blair said, your half the businesses is in U.K. so now we'll
focus on the other half after lunch. And give us your feedback, tell us what you think.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 36 of 36

