Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-08-16

Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , CEO & Chairman of the Executive Board

Presentation
Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello. And thanks for tuning into my update for the first half of 2018. From a financial
perspective, I'm pleased to report that we performed strongly over the last six months.
For me, 3 things in particular stand out. First, underlying earnings are up, mainly driven by
successful expense savings program, high investment margins in Netherlands and growth
in our Asian businesses. Second, we've grown our net deposits. And this was largely due
to high inflows into our asset management business and better retention in our U.K.
business. Both evidence that our customers value our expertise and the products and
services we offer. And third, in terms of capital, our solvency position remains strong,
having increased significantly since our last results. This is a reflection of how we further
strengthened our balance sheet. And I'm happy that we are in an excellent position to
deliver on our target to return capital to shareholders.
Looking beyond the key numbers, we've been very busy executing our strategy since the
turn of the year. So let me give you a snapshot of some notable highlights. In our largest
market, the United States, the outsourcing agreement we announced has made us a
more efficient franchise. This is enabling us to focus our efforts on enhancing our
platforms and digital services to the benefit of all our U.S. customers across all lines of
business. Also in the U.S., we launched our new wealth and health brand identity. By raising
awareness about its connection between physical and financial well-being, we have the
potential to help millions of people better prepare for the future. I'm also excited about
the benefits we're already seeing from our business.
Moving to Europe, in the U.K., our team has worked extremely hard to migrate over
400,000 retail customers from Cofunds to our platform. This was a huge operation and
in common with many migrations of this scale, there has been some customer service
interruption. We're working hard to resolve this. So that we can deliver a service to be
proud of to all our customers in the U.K. Across our company, growth is a key focus and
priority. And this means building the right businesses in the right markets, acquiring other
businesses that will help us grow and also knowing when to divest from certain markets.
In the Netherlands, we recently acquired the leading income protection service provider,
Robidus. And this will strengthen our position in a key growth market as we help Dutch
employers understand complex laws regarding absence and disability and better manage
financial risk and cost. We also expanded in Spain, deepening our relationship with Banco
Santander, the country's largest bank. This agreement will allow us to provide both life
and selected non-life insurance to an additional client base of 4 million people.
Page 1 of 2



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2018-08-16

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In terms of divestments, in April, we successfully completed the sale of Aegon Ireland.
And we announced the sale of Aegon Czech Republic and Aegon Slovakia, all of which
gave us added financial flexibility. In Asia, we've seen success across the region with
reduced expenses and improved profitability in almost all of our units. Our joint venture in
China, for instance, has seen strong double-digit sales growth, thanks to its award-winning
digital platform.
Finally, I'm pleased that Aegon Asset Management also performed well. Its mortgage
funds, general pension fund and new products are proving to be very successful, all
meeting our customer diverse needs. To sum up, this has been a good first half year for
our company. We are well positioned to capture future growth. We're continuing to
execute on our transformation. And above all, we've got a great team who are, as ever,
working tirelessly to help our millions of customers around the world. And all of this gives
me confidence that we'll be able to meet our 2018 targets. And I look forward to updating
you again in my next video.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 2 of 2

