Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Gary Duggan, Chief Executive Officer
Jonathan Stanley Hill, Group Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director
Lance Henry Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Charles Eden, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Robert Rampton, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Good morning everybody. Great to see you here. Welcome to Saga's Year-End and Prelims
Presentation. As I think you probably all know, I'm Lance Batchelor, the CEO of Saga. On my left is
Jonathan Hill, the CFO. Again, many of you all know Jonathan. Also, I'm going to introduce you to a
number of members of my leadership team who've joined us today and, perhaps, if you don't
mind, I'll ask you to stand as I name each person.
So, also, on my left is Gary Duggan. You don't need to stand, Gary. Everyone can see. Gary joined
Saga in September as part of the planned succession to take over our most profitable division,
which is insurance broking, and he formally stepped up into that role in January. I'm going to say
more about Gary in a couple of moments.
Sitting mostly in the front row, but also other parts of the audience are Robin. Can I ask you to
stand, Robin? Thanks. Robin Shaw is the CEO of Saga Travel and Cruise. This division makes over
half of our revenue and it's very fundamental to our growth aspirations. Robin has been with us for
about eight years where he's done a fantastic job taking the cruise business forward, laying the
foundations for the next stage of growth. Andrew Button, Andrew is the CEO of our immensely
effective underwriting division, AICL. Julius Christmas, Julius is our IT Director. He has led the
replacement of pretty much all of the IT across the group over the last four years with great
success.
Stuart Beamish. Hi, Stuart. Stuart is our Group Marketing Director. He was promoted into the role
last year, having previously been the Marketing Director of our Travel division. He is doing an
excellent job driving Saga Possibilities, our membership program, and the implementation of the
Adobe Marketing Cloud, and the investment that we're making into customer growth. I saw Orna,
Orna NiChionna, where are you hiding, Orna? Orna, one of our Non-Executive Directors, indeed,
our Senior Non-Exec. Nice to have you here, Orna. Thank you.
And finally, let me introduce our incoming Chairman, Patrick O'Sullivan. Patrick officially steps up on
May the 1 as Chairman, but he has managed to join us here today and I'm delighted to welcome
you Patrick to your first set of Saga results.



FINAL

Looking quickly at the agenda for today, fairly standard format, I will do an introduction to the
business focusing on last year. Jonathan will then step up and take you through the financials in
more detail. We're then going to ask Gary to give some first impressions and direction of Travel for
his insurance broking division, and then, finally, I will step up and talk about the future for the group,
where we're going. Of course, we will allow time for Q&A at the end of that.
So, let's have a look at the key highlights for the business. In some challenging markets, we have
delivered numbers in line with the rebased guidance that we've put out in December. That
includes a strong performance from Travel, a strong performance from underwriting, and a solid
financial performance from broking.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Saga model has again done what it does so well and demonstrated that it generates lots of
cash. That cash has allowed us to reduce our leverage to a level that allows for the significant
investment in cruise ships over the next few years. It's also allowed us to pay a good dividend. As
well as driving the business, we've also taken further steps towards making Saga more efficient in
the targeting and the acquisition and the development of new customers. Just a few weeks ago,
we switched on our new insurance broking IT platform, Guidewire.
In December, we announced an investment in adding new customers. Today, we're going to show
you that we are starting to deliver the customer growth, which is so important to the long-term
future of the brand. As projected in December, our full-year underlying PBT was slightly higher than
the previous year. A fall in broking was offset by strong growth in Travel, which has performed
really well. Cruise, in particular, had a very good year helped by a reduced number of maintenance
days. Continuing strong cash generation and the resulting de-leveraging has given the board
confidence to recommend a total annual dividend of £0.09. That's up 5.9%. This is comfortably
covered by our cash flows, and we have great confidence in the stability of our highly cashgenerative model.
Let's look now at a little bit of history. Just over three years ago shortly after the Saga IPO, I set out
a revised strategy for Saga. At that time, I said I would aim to do four big things. Firstly, to grow
PBT at a mid-single-digit level and to generate lots of cash to pay down the 3.1 times debt ratio
that we inherited at at float (00:05:16).
Secondly, to grow the broking business particularly motor, by launching a panel of external
underwriters and extending our footprint. This would also serve to improve the quality of earnings.
Thirdly, to grow the cruise and Travel business significantly from being a small nice (00:05:36) to
have, to being a meaningful part of our P&L. New cruise ship tonnage was central to that
proposition. Fourthly, to invest to update our IT platforms and our marketing capabilities, which
were outdated and inflexible.
So, three years on, how have we done against those four goals? While we have grown PBT every
year, we've delivered strong cash generation and de-leveraging. Our debt ratio is significantly
down, as I said at 1.7 times. We've launched the motor panel and it has grown, but it has not yet
delivered the growth in the footprint that we wanted to. And I'm going to talk more about that in a
minute.
Our quality of earnings has improved as well as the home and motor panels; we also put in place a
quota share arrangement which removes most of the downside risk from our in-house underwriter.
Travel and Cruise have done well. PBT has grown from about £4 million at the time of the float to
about £18 million last year. The launch of the new ships is now fast approaching and we have
replaced the vast majority of our IT with world-class up-to-date systems. We've put in place an
excellent CRM suite and we've launched membership.
But the biggest disappointment has been the lack of footprint growth in motor broking. Let's take
a look at that in more detail. The motor panel comprises four external underwriters and our own



FINAL

underwriter AICL. It's working but it's immature. It's not yet optimized. The share of underwriting by
third parties has grown fairly steadily since its launch in 2015 and now nearly 30% of the value of
the renewal book is underwritten by panel members as well as a growing share of new policies.
On the upside, we've continued to deliver industry-leading levels of cross-sell between our
insurance products. On the downside, we've been running a 20-year-old IT platform, which has
held back our innovation in our product offerings. However, and here's the big point, with hindsight,
there is no doubt that the balance between investing in growing our customer numbers and
delivering profit has been too heavily skewed towards short-term profit growth.
As you know, adding new policies comes with a short term cost. Typically, the cost of an acquisition
and a setup at a competitive market rate means that a new motor customer might take between
one and two years to become profitable. Saga has been so focused on hitting mid- to single-digit
annual PBT growth targets that we have underinvested in new volume. Over time, that means
we're extracting more and more profit from a flat base and that is simply not sustainable over the
long term.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, looking to the future, three things have set Saga broking up for growth. Firstly, the arrival of
Gary. Am I supposed to say that? Gary brings with him a fresh perspective, a hunger for growth, a
track record of innovation and deep expertise in working with third-party panel underwriters. Not
sparing his blushes, he's the right man at the right time. Secondly, the financial reset that we did in
December. It was a painful event, but it was the right thing to do. In one step, we corrected pricing,
which had pushed our motor margins up too high. We also gave ourselves headroom to invest in
volume growth for the first time in many years.
Thirdly, technology and marketing. The implementation of Guidewire, plus our new claims platform,
plus the new Adobe Digital Marketing Suite, plus membership; all this means that we have the
platforms in place that we need to grow efficiently.
Now that we are more focused on customer growth, we plan to add more underwriters to the
motor panel. There's clearly an opportunity to work with external insurers in more of a partnership,
and the new technology that we've launched will help us to do that. Gary's going to talk about all of
this in more detail.
The ability to use the strong relationships that we have with our customers, in particular through
the Possibilities membership scheme, and our ability to further improve the efficiency of the Saga
model gives us a great deal, more flexibility and functionality. We're now able to grow our
customers through targeted investment, better customer relationships and, over time, a broader
panel.
Now, let's turn to the rest of the insurance business. Home broking continues to be robust albeit in
a challenging market. Home is a more sticky product. It's one that we can differentiate more clearly.
Our well-established home panel continues to deliver competitive rates and the changes that
we've made in our customer relationships will give us even more ability to differentiate, as well as
the introduction of Guidewire. We're also looking to expand our market footprint in home, staying
firmly in the over-50s camp and using the strong panel to help us to grow.
Medical and travel insurance are performing well. And our own underwriter, AICL, continues to
deliver excellent results. This remains an area where the advantage of Saga's customer knowledge
is very clearly evidenced. We've recently updated and improved still further our quota share
arrangement and Jonathan is going to take you through the details of that later.
Looking out at Travel. Travel has always been right at the heart of the Saga brand. It's the area
where our ability to differentiate for the benefits of our demographic is most obvious. Despite the
inevitable issues that the Travel industry always faces we've continued to make good progress.



FINAL

Our first new cruise ship, Spirit of Discovery, is due in July 2019. That's just 15 months away now.
That project is on time, it's on budget, and presales continue to be strong. In fact, she's already
more than 50% presold. The order for our second new ship, Spirit of Adventure, was confirmed
last year, and that ship will arrive in August 2020.
In the years to come, Travel and especially cruise, will grow to be a more and more significant part
of the Saga Group profitability. We're good at it. It's strongly differentiated, and we're getting
better at it all the time. By the way, one of the last pieces of the IT refresh at Saga, which is a new
reservations platform for Travel, will go-live in the first half of 2019. We call that Project Darwin, and
it's now well under way.
So, let me summarize this section and look back at 2017. PBT was up, in line with the December
forecast. Cash generation was excellent. Our debt is down still further, and we're recommending a
good dividend. Travel and Cruise had a very strong year. Our quality of earnings is enhanced, but
we have under delivered on broking growth, and we've learned some painful lessons in quarter
four last year. So, when I stand up again, I'll take you through how those lessons have helped us to
reset the business for growth. I think we've got a great plan.
I'm now going to hand over to Jonathan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Thanks, Lance, and good morning, everybody. So, for the year ending 31 January 2018, we have
delivered profit in line with our revised guidance from December with underlying PBT up by 1.4% at
£190 million. Our customer spend, which measures the entirety of the spend of our customers with
Saga, has increased by just over 2% to just over £1.2 billion. Our reported profit before tax was
£179 million, down from £193 million in the prior year.
So, the difference between the current year underlying and reported PBT is due to three items
being the exceptional restructuring costs associated with that cost saving being delivered in
2018/19, a charge related to the refinancing, which was undertaken in May 2017, and finally, a
charge for the fair value losses on derivatives. Our profit after tax was £138 million, which included
a charge of £7 million in relation to discontinued operations. We took the decision to write down in
full the value of the deferred consideration associated with the Allied sale, given our reduced
expectations of recovery.
One point that I really want to draw out on this slide is the fact that our free cash flow before
financing activities was £145 million, which compares to our profit after tax from continuing
operations of £145 million. This demonstrates the highly cash-generative nature of the group, and
the fact that we turned profit after tax into cash after tax. From this free cash flow, we have paid
dividends during the year of around £99 million. And comparing this to the free cash flow, this
dividend was covered around 1.5 times.
Additionally, we are able to reduce our net debt by £33 million to £432 million at the year end. The
consequence, our leverage ratio is reduced to 1.7 times from 1.9 times a year earlier. Given the
stability of our highly cash-generative model, we have proposed a final dividend of £0.06 per
share and when combined with our interim dividend, the full-year dividend of £0.09 per share is
6% higher than the prior year.
Okay. So, this slide shows a summary of the profitability of each line of business with a bit more
detail on later slides. In motor broking, we delivered a significant uplift in written profit. While this is
a strong performance, it could have been even better. Our written performance in H1 of last year
was a £24 million profit, which reduced to £15 million in H2 impacted by the changes in market
conditions particularly in Q4.



FINAL

This profit improvement was offset by a reduction in the written to earned benefit, which is moving
towards a more normalized position and I'll cover that in a little bit more detail later. As Lance said,
home profit reduced as tough market conditions continued from H1 into H2. And we achieved
another solid result in other broking. Profits in underwriting were again significant supported by
ongoing reserve releases from our excellent claims management and the positive experience that
we've had on both large and small PI.
And finally, the Travel division increased profits materially. Just looking to the right-hand side of this
chart, the written profit performance from our retail broker plus the Travel business profit has
delivered a profit improvement of 8% year-on-year, and this highlights the profit uplift in what I
consider the underlying businesses. I'd like to put this into the context of the guidance that we
have given for 2018/19 of a profit – PBT reduction of approximately 5%. We expect to deliver a
modest uplift in profit in both written broking and in Travel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Firstly, within motor broking, our guidance takes into account the trading conditions during the
second half of last year. Our recent trading experience in terms of improved retention from Q4
2017 and the net revenues being generated per policy support this guidance as well as a lower
rebased cost base in our Retail Broking business.
Overall, our experience year-to-date in the motor market has been consistent with the comments
from the broader industry with price rises flattening out on average. We believe that this is
reflective of trends of falling claims frequency and moderating severity that we have talked about
previously. We do expect the overall profitability in the market to remain good, and we are
comfortable with these trends and are confident in our ability to compete in this environment. One
final point on motor is that the material premium inflation seen in 2017 resulting from both the
Ogden changes and IPT will ameliorate clearly in 2018, which should prove beneficial for our
retention levels.
For home, we are also expecting a continuation of current market conditions, and we have seen
some limited premium inflation in the market. Again, our recent trading is consistent with the
guidance. Other broking has remained robust and our ongoing claims performance in AICL again is
supportive of our expectations.
For Travel, we will be mainly sold by the end of April for this year's departures. So, we already have
a lot of visibility on the outcome for this part of the business. In summary, the group guidance
provided is supported by what we're seeing in the market and how we're currently trading across
our different lines of business.
Okay. So, this slide shows the written performance in the different business lines within Retail
Broking. Starting with motor on the left-hand side, profit has increased, as I said earlier, from £28
million to £39 million. This resulted from the strong premium inflation that we saw during the first
three quarters of 2017, combined with a lower level of claims inflation. We benefited from our
underwriter, AICL. In our view, pricing Ogden – the Ogden impacts effectively. Profit per policy
increased strongly to £30 from £21. However, Saga-branded policies reduced by 3%, partially due
to some of the effects of our Q4 trading.
Moving across to home broking, this remained a tough market with a continuation of what we saw
during H1 and H2. Claims inflation continued to run ahead of premium inflation with ongoing escape
of water issues. Against this tough market backdrop, our profit per policy reduced by 3%, and we
traded some volume for value leading to Saga policies being down by 5%. Therefore, profits from
this line of business were lower at £53 million compared to £58 million in the prior year.
And, finally, within the other broking, we delivered a robust performance, primarily from our PMI
line of business. Policies were significantly down in travel insurance due to the issues already
highlighted during H1 and added to by the severity of the hurricane season, which reduced long-



FINAL

haul policy sales in Q3 and into Q4. In aggregate, our written profit on our Retail Broking business
increased by £5 million to £123 million year-on-year.
This slide breaks out the written to earned benefit during the year. The written to earned
adjustment reflects our choice to move from more of an underwritten business towards broking,
as well as the impacts of the introduction of the arrangement fee. As mentioned in December,
there have been benefits from written to earned since the point of IPO. Between the financial year
2017 and 2018, the written to earned benefit reduced from £20 million to £7 million. There were
two contributing factors to reduction. Firstly, £6.6 million was from the increase in deferred broker
revenue on policies underwritten by AICL with the increase in the average premium earned. And
secondly, £6.5 million from the arrangement fee impact, which commenced in November 2015
unaffected only the previous year. So, there's no impact from the arrangement fee in the written to
earned at all in the financial year 2018.
The reduction in written to earned benefit has been marginally greater than guided in December.
That is because it is very difficult to precisely model the outcome given that it is affected by the
number of motor policies, who underwrites them, the level of net revenue per policy, movements
in the cost base, which are deferred as part of the deferred acquisition costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

The outcome is mathematical and objective and mirrors what is within the accounting standards.
We do expect the written to earned benefit to reduce in the current year that we are in, and settle
at a small positive or negative number depending on the interaction of those aforementioned
factors.
So, coming onto our underwriter, AICL, as we've said previously, AICL targets on the current
underwriting year a 3% return on premium, plus an investment return on our equity capital. To the
extent that we can deliver consistent performance metrics, our in-year profits from this business
should remain relatively constant. We have delivered another strong year from AICL with profit
increasing from £77 million excluding the impact of Ogden in the previous year of £4 million to £79
million.
Revenue is marginally ahead year-on-year from a combination of lower policies underwritten more
than offset by an increase in net revenue per policy. Pure combined operating ratio improved by 2
percentage points to 97% benefiting from the positive experience on the business written in year.
Reserve releases were £60 million compared to £63 million in the prior year, driven again by our
excellent claims management and further positive experience on small and large PI. And the
combined operating ratio remained at 71%. Excluding reserve releases, our underwriter made a
profit of £19 million compared £14 million in the prior year, also benefiting from some realized gains
on investments. The group has seen improvements in claims frequency over the last year and we
continue to expect reserve releases to gradually decrease over the coming years.
This slide shows the accounting impact of quota share on the reported revenue of the underwriter.
Reported revenues reduced year-on-year from £112 million to £99 million, and the net cost of
quota share was around £2 million in the year.
The key point in this slide is the new quota share arrangement covering 80% of the underwriting
risk, and this will be split between two reinsurers from the 1st of February 2019, when the current
arrangement expires. This new policy will be on a three-year rolling basis and will enable us to
retain a relatively capital-light position in AICL and supports ongoing dividends from AICL payable
to group, giving more certainty over future cash flows.
Solvency II position. Our solvency requirement at the 31st of January 2018 had reduced to £80
million from £103 million a year earlier. And this has benefited from our claims experience and the
ongoing impact of the quota share. We started 2017/18 with £147 million of available capital and
reduced this by the end of the year to £137 million of available capital. Over the same period, our



FINAL

solvency capital ratio increased from a 143% to 171%. This is marginally above the level that I would
expect it to be at going forward. This robust solvency position gives further support to dividend
payments from AICL in the coming year. And we paid a dividend from our underwriter of £70
million during 2017/18 from the combination of post-tax profits recognized in the previous year and
the reducing solvency requirements.
So, moving on to Travel. We had another good year in Travel, delivering a 37% increase in profit.
Travel revenues overall were up by 4%, with increases in both tour operating and cruise. Firstly, just
considering tour operating, revenue did grow from a mix – from an increase in the average selling
price, increasing from a mixture of Fx and mix shift, offset by 3% reduction in passenger volumes,
approximately half of that passenger volume reduction was due to the Monarch insolvency. So,
while gross margins were lower due to Fx and costs associated with the Monarch insolvency, lower
operating costs and marketing costs meant that profit increased by 20% to £14 million. As
previously communicated, the Monarch impact cost around £2 million in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cruise profit nearly doubled to £7 million with lower maintenance days compared to year before,
lower fuel costs, and some operational efficiencies. This profit uplift was after more marketing
spend for the first season of Spirit of Discovery. And while cruise will have more operational days in
the current 2019 financial year, higher hedged fuel prices and marketing on both of the new ships
will restrict the profit growth compared to 2018. One other point to mention is the financing of the
second ship, which has been secured at an all-in cost of approximately 3.3% fixed in sterling for 12
years from the delivery of the ship in August 2020.
We show on this slide the profits associated with the emerging businesses and central costs. In
aggregate the emerging businesses delivered a consistent year-on-year profit of around £1 million.
And we are developing some opportunities within Saga Money, which we believe could grow this
business to the extent that these are likely to become material, we will update you at the right
time. We continue to progress with the healthcare pilot. And, again, we'll update you in due course
on the progress of that pilot.
Central costs reduced year-on-year, partially benefiting from lower bonus accruals. The IAS19R
pension charge, which was disclosed and talked about at the half year, for the full year was £4
million higher than the year before. This is an actuarial non-cash charge based on the opening
pension scheme deficit. We expect this charge to be relatively minimal in the current 2019 financial
year. Finance costs again reduced with lower net debt, as referenced earlier.
Okay. So, we've included a few slides in here to explain how we look at the debt and hopefully to
help you better understand this debt profile going forward. This slide looks at our debt, excluding
the ship debt and excluding any profit or cash flow from ships in the forward view. Our debt has
reduced, as we've said, from 3.1 to 1.7 times at the end of January 2018, and we expect this group
level of debt to continue to reduce to very approximately 1 time over the next few (00:30:53)
years.
Coming up to next slide. Okay. So, the two ships that we have on order have been funded with
asset-backed finance, which is 12-year amortizing debt at low long-term rates of interest. This debt
will give us a temporary elevation in the leverage of the Travel business. We have previously
guided that we expect each ship to deliver a PBT of around £20 million. This is equivalent to an
EBITDA and free cash flow before interest of between £40 million and £50 million per ship per
annum.
Therefore, the free cash flow from the two ships of between £80 million and £100 million per
annum will enable us to rapidly de-lever. And we have confidence in generating this cash flow
evidenced by the booking for the first season of Spirit of Discovery when we are more than 50%
sold, as Lance has touched on for the itineraries on sale, at rates that support this level of profit
and cash flow.



FINAL

Each of these debts is only tested one year after their drawdown, which is standard for assetbacked finance. These covenants are tested at the Travel level first, and then, at group only if they
are breached at the Travel level. However, we expect there to be a minimum headroom of around
75% over the Travel level covenants. So, we are very comfortable with the covenants on this debt.
While the leverage of the group temporarily increases, we are looking at each of these two debt
peaks when we have taken on the debt, but have not benefited from the asset's EBITDA or the
positive cash flow impact on debt. And with the EBITDA of each ship, as I said, expected to be £40
million to £50 million per annum, the denominator in that leverage calculation will increase rapidly
just from the impact of including the ship EBITDA in the previous 12 months. We do not expect the
group's overall leverage ratio to go above 3 times. And we expect it to reduce back below 2 times
around 12 months after the peak in January 2021.
One other way to look at this is, if we consider the pro forma debt at the peaks including what we
have expect – what we would expect the EBITDA to be in the backward-looking calculation, our
average – our leverage would actually remain below 2.5 times at all points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. The group's cash flow is made up of free cash flow from our Retail Broking business less the
cash outflows to pay for central costs, plus dividends paid from the restricted funds of our
underwriter, AICL. We have taken no dividends from the restricted funds in the Travel business in
the last two years as these are retained profits, which are being used to fund the deposit
payments on the ships out of the Travel businesses. Once the second ship is delivered, dividends
will resume from the Travel business into group.
Dividends received from AICL in the previous year of £115 million were elevated and included
capital reductions after the introduction of Solvency II and the first benefits of that quota share
arrangement being put in place. And the positive movement in working capital is actually due to
changes in the written to earned position. And an important point is that the written to earned is a
non-cash item. And as we consider the guidance of a reduction in group profit from 2017/18 into
2018/19, the element associated with the lower written to earned benefit will have no impact on
cash. We do expect available operating cash flow for this year to be between 70% and 80%.
Okay. The payout ratio of dividends underlying EPS was 65%. Looking at this compared to our
operating cash flow, we have a payout ratio of about 74%. This equates to coverage of 1.4 times in
the current year. This cash flow has enabled us, as I said earlier, to pay a strong dividend during the
year and to reduce net debt. And we expect the stability of our highly cash-generative model to
support further reductions in net debt, excluding that ship debt and ongoing payments of
dividends.
Okay. Final slide for me, we are maintaining our guidance as laid out in December with underlying
profit for the year expected to reduce by approximately 5%. Uplift in profits, on the right-hand
side, will come from the underlying profit growth across the business, a reduction in the IAS19 (sic)
[IAS19R] (00:36:21) charge and obviously the £10 million of cost savings as well.
In terms of the specific right-hand bar, the £10 million to £15 million, the drivers of this are as
follows: firstly, we have clear visibility, as I said earlier, on Travel, excluding our incremental volume
investment and clearly with no repeat of Monarch coming hopefully in the current year compared
to last year. We have reductions in group costs from pension charge and finance charge, which is
incremental to the cost savings of £10 million shown here.
And in terms of our retail broker, while our revenue assumptions are sensible year-on-year, we
have efficiencies and other savings, which sit outside the £10 million, for instance, the first cost
benefits from Guidewire. These collectively are expected to deliver a small improvement in the
written profit of the retail broker, excluding that investment for growth. Offsetting these uplifts, we
obviously have the lower expected reserve releases, a reduced written to earned benefit, and the



FINAL

£10 million investment in customer growth split roughly equally between Insurance and Travel. And
we expect this – we expect to continue to reduce net debt.
So, as you'll be aware, this is my last results presentation for Saga. I have had a fantastic three
years with the company. I think that the team have achieved a hell of a lot over this period. And it
has been a real privilege to work with the team, with Lance, and everybody else in the business.
And I firmly believe that I leave the company in a better position and in better shape than when I
arrived. And I am absolutely confident in the future of Saga with the team we have here in place.
And one final point is, I am still going to be here for six months. So, this lot will still have to put up
with me for that long. And during this period, I am fully committed to driving the business forward.
I'll now hand over to Gary.

Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everybody, and thanks, Jonathan, for the introduction. It's a pleasure to be here
today presenting to you all for the first time. I've been with Saga now for six months or so. And I'm
delighted at the opportunity to work with Lance and the team at this really exciting period for the
business.
I've run a number of insurance businesses for many years now at Barclays, Towergate, and more
recently at Junction which was BGL's partnerships business where I managed the portfolio of home
and motor broker businesses, including Lloyds Banking Group, M&S Bank, RAC, Post Office
Insurance. And it's an act to experience that leads me to believe that Saga has all the core
attributes that any broker business needs to win and more.
In terms of these trends, Saga has excellent brand presence in the over 50s market and is ideally
positioned to win in a demographic that represents roughly half of the UK home and motor
insurance market, and is forecast to significantly grow over the next 20 years. We have significant
scale in the market, with roughly £600 million worth of GWP and 2.8 million policies. We have a
recognized and trusted brand, high-quality products and services, extensive customer insight into
our demographic, and a direct marketing engine that combine to give us competitive advantage in
the broker market.
It's the combination of these strengths that is reflected in the fact that the vast majority of our
customer acquisition is sourced through direct channels, typically at lower costs than many of our
competitors, who are often more reliant on price comparison websites.
Another strength is the fact that once recruited, our customers are extremely loyal. Despite the
introduction of the renewal transparency rules and the quarter four challenges that Lance has
highlighted, retention levels in the past financial year remained at 75% for home insurance and
65% for motor, significantly higher than others that I've seen in the industry. I think that's due in part
to the quality of the products and services that we offer and the broader relationship that we have
with our customers.
Saga also has a flexible supply of underwriting capacity from across its products, from the solus
arrangements that we have with two highly regarded and specialized insurers on PMI and Travel
through to the broad underwriting panels that operate on home and motor. Having an in-house
underwriter sitting on both our underwriting panels helps to drive competitive attention onto the
panel and it provides us with some real flexibility. I think this was demonstrated actually through the
Ogden rate change period when some of our panel members increased prices more aggressively
and our in-house underwriter picked up some of the slack during that period. And then, as prices
began to soften, then the panel came back and we started to see panel share increase again.



FINAL

If you speak to any insurance broker these days, they will tell you how critical data is to secure
competitive underwriting capacity. A broker who needs to be able to demonstrate that to provide
the underwriters with more predictive data than other brokers in order to demonstrate the value
add that we bring to the relationship. Because, we have the broad and deeper relationships with
our customers and our members is this relationship that enables us to provide better data than
many of the brokers operating in our demographic which also ensures that we have a more
competitive cost of risk. So, my observations are that Saga has some real strengths that all the
brokers don't have.
Having said that, there are areas that require some real focus and improvement. So, whilst the
motor panel has been successful in writing business in specific segments of the market namely
older customers, lower mileage, safer drivers, we haven't expanded the footprint as widely as I
would like. In my experience, it often takes underwriters sometimes to become confident in the
underwriting performance before they look to expand into other segments in market.
In addition to which, an observation of mine is that Saga has a pretty low profile in the insurer
market and has sometimes been reticent to share some of our market intelligence to help the
underwriters. And, frankly, this has resulted in a more cautious approach to some of the net pricing
decisions by some underwriters on the panel, on the motor panel. And as a consequence, I think,
as Lance mentioned earlier on, the panel has taken longer than originally anticipated to develop.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, the legacy platforms and the complexity that exist within the organization has restricted
our ability to innovate in recent times. In addition to which, a larger number of low-value products,
multiple promotions, et cetera, have created some added complexity over a number of years now,
which I believe has slowed the business down and resulted, to some extent, in some inefficiencies.
Now, if we turn to some of the opportunities for the businesses I see to grow our broking business.
Lance mentioned some of the targeted investments that we're making in price and in marketing to
acquire more customers and members. We will be using a combination of the new Adobe tools
and the learnings from the work that we're currently undertaking to grow our customer numbers,
including our high-affinity customers. As Lance mentioned, the early signs are that this is working.
And as I expected, we now have some real momentum in growing our new business volumes.
Building on our already market-leading retention rates is also another key focus for me.
Possibilities, the membership scheme, is driving increased engagement from across our
membership base. And I'm confident that this, along with the product innovation that we will gain
from Guidewire, will help to support high retention from across our insurance products over a
period of time. In addition, I'll be working firstly with our existing insurers to grow the footprint and
obtain more competitive net rate pricing. We're currently in the process of sharing more data with
the insurers, which we hope will support our desire to grow our business and expand our footprint.
And, secondly, we're also advancing other areas of our footprint where we don't have the right
amount of competitive tension. And we're in the process also of identifying underwriters that we
could add to the panel, who will complement the existing panel members, allowing us to win more
business across the wider section of our market.
And, finally, I'll be focusing on simplifying the business model to ensure that we are operating as
efficiently as possible. We've made some changes recently to re-baseline our costs, and the next
steps are to leverage the Guidewire platform, to streamline our customer journeys and to improve
our contact center efficiency further.
Ultimately, my goal is to use these two new platforms to help create the capacity for growth
without significantly increasing our cost base. So, six months in and I like what I see. We have all the
key components required to make this business a really successful broking business. And I remain
confident in our ability to deliver that strong growth story that Lance outlined earlier on.



Okay. Thank you. And, now, I'd like to hand you back to Lance to complete the presentation.

FINAL

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Gary. Earlier on, I focused on the company's performance since IPO and
especially on last year. Now, let's look ahead. The time is now right to invest in growing our
customer base. Why now? Firstly, we've replaced the majority of our IT systems. Secondly, we've
put in place excellent digital CRM marketing systems. Thirdly, we've successfully launched
membership. Fourth, we've got the new ships coming. But also, pragmatically, we've carved out
£10 million of investment headroom to actually invest in growth. That's £10 million on top of our
normal marketing run rate of about £60 million a year.
About half of that investment is going to drive insurance broking policies, which has already began.
And the other half will go to drive new Travel volume across the year. The goal is to take a
customer account which has been flat to gently declining over several years and tip it up gently
onto a growth path. And there are early signs of success from our investment in motor and home
broking. We are delivering new customers. Let's be clear, it's only two months in, and we're only
looking at one metric here, which is new customer broking, but it's very encouraging nonetheless.

Bloomberg Transcript

Travel is expected to be a slower burn. We'll see the impact of extra investment across Travel over
the whole year. And in particular, the big delta in investment spend will be in the second half. Again,
let's not get carried away here. It's early days but it confirms our view that our retail pricing is now
in the right place and that Saga can attract new customers when the pricing is right.
I've highlighted the various elements that have come together to give us the confidence to invest
in growth. An important backdrop to that is the real momentum of our new membership program,
Saga Possibilities. We now have over half a million members. Over 80% of the customers that we
talk to have chosen to activate their membership and a high proportion of those then start to
interact with the brand. It's a real example of how we're driving customer engagement and
ensuring that we remain clearly differentiated in our knowledge and our understanding of the over
50s. In the longer term, we expect to see a positive impact on churn rates and on cross-sell as the
program matures.
What could the future look like? Well, how should you expect to see Saga's earnings evolving in the
years to come? We have flagged that reserve releases will decline gently over time as the historic
high reserves flow through. Now, it's notoriously hard to predict exactly how fast they will decline.
And where they'll eventually settle will depend on exactly what the panel share looks like and the
size of our overall broking business and so on. We have an excellent underwriting business. I have
no doubt it will continue to make good profits and reserve releases too. But that will be at a lower
level of reserve releases than today.
We're now investing in growing our broking business. I expect that business to gain momentum as
extra policies become profitable over time and the panels mature. And there will be really
significant growth in our Travel and Cruise division as the two new ships come on stream. We said
last year that we are targeting a five-year PBT level for the whole Travel and Cruise division of over
£60 million profit and that remains our firm intention.
So, if you look a few years ahead, what you'll see is less dependency on reserve releases much
more from broking, as the investment that we're making becomes profitable. You'll see much
more profit from Travel, a substantially higher quality of earnings, more diversified earnings. Also
I'd like to say, the pie will get bigger and better.
So, in summary, after four years of investing in IT membership, the marketing platform, Saga is
now ready to start growing customer numbers. We have absorbed the lessons of quarter four last
year. Our pricing is now where it needs to be. We're investing in growth. Our cost base has been



FINAL

reduced by £10 million. It's still very early, but there are signs that it's working. Motor and home
broking, new customer count is up. The progress that we've made with Saga Possibilities shows
that we're not standing still. We're developing a differentiated relationship with our customers that
only Saga can do.
Our business model remains highly cash-generative and of increasing quality. I've been the CEO of
Saga for four years now. I'm more excited now about the potential of this great British brand than I
have ever been, and it really is a great business. It's a hugely recognized and respected brand,
totally focused on the fast-growing over 50s age group. We've got a great team at Saga and I
believe we have a very strong plan for the future.
So, we will now turn it over to you to take questions. If I could ask you to ask for the mic, tell us who
you are, and I'll direct the questions around the team as appropriate. Ben?

Q&A
Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much. It's Ben Cohen at Investec. I had two questions. Firstly, back on slide 33, in terms
of the new business growth that you will – that you've seen in the first couple of months of the
year. Could you maybe go into a bit more detail in terms of where that has been coming from
whether that's a sort of a panel element? How much you think relates to the investment? And
maybe you could give some sort of forward-looking element in terms of how sustainable those
growth rates are through the course of the year.
And the second question I had was just on the level of realized gains in the underwriting business.
What would you see is a normal rate of gains to be to be taken through there? What would your –
what sort of implicitly in your outlook if I could ask for that detail? Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I'll take the first and then hand the second one to Jonathan. Look, Ben, I'm going to slightly duck
your question and I don't want to say too much about where we are gaining our share at the
moment. I don't want to give away too much competitive information about what Saga is doing
well in the market at the moment.
And in terms of a forward-looking projection, I think I can only say it's captured within the numbers
that Jonathan has described for the year as a whole. I want to focus your attention on the fact that
the numbers you saw were new policy only for home and motor. So, that doesn't take into account
the churn rates and so on. It's an indication that having got the pricing correct, we are able to
attract new customers and so it's a fairly narrow cut on the business at the moment. But it does
demonstrate that when we get the pricing right we can win in the market.
But apologies, I'm not going to give a forward-looking projection on how that comes out. I'll remind
you of the phrase I used earlier, which is that our goal is to take a base that has been declining
gently over several years and tip it into gentle growth. So, we're going for gentle growth and an
investment of an extra £10 million on top of the £60 million marketing budget is a modest
increase, it's not a dramatic change of direction. Jonathan, second one.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Yeah. And I – the one thing I would add here is that obviously Gary is looking at the market
circumstances he has before, and then he's confident in terms of the payback models he's
working with in terms of the market circumstances he's playing with in terms of that new business.
So, it is good quality new business that we're bringing in.



And on the others, realized gains are only worth what is – what asset movements make them at
any point. So, I wouldn't assume those going forward. We had a low-single digit million gain on
some investments during last year, but I certainly wouldn't bake them in going forward.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Ben. Andreas?

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. I have three questions, please. One on the – you're breathing
new life into the footprint expansion strategy. I think at the time of the IPO when we looked at the
business, AICL had a 25% footprint, which was basically AICL plus the Saga broker. And you've got
a panel with new members. When you look at the business, Gary, where do you think the footprint
should move towards not describing any niches or (00:56:21) giving away, any of sort of
competitive items but could this footprint go towards 50% of the over 50s market, 75 or higher,
could you just give a view around that?
Secondly, you mentioned that panel was immature. How many new panel members would you
need to make it efficient and competitive?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the final question is on the terms and conditions in the panel, have you looked at those, how
the panel members operate and compete with each other in the panel, and would you look to
change some of those terms and conditions at which panel members operate particularly on
attacking the renewal book of AICL which has been, I think, an issue? Is there something you can
do about that? Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Andreas, I just want to define one question, if I may, the first one around footprint and 25%, I think
what you're referring to there is the rough conversion rate that we were getting on inbound
quotes. And what we said at the time we launched the panel was that in three-quarters of the
cases where a customer approaches us asking for a quote, we were unable to quote competitively
because our focus was so tight in such a small part of the market. And so, I don't want to put
words in your mouth, but I think you're asking how much could that grow by over time. Happy to
hand over to Gary.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. I think in terms of the footprint, as I said earlier on, we are very competitive, over 65s, same
drivers, low mileage. So, clearly, the opportunity designed in the 50 to 65s maybe driving slightly
more miles and those kind of customers. So, that's I think one area of the footprint expansion and
consistent to where we clearly need to focus on.
In terms of the number of members on the panel, it isn't just about numbers of the members on
the panel (00:58:12), so it is a combination of driving more value out of the existing insurers as I
think I mentioned earlier on. We did a lot work with the existing panel members to provide them
with more data that enables us to understand where we are not competitive and kind of question
to them is kind of where are we converting. And so, we're providing them with that information.
Now, we can do some analysis and intelligence talks on where we're not converting, why we're not
converting, and what we can do about it to recruit more of those customers.
Though there will be, as it always are, niches, elements of the business, which is kind of typically
and maybe higher premium business even in that segment where there will be insurers that will
specialize in that area of the footprint that we'll be talking to and hopefully (00:59:01) the panel.
What we haven't got a specific target on is 1, 2, 5, members who would want to bring them onto
the panel, we're just identifying those insurers that will complement the panel members that we've
already got at the moment. And getting those guys and hopefully, at some point, bring them on.



A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Sorry. I hope you've all heard that. In terms of the T's and C's, I think the message is just that we
are looking to be maybe more flexible in terms of the way in which we construct the insurer
arrangements. And I think that will bring some benefits to us as well in terms of how we structure
the arrangements with the insurers. I think I'll just go as fast as (00:59:40).

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

I mean, is it worth just picking up the point that at the minute, it's about their appetite and desire to
allocate capital into the areas of the market they are supporting us in and put more heft behind
that. So, I think competitive tension is going to come from that. We've talked previously about the
home market taking four to five years to really get up to maximum efficiency. We're two and a bit
years into the motor panel.
And as Lance said earlier, we haven't got as far as we wanted to. We hope we might get that
competitive tension up quicker on the motor panel than we did under home because home was
our first panel. And we probably haven't got as far as we want in terms of working with those
things, the other insurers – I don't think it's a T's and C's issue. I think it's a mixture about us
working with those people in partnership and, secondly, them saying this really is somewhere a
growing business run by Gary. We really want to put some capital in there and get this business
moving forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, there's a range of moving parts in there that I think will ratchet up the tension, the competitive
tension, and hopefully get us a broader footprint and better net rates.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Any more questions?

Q - Greig Paterson
Morning, everyone. Greig Paterson for KBW. Three questions. One is, these two FCA
investigations, one into competitive of brokers the other one into a number of products, Travel
and motor add-ons. I wonder if you can talk about the risks to your broker plans from that.
The second thing is, in terms of quota share, you used – you've mentioned the term rolling threeyear. I wonder if you could explain exactly what you mean by that. And the third question is, this is in
terms of the panel, do you currently have a real-time price elasticity conversion rate machine up
and running? That's my question.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Shall I take the second one first?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yeah, go ahead. Yeah.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

It basically means that at all points there is three years left in the policy. So, if we get two years into
the policy, there's still another three to go until one of the parties serves notice on the other. So...

Q - Greig Paterson
(01:01:58)?

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}



I'm not going to go into the specific details. It'll be done in three-year termination chunks. So, there
will still be, and then there'll be a potential stub period at the end of one of the three-year periods.
But it's all straight forward. It's in line with other rolling quota share arrangements.

Q - Greig Paterson

FINAL

I don't think it is that's why I asked the question.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Okay. So...

Q - Greig Paterson
Could you (01:02:21)?

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We don't publish the details of the commercial sensitivities around the quota share arrangements
specifically. But what you should expect is that at any point, we will let you know that the quota
share arrangement is still running in a three-year forward basis as we go forward. And if there's a
termination, we will let you know that we have now three years to find somebody to replace the
party that has served notice either us on them or them on us. So, it gives us certainty over – at all
times, over a three-year period. And if there is a termination, then we've got three years to find
somebody to replace them. It just gives us an ongoing certainty and an ongoing longevity to that
quota share arrangements, which we didn't have in the first one, which is just a three-year cliff
edge effectively.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

As far as the – sorry, it's not working then. As far as the response to the FCA investigations
(01:03:17) et cetera into add-ons is that we have a – I think one of my observations that (01:03:22)
is that Saga actually has a very positive, very proactive relationship with the regulator, it meets on a
quarterly basis proactive engagement basis (01:03:31). And we have responded then to every
element of regulatory challenge that we've been faced within the past, and we will continue to do
so in the future. I don't think there's much more to be said on that.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

The only thing I could add to that is that our dependency on things like motor add-ons is far lower
than many other insurers. We have never aggressively upsold add-ons in the way that some
insurers have done because, we're into long-term relationships with our customers. And so,
making a fast buck by selling something to somebody that they don't really need makes no sense
for Saga at all. What we want to do is to build relationships with our customer base that lasts,
ideally, for decades, and then, trade them on later on into cruise ships and so on. You can't do that
if you missell add-ons. So, we've always been very cautious and conservative about that, and a
much smaller proportion of our P&L comes from that than most of the other big insurances.

Q - Greig Paterson
(01:04:32).

A - Lance Henry Batchelor
Yes.

Q - Greig Paterson
(01:04:33)

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}



A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Greig Paterson

FINAL

(01:04:34)

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yes

Q - Greig Paterson
(01:04:35)

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Greig Paterson
How long they've been in place?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well (01:04:40)...

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Many...

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

... (01:04:41).

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Many years...

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Many, many years.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Many years. The pricing elasticity model is in place.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. An in-house built model, but obviously, it's based on detailed customer insight from our
demographic that's built and built of over a long period of time.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Any more questions, please? In the middle here.

Q - Charles Eden

{BIO 19069384 <GO>}

Hi there. It's Charles Eden from Bernstein. Just a question on the Travel spend, the sort of £5
million you talked about there. Can you just give us a more color on, is that primarily driving new



customers from existing insurance customers, i.e., cross-selling, or is it really expanding more
broadly in the market, bringing new Saga customers who don't buy any Saga product currently?

FINAL

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

It's an interesting philosophical question for us. So, the answer is, it's both. If you're running the
Travel and Cruise division, then a customer who arrives from outside the franchise is new and,
frankly, from your perspective, a customer comes across from Insurance is new as well. And so, if
I'm Robin and I'm looking at my marketing budget and trying to work out the best place to decide
where to invest, it's done on an ongoing basis, looking at both of those as an opportunity area. It's
also a fantastic place for us to build the brand when we go external. So, if we're in a newspaper
offering a great deal on a Saga Holiday, it's very, very good as a brand halo and it halos across into
Insurance as well.
And the answer to the question is that the marketing team and the travel team have a couple of
dozen ideas that they're going to be deploying across the year. It will bring customers in from both.
We do actively want to go outside and bring in more customers into the franchise. The average
age of a new Saga customer is about 61, for those who didn't have that number in front of them.
And we're always looking for customers to refresh and take the business forward. Travel is a great
way for us to do that.
Any more questions? Oh, one more there? Certainly. You go first. Yeah.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Robert Rampton

{BIO 20079733 <GO>}

Hi. Robert Rampton from UBS. First question, so you rebased pricing in October. Has retention
improved from the 65% from that point?
The second question, if you could give a bit more color on how your Retail Broking policies are sold
through distribution channels. So, last year and at 1H you saw less through price comparison
websites than you had previously, and I'm just wondering how that's evolved.
And thirdly, in-home, so there's a number of players pushing into the home markets and the price
comparison website distribution channels becoming increasing prevalent. I wonder how you are
seeing these structural challenges and what your assumptions are by the market going forward.
Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I mean I'm happy to take each of those quickly. So, we did rebase our pricing in December.
Persistency has recovered in both home and motor to a level that we're extremely comfortable
with, and that's all I say about that.
On PCW, it slightly echoes back to a question earlier on. I don't want to say where we are at in the
market gaining new customers at the moment. I don't want to give away to the rest of the market
which channels we are using successfully to add volume. And then, on the third one, our
dependency on PCWs in-home is very low. Only about 10% of our customer base in-home – of our
new customers come from PCWs. So, it's a relatively small channel for us in that space. Thanks,
Rob.
Any more questions? Yeah. (01:08:14).
If one perceives the quota share as additional debt, in other words, off-balance sheet or
alternative financing of required capital. I was wondering what would your SCR go up by if you
didn't have the quota share insurance in terms of millions of pounds.



That's your favorite kind of questions, Jonathan.

FINAL

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

I'm going to have that whatever lancet is (01:08:45). I will come back to you with the information. I
mean, my view is that we put a three-year deal in place. We've now got a very long-term rolling
deal in place. I see no reason to expect that that deal won't remain in place for a long time. Our
underwriter does a fantastic job of delivering really great returns on a very consistent basis, and
the rates that we think we've got and the deal we've got which you believe may be different than
the market I think is a great deal we've got, and I think it's testament to the quality of the
underwriter we've got. In terms of your specific question, I will have to come back to you
separately on that sensitivity.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

It's worth noting that we've just gone from one underwriter (01:09:27) to two. I mean, that people
want to do that deal and want to be a part of that.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

And also you'll have seen the names of the two quota share reinsurers in there. I mean, they are
absolute two of the top three or four in the world. So, we've got the top guys wanting to be on
that ticket, which is absolutely fantastic.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Anymore? Is there any more? Otherwise, I will thank you all very, very much for coming along and
listening this morning. If you have any follow-up questions, please come to us. And we'll see some
of you while we're at on the road. Many thanks, everyone.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

