Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

Q1 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer
Peter Hill, Investor Relations
Robert Qutub, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Amit Kumar, Analyst
Brian Meredith, Analyst
Elyse Greenspan, Analyst
Kai Pan, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning. My name is Kelly and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the RenaissanceRe First Quarter 2018 Financial Results
Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions)
And I will now turn the call over to Mr. Peter Hill. Mr. Hill, you may begin your conference.

Peter Hill

{BIO 1828241 <GO>}

Thanks, Kelly. Good morning. And thank you all for joining our first quarter 2018 financial
results conference call. Yesterday, after the market closed, we issued our quarterly
release. If you didn't get a copy, please call me at (212) 521-4800, and we'll make sure we
provide you with one. There will be an audio replay of the call available from about 1:00
p.m. Eastern Time today through midnight on June 2. The replay can be accessed by
dialing (855) 859-2056 or +1 (404) 537-3406. The passcode you will need for both
numbers is 18690171. Today's call is also available through the Investor Relations section at
www.renre.com, and will be archived on RenaissanceRe's website through midnight on
June 2.
Before we begin, I'm obliged to caution that today's discussion may contain forwardlooking statements and actual results may differ materially from those discussed.
Additional information regarding the factors shaping these outcomes can be found in
RenaissanceRe's SEC filings, to which we direct you. With us to discuss today's results are
Page 1 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Qutub, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer.
I now like to turn the call over to Kevin. Kevin?

FINAL

Kevin O'Donnell
Thanks, Peter. Good morning, and thank you for joining today's call. I'll open the call with
an overview of our performance for the quarter, Bob will then go over the financial results
and finally, I'll come back on to speak more about the segments and take your questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last night, we released our first quarter earnings. I am pleased to report that we had a
strong quarter. We executed well into an expanding market and were able to grow our
book materially. What we accomplished was not easy but rather it was the culmination of
years of preparation, creating new platforms, developing gross to net partnerships,
sharpening our tools and relentlessly focusing on the 3 superiors. This preparation
facilitated access to desirable risk across our Property and Casualty and Specialty
businesses. Our team understood this strategy and pursued it aggressively.
For the first quarter, we reported growth in book value per share of 0.6% and growth in
tangible book value per share plus accumulated dividends of 0.8%. We also reported an
annualized return on average common equity of 5.7% and an annualized operating return
on top end equity of 13.5%. The solid results we reported for the quarter were driven by a
low level of cat activity during the quarter, higher net earned premium following a
successful January 1 renewal where we targeted key announce and executed well and
prior year favorable development.
We had strong renewals at both January 1 and April 1, and are heading into the June and
July renewals with a clear strategy. I will discuss the renewals in greater depth after Bob
updates you on the financials. I'm confident, however, that we've constructed an
improved portfolio that can generate shareholder value over the long term.
Consistent with our approach following the 2017 catastrophe events, we did not
repurchase any shares during the first quarter. As we have discussed in the past, our first
priority is to deploy capital into the business, and we were able to do so at both January
and April renewals. As you know, the insurance industry has been experiencing increased
competition for several years. The market must recognize the reality of lower returns and
higher earnings volatility. As I discussed in my recent letter to shareholders, we anticipated
these market conditions many years ago. At that time, we made the strategic decision to
fundamentally transform RenRe. We increased underwriting, operating and investment
leverage by diversifying into casualty business, acquiring Platinum Re, aggressively
implementing our gross to net strategy and growing our Lloyd's syndicate. Over the past
5 years, we have nearly doubled our gross written premiums, while increasing
shareholder equity only 25%, and keeping operating and corporate expenses essentially
flat. In addition, we increased our investment leverage substantially over the same period.

Page 2 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

FINAL

In the first quarter, we continued to improve efficiency. We grew our top line significantly,
while keeping shareholder equity flat versus the prior quarter and reducing operational
expenses versus the comparable prior year quarter. This has allowed us to continue to
deliver shareholder value in the face of a challenging operating environment. I should add,
while we're pleased with the improved efficiency, should expect that our expense base
will grow going forward. This is due to the need to support additional expansion in the
business, although hopefully, at a lower rate relative to that expansion.
I'll provide a few more details on the opportunities we're seeing in 2018 later on the call,
but first, I'm going to turn the call over to Bob to take a look at our financials.

Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. As Kevin noted, we are pleased with our
performance this quarter and the portfolio risks we built at the January and April renewals
and remain confident in our strategy given current marketplace dynamics. We believe our
investment portfolio is well positioned given the rising interest rate environment and its
short duration. Our balance sheets, both owned and managed, are well capitalized,
allowing us to take advantage of underwriting and other business opportunities. And
finally, we continue to demonstrate our ability to leverage our well-managed expense
base.
At this time, I'd like to take you through an overview of our financial performance for the
quarter. I'll then discuss our segment results, investment portfolio and capital activities. For
the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we reported net income of $57 million or $1.42 per
common -- per diluted common share, and operating income of $135 million or $3.40 per
diluted common share. Our annualized ROE for the quarter was 5.7%, and our annualized
operating ROE was 13.5%.
During the quarter, our book value per share increased 0.6%, and our tangible book value
per share, including accumulated dividends, increased 0.8%. Underwriting income for the
quarter was $130 million, and we reported a combined ratio of 71%.
For additional details on our quarter results, I will refer to our earnings release and
financial supplements, which we issued last night and can be found on our website.
Let me now shift to our segment results, beginning with the Property segment followed
by the Casualty segment.
During the first quarter of 2018, our Property segment gross premiums written were up
$186 million compared to the first quarter of 2017. A meaningful portion of our catastrophe
line of business renews in the first quarter, and we saw good opportunities to deploy
capital. We raised over $600 million of third-party capital in Upsilon to allow us to take
advantage of these opportunities. As a result, gross premiums written in our cat -catastrophe class of business were $590 million in the quarter, an increase of 42%
compared to the first quarter of 2017. This growth was driven by a combination of rate
increases and a number of new and expanding customer relationships.
Page 3 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

Given these market conditions, we were also able to meaningfully grow the book of
business written through our Upsilon managed joint venture, which accounted for just over
half of that growth.

FINAL

In our Property class of business, gross premiums written were $117 million, an increase of
10% over the comparative quarter, primarily driven by continued growth across our
underwriting platforms.
Ceded premiums written in our Property segment increased 53% to $353 million in the
first quarter of 2018, compared to $231 million in the first quarter of 2017. A meaningful
portion of the growth in our ceded premium written relates to Upsilon, where the gross
premiums written through this vehicle at 1/1 were ceded to its third-party capital partners,
allowing us to continue to execute on our gross to net strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Property segment generated underwriting income of $127 million and a combined
ratio of 43% in the first quarter compared to underwriting income of $91 million and a
combined ratio of 51% in the comparative quarter. Impacting the underwriting results in
our Property segment was favorable development on prior accident year net claims and
claim expenses of $28 million or 12 percentage points.
Within the Property segment, this favorable development was split between Property
catastrophe of $12 million, or 8 percentage points, and other property of $16 million or 20
percentage points. The net favorable development in our other Property class of business
included $27 million related to the large cat events of 2017, which was driven by the
passage of time and information received to date from our cedes. This was partially
offset by some net increases in reserves related to certain attritional claims reported to
us during the quarter.
As communicated to you last quarter, we continue to receive and analyze information
associated with the 2017 large cat events and plan to form a deep dive within our Property
segment related to these events in mid-2018 as our anniversary approaches.
Now moving on to our Casualty segment. Our gross premiums written were up 13% in the
first quarter of 2018, relative to the first quarter of 2017. However, after excluding
premium adjustments totaling approximately 5 percentage points, primarily related to
general casualty and professional liability lines of businesses, the top line increase was in
the mid- to high single digits.
We continued to be pleased with our disciplined growth in this segment and were able to
selectively execute on a number of new deals during the quarter. The casualty segment
generated underwriting income of $3 million and a combined ratio of 98.8% compared to
an underwriting loss of $49 million and a combined ratio of 128% in the comparative
quarter.
Positively impacting the Casualty segment combined ratio was a 21-point decrease in the
net claims and claim expense ratio in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first
quarter of 2017. This improvement was largely attributable to favorable reserve
Page 4 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

FINAL

development of $4 million or 2 percentage points reported in Q1 2018 compared to
adverse development of $30 million or 17 percentage points in the first quarter of 2017,
mainly as a result of the decrease in the Ogden Rate during that period.
Also impacting the Casualty segment's combined ratio was an 8 percentage point
decrease in the underwriting expense ratio. This decrease was primarily driven by an
increase in net premiums earned, while continuing to leverage the Casualty segment's
existing expense base.
Speaking of expenses, we are pleased that we have continued to keep our overall
expense base relatively flat, thereby achieving improved operating efficiencies across the
organization. In addition, we have made some minor adjustments during the first quarter
of 2018 to better align the reporting of our operating and corporate expenses with the
nature of those expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to investments. In the first quarter of 2018, we reported a total investment result
of negative $26 million, resulting in annualized total return of negative 1%. Our total
investment result included $82 million of realized and unrealized losses during the first
quarter 2018. This was largely driven by an upward shift in interest yield curve impacting
our portfolio of fixed maturity investments. This compares to a less pronounced yield
curve impact in the first quarter of 2017. Partially offsetting this was $56 million in net
investment income, largely stemming from our fixed maturity and short-term investment
portfolios.
We benefited from higher average invested assets and the impact of interest rate
increases during the recent periods. The yield to maturity in our fixed maturity and shortterm investment portfolios was 2.9% at March 31, 2018, an increase of 40 basis points
from December 31, 2017.
Our overall investment portfolio remains conservative with respect to interest rate, credit
and duration risk with 88% allocated to fixed maturity in short-term investments with a
high degree of liquidity and modest credit exposure. The duration of our fixed maturity in
short-term investment portfolios is consistent with last quarter of 2.4 years.
Now moving on to our capital management activities. Following the large catastrophe
events of 2017, we deployed capital against well-structured risk to through January and
April renewals. Our balance sheets and joint ventures remain well capitalized as we enter
into the midyear renewals and expectations of continued capital deployment. As a result,
we have not repurchased any of our common shares thus far in 2018. And to reiterate my
comments from recent calls, our approach to capital management has not changed.
When making capital management decisions, we first and foremost look to deploying
capital into underwriting and business opportunities that meet our risk-return hurdles, and
we are pleased that we were successfully able to put more capital to work during the
January and April renewals. We will continue to look for opportunities to deploy capital
into the business as we approach the Florida wind season and are ready to leverage our
superior customer relationships as we work with our customers during the upcoming
midyear renewals.

Page 5 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

And with that, I'd like to turn the call back to Kevin.

Kevin O'Donnell

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thanks, Bob. I'll divide my comments between the Property segment and the Casualty
segment.
Starting with Property. Overall, we grew gross Property written in our Property segment
36% over the comparable quarter last year. Property cat grew 42% with a substantial
portion of this growth in our Upsilon joint venture. As we discussed, we raised capital in
Upsilon late last year in order to take advantage of opportunities at January 1, where
customers chose to grow with us. The remainder of the growth came from a mix of better
rate and new business. The growth at January 1 was possible due to our strategy and
flexible approach to capital. When we see a good opportunity, we're able to execute
quickly. Our diverse capital sources, including the ILS capital deployed through Fibonacci,
Upsilon and Medici provided great assistance in maximizing our performance and the
ability to leverage into the market.
Gross written premiums in other Property also grew by 10% over the comparable quarter
primarily from our European platforms. This growth was also the result of a combination of
rate increases and new business. As previously noted, we experienced solid rate
increases at January 1, albeit at the lower end of expectations. As I discussed on the call
last quarter, loss-affected retro was up the most, averaging between 10% and 25%, with
non-loss affected programs flat to up 10%. On loss-affected U.S. cat business rates were
up between 10% and 20%, and rates on other U.S. cat programs were flat to up 5%. While
rates on other property were up 5% to 10%. Rates in the international Property market
were flat to up 5%.
Japan was a major focus at April 1. The Japanese book continues to be an important
component of the international portfolio. Although demand increased this year, there was
ample supply and renewals were orderly. Japan is viewed as one of the more desirable
regions outside the U.S. In this market, however, incumbency is important. We were able
to grow our Japanese book due to our deep and long-standing relationships with our
customers in the region. Pricing for the Japan renewals was risk adjusted about flat. The
U.S. cat team is currently busy with the June 1 renewals, which are dominated by Florida
and other peak zone U.S. risk. Unfortunately, early signs indicate capital is being deployed
aggressively as third-party capital continues to seek share in the Florida market.
In addition, we do not anticipate significant new demand in Florida. These factors lead us
to expect that rate increases at midyear are likely to be single-digit risk-adjusted. We
hope to see some opportunities to grow at June 1, but do not expect to be able to do so
anywhere near the rate we did at January 1. This is part of the reason why we grew so
assertively in the first quarter.
Florida continues to be an important market for us. We will always be there to support our
customers and rapidly pay claims in the aftermath of natural disasters as we did last year
with Hurricane Irma. That said, Florida plays a significantly less substantial role in our

Page 6 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

FINAL

portfolio now than it did even just 5 years ago. Consequently, rate changes in the Florida
market do not affect our bottom line profitability as much as they once did.
We continued to assess the 2017 catastrophe events as we received additional
information from our customers. As I've discussed before, each catastrophic event is
unique. In Hurricane Harvey, for example, we expected to see more risk losses than
currently experienced in our other property business. As Bob discussed, however, these
risk losses have not emerged as expected, and consequently, we lowered our estimate.
Similarly, the anticipated commercial losses in Hurricane Maria haven't materialized as
quickly as expected. But given the size of Maria and its continuing impact on Puerto Rico,
it's too early to determine if this is indicative of lower actual losses. It is possible that
losses just haven't been reported yet due to conditions on the ground. Hurricane Irma and
the California wildfires are developing as expected.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're very fortunate to have decades of experience with catastrophes in general, and US
hurricanes in particular. We have our own proprietary post-loss estimation tools and loss
development curves. More importantly, our years of experience estimating losses and
settling claims provided a superior insight into the recent loss development in Hurricane
Irma. For example, we were not surprised by the large number of reopened claims
insurers are experiencing with relatively high levels of loss adjustment expenses. It's a
similar situation with the California wildfires. Once again, our experience and proprietary
tools and models provided us better insight into the potential impacts of these events.
Consequently, recognizing that the Northern California fires are a tail event, we are
comfortable with our loss estimate.
Our WeatherPredict subsidiary recently compiled a white paper on the 2017 wildfires,
analyzing the conditions that led to these historic losses. Combination of heavy rains in the
first 2 months of 2017, followed by the most extreme heat and drought conditions since
1895 resulted in large amounts of very combustible fuel for the fire. High winds then
contributed to quickly spread the conflagration, while at the same time, overwhelming fire
suppression efforts. These conditions, combined with high building density of wood
structures in the wildland-urban interface, resulted in historic wildfire losses. This deep
insight into the nature and courses of wildfires gave us a distinct advantage in estimating
losses at the time of the event, while also improving our ability to serve our customers
and provide them consistent underwriting and capital going forward.
Moving to our Casualty segment. Gross premiums were up 13% versus the comparable
quarter. This number probably overstates how much we believe this book actually grew,
however. As Bob pointed out, the book grew somewhere closer to 8% once premium
adjustments are backed out. Going forward, there should be some growth in this
segment from business already on our books. But while we are looking hard to create
new opportunities, we do not expect significant growth in new business absent
improvements in the market.
For our Casualty segment, this is a busy period of the year. Just over 40% of the book
renews between March 1 and July 1. During the January renewal, the casualty reinsurance

Page 7 of 16



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

market exhibited some favorable adjustments in reinsurance terms and conditions. In
addition, reinsurers exercised relatively more discipline. At April 1, there was less
overcapacity and a reduced willingness in the market to support programs at expiring
terms. Underlying rates continue to increase modestly in high severity lines of business.
The bigger question will be whether insurance rates can stay ahead of loss trends, which
have been rising, most notably in lines such as excess casualty. We have good visibility into
loss trends and have been raising awareness of market conditions among our customers
in order to help them navigate the current environment.
Mortgage business continues to be attractive despite recent headlines of decreasing PMI
rates and increased competition. These developments could make mortgage business
more competitive over time. They have low direct impact on the reinsurance that we
assume, however, due to the levels we attach at and the structures of the risk. We are a
recognized leader in credit reinsurance products, such as mortgage, and expect to
continue to maintain this franchise going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Across our Casualty segment, we continue to manage our share of business within
classes of risk in order to weight the portfolio towards the most profitable classes.
Ultimately, our goal is to improve faster than the market and our strategy to achieve this
goal has 3 components: first, extend expertise, strengthening leadership and creating
best-in-class tools to optimize our portfolio of business; second, continuing to focus on
customer relationships; and third, targeting an overweight position in the most profitable
classes and actively managing the portfolio.
In our ventures unit, we raised $70 million of notes from Fibonacci Re in February, covering
a portfolio of U.S. risk. Innovative solutions, such as Fibonacci, let us match the right capital
to the right risk at the right time. This allows us to facilitate efficient bespoke solutions for
our customers. Our ventures unit is a critical component of this execution of our strategy
as it provides us with the flexible capital to meet the needs of our customers. The
uniqueness of our structure and access to rated and ILS capacities is critical in today's
market.
In conclusion, the first quarter was strong thanks to low catastrophe activity, continued
growth in premiums and prior year favorable development. Coming up to the midyear
renewals, we remain focused on implementing our strategy and maximizing shareholder
value. We will continue to build our book by leveraging our platforms and our ability to
optimally construct portfolios against all sources of capital. Rising interest rates have had a
short-term impact on our investment portfolio, but will benefit us over the long-term.
Overall, I look forward to 2018, knowing that our team has the right strategy to deliver
shareholder value. And as always, we will focus relentlessly on our 3 superiors: of superior
capital management, superior customer relationships and superior risk selection.
Thank you, and with that, we'll turn it over to questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Page 8 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan
Stanley. Your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning. First, my question is on the June 1 renewals. You guided
single-digit rate increases. My understanding is that there will be more loss impact to the
county in Florida at June 1 renewals, so which imply the weighted average price increase
should be better than the January 1, but it seems like you see differently.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yes, I think in when looking at how we were thinking about constructing our portfolio for
2018, we had the expectation that the greatest rate change would be at 1/1, which is one
of the reasons we leveraged into the opportunity at that point in time. Right now, we're
working on the Florida renewal, so there's still more price discovery that will take place.
But at the end of the day, we've constructed the portfolio based on the way we think the
market will shake out. We think there is lot of supply looking for Florida risk right now,
which is the reason we have a muted view of rate change in Florida compared to what we
saw at 1/1.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

Okay, that's good. And then back to your first quarter premium growth in Property cat. So
if I think simplistically, and the rate increase in mid-single-digit at Jan 1, and last two years,
rate have been declining probably in mid- to high single digits, then effectively your rate
only back to where they were 2 years ago, 2016. At that time, you were actually actively
pulling back from Property cat underwriting because you don't feel this rate was attractive.
What is different now given the pricing maybe just going back to that level?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So I think it is common to think about what level pricing return to from a gross perspective,
but the way we look at building these portfolios is on a net basis. And one of the larger
components of growth we had at 1/1 was in the retro market, both within our portfolio and
using the Upsilon vehicle, where rate changes were greatest. So I think it's -- thinking
about what macro comments people made about what the market is and kind of what
year that equates back to is certainly one way to look at it, but we look at it as really how
do we construct the portfolio on a net basis, knowing that different lines of business and
different layers within programs will move differently.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

Okay. You don't disclose your PML, so given the premium increases, if 2017 were to
repeat, will you have more or less net losses?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So I think, that's a better conversation to have as we get closer to wind season, when we
have really gone through what is likely to occur to our book with the renewals for the
Florida, and also as we complete the net construction of our portfolio. So rather than think
Page 9 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

about whether 2017 -- 2018 will look like, 2017, I would say it's too early to tell because we
have a meaningful Florida renewal coming up, and we're still working on structuring the
way our net portfolios will be positioned.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, great. Well, thank you so much for your time.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Sure. Thank you.

Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Elyse Greenspan from Wells Fargo. Your
line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you. Good morning. My first question, I also wanted to get a little bit more color
on how you're thinking about the midyear renewals. I guess, a couple of questions here.
On your last quarter call, you guys had mentioned that you had some multiyear cover that
came up for renewal midyear that could potentially lead to stronger rates. Is that still the
case or I guess, just based off what you see the market, you just think the rates won't be
there? And then my second question is, I mean, we're still a little bit of a ways away from
the midyear renewals. Given the amount of capital that's come back in since last year, as
well is the fact that 1/1 fell short of the expectations, would you be surprised if rates were
actually down at the midyear renewals?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So there's a couple of questions here. Let me just start with the multiyear cover, and then
I'll kind of move through them. So the multiyear covers are kind of spread, often they are
3-year deals and they are staggered each year. With the rate level changes I highlighted
in my comments, for the June and July renewals, I would say '17 is going to look a lot like
'18 -- excuse me, '18 is going to look a lot like '17 from that perspective, just as to how
much is renewing and we'll have rate change on what renews, but it's not -- having
multiyear deals or not, is not going to be a meaningful mover for our profitability. With
regard to price, I think, there might be elements or there might be layers within Florida
that have a risk-adjusted reduction. It's not my main thesis as to how the market will
ultimately renew, but I do think the amount of capacity seeking to be deployed in Florida
will outstrip demand, which will definitely mute the level of price increase that's
achievable.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. And then in terms of capital, you guys conserve capital following the loss
just to take advantage of a stronger 1/1. As we think about the midyear renewals
potentially being weaker than January 1, and you guys are sitting on a strong capital
position now, how do you think about M&A? At what point does that more enter the
Page 10 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

equation, if rates continue to fall short at midyear, and then depending upon the loss
level, maybe even go lower at next January?

FINAL

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Sure. I think one thing to be clear is rates are not below our expectations. Rates were in
the lower end of what we expected. So they're within the range of expectations that we
had, but I think your comments are probably more that they were below what the market
expected. So I think we're in a unique position to have great data over many years, and
our ability to build pro forma portfolios continues to become more precise each year. With
regard to excess capital, I think, we were pleased that as our first objective is to deploy
capital into a market where we're getting good returns, we were able to do that so far
this year. As we finish with the Florida renewals and the structuring of our net portfolios,
we'll make the determination as to whether we want more capital or risk or less going into
this wind season. With regard to how that forms M&A, I think from our perspective, we
feel like we're in a great spot, and if there are opportunities for us to deploy capital
organically, we'll absolutely do that. And if there's inorganic opportunities to deploy capital
that further our strategy and financially viable, we'll absolutely take a look at those as well.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

A - Kevin O'Donnell

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. Thank you.

Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Buckingham Research
Group. Your line is open.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Thanks and good morning and congrats on the print. Two questions. So the first question
goes back to the comments you made on the mortgage reinsurance business. And I
wasn't clear what you were trying to suggest. Were you trying to suggest that based on
your position, gaining pricing declines at the market still do not impact you to that extent?
Maybe just expand on that a bit more.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Sure. So we like the mortgage portfolio that we've written. And the earned premium in
our mortgage book, much of it was originated in 2013 to 2017, which obviously had a good
profile of risk. The pressure on pricing that we're seeing now, it was something that we
expected and we think it's normal within any insurance or financial market for there to be
that sort of cyclical move between the excess rate and not. We think the mortgage
business is really no different than that. And although rates are down for the first quarter
that we've observed in 2018, we still think there's good adequacy in the rates that we're
seeing. But more importantly than rate, what we're spending a lot of time looking at is
Page 11 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

other risk metrics. FICO score, LTV, DTI, large -- and making sure that the layering of
these factors is being reflected in the price that we're getting and making sure that we're
structuring caps against those metrics.

FINAL

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Got it. Now that's fair. The other question I had was going back to the previous discussion
on capital. Obviously you've made an investment in Catalina, and then there's Langhorne,
is that how we should view further, I guess, investments or how you would view the
market as, I guess, more opportunistic versus doing the old-school sort of consolidation?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
I don't see Catalina or Langhorne as anything different than what we've historically done in
our ventures group. With Catalina, we have rights to reinsurance programs, and there's
also opportunities for us to partner with them where there's a live book in conjunction with
an acquisition of a runoff book. So that sort of partnership is something that we've done
for many years. It might be a little bit different approach to it with them being a runoff
company. Langhorne, again, we've partnered with lots of people over the years and
partnering with a leader in life Re, against our ability to find capital and to build unique
structures, I think again, is something that we've done for many years. So I wouldn't see it
as any shift in the way we're deploying capital. It was just -- those two opportunities
happened to come together at the same time, so it may have looked more like a shift,
but it's a normal process for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Got it. That's helpful. And just a final question. Going back to the discussion, I guess, Kai or
someone else had a question on some pricing and the growth. Is it fair to say that your
retro vehicles such as Upsilon, et cetera, do they position you, I guess, more favorably to
take benefit of pockets of marketplace versus other competitors, and hence, we should
view this profile as different from any other traditional reinsurer? Is that -- I guess,
everyone is trying to figure out the growth numbers here versus the market pricing
discussion?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. I think we are unique in several ways. One is our ability to use the data that we have
to forecast where we think the market is going to be. And as I mentioned, we're
constantly working on fine tuning and adding more precision to the pro forma portfolios
that we're building and then writing into those. I think the access to third-party capital and
the ability for us to deploy that where we there's good opportunity for that capital to
meet their return objectives is unique, and then our ability to figure out what capital goes
to -- what risk goes to what capital and then how to structure the net portfolios, again, is
something that the tools and experience we have is difficult to replicate. So I feel like
we're in a unique position to build industry-leading cat portfolios, and I think what you saw
at this 1/1 is our leveraging into that.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Got it/ Thanks for the answers. And good luck for the future.
Page 12 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Appreciate it. Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. And your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith of UBS. Your line
is open.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. A couple of quick questions here. First one, I know you talked about
growing kind of your expense base a little bit here, investing in the business. And I noticed
that G&A expenses, if I factor in corporate, were down about 9% in the quarter year-overyear. How should we think about that here going forward?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Brian, a couple things that I pointed out in my comments is we continue to try and
leverage the growth of the platform, through keeping a focus on operating expenses. We
have seen some reductions, that's in the percentage, but that's generally through a lot of
leverage we have out there, we did have some overrides. But going forward, we expect
to continue to invest in the platform, but it's a balance between the profitability and
maintaining that leverage is how we see it going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

So the down 9%, there wasn't anything unusual in that number?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Down 9%, we did have an increase in overrides on the operational side, which did bring it
down some. The core operating costs were down slightly just as we continue to focus on
it, and we did do a revaluation -- a reevaluation of what goes into corporate versus the
segments, and you can see that the corporate side went up just a little bit. But you'll
continue to see some growth over the course of the years, like I said, balancing that
growth between managing the platforms and leveraging that growth.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Sounds good. And then next question, just looking at kind of your book yield on your
investment portfolio. I would've thought, I mean, I saw in the short-term investment kind
of pop nicely. Should we see that kind of move up on your just general fixed income
portfolio given what happened with yields in the marketplace?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

As I said in the comments, that's right, Brian, the short term did go up. Obviously, we're
seeing more movement in the short end of the curve. It's been out there. We expect the
shorter-term rates to continue to go up with what the Fed's been saying. With a duration
of 2.4 years, we expect to be able to move with that over time. So we feel we're in a
Page 13 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

good position. It's been reflected. You've seen the yield go up slightly to 2.9%, which is
the new money yield. So as the Fed continues to raise on a shorter end, given the
duration of our portfolio, you should see some advances with that.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

FINAL

Great, thank you.

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields from KBW. Your line is open.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Thanks. Good evening. Kevin, I want to go back to your comments about how you're
anticipating sort of the pressure that we're seeing from excess capacity? Longer term, if
you look out like five years, how much worse can aggregate returns in Property
catastrophe get compared to where they are now?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So I think you're talking about my comments with regard to Florida. So I'll put it in
(inaudible), Florida is about 5% of our premium now. We recognize that when you look at
where third-party capital is most likely looking to deploy and it's going to be -- we believe
in peak Atlantic risk, and obviously in the Florida market. So our ability to construct a
portfolio where Atlantic hurricane is still our peak risk, but to have diversified the way in
which we're building that portfolio away from Florida, I think, does anesthetize us a bit
from the strong appetite third-party capital has for the domestic Florida market.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. And same sort of question, again taking a few-year outlook, what should we
expect in terms of alternative capital pressuring non-catastrophe and non-property lines?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
I think if you were to have this conversation with us 10 years ago, we would've thought
that third-party capital would have looked more horizontally across different lines of
business and entered, found ways to come into Casualty and other lines. And I think on
the purest sense, we've seen third-party capital drill down and try to get closer to
insurance risk. There are other vehicles associated more -- associated with the hedgefund type approach where there's Casualty business that one could argue has moved to
the third-party capital model. But the long-tail nature of it, there's security concerns, all
that stuff, is a substantial optical for that capital to come into other lines. I do think there is
opportunities for it to come in, but it will take longer for those structures to be developed.

Page 14 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

A - Kevin O'Donnell

FINAL

Sure.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

Thank you for the follow-up. I have a question on the Casualty and Specialty business. The
combined ratio, underlying combined ratio improved 10 points year-over-year, but it's still
above 100%. So I just wonder what's your desired level of profitability for that business as
that business now matures. And how long will it take to get there?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
As I mentioned, we believe that there are green shoots within the casualty market. I see
rates moving up particularly in some of the more hazardous classes. I think it's a question
as to whether it can stay ahead of some of the underlying trends. I think of that book over
10 years, and where we are now, the book does need some rate enhancement for what I
think of as a sustainable return for over a 10-year period. I think the way we constructed
the book, it's poised to leverage into a better market where we can restructure some
ceded and we have, over the years, we've built great access to the risk there. So I
wouldn't say that what we're seeing today is what I would want to see for a 10-year
average, but to be in that business, you're going to have to manage the book through
times where there is some degree of rate pressure, knowing that it's going to move back
to greater rate adequacy over time.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 18669701 <GO>}

Thanks again.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. Thanks guys.

Operator
And there are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to Mr. O'Donnell
for closing remarks.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Thank you all for participating in today's call and we look forward to our call in a couple
months' time. Thanks again.

Page 15 of 16



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-05-02

Operator

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

Page 16 of 16

