Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernie Hickman, CEO-Legal & General Insurance
Chris Knight, Chief Executive Officer-Legal & General Retirement, Retail
Kerrigan Procter, Chief Executive Officer-Legal & General Capital and Executive
Director
Laura Mason, CEO-Legal & General Retirement (Institutional)
Mark Joseph Zinkula, Director, CEO-Legal & General Investment Management
Nigel D. Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Simon Gadd, Chief Risk Officer
Stuart Jeffrey Davies , Group Chief Financial Officer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Angel Kansagra, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Head-Research

Bloomberg Transcript

Colm Kelly, Analyst
David Andrew Bracewell, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig N Paterson, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our Annual Results Meeting for Full Year 2017. The
usual housekeeping announcements first. There are no fire drills planned, please turn
mobiles off, understand the disclaimers apply to forward-looking statements.
2017 financial highlights were formidable. Operating profit up by 32% to £2.06 billion, PBT
also up by 32% to £2.09 billion. EPS up 50% to £0.3187, and ROE of 25.6%. Our results do
include a mortality reserve release of £332 million for the full year, that is £274 million post
tax. This led to an additional £250 million of dividends from our LGAS entity to group,
increasing remittances.

Page 1 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

There was a one-off boost to EPS from the reduction to the U.S. corporate tax rate, which
was positive for our U.S. insurance business. Legal & General is strongly cash generative
with net release from continuing operations also up 9% to £1.4 billion. And we are
structured to enable cash to flow easily up to group without trap cash or trap capital in
subsidiaries. Remittances were £1.6 billion, up from £1.1 billion for 2016. We're therefore
confident in recommending a 7% in the full year dividend to £0.1535, another terrific year.
I would, of course, like to thank all of my colleagues and thanks particularly to Steve Ellis,
who's sitting in the second row here and the team in our lifetime mortgage business. In
less than two years, they've created a market-leading business with a 30%-plus market
share and it is based in Solihull. Proving you can grow new entrepreneurial businesses in
financial services outside of London, a model we've also replicated in Barnsley.
This slide captures medium-term trends in our financial performance, showing consistent
delivery of strong financial metrics. Our goal is to make our medium-term trends our longterm trends. Operating profit has grown by 12%, net release by 9% and return on equity
has grown from 14.9% to 25.6%. Net release retained after payment of the dividend has
averaged over £500 million over the last three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

You should also not the book value per share has also grown by 7% and grew 13% last
year. So, in 2017, 7% DPS growth, coupled with 13% increase in book value per share, was
over 20%. Although we have reported a £0.32 of earnings per share, if you take of the
effects of the 2017 mortality release and the one-off, one-off change in the U.S. tax rates,
we delivered a £0.231 of EPS, and 9% growth on last year which is in line with our stated
long-term EPS ambition.
We've been busy for several years at Legal & General shaping our company for the
future, enabling us to focus on our core businesses, which can drive real earnings growth
for shareholders, and which are economically and socially useful in our chosen markets.
This has included de-cluttering or disposing of sub-scale legacy or non-strategic
businesses. Our disposals include our old-fashioned businesses in the Netherlands,
France, Germany, Egypt, Gulf, Bahrain, Ireland, and our less successful acquisitions, Suffolk
Life and Cofunds. Some of this has also been strategic, with the most important later step
being the sale of our Mature Savings business announced in December for £650 million.
We also secured an ongoing long-term investment management agreement for LGIM.
And with Swiss Re, we have a great partner for our longstanding customers. We have
significantly reshaped the group over the past few years to a simple, focused, modern
business model. This reshaping has allowed us to redefine our strategy. It is unchanged
overall, straightforward, and consistent, but we've clarified and simplified what we do. The
strategy is effected in three broad business areas: investing in annuities, investment
management, and insurance.
Our strategic purpose is unchanged; to improve the lives of our customers, to build a
better society, and in doing so, create value for our shareholders. By aligning these
interests, we create the inclusive capitalism of our annual reports. Our divisional structure
is retained, and I'm fortunate to have an outstanding leadership team: Laura, Chris,

Page 2 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Cheryl, Mark, Kerrigan, Jackie, and Bernie, are all here today sitting in the front row. And
we are delighted to have added Jeff Davis, Paul Miller and Emma Hardaker-Jones to our
leadership team, as well as welcoming John Godfrey back from his sabbatical advising the
prime minister.
Our strong collaboration across teams and the synergies between the divisions means
that we can collectively perform better than the sum of our parts. I will talk in more depth
about the strategy later this morning, once Jeff has taken you through the numbers. But
the resulting threefold business is focused on our core strengths, modern products,
technology innovation, and a footprint which is global for LGEN, but to-date largely UK and
U.S. for the rest of the group.
Moreover, we deliver sustainable profitable growth. And our strategy continues to be
driven by six long-term growth drivers: aging demographics, globalizing asset markets,
creating real assets, welfare reform, technological innovation, and creating today's capital.
All play a part in creating market conditions from which we can benefit, and they are more
relevant today than ever.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in 2017, we demonstrated how we were able to use them for customers, for
shareholders, and for society. Strategy in the abstract can be elegant, but execution is
paramount. We are applied thinkers. This rather busy slide illustrates progress in areas
where we are positioned to benefit from the growth drivers to become leaders in our
chosen markets.
Highlights include LGIM approaching £1 trillion of AUM. Group-wide direct investments
increasing 44% to £14.4 billion and we became the first company to achieve £1 billion of
lifetime mortgage advances in a year, as well as the £463 billion solutions business with a
40% plus market share; and as Mark will tell you, tremendous global growth opportunities.
I'm also pleased to say the Bernie Hickman and Steve Griffiths did a great job in 2017 of
turning around our underperforming group protection business, now profitable in H2 and
beyond.
Taken collectively, the simplified strategy and the excellent execution by a strong
management team has delivered another terrific set of numbers.
I'll now hand over to our CFO, Jeff Davies, who'll take you through them in more detail.
Jeff ?

Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to run through the financials for the
year, our dividend, and capital position before handing back to Nigel for more on the
group strategy and Q&A.
As Nigel has already said, it's been an outstanding year at a headline level, with operating
profit from the continuing operations up 35%. This includes the recent changes we've
made to our reserving for longevity, but has been adjusted for the sale of our Mature
Page 3 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Savings business. As we flagged at the half year, we reviewed our longevity improvement
assumptions and we moved to an adjusted version of the next actuarial table, CMI 2015.
This made the total released in the year £332 million. Even without this prudent release,
we grew operating profit from continuing operations by an impressive 12% as a result of
our excellent execution and clear focused strategy.
Our key divisions performed strongly in 2017, contributing to the 9% increase in net
release from continuing operations. In line with half year, on top of the net release, there
is now in total a £250 million additional dividend from the LGAS subsidiary in respect to
the mortality release. When added together, this means the group generated £1.7 billion
total release, up 21% on 2016. On internal dividends, the cash remitted to group in
respect of 2017's results was up 46% on last year, at £1.6 billion. We regrew our return on
equity to 25.6%.
Finally, as a high-level summary of our capital position, the Group's Solvency II net surplus
generation was £1.2 billion, up from £1.1 billion last year, leading to a coverage ratio of
189%. This net surplus generation will continue to grow over time. As an additional point,
our coverage ratio as of March 5 was an estimated 196%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our dividend policy based on operating metrics remains unchanged. The board took into
account the strong 2017 results together with the medium-term underlying business
prospects and has therefore announced a full-year dividend of £0.1535, which is up 7% on
the previous year.
Turning to the operating profit from our divisions, we saw good growth in many areas.
Our Institutional LGR business, which deals with the corporate pension schemes, grew
39% on a reported basis. And after excluding the mortality release, it was a strong 10%.
This was as a result of the larger opening position together with a 7% growth in new
business sales.
Our Retail LGR business grew 116%, and a great 26% after excluding the mortality release.
New distribution arrangements as the preferred provider of annuities to Aegon and other
DC platforms help drive this.
LGIM grew an impressive 9% on the back of record external inflows and strong asset
performance, while maintaining discipline in its market-leading cost/income ratio.
LGC was up 6%, benefiting from returns from the division's £3.8 billion traded asset
portfolio and continued strong performance in the £1.5 billion of direct investments.
LGI contributed £303 million, which was flat year on year with growth in its U.S. division,
offset by the previously-reported adverse claims experience in Group Protection and
lower long-term lapses on older business in Retail Protection.
And finally, GI contributed £37 million, down £15 million from 2016, predominantly due to
the impact of increased costs from escape of water in line with industry experience as we
Page 4 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

reported at the half year. We're happy to say we've not seen a repeat of this in the
second half.
In terms of divisional performance, I'll start with LGR. We've already covered the 13%
operating profit growth, even without the mortality releases. LGR's net release was up
16% to £688 million, benefiting from a new business surplus increase of 13%. This was as a
result of securing attractive spreads on direct investments whilst maintaining our discipline
when pricing new business. We've also warehoused more DI than last year, which we can
now apply to new business in 2018.
Our total annuity sales of £4.6 billion with a new business value add of 8.5% was achieved
with a regulatory capital strain of less than 4%, which is within our target low to mid-single
digit range.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the mortality release, I want to illustrate how our change in assumptions in respect to
future improvements drove the £206 million that you see. As you know, at the half year,
we decided to release £126 million of prudence in our reserves in light of the continuing
high number of actual deaths we experienced compared to expectations.
On the back of further analysis of our own mortality experience and the trends we have
been seeing, we've also decided to move to an adjusted version of the next actuarial
model, CMI 2015, for our longevity improvement assumptions. These adjustments are
made to reflect how our annuitants differ from the broader population and apply some
smoothing. As you can hopefully see from this illustrative graph, our model still anticipates
the same long-term improvement assumptions. Moving to CMI 2015 simply seems you will
experience slightly lower improvements in getting there.
You could see this is a minimal change in our total life expectancy assumption, illustrating
the prudence of this release. Going forward, we will continue to scrutinize the likelihood of
a sustained slowdown in mortality improvement as population data and that on our own
book emerges and consider whether to make further changes to our best estimates
assumptions. If we do choose to make changes, it will be in stages and over several years.
In the coming year, we will consider the appropriateness of moving to CMI 2016. As an
indication, simply moving mechanically to this table would have a similar sort of economic
impact as the total release this year.
This table breaks down the new business flows in LGR. We wrote £3.4 billion of UK bulk
annuities in 2017, as demand remained strong, with £1.4 billion of this transferring from
LGIM clients, giving further evidence of the unique breadth of pension de-risking solutions
we can offer clients. Additionally, we wrote a further 15 deals in the U.S., bringing the total
business written there to over $1.6 billion. Client demand from UK pension plans remain
substantial and the pipeline of transactions we are in active discussions with has risen to
£17 billion. The U.S. defined benefit pensions market has similar potential with the market
growing year on year. We will continue with our measured approach as we look to expand.
Our LGR Retail business had a particularly strong year, with new individual annuity business
up 78% due to the new distribution agreements and demand continuing to return to this
Page 5 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

market. Also in LGR Retail, our lifetime mortgage business wrote loans of just over £1
billion. The market has the potential to grow rapidly with £1.5 trillion of UK housing equity
owned by the over 55s. We expect up to £4 billion to be transacted in 2018, up from £3.1
billion last year. And with our 33% market share and great distribution network, we are
well placed to benefit from this growth.
The asset portfolio back in our annuity liabilities has expanded its range and diversity in
2017 and remains defensive in nature. 20% of the portfolio is in sovereign-like assets and
over two-thirds of it is A rated or better. In addition, we continue to have a £2.7 billion
credit default reserve held against it. We now have 17% of the portfolio in direct
investments with stable income often collateralized or secured on great counterparties.
Overall, this is still less than we hold in sovereigns, which is an opportunity to create
further value.

Bloomberg Transcript

LGIM had a year of strong growth with record external net flows of £43.5 billion, which is
5% of open in AUM, and £33 billion of this from international clients. Operating profit grew
9% to £400 million, and we maintained a steady cost/income ratio of 50% due to the
scalable nature of our business model, offset by continued investment in our growth
strategy and increased regulatory costs.
Positive flows across virtually all of our channels, regions and investment areas
demonstrates the breadth of LGIM's business model. We continue to grow our UK DB
business and remain the largest manager of assets in this market, and the market-leading
provider of LDI solutions. We are also the largest manager of DC assets in the UK, with
good growth in the past year, and the market leader in workplace Mastertrusts. Our UK
retail business has also grown rapidly with record net inflows of £3 billion and ranking third
in net flows for the second consecutive year.
As I mentioned, nearly three-quarters of up flows last year came from international clients
with our international AUM at £228 billion. Our U.S. business contributes significantly to this
with assets of $189 billion across an expanding range of strategies for 350 clients. Our
thought leadership in the U.S. DB market, as plans increasingly implement LDI strategies
and consistent strong performance in our range of active fixed income funds, and now
complemented by our more recently established index team and DC proposition.
But it is not just the U.S. where we have seen success and see significant market potential.
In Europe, we had £12.6 billion of net inflows, and we now have £44 billion in client assets.
Our acquisition announced in November of Canvas, the ETF platform, will provide clients
with access to one of the fastest-growing segments in asset management, broadening
our geographical reach and product range.
In the Gulf, we had £3.6 billion of net inflows and now have £36 billion of assets as we
deepen our relationships in this region. We've established a distribution office in Tokyo,
trading and fund management capabilities in Hong Kong, and won our first Australian
client. As well as broadening our U.K. footprint, our global brand is well recognized, and
we have been winning mandates whilst we pursue a focused and disciplined expansion.

Page 6 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

LGC continues to grow assets and profits as it diversifies the asset classes it invests in.
Operating profit was up 6%. And PBT is £363 million, with strong performances from both
the direct investment and traded portfolios. In the direct portfolio, a combination of asset
disposals and sales of funds generated £369 million of proceeds, exceeding our target of
£250 million for 2017. And importantly, our disposals during the year met our return
expectations of at least 10% to 12% IRR. These sales proceeds were recycled as we
invested or committed almost £700 million into new investments, as well as into our
existing portfolio, including new investments in later living as well as expanding our Build
to Rent fund with LGIM.
Our operating business investments also delivered strong results, with Pemberton and
NTR expanding rapidly, and CALA delivering revenue of £776 million, more than three
times the amount it achieved the year we acquired our share.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our Housing portfolio, we will continue the expansion of our Build-to-Sell and Build-toRent offerings. And we have measured plans to develop businesses in the later living and
affordable housing sector. We intend to grow the Urban Regeneration portfolio through
further investment into existing projects and the regeneration of cities where we do not
yet have a presence.
For LGI, operating profit for the division as a whole was flat year-on-year. Within that
result, U.S. protection grew 5% with good premium growth of 8% and favorable mortality
experience. In UK protection, our profits of £209 million were impacted by the previously
reported adverse claims experience in group protection, as well as some lower long-term
lapse experience on all the business in retail protection. The range of actions taken by
group protection, including pricing at scheme renewals, has returned the business to
profitability in the second half and we anticipate it will continue on this trajectory in the
coming year.
The margins across UK protection remain robust in a competitive environment. During
2017, our U.S. business launched a direct-to-consumer sales channel and work is ongoing
to digitally transform the business. This will continue in 2018 with the launch of an
application that provides an instant underwriting decision for more customers and digital
collection of medical information to increase efficiency. As usual, LGI America has already
paid its 2018 dividend. This year, it was $105 million, up from $100 million paid last year.
In GI, gross premiums increased 13% to £369 million, whilst maintaining our pricing
discipline in a competitive market. 38% of our premium now comes from our direct
channel. As flagged at half year, our operating profit was affected predominantly by the
impact of increased costs from escape of water claims in Q1. We took action to address
this and saw improved claims experience in the second half, as can be seen by the 92%
combined ratio.
GI has now won seven distribution agreements in the last two years with major UK
financial institutions, several of which will commence in the first half of 2018. And we are
diversifying our proposition with our acquisition of pet insurance provider Buddies. These
factors combined to give good prospects of growth in 2018.

Page 7 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

On Savings, the team did a great job in delivering the 2017 results amid a few distractions.
As you're all aware, we announced the sale of our Mature Savings business to Swiss Re in
December for £650 million, achieving a sale price of one-time Solvency II own funds. The
profit of over £400 million will be recognized when the Part VII completes, which is
targeted for mid-2019.
Moving on to our capital position. The group's Solvency II surplus increased £1.2 billion
since the last year-end to £6.9 billion. Our Solvency II coverage ratio calculated on a
shareholder basis increased to 189%, up from 171% last year. As I mentioned earlier, our
coverage ratio as of 5th of March was estimated at 196%, reflecting increases in interest
rates since the year-end. Our economic capital showed similar growth over the last year
as expected.
We have expanded our usual Solvency II surplus bridge to explain the £1.2 billion total
movement over the year. As we guided, our operational surplus generation has increased
to £1.3 billion. The impact of the amortization of the opening Transitional was broadly
offset by the corresponding release in risk margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

The impact of writing new business in the year was a very capital-efficient strain of less
than £100 million. Operating variances of £0.4 billion, including the impact of the change in
our mortality assumptions, experience variances, changes to model calibration and
management actions. These actions include changes to asset mix, matching adjustment
optimization, and hedging strategies.
We also chose to strengthen our interest and inflation calibration, which offset some of
the benefit in the second half. Our market movements for the year were a net zero with
equity market rises offset by credit spread narrowing and small interest, inflation and FX
changes.
And finally on Solvency II, our usual slide gives you our estimates of the present value of
Solvency II surplus emergence from the key elements of the new business we wrote. As
we have already noted, our margins continue to be resilient whilst maintaining pricing
discipline. For a small strain of less than £100 million, we have created £564 million of
value.
So, to conclude for me, even without the mortality releases or one-off U.S. tax benefit, our
business produced excellent growth with an operating profit increase of 12% and an EPS
growth of 9%. This is in line with our previous EPS guidance and an indication of our
ongoing ambition. On longevity, we maintain our prudent and staged approach to the
trends we are seeing, and we'll investigate the move to CMI 2016 in light of our 2017
experience. All our businesses have great growth opportunities and are back by strong
balance sheet and cash position whilst delivering excellent ROE.
I'll now hand back to Nigel to go into more detail on these growth opportunities.

Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 8 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Thank you, Jeff. Clearly, this has been another great year of delivery. I'm both very
pleased for my colleagues, I'm very proud and privileged to be the CEO of Legal &
General. Record annuity assets, record assets under management and record insurance
premiums. But what is really exciting, as Jeff mentioned, is looking forward, how our
reshape business and focus businesses can address and build on so many global trends
which are moving in our favor.
Our strategy begins with our six long-term growth drivers, which are highly relevant and
drive continued growth here at Legal & General. To pick on a few, the aging
demographics combined with pension and welfare reform is still leading to the significant
DB to DC shift, which continues to gather pace. We now manage £68 billion of DC assets,
the largest manager in the UK. We're highly focused on the whole DB journey, from
LGIM's LDI products to buy-ins and buy-outs of LGR, and providing the direct investment
to deliver the returns expected by our policyholders and by our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're also actively growing in DC both in the U.K. and so far in the U.S. Technological
innovation drives so much today, but we, Legal & General, are more than keeping pace.
Investing today's capital could provide a threefold benefit: solving customers' problems,
building a better society, and delivering strong returns for Legal & General shareholders.
Inclusive capitalism means finding solutions that work for both Legal & General and for
society. Having exited from some businesses, we can really concentrate our attention and
energies on those that can make a real difference and deliver our unique model of
inclusive capitalism. Within Investing & Annuities, we will continue to drive our global
leadership in pension de-risking while investing policyholder and shareholder capital in
direct investments to address the societal need in infrastructure and housing.
And then Investment Management, we continue to build out our world-class international
businesses. And we are addressing the UK savings gap by growing our retail investments
and workplace savings businesses. Finally within Insurance, we're seeking to harness
technology to become a fully digital and data-enabled insurer, while addressing a clear
customer need for financial protection.
The numbers Jeff took you through show we are very capable capitalists. But what we do
also meets real customer and real societal need. Let me take you through each business
area briefly. First, LGR within Investing & Annuities. LGR Institutional is our largest business
and we continue to be really excited by its growth prospects. Our franchise, particularly
including LGIM, gives us a differentiated ability to source attractive business.
Our financial and brand strength allows us to remain disciplined in our pricing. Laura has
picked up the reins and has promised me another great year in 2018. In LGR, Chris has
terrific plans to further broaden our individual annuity franchise within this important area,
delivering complete retirement solutions. Then on the investing side of the business, we
have a unique capacity to source attractive and high-performing direct investments via
LGIM, via LGC, and via lifetime mortgages.

Page 9 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

LGC has two principal goals. First, it uses our strengths including our existing businesses,
network, brand and talent to invest our shareholder capital to maximize returns. Secondly,
it supports our other businesses by creating or unlocking debt-like investments with great
counter-parties for LGR, and by creating opportunities for LGIM and its clients. Recent
examples include the Urban Regeneration project in Cardiff and seeding LGIM's Build-toRent fund. LGC invests in four principal areas: Urban Regeneration, Housing, SME Finance
and Clean Energy.
LGC will take fund investments, outright ownership or equity stakes, but only if they satisfy
our return criteria and are consistent with our strategy. This is a unique capability and will
continue to evolve and accelerate its evolution under Kerrigan's new leadership. And I'd
like to thank Kerrigan for taking on this exciting new challenge.

Bloomberg Transcript

LGIM is a business we have built for the future. Once rooted in UK DB pensions, LGIM's
strategy today is focused on three things: broadening our investment capability, growing
globally, and expanding our UK DC and retail businesses to address the UK savings gap.
We've expanded into the white space, huge multi-billion pound markets such as global
high yields, multi assets, real assets, factor-based investing. We have no legacy problems
on the upside. And we're taking a global lead on ESG, more of our inclusive capitalism.
Sacha Sadan and his team are leading the markets across the world.
We plan to host the Capital Markets Day in June focused on LGIM. So, you can look
forward to hearing more from Mark and his outstanding management team. Our
Insurance business goal is to be a fully digital and data-enabled insurer. Firstly, we're
looking to use technology to improve operational effectiveness, reduce costs, and
improve customer outcomes with extensive use of robotics, AI, and big data.
Secondly, we are digitizing and diversify our distribution, for instance, SmartQuote for GI,
where we offer executable quotes after only five questions by using big data. And as Jeff
mentioned, we are already winning partnership business of this. Thirdly Insurance is where
we innovate and explore alongside digital pioneers in Fintech and Insuretech. As Jeff said,
GI delivered 13% growth in premiums in 2017 and indeed Cheryl and her talented team
are planning to make me even happier by achieving even more growth in 2018 and
beyond.
Although we have strong divisional accountability, collaboration and synergies enable us
to deliver more than we ever could as individual businesses. It is a vital part of our firm's
culture and a key positive differentiator. There are many, many examples of this providing
institutional and corporate clients with consistent solutions across LGIM and LGR using
asset source by LGM and LGC, leveraging our workplace customer base to offer products
from across the group, and creating a single customer interface for over 10 million
customers within MyAccount to provide access to retirement, savings and insurance
solutions.
The refocusing of our business puts growth in the U.S. to the fore. We have three
excellent growing businesses with great management teams; LGIM has delivered strong
growth in client numbers including some of the largest U.S. DB and DC funds; LGR with a

Page 10 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

strong pipeline and a market, where only 4% of the £3.7 trillion of DB liabilities have
transacted so far; LGI's U.S. term insurance business is well-positioned for the many
opportunities we see for increased digital deployment and more D2C activity.
Now, a few case studies for future growth. In 2017, we launched LGIM's Future World Fund
to address the demand for better risk-adjusted returns alongside greater ESG impacts.
With over $6 billion in the fund to-date, we have a $100 billion ambition. And our Build-toRent fund is currently a £1 billion business, seeded by LGC, but it has also attracted
investors from LGIM's global institutional clients. It is truly amazing that to-date we haven't
created an institutional asset class in Housing in the UK. We will change that.
We see it as a £10 billion opportunity, which taps into the demand we are seeing right
across the UK for high-quality, institutionally-owned rental accommodation, a classic case
of fixing a market failure and using our commercial strength to help tackle a societal
problem.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's not just the millennials who face a housing shortage, but older people, too. Legal &
General is once again providing a solution through later life living. Digital or Insuretech has
become a watchword across our industry. It is also crucial to use data to improve the
customer experience, which is what we do in GI through SmartQuote, SmartClaims. Five
years ago, filling a digital side was demanding. Today, we have multiple projects evolving
at real pace and with real energy.
We started a few years ago with four robots known as the remotes. Now, we have more
than 50 with many more being developed to massively increase efficiency in our
operations primarily in LGI. Our partnership with Slice Labs like our work in payroll lending
with SalaryFinance addresses contemporary customer needs. So, another great year, but
we remain ambitious. We achieved 17% EPS growth in 2016 and 9% in 2017. So, well-placed
and on track for our financial ambition to achieve 10% EPS growth from 2015 onwards.
I feel like our business is in great shape. We are at a real inflection point. We have clear
strategic goals we are delivering on. We have a great set of businesses unencumbered
by the legacy of the past, a globally trusted brand and a great team focused on our
exciting growth opportunities.
With that, let me open it up to Q&A.

Q&A
A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Gosh. Oliver. Can we limit everybody to three questions at the most?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Three questions. First of all, on cash, £3.4 billion is what
you're saying you've got at the moment. I don't think that includes anything yet from the
Page 11 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Savings sale. So, perhaps you can talk about what it could be pro-forma. But then, I don't
think what you've ever really sort of clarified is how much of that cash is actually excess,
and perhaps you can also link it in with the solvency ratio now at 196%. How much of that is
excess?
Second question is, what are you going to do with it? You've proved that a lot of your
business is capital-light, even the annuities business is not facing that much strain. The sort
of businesses you're in don't sort of sound as if they've got a lot of major acquisition
opportunity (38:29) made the color. So, what are you going to do with it?
And then the third question is perhaps for Jeff. So, you're saying the longevity release in
2018 will be the same as 2017, and...

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

You're right, what I said.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Well, you can correct that. You've also said you're going to spread it over several years, so
does that imply that 2019 and 2020 are also going to be on the same area?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll get the first two and let – Jeff let lots of breadcrumbs for people to follow there and
it's interesting to watch people's faces as they were trying to figure out exactly what he
was saying, which he believed in rehearsals was totally clear (39:08). But he was getting
points of correction from Mark Zinkula. So, it's right, on actuary and issues which is the first
time. So, all that training that he's had to go through for several years beginning to show a
benefit.
On the cash point, indeed, you're right, the £650 million of cash that we received from
the sale of Mature Savings isn't included in the £3.4 billion we received on the 2nd of
January. And as Jeff mentioned, that will result in over £400 million of profit being
credited to the P&L in 2019. There was some other cash we received, which was as part of
the transfer and that's in one of the footnotes which Jeff might highlight, which where that
goes to.
On the whole issue of capital and what we're going to do with it, that's why I've got a
great outstanding management team who are going to inundate me with brilliant ideas in
the next few years. But you're right at the moment that we've created a very capital-light
model, which is generating about £0.5 billion of extra cash per year that we're not actually
using as a business, hence, the cash balance keeps going up and up and up and with the
disposals goes up even further.
But because we got a 20-odd percent return on equity, we have business models where
we can deploy the capital truly efficiently. We have a huge amount of white space to
expand into and I alluded to a few of those areas. The rollout of Future World as a global
Page 12 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

brand is a key priority and one that Mark and I are massively enthused about on a
personal level.

FINAL

We have a series of bolt-on acquisitions that we're thinking of making. Mark's been
thinking of making one in America for a few years and he's still thinking of it in 2018. I hope
this year he actually gets on and does one of them because we need a great direct
investment capability in the United States.
We've still got further opportunities in Cheryl's business and in Chris's business. So, we're
not short of opportunities to deploy the capital, but we'll be very patient, we'll be very
patient and very measured with the word that Jeff here used. And yes, the Solvency ratio
is pretty close to 200%, but we like having a particularly strong balance sheet and we
never had targets for our Solvency II ratio. Now Jeff, can you answer that third tricky
question?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It was all clear from the presentation as Nigel says. Yes, so the longevity, we will look
at CMI 2016 way; we're waiting for our 2017 data to be fully developed. And as you note,
we use an adjusted version of those tables, it was adjusted CMI 2015. So, what I talked
about in the presentation was, if you just mechanically plugged in CMI 2016, you get an
answer very similar to the total release that we had this year.
But, of course, we're not in a position today to say we will just mechanically plug it in,
because we smooth out data to make sure there aren't blips in there. We look at our own
portfolio. We look at our socioeconomic group against the underlying data. So, that's the
reason for the caveats around it. It's not as simple as saying we'll just move to that table.
There's a lot of work to be done for that, and understanding what's driving it and
continuing to invest in understanding what's driving those.
And then, looking forward, yeah, we still talk about it the several years. Only last week,
there was a CMI 2017 released and that showed the same sort of similar numbers. Again,
you talk in small numbers that you saw the 0.2 change in life expectancy, but that would
again translates into the same sorts of releases if you continue to see it. So, we need to
see what comes out of our data and we will continue to keep addressing it. But we see
the trends and we believe there is a medium- to long-term slowdown in mortality
improvement in a short term.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Two actual points there, so both of our senior audit partners smiling that you gave the
correct answer to the question on that. That should keep them both happy. I think the
other point is I noticed one or two of the notes that came out this morning said the
mortality release is one-off. I mean, I think Jeff's trying to say that it's not one-off, it's for
multiple years and we're moving forward in a very measured way in terms of recognizing
what's happening to longevity for the business.
Andy thought he was getting (43:40). That's what you get for being the broker.
Page 13 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. First on mortality. So, you have moved to the adjusted
version of the tables. Clearly, your book's different. Just wondering how it is different and
what actually has been your – the experience in mortality, the experience of your
annuitants versus the population. Your book will definitely be wealthier than the
population.
You talked a bit about this. I'm just wondering if you're holding because there's a bit of
debate in institute of actuaries about how that wealthier segment is moving. So, I wonder
if you're holding some prudence back here.
And as far as the second question is on retail annuities in the open market. You talked a
bit about that as a proportion of the total annuity market. It was broadly 45% a year ago.
I'm wondering what it is now, and how fast do you think the open market will grow?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm going to let Chris answer the second question then Jeff's going to have, yet
another go at answering the first question (44:48) you Andy.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

I mean, you're right in that, we have a slightly higher average socioeconomic group within
us and there is more uncertainty about how wealth is impacting future improvement
developments. We just released the paper along with the panel that we sponsor around
what we've seen in the past, but there is that question of do you get faster
improvements if you have more wealth because you can invest in that or if you already
had all your improvements and, therefore, you may be slower going forward. And so, that
just give us that little bit of extra prudence that we factor in. But in terms of underlying
experience, there is nothing substantially different about what we have seen to date than
what is coming through in the population data and pensioner data, et cetera.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Chris?

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Yeah, we see the open market continuing to grow. The whole market grew
modestly sort of in 2017, up again over the last two years. And with 700,000 people
coming to retirement every year going forward and with more DC money rather than DB
income and we see that potentially grow, it's up for us to make that market.
I think the implementation of PS17/12 is also going to have an impact. That happened last
week, so we'll have to see what that does. But that essentially means that when anybody
gets here and usually quote going forward, they will be presented with the best price in
the market as well as the price – immediate prices as well. So, we see that as being net
positive for us over the long run.

Page 14 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

One of the interesting not intended consequences of (46:25) pension freedom is we're
going to see a lot more innovation in pension solutions being offered by providers like
ourselves. And it was – in fact created destruction of work and one industry reduced in
size massively and lots of other new industries are emerging around it and we're pretty
much trying to be market leaders in all those other areas. And so far, DC has been a huge
success, lifetime mortgage and later living are also doing incredibly well. Andy?

A - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three questions from me please, firstly
on LGIM. Just wonder if you'd give us about – thoughts on the pipeline of business coming
into 2018 and also, what you kind of think of for the longer term cost-to-income ratio for
that business.
Secondly, staying on LGIM, your recent ETF investment, Canvas. Just wonder if do you feel
that gives you everything that you need to compete in the ETF space and how material
can ETFs be for LGIM. And thirdly on the dividend, you've pointed towards EPS growth of
10% guided towards dividend growth of 7%. How do you feel about the divergence of
these and kind of increasing coverage over time? Thanks.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Mark, you've got two questions to answer. I think this is the first time you've had two
questions back to back.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

All right, thank you. So, regards to the pipeline, I think we are expecting to see a
continuation of what we have over the past two to three years, which is continued positive
net inflows pretty much across the board. You saw this past year, we've seen an increase
in flows in every region, increase in flows in DC and retail, down slightly in DB, but again,
still positive and that we still expect to have continued single-digit profit growth for the
foreseeable future in the DB market, while the other markets, obviously, were – the
growth potential is higher.
We do have one which we announced last year, but we do have one significant outflow
the first part of this year, which is the access local authority pension pool, which would be
£6 million of outflows. So that's – again, there will still be a lot of lumpiness in the DB part
of the business. But again, the underlying trends are still very favorable for a business
model very broadly.
In regards to the Canvas acquisition, so I think, yeah, the timing is certainly right for us as
we're expanding our retail business. As we pointed out earlier, we're doing very well in
the UK retail market now. We're now expanding into Europe and ETFs are becoming
increasingly popular in Europe for a variety of reasons, which I'll go into if you're interested
in more detail. And we think we have the right partner. It's a great leadership team. And
actually, since we announced the acquisition in November, assets are already up 25% from

Page 15 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

the announcement date and we'll continue to launch funds that would be expected, core
funds and thematic funds and ESG-related funds would be expected from our brand.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

Perfect. Thank you, Mark. Jeff, do you want to?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, the short answer was similar to the earlier one around, we'll continue to
invest. It's not a conscious decision to improve coverage ratios or anything else. We think
it's a sensible number given where we stand and we continue to review the position – the
board will continue to review the position across a range of metrics. So there was nothing
magic about either of those. We genuinely believe that's our ambition around growth and
we think that's a sensible place to set the dividend at this stage.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Laura, do you want to...

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. Three questions, please. The first one was
just going back to the cash that was asked about earlier, the £3.4 billion. I was wondering
if you could give us any sense of how much of that's encumbered versus what's freely
available. And also if you could perhaps give us a sense of where that's sat, whether it's in
LGF or elsewhere in the Group.
And the second one was just on the annuity business. Obviously, very strong new
business surplus and you've referenced the contribution from direct investments and
lifetime mortgages. There was a speech from the PRA last week referencing their scrutiny
around use of matching adjustments, internally rated assets. And you've obviously talked
about the scope to take that further. I was just wondering if you could tell us a bit more
about your risk appetite in that context, please.
And then the third one was on LGC. Obviously, with the decision to sell out of investments
and crystalize cash, there is a trade-off with profits to a certain extent. I know some is
being reinvested and recycled. But could you give us a sense of that trade-off going
forward, please?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay, on the cash, the cash at £3.4 billion was the cash that was largely held in LGC as
you'll see in the slide. It isn't actually the total cash absolutely across the Group, which we
didn't give. And there was £650 million that came in January in one tranche and £170
million in another tranche, so we've very long cash. I don't think we've ever given out the
numbers as to what's encumbered and not encumbered given the model. Maybe Simon,
do you want to just talk a little bit about risk appetite in general and in the lifetime
mortgage markets specifically? And Simon's our CRO. And then Kerrigan, can you answer
the LGC question?
Page 16 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

A - Simon Gadd

{BIO 17956222 <GO>}

So as same as we presented before about all of our direct investments, the primary aim
is to make sure that they are good match to our liabilities, and make sure that all the risks
underneath them are properly assessed. The matching adjustment process, which was
referred to in the question, and I happen to get approval from the PRA to any asset that
goes into that portfolio, really ups the game in terms of making sure there is really
rigorous assessment of the risks that the cash flows are as fixed as possible, so they are a
good match to liabilities.
And lifetime mortgages, we have to put into a structure to do that. But again, that's being
sort of rigorously assessed with the PRA and there'll always a continuing dialogue about
that. We are very comfortable with the way we are currently reserving for and capitalizing
against the risks for that product. So certainly, there is a limit to how much ultimately we
can have indirect investments back in annuities, but we're a long way away from that at
the moment because of the liquid nature of those liabilities. So I think it's about 17% of the
portfolio. Currently, we've got plenty more scope to increase that without encumbering
any illiquidity issues.

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Yeah. Just on the reinvestment and recycling of capital within LGC, we have a range
of assets within LGC on the direct investment side. We have yielding assets, development
assets, operational assets, and then a start-up area. And of course, some of those assets
come to the end of their useful life with LGC and it makes sense to sell them on things
like part of our office developments in Cardiff urban regeneration, we sold those on, parts
of Bracknell, moved on.
And, of course, we got really exciting reinvestment opportunities, so things like some of
the land we bought for our communities business, where we're building out 3,000
houses. And the exciting opportunity – the really exciting opportunity in later living, where
we've put £100 million in in 2017. So the net investment was posted – we're expected to
do some guidance on the future. We expect to put more of that into some of those really
exciting opportunities in later living, for example. Some of the existing urban regeneration
plans could be developed out and we're working with further cities, really exciting plans
on clean energy, where we've only just started and we've got about £100 million in a
range of Fintech, proptech, and healthtech companies that's incredibly exciting and we
can curate and develop further. So it's going to be net-positive obviously, in a whole range
of really exciting areas.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, I think we took a very measured approach here as well is that we wanted to do a
proof of concept, because we know what a cynical group of people we have in the room
with us today. So build it and sell it is part of it. And it was great to see in Cardiff that there
were two European investment firms who bought the assets and a Canadian firm who
bought it in Bracknell.

Page 17 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

So it wasn't – I don't want to say (54:40) that was in the plan, but it wasn't in the plan that
actually these would have wide international institutional appeal, which is something we
found to be unexpected, but actually beneficial to us as a company. Do you want to just
start?

FINAL

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Thank you for taking my questions. Firstly is on the margins. As
mentioned earlier, the annuity margins and the new business margins are improving
materially through the direct investment strategy. As well as what – how do you see that
trajectory in terms of margin expansion going forward? Is there more to go there? I know
Kerrigan previously mentioned there was a bit of a ceiling in terms of how much lifetime
mortgages could be used within the asset portfolio given the need to maintain matching.
So maybe just a color on that. And also just why maybe the Solvency II new business
margin has come down a little bit since the half year.
Secondly, on LGIM, again, performing very well on flows, on earnings, also the cash
remittances are up, I think, for the first time since 2014 with a payout of 76%. So just
thinking about how that progression in the payout from here given it had come down a
little bit prior to this year, are we going to see continued growth in that cash remittance
number or should we expect a little bit more held back for maybe reinvestment or
acquisitions in the asset management space as alluded to earlier?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, finally, on the subsidiary cash remittances, you provided enhanced disclosure on
that. So thank you for that. I'm assuming the sale of co-funds and the proceeds has not
been remitted from entities and so maybe is that flagged for reinvestment?
And then, finally, there is the other subsidiary remittances of £120 million. So I was just
wondering if you can provide a little bit more detail on what is driving that. I think last year,
the sale of Suffolk Life contributed to that number. I'm just looking at some of the
subsidiaries underpinning it. I don't think they have paid dividends largely in the past per
L&G Re. So just maybe color on where exactly it's driven from and can we expect
continued growth in that number going forward? Thank you.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. While Jeff's thinking of couple of the answers here, I'll give a bit of waffle to (57:05)
On how we think about the portfolio, the thing that we are trying to flag is, we have over
20% in sovereigns and moving from sovereigns area to direct investments or lifetime
mortgages is a phenomenal trade for us and hugely value credit (57:24) and we haven't
really started on that. So there is a lot of back-book optimization that if you want to talk to
Laura and Chris afterwards very specifically on the actions that we set in the size of the
price in that given area. But I don't know whether you want to add anything to that or take
that very complicated last question or do you want to take one offline as to what the
remittances is going to be – the mix of remittance.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}
Page 18 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Yeah, I was going to say £120 million remits, it is probably best to just chat with Gavin later
on, on that. But some of that is tidying up, some of them are smaller entities just paying
small amounts at – I mean, obviously, the vast majority of remittance comes from LGIM,
LGAS, et cetera, and that's where we're seeing good progress, good precedent around
release of the longevity release and then the dividend pain on top of the underlying and
(58:14) trying to get more disclosure of the £1.6 billion paid out from what are we moving
to Group and where is that sitting. So that was the main thing around that.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

(58:23)

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. That's a – well, that was start of 2017, we would've dealt with that, just as normal
course of dividends as it was paid through and it's pretty clear in the dividend strategy
around what we paid through LGAS, et cetera. And just adding on the annuity new
business margin, et cetera, I mean, it was sort of following up from the previous question
as well. I mean, as Simon says, we are 17%, 4% lifetime mortgages of the total book. As an
in-force portfolio and overall, we believe there's plenty of headroom in that. We could
easily go 30%, whether 40% is the right answer, but certainly, there's headroom there,
which is a number of years of add-in to that book.
And lifetime mortgage grows as we grow new business, we grow the total book, we can
allocate this DI that we warehouse either to the in-force or to new business. We'll be
disciplined in that and because we have that optionality with the in-force, we can maintain
the pricing discipline. So, we're very focused on the right new business, added value, the
right returns on economic capital and knowing we can apply to the in-force if we need to.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Just on the LGIM payout.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, I think – thinking a lot (59:43) last year, some of you pay a huge amount of
attention to this. Whereas, in fact, we usually round it to the nearest £50 million and some
of the internal stuff. And then, you get (59:53) 76% or 72% or 78%. We rarely do that, but
we try to demonstrate this year that there was a huge amount of remittances, and rest
assured there will be a huge amount of remittances again this year because we hadn't
realized the sensitivity of some of the analysts to exactly making sure that we don't have
trap cash or trap capital in the division. So, we recognize we didn't succeed last year in
convincing all of you. So, Mr. Crean, in particular, came and gave me a touch of my collar to
remind me that actually this is part of the equity narrative. And then we'll come back to
you, Greig.

Q - David Andrew Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Great. Thanks for the question. It's David Bracewell here, Redburn. Two questions, one on
the workplace savings, there's going to be an increase to the contribution rates this year,
Page 19 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

also in the year after. I'm just wondering how that will affect your business. I don't know
what your average contribution level is for your current workplace flow, so I'll just be
interested to hear how that might impact the flows there.
And the second question is on the risk margin for the annuity business. There's a good
chance the PRA going to maybe change the rules, they'll allow you to have some flexibility.
Just wondering, if they do relax the rules there, what you might do in terms of strategy.
Would you reduce the reinsurance that you purchase or actually if we that the reinsurance
is so cheap, you might keep that going forward? Thanks.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

They're both very good questions for all sorts of odd reasons, which we'll go in
afterwards. But, Mark, why don't you explain why everyone in the team had done such a
fantastic job in the DC space?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. So, in the workplace business, so contribution rates are scheduled to go up. Many of
our clients or our customers are already at an 8% contribution or thereabouts. So, we
would expect there to be somewhat of an uptick and we don't expect persistency to go
down. The concern is when the contribution rates go up, obviously, that there might be
some lapses. So, on balance, net-net, a slight positive for our business overall.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Being in actuary, I love the answer to the next. It depends. Yeah, but it does depend. If
there's a movement, it will come down to what is the cost of reinsurance versus how
much is the risk margin being reduced and the cost of capital trade-off. We've always said
that. And it entirely depends how much any risk margin reduction would be. And we will
then review – the reinsurance remains very good value for both parties. And we have a
good supply. We have the 14/15 (01:02:26) on a panel that we can get reinsurance from.
So, we've maintained to look at that, the operating model, obviously with the focus as
well on new business strain and managing that on a Solvency II basis, ensure we would
continue to be capital efficient.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay, Greig?

Q - Greig N Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Greig Paterson, KBW. Morning. Three questions on the numbers. I was surprised at the
jump in annuity margin, and I'm talking about on your new business release basis. You
allocated 80% – sorry, you reinsured 80% of longevity in the first half – on the new
business in the first half. What percentage did you reinsure in the second half ? I'm trying
to understand the change. And second point is in terms of direct investments, what
percentage were allocated in the first half to new business – into new business as first and
second half ? And then, just finally, if you can give us some guidance on where you see the
sustainable tax rates going forward at the operating level post the U.S. changes.
Page 20 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah.

FINAL

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. A little bit on the first one, just by way of background, I think people often forget the
individual annuity business we don't reinsure at all. The U.S. annuity business we don't
reinsure at all. All the back book transactions we don't reinsure at all. It's only the UK PRT
business. And so, it's hard to do linear mathematics when there's lots of changes in the
mix.
And it's really – answering the preceding question, it's the ratio that we have in the UK
PRT business which may well change going forward depending on what percentage
(01:04:14) those. And if you – any of you want to be really technical about this, Tim
Steadman was an incomprehensible answer to Jeff and I last night, which was depends.
And you can do the depends-sensitivity with Tim afterwards, but do you want to add?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Sure. I mean, in terms of first half to second half and percent, I mean, it – very
similar, the model hasn't – didn't change, just 80%, 85% reinsured on the UK PRT. We look
at each case on individual basis, depends how much deferred and in payment is in a
transaction and what the pricing is, especially on deferred reinsurance where it's available.
So, some of that drives it, but there isn't any conscious decision that was made between
first half, second half on that.
In terms of percentage of DI, I mean we don't – we haven't been explicit on how much
we're allocating to new business versus in-force. I mean, some of the useful metrics is we
carried over more DI than we had the previous year. So, we could have allocated a lot
more if you wanted to make numbers look better, and we effectively warehouse some of
that.
I think the other thing which has improved the margin significantly is obviously greater
amount of lifetime mortgages. If you're writing deferreds and you've got lifetime
mortgages, that is a reasonable pick-up on yield compared to any other assets we'd be
sourcing at the very long tail big impact, long duration, higher-yield pick-up. So, that has an
impact on that. Tax rate...

Q - Greig N Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Was it increased first half versus second half ?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

No. No particular change there. That's right. On tax rate, yeah, the simple answer is it's, at
the group level, it's materially neutral on an ongoing basis. It was very much a one-off. So, I
mean, there isn't much more to add to that, to be honest, given how big it is compared to
the rest of the group.

Page 21 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. Laura, do you want to pick up the bits that Jeff missed out on what the – how
warehousing works, which I think a lot of people haven't fully covered and the – what the
opportunities are in the DI space moving forward?

FINAL

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. I mean, I think on Jeff's slide, he was very clear about the relative proportion
of direct investment and lifetime mortgages in our portfolio growing over the year as the
size of our book grew. And the diversity point is a really key point. Through us, divest –
direct investments is now almost a flow business. Lifetime mortgages have been
highlighted. The other one to highlight is the LGIM's real assets' private placement
business both in the UK and U.S., as well as some of the other sources that we're working
on with LGIM real assets, and really importantly, the opportunities we're unlocking through
LGC. So, we've talked about Cardiff. Newcastle is another one. We did a really successful
deal in Leeds, Headingley, on the back of work we've done with LGC in Thorpe Park. I'm
looking forward to working with Kerrigan, really, with LGC to unlock further opportunities in
the sectors we've chosen.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. We don't think anybody else has this sort of LGIM, LGC, LGI capability. And because
we created huge amounts of optionality over the last four or five years in all these towns
and cities across Britain, we will reap the benefits of that in future years. And Chris and the
team are innovating hugely in the lifetime mortgage market, which is going to increase
the flows of that business coming. And as Simon mentioned, we're well below our risk
appetite at the moment.
Jon? And will come back to this side.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Morning. Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions on LGIM, please. Come
back to the ETF point, one of the conventional wisdom is unless you're a top five player
on ETFs, you don't really make any money, and it's a very crowded space. But I guess, on
the flip side, you guys are running at sort of 4, 5 bps expenses. So, I just wonder whether
we should think about ETFs differently if you – given your expense base. That's the first
question. And then, secondly, on the sort of factor-based investing, is this just sort of fullon quant counter offer? And what capabilities do you have there? What capabilities do
you have to need – do you need to build rather?
And then, finally, you've got sort of three strategies there which are pretty low-cost fees
of funds. You've got the sort of classic index business or passive business. You're going to
have the – you have the ETF platform, and you're going to have quant. Is there sort of
issue here with sort of crowding in terms of go-to-market offer? You've been so well
known in that sort of index space. How do you actually sort of pitch to institutional/retail
clients when you've got sort of three things, which should extensively produce something
very similar?

Page 22 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Well, Mark is thinking of answering the first three. I think the key thing, we have such
huge white space to go into – Mark and I have done a few trips to America, to the Middle
East, and to the Far East. And what struck us is, is how well the brand resonates with all
sorts of customers around there. And the sort of values and behaviors of the firm that are
really highly regarded. And other colleagues have gone then and made it easy for us, as I
say, when we went down.
But the reception we've got has been absolutely outstanding. And now, it's putting
people on the ground. And as you said, we have much more equity narrative or narrative
around the products and solutions that we have, and people, we're getting demand pull. I
mean, Australia is somewhere we haven't even visited, but we're winning mandates.
Korea, Taiwan, Japan, they're all areas, where we're just beginning to put the
infrastructure in. So we've had demand pull ahead of the infrastructure.
Mark, you might want to answer the three questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely. And the related questions are very good questions. Conceptually,
thematically, what's happening is the index market, the passive market is still evolving.
And it's from a product vehicle perspective, as well as product design perspective. And so
we still have a lot of demand in the core index space, but the market is evolving toward
factor-based investing. So investing in different kinds of indices to meet client needs,
which we define as factor based or some people call smart beta. More thematically, into
the ESG space, you're talking about the future world fund and so forth. And there is a
blurring of the lines of what's technically index or passive, and what's a bit more than that.
But this is the direction of travel and we want to be we are I think right now, but it's early
days a market leader developing products that are going to meet evolving industrial
demand.
And as part of this value proposition is just the strength of our corporate governance
team, just the importance that's being placed, especially from institutional investors over
time by the millennial crowd and wealth managers and so forth that we are proper
stewards and doing our part as one of the largest asset managers to hold companies
accountable for a variety of ESG topics. And some are more higher priority than others for
various clients.
With regards to the ETF space, understand the conventional wisdom. I mean, keep in
mind, this is still very, very early days for the ETF market here. Vanguard was a late entrant
in the U.S. back when the ETF market was evolving there. And we have a very strong index
brand, a very strong passive brand. Yes, we have the scale, but we also have the brand.
We're known to be in the space. ETFs are primarily a vehicle for index strategies, broadly
speaking.
So we do believe that we can enter the market, not starting as a top five provider, but
grow rapidly over the next several years. And again, it is off the strength of our scale, our

Page 23 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

operating model, and our brand, and it's still – it's very early days in this market, outside of
U.S. frankly, and everywhere else in the world. I think I covered all the questions.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. We're going to go here, then (01:12:01) Andrew. Okay, do you want to move it up?
Yeah, Barrie?

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Okay. Good morning. It's Barrie Cornes, Panmure Gordon. I've got a couple of questions.
First of all in terms of the lifetime mortgage market, I wonder if you could just give us a
view in terms of the outlook and also maybe comment on any essential regulatory
concerns over policies, which you canceled relatively early.
And the second question I had was in respect to the credit default reserve, which I
presume has got no drawdown during the year. I just wonder whether or not there is any
chance of a reserve release there? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Addressed that question five years ago, Barrie. And I like to just give you the same
answer that we gave five years ago. I mean, we've almost never had a drawdown on the
default reserve. I know KPMG was studying it very carefully for their year-end as we're
switching auditors. We've had PricewaterhouseCoopers, I think for me, 175 years as our
auditor, I think the original auditor was in fact Price, all those years ago, but it's something
that – we constantly actively love to see whether we have excessive of prudence built in
the credit default reserve.
And, Chris, do you to talk about the lifetime mortgages? And you should – Steve's here
today. And so if anybody's got a lot of detailed questions, then Steve will be around
afterwards to answer them.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

No, we're very positive about the lifetime mortgage market going forward, £1.5 trillion of
equity owned by people in retirement. But I think this is right for innovation going forward.
We absolutely try our best to go way beyond the sort of regulatory compliance minimums
to make sure the customers are getting really good value for money. For example, by
making all our products flexible, so people only borrow what they need to borrow when
they set one up, and then they come back to us for future borrowing.
We've not seen – and I think probably because of our approach to compliance and
distribution oversight, we've not seen a lot of early redemptions at all. It's not a big – not
even a small issue, really, for us. Those of you who read The Sun, yesterday you will have
seen they helped us announce our property refurb lifetime mortgage, as there is a huge
people living in houses that are highly unsuitable for them, and we can help them fix their
house up and make it livable and rent it all out, so on and so forth.

Page 24 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

So whether it's sort of silver separators, divorce being an issue, people living without
children, it's a huge – if you're living without children, 1 million over 60 living – ageing
without children, why on earth would you not want to take a lifetime mortgage out of it?
What are you waiting for, that kind of thing. So I think there's tons of things that we can do
to (01:14:43) the mortgage here. Application form is awaiting.

FINAL

(01:14:46)

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

You wanted to know, like it's a 25% conversion rate today. So when you saw the audience
go in.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

As you can see, we're quite passionate about growing this market.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. There was a sentence there, Chris, I'll just show it. When you all read The Sun
yesterday, which I thought is a – they didn't all read The Sun yesterday, (01:15:11) they can
have a copy of us.
Thanks so much. First one is a kind of numbers question on the figure you show on slide,
the mortality basis slide, where you show the CMI 2015 impact at 65 at 23.5. I'm just trying
to remember what CMI unadjusted was. I think it was 22.8. And I was just wondering the
margin versus what the population stuff is? Because basically, the point is I'm trying to
work out, A, what I'm looking at here, the 23.5, is this your base table bulk annuity rolled
up with all your assumptions? And it sounds like you've put an extra smoothing factor on
top of the base CMI stuff because you talked about smoothing. So have you used a
different smoothing, just went to the CMI which you can do? Or are you using the base
CMI tables on top of your own population?
And the second question is more strategic one. So the 10% EPS growth sort of ambition
thing, it's a bit hard for businesses largely kind of annuities. So maybe you could help us
out as to how you're going to grow the earnings by 10% per annum? Thanks.
That was also a question we were asked five years ago. I think, since then, we've gone at
slightly faster than 10% per annum. Maybe you want to take the first question, Jeff ?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

I mean, the first, and fairly straightforward, there was big letters I'd say (01:16:35)
illustrative, and that's very much what it is. Now, is it the best? Is it IFRS basis? That is one
age that we chose to just show how we're changing the underlying. But yes, as we said
earlier, we do apply smoothing to. We apply smoothing to our own data. We apply
smoothing to how we bring the CMI tables in, so they're all adjusted. And that's just an
indication of what the movement has been on a IFRS-type basis, or a best estimate basis.

Page 25 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

What's the – it's the quantum change that's important, the 0.1 or the 0.2 rather than the
absolute number.

FINAL

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, I think on the EPS thing, we have a multitude of businesses now in the portfolio. At a
personal level, I think they're all capable of growing at circa 10% per annum, LGIM, LGR –
the two LGR businesses, LGC, and GI. I think Bernie's got the most difficult task with the
current portfolio to get 10% growth in the Retail Protection businesses. I think given the
great work that Steve and the team did in 2017 in Group Protection, I'd be disappointed if
we didn't get 10% growth in the Group Protection business. So when we come here next
year, Steve will be standing proudly up and telling you we did in fact achieve that in 2018.
Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Can I ask three questions? On the
protection side, can you just give us the numbers for what the hedge on Retail Protection
was, and whether you have got over the persistency problem now?

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, on equity release mortgages, is there a finite amount of appetite you've got for
this. It's the one product which has got a cliff guarantee in it. It's very Continental European
rather than UK. The PRA I think in June came out with some quite scary statistics for what
would happen if housing fell 25%, 30%.
And then, thirdly, what's the nature of the annuity pricing competition? You've got the
normal BPA marking. Then, you've got this enormous life back-book coming in. What is the
pricing comparison between the two? And is the tail wagging the dog or the dog wagging
the tail?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. We'll answer in reverse order. I think both the customer business in the UK where
we mentioned the £17 billion which is the highest, we usually have about £10 billion in the
hopper, we've got £17 billion in the hopper, depends on how much we convert in that. But
there's an increase in demand and supply in the UK at the moment certainly, and that's
going to work its way through the marketplace. And the point that I think Jeff and I were
trying to get across was we have a lot of pricing discipline around that.
So, we're not going to chase any particular individual transaction because we have a everincreasing breadth of opportunities that we're being presented in the market. But we
certainly have enough risk appetite, capital, and direct investments to support a pretty
high level of growth in 2018 from the size of the back books that we've got. And I don't
know whether Chris or Simon want to take the equity release issue. Maybe Simon?

A - Simon Gadd

{BIO 17956222 <GO>}

Page 26 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Following up on that, the answer I gave earlier. So, in total, the DI, we have an appetite
threshold for. For lifetime mortgages, I'm going to use Jeff's answer about the depends
again. It depends on the mix of that business. So, it very much depends on how much your
average loan-to-value is on that portfolio. We are very careful not to be aggressive on
loan to value, and try and keep that down to as low as possible, so that we've got the
bandwidth to accept volatility in house prices. So, as long as we keep that down, then
we'll have more capacity. Also, I think there was mention about a new product that we're
launching in that space where, effectively, the borrower pays the interest, carries on
paying the interest, (01:20:48) a lot more...

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

No, we haven't announced that (01:20:49). That was in the rehearsal.

A - Simon Gadd

{BIO 17956222 <GO>}

We're a lot more protective in that type of product than we are in a – one way, there's a
roll up of interest. So, yeah, it would depend on the mix of business as to how much we
can. But we are very on top of being very prudent about our assumptions about future
house price inflation.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we have some very exciting new products coming. And you heard it first today in here.
We're trying to figure out how to answer this question yesterday. And Simon, obviously,
didn't hear the answer where we went – Bernie's going to answer the other question.

A - Bernie Hickman

{BIO 19334629 <GO>}

Yeah, on page 32, we set out experience variances and valuation assumptions. It's fair to
say we haven't got a problem in persistency. We've actually got customers really happy
with us and we've got lower lapses, it's just in later durations. And on our level term
business and our whole of life business, the premiums stay level. The claims and quite a
bit of our reinsurance premiums go up. And so, it's just a mechanical fact if we get people
happy to stay with us, we actually make slightly less money. And so, that's just a kind of
minor impact.
Just give you a quantification on that, there's sort of talk, like a level term – long-term
persistency rates. We've seen lapse rates of 3.3% go into 3.1%. So, it's quite a tiny change
in lapses. And we hope customers carry on wanting to give us premiums and remaining inforce. And we'll be doing what we can to keep them happy. So, yeah, that's what's going
on broadly with the lapses and the figures are in the pack.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

The price of success. Last two questions, we'll try and finish by 11:00, okay?
(01:22:32) from Citi. Just two questions, please. If we see rates increase, presumably
good for bulk annuity demand, does it have any impact on the ability to source direct
investments? So, does it make that harder and does that become an issue for you guys
Page 27 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

as bulk annuity demand presumably increases? And then, secondly, as you're looking to
replicate your UK model in the U.S., specifically in the PRT space, you've seen, I think, 60%
growth there this year. The market itself grew I think 70%. Which areas – how do your
models differ right now? And specifically, if you could talk a little bit about infrastructure –
direct investment sourcing differences and any plans that you have there going forward.

FINAL

Yeah, I'll let...
Thank you.
Laura pick up the second question there. On the first question, just in general and on DI,
you're right in a sense that will be terrific for us to if the interest rates go up. Our balance
sheet will look even stronger than it does today. But we don't see any sensitivity around
that. I think there is just a huge demand for new assets across the UK and across the U.S.
and Europe. And both have recognized how crappy their infrastructure is. America gives
itself an official rating which is now going from C- to D+. So, they're in a poor state there.

Bloomberg Transcript

But also, in the UK, and the expression we've used is a sort of coalition of the doers.
There's lots of discussion about levers and stairs. But outside of London, it's all about who
wants to do things. And we're finding pretty much across the country getting PRS scheme
through, housing schemes through, or urban regeneration projects, roads, et cetera,
relatively straightforward, probably the best environment we've had for 30 years. It's still
a C+, but it's moving towards a B in terms of how much better it's getting here in the UK.
And, Laura, do you want to...

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, really, just expanding on some of the points I made earlier that we've
organically grown great – a great platform for sourcing direct investments, probably quite
different to our competitors because of the in-house capability we have through LGIM real
assets and LGC. And really worth reiterating that we've – I think we've really only just
begun to scratch the surface of the opportunity that we have through LGC. So, we've
been very vocal about some of the things we've done in urban regeneration. And if you
think about the other sectors that we've chosen to invest in, housing and clean energy,
both of those have huge potential for long-term financing and creating investments that
will fit our annuity liabilities.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

And one of the key messages is this capability. And if you think Kerrigan's move from
LGIM to LGR to LGC. Laura has moved from LGR to LGC back to LGR. Chris has pretty
much worked in every division right now. Well, Mark Zinkula just seems to stay at LGIM all
of the time.
Last question.

Page 28 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

Q - Angel Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Angel Kansagra from HSBC. Three questions, please. The first one is you have
given the split of cash remitted to the group from subsidiaries, which is a welcome
disclosure. Would you ever think of giving the split of operating capital generation by
divisions? So – because it's quite strong to see that the operating capital generation, cash
remittance comfortably cover the dividend. But to just see what the divisions are
contributing that would be useful.
The second is on net capital strain. How much net capital strain have you seen from the
UK PRT in particular, if you give the split from that? And the third one is, I know you can't or
you won't actually comment on political outcome, but if a Labour government comes in,
they're talking about nationalizing some of the industries. Have you thought of taking any
action on your credit portfolio, in particular utilities? Thank you.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll answer the third question, which is one of my specialist topics, but I'll let those really
difficult first two questions pass to my colleague, Jeff Davies.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

(01:26:43) first?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

You're talking the operating cash generation, you mean on the 72 (01:26:48) basis?

Q - Angel Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}

The capital generation (01:26:51)...

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. That the issue with that is, of course, you've got to allocate the capital. So, I think it
would get a little bit messy. So, that won't be part of the issue of allocating it both
between Legal entities and divisions, you start to make so many assumptions that we
probably wouldn't get it passed the auditors to be honest. So, I think that's the issue that
we will be as transparent as we can around this stuff. Having said that, we haven't been
explicit on the strain, but we do – we say that it's less than 4% for PRT business, which is
predominantly UK. And so, that gives you an indication. So, that gives you the negative.
We then write a lot of other business, like LGI, which creates positives and offsets, and
brings you back to the less than £100 million number that we quote as the total across the
group.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 29 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-08

FINAL

Yeah. On – I mean, the political situation, I mean, I've never met Corbyn, and I don't know
him well. So, it's difficult to have an informed judgment on exactly what's going to happen.
What we have seen is, is our experience with the local authorities across the UK, and
regardless of whether they're Labour conservative, whether it's Bath, Bristol, Birmingham,
Bracknell, Cardiff, Leeds, Manchester, or Newcastle, they're just a whole array of political
people. And the Labour mayors or the Labour politicians and the Conservative have been
equally enthusiastic about being involved with those.
In respect of utilities, quite a lot of the utilities are actually in America because – and the
BBB rated American utilities. Yes, we have some exposure in the water, but it's at the
most senior level. And if you want the exact numbers for that, then I'm sure Laura can
provide those to you afterwards. We've looked at the portfolio and we think we've got no
portfolio adjustments that we need to make as a group in respect to the ongoing political
climate. We're very happy with the diversified niche. I mean, it's the switch out of
sovereigns into something that's kind of the biggest change in the stock. The various floor
changes that Chris talked about and Laura talked about and Jeff talked about earlier,
which we'll see over the next few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

By way of wrap-up, I'd just like to say thank you for everybody for their interest in following
Legal & General. Thanks once again to all my colleagues for great results in 2017.
However, it's 2018 now. And my colleagues know well, I waited a whole day, a whole day
before sending them out a memo as to what we needed to do for 2018 and beyond. And
the enthusiastic response to that memo is, I congratulate them on that. So, thank you. Bye
now.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 30 of 30

