Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernie Hickman, CEO-Legal & General Insurance
Cheryl Agius , Chief Executive Officer-General Insurance
Chris Knight, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Retirement, Retail
Kerrigan Procter, Chief Executive Officer-Legal & General Capital and Executive
Director
Mark Joseph Zinkula, Director, CEO-Legal & General Investment Management
Nigel D. Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Stuart Jeffrey Davies , Group Chief Financial Officer & Director

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'm not going to use my glasses today at first. Good morning and welcome to 2018 HalfYear Results Presentation. This morning I'll take you through the highlights, Jeff will take
you through the financial results and divisional performance in more detail, and then I will
return to discuss some of the broader strategic themes and our outlook.
Today, I'd like to start by thanking my colleagues, our management team and all of our
employees for their hard work and collaboration in delivering these results. Across all of
our divisions, we have a stronger management team than I have ever seen at any time
since joining Legal & General. All of my colleagues are performing at a higher level. Our

Page 1 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

industrial scale-up has succeeded, and we're now building a technologically scaled-up
business.

FINAL

The usual disclaimers apply. This was another six months of strong performance from
Legal & General. Investments we have made set us up for a very busy H2; are in line with
our financial and growth ambitions for 2016 to 2020.
On the slide here, we've excluded last year's £126 million mortality release from the
comparisons as we had no equivalent for H1 2018. The next mortality release in H2 is
expected to be higher than last year's total of £332 million.
Operating profit from divisions of £1.059 billion was up 7% versus half year 2017. Solvency
II operational surplus generation of £700 million was 11% up on the prior year. Earnings per
share at £0.13 were lower than the prior due to the decrease in investment variance of
£142 million from £175 million to £33 million. And our interim dividend of £0.046 is also 7%
up versus last year, consistent with our policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Stepping back, we see operating profit from divisions, which was £1.1 billion in 2011
growing at 10% per annum since 2011. EPS over the same period is growing again at 10%
per annum. This strong growth trajectory is without including the effects of last year's
mortality release. And looking at dividend per share, I've included data in the slide back to
2007. You see the same steady progression in growth at 10%. It is worth noting, operating
profits were £658 million back in 2007. Now after a decade of growth, they're over £2
billion.
Looking at the double digit compound growth in operating profit from divisions, from
dividends per share and earnings per share with a longer term is instructive. During this
period, we have had numerous and plenty of exogenous challenges including Solvency II,
pensions freedom, (03:02) reviews, the Brexit referendum, interest rates falling. In each
case having a clear strategy and focus on the ability to implement management actions
has enabled Legal & General to deliver a steady drumbeat of rising operating profits,
earnings per share and rising dividends.
The interim dividend rate for H1 2018 at £0.046 is up by 7% from £0.043 last year is set in
accordance with our formula. So, no change to our approach of measured progression,
which provides a high level of predictability for our investors. Jeff will cover the balance
sheet in more detail. But in summary, we see here the consistent effect of growing
operational service generation. We've written significant volumes of new business (03:52)
the last few years, while the SCR has in fact reduced from £8.3 billion to £7.4 billion. And
through small and negative new business trend delivered consistent net surface
generation.
The SII coverage ratio continues to strengthen, and at the end of June was 193%
compared to the 186% a year ago. The longevity release we expect to make in H2 will
provide additional capital for Legal & General.

Page 2 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

This nutshell of operating profit by business division shows the positive momentum from
H1 2017 to H1 2018 across every business division, except General Insurance. Never have
we had so many opportunities to grow. Never have we had such a strong management
team to deliver that growth. We now need to execute. And H2 has got off to an excellent
start with more to follow in the rest of the year and beyond.
Our businesses and their profits are aligned to structural growth drivers in the broader
economy. Over the next 20 years, the UK population age 65 to 84 is estimated to grow
by almost 40%. This aging demographic in the UK underpins a PRT market, which is busier
than ever, with an active court levels at over £20 billion in a market where pricing factors
are moving in favor of deal execution. We have over £7 billion expected to complete in H2
2018. We expect a record year in 2018.
We also expect strong double digit growth in retail retirement products to continue in H2
and beyond. In housing, CALA and our other housing businesses are just reaching scale in
a market, which is still well short of the target 300,000 homes per year. In Investment
Management, we are leading the shift towards DC. We're strong in global LDI and fixed
income, and we expect to see further U.S. and international growth in H2 and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the insurance businesses, markets and weather conditions have been difficult, but our
management actions are turning around previous areas of underperformance moving
customer acquisition increasingly to direct and employing digital to improve products,
pricing and service. Our confident outlook suggests that we will again outperform in H2
and beyond enabling us to achieve our targeted EPS performance out to 2020. I'm very
positive about H2 and the years to come.
Now, I'd like to hand over to Jeff.

Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Thank you, Nigel. Good morning, everyone. I'm not going to use Nigel's glasses either.
Right. This morning I'm going to cover the financials for the first half of the year, where we
are investing, the performance of each of our divisions and finally the group's capital
position.
As Nigel said earlier, we've been consistent in our delivery and the first half has been no
exception. Our operating profit from divisions is up 7% with growth in five of our six
businesses, which demonstrates the quality of our divisions and the relevance of our
focused long-term strategy. This growth rate excludes the first half 2017 mortality release
of £126 million. This is consistent with how we presented the full-year results.
All comparisons I make to half-year metrics will be excluded in this mortality release,
unless otherwise stated. We are using some of these mortality releases and strong profits
to invest in high-growth opportunities within our chosen markets. As previously flagged,
we're making measured investments across our group to drive cost efficiencies, gain
access to growth areas, enhance customer experience and to comply with evolving
regulatory framework. In the first half of 2018, on top of the investment within divisions,
Page 3 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

this resulted in a £13 million increase in group investment spend, meaning operating profit
was up 5%.
PBT was down, largely as a result of lower investment variance compared to the first half
of last year due to adverse equity market performance and lower long-term interest rates
impacting LGR reserves. Net release from continuing operations was down slightly to
£658 million, primarily due to lower new business surplus from LGR. Our return on equity
remains above 20% illustrating the efficiency of our balance sheet.
Now, we'll turn to operating profit from divisions. In the first half, LGR's Institutional
business, which deals with corporate pension schemes, grew 8%. This was as a result of
larger opening position and continued stable unwind of prudent margins.
Our Retail LGR business grew 11%. LGIM grew 5% and maintained the leading cost income
ratio of 51%, whilst continuing to invest. This was despite challenging markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

LGC was up 21% following a strong performance from our £2 billion direct investment
portfolio, which included an additional contribution from CALA Homes following the full
acquisition in March. LGI contributed £154 million, up 5% from the prior year following the
turnaround of group protection, which returned to profitability and continued good
performance in our UK retail protection business. This was partly offset by adverse
mortality experienced in the U.S., where the market was impacted by an exceptionally bad
flu season.
General Insurance was down due to the adverse weather experience, in particular the
freezing Q1. This was consistent with the wider market. Our diverse type business model
means that we can manage temporary fluctuations across the group and still deliver
attractive returns to our investors.
And a quick update on the disposals we've recently announced, Mature Savings expected
to complete in 2019 following the Part VII transfer. In the first half, we recognized £56
million operating profit from this business comprising the unwind of the expected
underlying profits and a one-off release of £33 million provision, which is no longer
required following the transaction. In June, we announced an agreement to sell our stake
in IndiaFirst, resulting in pre-tax profit of around £45 million on completion. This is
expected by the year-end.
I'll talk in more detail about each of our division shortly. But first, I'd like to cover our
investment in the business, which we've referenced at our full-year results. We are wellplaced to invest in future growth with our robust balance sheet, cash position, ongoing
mortality releases and strong ROE. The investments we are making achieve four
objectives; improve operational efficiencies through technology investments, access
growing market through bolt-on M&A, enhance the customer experience, and meet
evolving regulatory standards.
In technology, we are investing across the group. For example, in LGIM, we are focusing
on DC pensions and personal investing. In LGR, we are partway through a multi-year
Page 4 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

technology project modernizing our platforms in preparation for significant PRT activity
expected in coming years. In GI, SmartQuote has revolutionized the quoted process and
SmartClaim help streamline the claims process for customers.
We are investing more in robotics across the group both in customer-facing operations
and finance functions. Examples of M&A investment are Canvas, Buddies and Salary
Finance. Our regulatory spend has increased to reflect changes such as IFRS 17, GDPR and
MiFID II. We continue to deliver these as efficiently as possible.
We've collaborated across divisions to ensure a seamless offering for our customers on
platforms like legalandgeneral.com and My Account, and of course, focusing on the latest
advances in cyber security to keep our data secure. Our investments in the business will
help us deliver our long-term growth objectives.
Returning to the divisions and LGR, in the first half, operating profit was up 9% to £480
million following a strong performance from the back book and positive operating (12:28),
partly driven by the acceleration of fully processing PRT scheme data.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I mentioned at our year end results, we're currently investigating the appropriateness
of moving to CMI 2016. Our latest estimate of this is a reserve release at the higher end
of the £300 million to £400 million range under IFRS and Solvency II, as we adjust our
best estimate assumptions. We will continue our analysis and expect to make any changes
for year-end following completion of this work.
Looking at new business in more detail, we wrote nearly 1.1 billion of annuity premium in
the first half, including the innovative transaction and the BAA Pension Scheme. In LGRI,
U.S. pension risk transfer business more than doubled premiums in the first half, and we
expect this positive momentum to continue into the second half of the year as this is
when we have historically seen more activity in the U.S.
Since we started in the market three years ago, we have written almost $2 billion of
annuity premiums. In the UK, the bulk annuity market has been attracting headlines
recently for a record pipeline. We are currently pricing more than $20 billion of live
transactions as Nigel said. We have retained a significant portion of the 2017 warehouse
direct investments and added to this to support higher second-half volumes that we
mentioned earlier.
Moving on to retail business. Individual annuity sales was slightly down at £337 million, as
last year benefited from increased H1 sales during a catch-up period at the start of the
Aegon distribution agreement. We continue to see demand returning to the individual
annuity market. And in the second quarter, we saw a 16% increase in premiums compared
to the same period last year.
We are the leader in lifetime mortgages with a 28% market share, having written £521
million in loans in the first half up 23%. We remain positive about the potential in the
second half of the year. Although, we are market leaders, we are recent entrants, so
lifetime mortgages only represent 5% of our £56 billion annuity portfolio.
Page 5 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

There's been a lot of talk in the market following the PRA's recent consultation on the use
of lifetime mortgages to back annuity liabilities. We will, of course, be working with our
industry peers to respond to the consultation, but our view is that we have a robust capital
treatment for lifetime mortgages and a relatively small exposure. So, we believe any
change from this new consultation will not be material to our capital position. In short, the
second half holds a lot of promise for LGR with a strong new business pipeline and
positive momentum.
Within our annuity asset portfolio, we continue to maintain a high credit quality with
approximately two-thirds rated A or better, 19% of which is in sovereign-like investments.
We have continued to increase our allocation to direct investments, and these now make
up 19% of our asset portfolio.
On this slide, we've provided a list of some of our largest direct investments. As you can
see, we focus on securing long-term rental income from high-quality tenants with our
largest exposure been over £1 billion to the UK government, primarily through HMRC.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let's move to LGIM who were the focus of our Capital Markets Event in June. LGIM
has shown consistent growth with operating profit up 5% to £203 million, driven by higher
AUM at the start of the year and increased revenues from flows. This was partially offset
by the impact from adverse markets on management fee growth and continued
investment in the business. We've maintained a stable cost income ratio of around 50%
due to the scalable nature of our business model and fund performance continues to be
strong.
External net flows were £14.6 billion, with good performance across regions, channels,
and product lines. This excludes £2.4 billion of AUM, which moved to LGIM as part of the
Canvas acquisition. In the first half, we saw positive flows from our DC, retail and
international businesses, which helped offset the structural shift from our UK DB index
business as our clients continue to derisk.
We talked about this trend in June and as an example, we flagged one large outflow of
£6 billion from a local authority scheme .UK DC had a great performance and we
maintained our market leadership, while building the largest and fastest growing
Mastertrust.
In retail, our rapid growth has continued into the first half of the year and AUM up 17% to
more than £25 billion. International AUM increased by 16% and this now makes up nearly a
quarter of our assets.
At our Capital Markets Event, we talked about LGIM's three strategic themes. Firstly, we
have continued to broaden our investment capabilities building on our core strengths. This
includes expanding into Europe with ETFs, offering real assets, which are in high demand
by pension schemes and packaging our responsible investing capabilities into our Future
World funds.

Page 6 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Secondly, we are addressing the savings gap. Much of our growth in this area is in retail
and in DC, where we now have over 2.8 million customers. Thirdly, we are expanding
internationally as we export our core strengths. We have had success in our carefullychosen markets within the U.S., Europe and Asia, and we see a strong pipeline to the
second half of the year. As we have previously stated, LGIM's operating profit growth
target is 8% to 10% over the medium term.
Moving on, LGC continues to grow profit, as we diversify and expand the assets we invest
in. Operating profit was up 21% to £172 million following a strong performance from the
direct investment portfolio, and also benefiting from the additional contribution from
CALA Homes. It should be remembered that due to the seasonal nature of housing,
CALA experiences higher profitability in the first half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

PBT was £82 million, down from £194 million in the prior year with lower equity returns,
resulting in negative investment variance in the traded portfolio. Direct Investments
achieved a net portfolio return of 9.1%. The portfolio is now over £2 billion. And in the first
half of the year, LGC invested or committed over £700 million into new opportunities, as
well as into existing asset classes. This included the launch of Affordable Housing and
further investments in to Build to Rent fund with LGIM Real Assets.
Through the creation of Real Assets, urban regeneration and clean energy investments,
we are rebuilding UK cities, generating stable returns for shareholders, MA-eligible assets
for LGR, and attractive assets for LGIM clients. We will continue to expand into cities where
we do not yet have a presence. The traded and treasury assets portfolio was £6.1 billion
and includes cash holdings of £4.1 billion, up from £3.4 billion at the year end. This is
mostly due to the receipt of proceeds from Swiss Re for Mature Savings.
Our protection division, LGI, had an improved performance in the first half of the year.
Operating profit increased 5%. However, there are a couple of moving parts to highlight
here. In the UK, our leading Retail Protection business reported good profit growth with
some one-off model enhancements offsetting adverse lapse experience and lower
product margins in a competitive market.
As previously guided, Group Protection returned to profitability, following management
actions taken to address adverse claims experience. Total UK protection premiums
increased 3% and our direct distribution channel again performed strongly, accounted for
21% of retail new business APE.
In the U.S., operating profit was down $48 million to $24 million, largely due to the higherthan-expected claims in the first half, compared to favorable mortality experience in the
prior year. This adverse experience was due to elevated cases of flu in line with the
market – wider market.
Assuming constant FX rates, U.S. premiums grew 3% and the business remained the
second largest provider of U.S. term life assurance through the broker channel.

Page 7 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

GI made an operating loss of £6 million in the first half, primarily as a result of the adverse
weather experience in line with the market with the Q1 freeze. Excluding the freeze
impacts, operating profit would have been up £7 million to £22 million, and a combined
operating ratio of 92%, highlighting underlying progress in the business.
Gross premiums increased 12% to £193 million, whilst maintaining our pricing discipline in a
competitive market. The division is also becoming increasingly diversified with our pet
insurance business gathering momentum. Overall, 37% of our premium now comes from
our direct channel, demonstrating the returns in our investments in technology. GI has had
eight distribution agreements with major UK financial institutions go live since the start of
2016, including two new partnerships in the first half of this year. We remain in active
discussions with potential new distribution partners who value our SmartQuote and awardwinning SmartClaim propositions. These factors combined to give good prospects of
growth in the second half and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving onto our capital position, the group Solvency II surplus stands at £6.9 billion. Our
Solvency II coverage ratio increased to 193%, up from 189% at yearend. Due to the
increased understanding of, and focus on Solvency II, we no longer intend to publish our
economic capital coverage ratio. We retain ECE for internal management purposes and
for those of you that are interested, the coverage ratio at the end of June continues to
be around 60% higher than the Solvency II ratio shown here.
We have bridged the Solvency II surplus to help explain the movements since the yearend. Operational surplus generation was £0.7 billion, up 11% from the prior year. This
already covers the larger of the two dividends paid each year. New business strain in the
first half was around £100 million. As per last year, the majority of this figure was in
respect of our U.S. term sales, which we reinsure and finance in the second half,
significantly reducing the eventual strain from this business. Operating variances during
this period included a number of minor movements which net to zero. And finally on
Solvency II, our usual slide gives you our estimate of the present value of Solvency II
surplus emergence from the key elements of new business we wrote.
As we have consistently noted, our margins are resilient. We continue to maintain pricing
discipline. In LGR, the new business margin was slightly higher than usual at 10.3%. As you
know, we wrote fewer deals in the first half, therefore this is not a true representation of
our expected full-year margins. In LGI, the new business margin was 7.1%, reflecting
product mix changes and the impact of competitive pressures in the Retail Protection
market.
So to conclude, our business produced a solid performance in the first half with operating
profit from divisions up 7%. The group continues to achieve an ROE of over 20% and our
healthy solvency and cash positions provide further optionality to continue growing in what
we believe will be an exciting second half of the year with many opportunities.
I'll now hand back to Nigel to go into more detail on a number of high-growth areas
across the group.

Page 8 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, Jeff. You'll now be familiar with the way we described our three core
businesses: Investing in annuities, investment management and insurance, and the
divisional structure that sits beneath it. For the next few slides, I'll talk about the
implementation of strategy in those three areas. The strategic thinking outlined here
should be familiar to all of you. Our alignment to these six structural drivers of growth is
(25:18) worth repeating because the growth drivers continue to work for us.
One, ageing demographics underpin pension risk transfer. We are confident of executing
a further £7 billion in H2 this year. As pension deficit shrink, so demand grows, as more
schemes reach the point where buy in or buy out becomes economically priced for them.
The aging demographic also drives lifetime mortgages; where the market was about £1.6
billion in 2015 when we started, it is now about £4 billion and is expected to be £6 billion
by 2020.
Two, globalization of asset markets; where LGM's international AUM has grown by 22%
compound since 2014 and where we will expand from our low base into Asia and extend
our reach in Europe, including through ETFs.

Bloomberg Transcript

Three, in real assets, the LGC direct investment portfolio grew 49% in H1 2018. Housing
and infrastructure are key political challenges for the UK, ones where legal and general
can make a good economic return.
Four, welfare reform; where for example, the move to auto enrollment has contributed to
a 21% increase in LGM's workplace customers, part of a 15% increase in DC, where AUM is
now a market-leading £72 billion.
Five, technologies improving customer service and customer value; I will return to this
later. We are scaling our businesses successfully using technology, as Jeff mentioned, but
we have significant further opportunities to improve.
Six, on the need for today's capital evidence itself in our 200 VC investments and the
growth of our Pemberton funds to almost €3 billion.
This is a new slide which helps illustrate the way we think about long-term growth for
Legal & General. There are three broad categories in the business: Startups, scale ups
and grownups. In summary, our grownup businesses, as Jeff discussed, are performing
incredibly well.
These grownups are our largest businesses, the 100% owned, typically with leading or at
least substantial market share. They're innovative and entrepreneurial and successfully
compete in attractive growing markets. But we also look at build versus sale options,
hence the disposal of Mature Savings for £650 million, at a profit of more than £400
million, which would be booked in 2019.

Page 9 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

Scale ups are strategically aligned growth businesses, where we can be either 100%
owners or holders of a significant minority stake. These businesses have the potential to
become grownups and as they grow, so we can increase our ownership as part of
financing their growth. CALA is a great example of this. It has moved up to the grown ups
space with L&G, now as Jeff mentioned, 100% owners, in effect, replacing Mature Savings.
Other businesses where we own minority stakes can likewise be funded to grow:
Pemberton in SME lending; NTR in clean, green and cheap energy; ADV, our venture
capital partnership with the British Business Bank; Salary Finance and Smartr365. If despite
growth, the strategic fit is not right, a minority stake can be sold at a profit, for example,
IndiaFirst.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking now at the 100% owned scale ups which are delivering fast growth to Legal &
General; these include build-to-rents, LGIM America, LGR America, European ETFs, DC
and Retail and Future Cities. Here, you have a set of high performers with strong growth
prospects. For example, our total build-to-rent pipeline is now 3,000 homes across nine
schemes nationwide, more than double our pipeline a year ago. Our U.S. businesses,
LGRA and LGIMA are similarly well-paced for growth. LGIMA for example delivered net
inflows of £8.3 billion in the U.S. in the first half of this year.
Our startups are either 100% owned or companies in which we have a minority stake. The
100% owned startups are developed within the business units; for example, our surveying
and insurance businesses. The minority-owned startups which are in areas connected with
our core businesses, which we believe have outstanding potential for growth. As that
growth materializes, we increase our stake to help support its growth. We have some
terrific start ups and scale ups in Bernie's business, including Salary Finance and
Smartr365, as well as Care Sourcer in Chris' LGR Retail business.
To get more granular about this, here, we illustrate the L&G housing ecosystem, driven
both by the need for new real assets and the deployment of technology. This
encompasses house-building across all forms of tenure: For sale, for rent, later living and
affordable. It utilizes the leading market shares we have to L&G Mortgage Club and our
leading surveying business as well as our Lifetime Mortgage business. House moves are
also the natural point for GI and indeed protection transactions, again, with a significant
data or digital component.
We have three other exciting ecosystems which we'll discuss at a later date; workplace,
retirements and real assets. They drive real synergies and collaboration across Legal &
General.
Our growth pyramid had CALA moving from scale up to grown up. L&G's investment has
facilitated a tripling of revenue in five years, a 2.5% increase in housing units delivered and
a 5 times increase in EBIT. Operating margins have indeed improved, but they're still only
13% compared to a 21% industry average. The pipeline is strong with 3,000 units per
annum of credible medium-term targets.
LGIMA is likewise in transition from scale up to grown up. Initiated with $6 billion of internal
assets back in 2007, since 2013, it has successfully attracted U.S. and domestic and

Page 10 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

international funds and now has over $180 billion under management. Its product range is
extending; from early significant successes in active fixed income and LDI, we're now
building out to index and starting in multi-asset and real assets and LGIMA is now
positioned to be one of the drivers of our 8% to 10% growth in LGIM.
LGIM Asia is in the start up bracket. Yes, we've won mandates in Asia, but we're just
beginning to scratch the surface in a market that is becoming one of the three pillars of
global asset management. We're adding resources and are investing for growth into
numerous Asian markets.
Like LGIMA, LGRA is a 100% subsidiary in the scale up category. From a standing start in
2015, it has written nearly $2 billion for 28 clients, including $300 million in H1, up from $141
million in H1 2017. The background is a U.S. PRT market estimated at $20 billion to $25
billion this year, driven by a supportive policy environment and a favorable mortality and
rate environment. We are enabling this business to grow by utilizing group-wide
infrastructure and real asset capabilities in the United States, as well as leveraging our
strengths, including longevity, investment management and admin expertise.

Bloomberg Transcript

Salary Finance was a start up at which we first invested in, in 2017; now, clearly a scale up,
where we now have a 40% shareholding. It has half a million employees on its platform
already, and we expect it to reach a million by the end of this year. Because it is a truly
digital scale up business, we can scale up quickly. Salary Finance is intending to launch
more widely in the U.S. in H2. More innovation for L&G will follow in all of these areas.
All financial services businesses, in fact, probably all businesses, full stop, now have to be
technology businesses. You've seen some of our digital start up and scale up investments
in our earlier pyramid of growth, but the use of technology is increasing everywhere, and
appears across our grown up businesses too. This includes the cloud, robotics, AI, big
data, blockchain and platforms. The key to this, for us anyway, is focus and delivery, rather
than just unveiling technical solutions, which are in search of a problem to solve. So, we
measure carefully, for example, the costs and benefits of unattended and attended
robotics.
Disruption for us is a responsibility and a privilege; this applies even when we are
disrupting ourselves. So, the use of big data, for example, in surveying or GI, is not just
about pricing. It is also about our customers' journey. For example, being able to solve and
secure home cover on any device, 24/7, by just answering five questions or fewer.
Operate an (35:07) model of this sort requires plenty of entry points for companies and
businesses as they grow, but it also requires focus on exit, when it's right to exit. In recent
years, we have consistently sharpened our focus through a series of disposals, closures
and simplifications.
We see these moves through two connected lenses: strategic fit and shareholder value.
The slide illustrates our exit from businesses which were subscale, underperforming in
profit or growth terms or in geographies or segments which did not align to our strategy
or a skill set. Since we've started, it has delivered £1.3 billion of cash to invest in higher
growth businesses.

Page 11 of 30



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

Turning now to the LGC £8.1 billion asset portfolio, the composition of the portfolio with
over £4 billion of cash clearly indicates that there are many optimized opportunities ahead
for Kerrigan and the team. We've made very significant progress growing direct
investments which more than doubled since 2015. They now stand at over £2 billion and
generated £104 million of operating profit in H1. The direct investments naturally support
our PRT business. This is LGC's role as an asset sourcer. The traded-in treasury assets
portfolio however now stands at £6.1 billion, with operating profit of £68 million. We have
to deliver more profits from these assets.
The standout item here, which Jeff and I both commented on, is the component of cash
which is well over £4 billion. Reinvesting cash into more productive assets, while
maintaining a group ROE of over 20% is a clear winning strategy for Legal & General.
Given our success to date and the opportunities presented to us, we will be accelerating
LGC's evolution in H2 and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will finish on our financial ambition and strategic goals. Our goal is to replicate the 10%
compound annual growth in EPS, which we delivered for 2011 to 2015 for the period 2016
to 2020. Halfway through, we're on track to deliver on our goal. Our outlook for H2 is
confident about moving forward in a material way on each of the strategic goals listed
here. We do expect to close a further £7 billion in PRT transactions. We expect workplace
AUM to grow further and faster. We expect LGIMA to deliver further growth. We will get
off the ground in LGIM Asia and to expand in housing and urban regeneration across more
cities in Britain. We will deliver inclusive capitalism fulfilling an economically and socially
useful role and we will do that by utilizing all the talents of all of our people and all the
strengths of our positive supportive culture.
Now I'll open up to questions.

Q&A
A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Can you just mention your name so that people – even I know who you are, for the
camera.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch; three from me, as usual, please. Firstly,
on the pipeline, £7 billion of bulk pipeline the UK, could you just give some color on the
global opportunities as well? Do you expect a better H2 than H1 globally as well for
pension risk transfer? Secondly, sorry, still staying on pension risk transfer, has pricing or
competition changed after the consultation paper on lifetime mortgages. And third,
moving across to the insurance business Group Protection ADE (00:38:58), growth ticked
up a little bit in the first half of the year. Just wondering if you could comment on pricing
trends outlook here after a few wobbles in the insurance business?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 12 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Sure, I'll answer 1, Jeff can answer 2 and Bernie can answer 3. The £7 billion in the pipeline,
those are exclusive deals that we expect to close, in fact, expect to close either one later
this week or early next week. And so the £20 billion that used to be called pipeline is now
called actively quoting because of the more explicit definition from our CRO, Mr. Simon
Gaad, on that particular thing.
The pipeline is also very strong in America, but the metrics are not as well developed in
America. But, certainly, the second half is always stronger than the first half. But I think, as
Jeff talked about, and I certainly talked about, we'll just maintain our financial discipline in
America but the – there's certainly a bigger pipeline in H2 in both the UK and the United
States. And, in fact, there's a couple of other countries, Holland and Ireland, also featuring
in the pipeline for H2.
And, indeed, into 2019, the pipeline is also looking very strong in H1 of 2019 as well. I can
see my colleagues at the back nodding their head because they won't be getting much
time off over Christmas. Jeff ?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, sure. The pricing competition around LTM, certainly we've been reflecting a possible
outcome of that consultation within our pricing, and the trustees, the schemes have been
accepting of that, can understand the logic, given we've been winning. We, therefore,
assume our competition must be doing the same around that. And so, it just – it flows
through. We can provide the explanation. We can provide the impact on pricing and it's
been accepted.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bernie?

A - Bernie Hickman

{BIO 19334629 <GO>}

Yes. So, on Group Protection, we've been making a number of changes, particularly in
making our pricing more sophisticated, and also addressing customer service and it's
really good to see that that's coming through in new businesses sales as well. Part of our
pricing is putting premiums up and sometimes retain schemes and that will come through
into APE as well. So, yes, some really encouraging trends in terms of margins and other
activity in the market that's always evolving. We remain, yeah, more sophisticated and
disciplined in our pricing and we'll be looking to get profitable new business wherever we
can.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thanks, Bernie. I'd like to thank Steve Gritters (00:41:29) and all the team at Group
Protection who've just done an outstanding job for this. I know that Steve's not here today
because he's working hard.

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Page 13 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. Two questions. First of all in L&G capital, just picking up
on your last point you made, obviously, the cash is growing faster than the (00:41:48) in
the direct investments. Realistically, how quickly and how much can you put into direct
investments? Can it be a big delta to earnings as we saw in the first half ?
And then just secondly on the Lifetime Mortgages, just a follow-up from Andy's question;
obviously not a big impact on your back-book because it's a small part of AUM, but what is
the impact on the new business margins, because you're writing a lot of it going forward?
And also, are you changing your LTM pricing, as well as your unit pricing to affect any
changes? And how do you think that the PRA can justify their assumptions...

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

You've got four questions. (42:28) PRA often come to these meetings they hide
somewhere in the back. I'm just looking around to see whether they're here or not. I think
the – I'll ask Kerrigan to talk to talk about LGC. I'll just echo some of the points that – and
I'll just go through the Lifetime Mortgage.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a very attractive market and the PRA are trying to stop in a certain sense, very high
loan-to-value, high rate products for people and they've developed a system which does
that, I think, in my view.
We don't always get treated the same way as banks, so hence, we've got a £2.6 billion
credit for preserve (00:43:01), which is way high than any banks would have on an asset
portfolio because we fulfill a different role in banking. We are structural (00:43:08)
providers of long-term capital into the industry. So, we tend to have more owners than
other banks, (00:43:15) we would have more ownership and lifetime mortgages are in
that area.
As Jeff mentioned, it's not a problem for us within the Lifetime Mortgage business and it's
certainly not a problem in the – as a consequence in the PRT business. We've got lots of
upside, yet in terms of the amount of assets we've only got £2 billion of the £56 billion in
Lifetime Mortgages. I don't think in any way it was just designed to catch L&G out. I think it
was – in a sense, it was more encouragement to L&G in the Lifetime Mortgage market.
On LGC, Kerrigan, why are you not investing more money when you got all this money
sitting idly around?

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Well, I think in Nigel's press book (00:43:54), he talks about changing Britain and the real
enduring need for private capital in the residential housing across Britain and the
economic investment in our great cities outside of London. Certainly there's an incredible
demand for it and we think a great social and economic purpose if you're putting money
to work there.
Residential housing, we're live on just about 90 sites across the UK, attractive
opportunities for buying land (00:44:20) lot more that we can do there in sectors such as
Page 14 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

affordable housing, later living, and indeed, of course, build to sell, where there's an
incredible demand for all those and a supportive market broadly across all those markets
and more we can do there certainly.
And in the future of our UK cities, again, that £500 million invested in that £2 billion
portfolio, there's a lot of demand as we see regional de-evolution of people wanting to
work with us to apply private capital to their opportunities and that's commercial
environments, residential environments or mobility, connectivity, sustainability, all the
future of our cities.
So we certainly see huge opportunities for growth. My colleagues on the stage tell me
frequently to invest it wisely. So we will be very careful about the way in which we build out
that portfolio, but certainly a huge number of opportunities and you should expect to see
that £2 billion investment grow at a pretty reasonable pace with that backdrop.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Again, I'd like to thank Kerrigan for moving from LGR to LGC and that was because
he saw the huge opportunities that we have in LGC to grow the business. And along with
John Godfrey and Pete Gladwell, who used to do a lot of work with me, Kerrigan, John
Cummins, who joined us from RBS, who's made a huge contribution already and his team.
We got much more resources going into this than we had before.
Very highly talented people who are being welcomed in Edinburgh and Glasgow and
Newcastle, Bristol, Bath, et cetera, et cetera, Cambridge, Oxford, there's lots of REIT
(45:50) activity going on and lots of towns and cities are leaning into Brexit, which is a
positive thing on devolution, regional devolution and empowerment of these people is
really another big positive for us as a firm.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions, please. First on Solvency. You're running at
193%, it's obviously a lot higher than when you started under Solvency II, just wondering if
you can comment on what are the drivers there; is it board-driven, regulator-driven,
shareholder-driven, or was it just a short-term issue?
And second on equity release, I know you said you already have a robust capital
treatment for Lifetime Mortgages; does that mean that you are using a deferment rate
which is within what the PRA is talking about, to the north of 1%?
And just finally, UK bulk's actually got (00:46:46) you feel you got some fantastic
opportunities and mostly alternative opportunity here. So bulks, you said the strain is less
than 4% at the moment, so let's just say it's 3%; now you can't run a bulk at 100%
solvency, so let's say 140%, so the strain after building up the capital requirement, I know
that's not how you define strain, but the actual image you hit on an £18 billion book could
be £1.3 billion.

Page 15 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Now, there is an £18 billion book out there; the big advantage that would have over DB
schemes is of course DB schemes don't come with any capital. This already comes with its
capital in the market scene that's priced less than £1 billion, compared to the £1.3 billion
for a DB scheme. Why isn't that more profitable to you than the DB schemes that you're
taking on?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

There's a man who's got more ambition than I have. I can't believe this is happening. I feel
ashamed of my lack of ambition for this particular division. Jeff, do you want to answer
one and three? And Chris, can you answer two? If you can remember what one and three
were.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

(00:47:51) Yes, go on.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I think there's a number of changes to – sorry, trying to find the question there, to
the PRA's new sort of proposed basis for Lifetime Mortgages. So, it's been hard to
perhaps point out that we came from a sort of (00:48:07) kind of approach to more of
the marketing assistant. I guess we are pretty confident in what we see there, the 1%
deferment rate which is what very much sort of (00:48:17) be really quite modest impact
for us, both on existing business and also for the new business, really only on a section of
the higher loan-to-value products more likely to have an impact, I would think, on – people
offering perhaps slightly lower loan-to-values for similar interest rates in the future?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay, Jeff.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. The 193%, I'd categorize it more as a natural evolution, to be honest. It's not
that it's targeting anything in particular or we're aiming at that. There's been some rise in
interest rates though they're still reasonably low. You know, that drives some of it.
Obviously, a lot more sophistication in managing the metric, and the likes of Tim and
those in the LGR team in particular optimizing matching adjustment on an ongoing basis,
optimizing that asset portfolio, that helps to drive it, refinements in the model on an
ongoing basis, which have moved that higher.
So we have surplus generation also which we haven't been spending, which we seeing in
other parts of the balance sheet. So there's a general evolution of it and we keep it under
review. We don't think it's too high yet so I think it gives us great optionality to write things
like £7 billion plus of PRT deals. Whether it gives us optionality to drive £18 billion is
another question.
I mean, I think the question is more of the attraction – relative attraction. We're always
interested in large transactions around annuities. However, when we can write £7-billionPage 16 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

plus of PRT, (00:49:54) maintain our pricing discipline, we believe using a lot of the
advantages we have, whether that's relationships, the asset side of the balance sheet,
whether it's more bespoke transactions, then we believe that also drives a lot of
efficiency for us. So it would have to be reasonably compelling and we'd look at other
things apart from just the capital strain associated with that.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thank you. Colm Kelly, UBS. Two questions, one on the cash generation, or is there really
sub operations as it's called? I supposed that used to be the core cash metric to
communicate the sustainability of the dividend strategy looking at the growth rate of that.
Since 2017, each half year, it's 0%, 2%, minus 8%, now (00:50:42) impacting their – the
back-book cash generation has been flat. What has changed or why should I not be
looking at that metric as continuing to be key for the dividend's sustainability? That's the
first question.
The second question, apologies if I didn't pick up the answer earlier to the new business
margin impact from the equity release consultation, if you could just comment on that? I
know you have the numbers draw on it, but it's not material for the solvency. But for the
new business margin. In fact, that would be useful. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Zero for the second one. I think the – Jeff, do you want to take the?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I was going to say zero to the second, but we're flowing it through the pricing as I
said. So, we anticipate that going through. It's still a really attractive asset from a funding
perspective for the annuity portfolio. So, we would see that flowing through.
In terms of release from operations, as you say, there's a lot of moving parts that's been
going on there, mix of business, the mature savings dropping out, and so, that then drives
changes in what you see on the release from operations, and even things like FX flow
through on LGI. And so, there are always movements on that metric.
I mean, we look at release from operations, we look at net release from operations,
obviously, we anticipate that being significantly higher when you add in a large amount of
PRT business in the second half and we see good growth in these metrics on an ongoing
basis. We also look at Solvency II surplus generation. That's why we gave the exact
number in growth for the operational surplus generation, 11% clearly bigger than 7%. We
then have a new business strain and we can manage that. We can offset the gain's
longevity releases, et cetera, so we look at that number as well, and obviously the normal
(00:52:21) metric. so, we look at a range of these.

Page 17 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

I mean, I've already said to a few other people, I'm thinking we'll do a bit more cash-type
disclosure at the year end because the figure is big, what is – and relating that to what are
we paying out from entities. But it never quite landed at the half year. It's much cleaner to
do it at the full year, so we'll look at a number of these metrics in kind of a bit more cashtype disclosure.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. So, fist question is on...

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

How many questions you got all in all?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Three.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Three. Okay. Feel better.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

So, first question on the direct investments you're warehousing within LGR, can you
remind us how much you built that up by last year, how much you've added to that this
year and I suppose, basically what I'm looking for is some helpful indicator towards the
sort of new business margin. You might expect on that £7 billion-plus of (00:53:17) you've
got in the second half.
Second question is, the STR came down I think £300 million. You've talked in a couple of
questions ago, about sort of management actions you've taken. Is that what drove it and
how much more have you got to do on that front. And then finally, with reference to slide
29 that's the – that's the sort of interlinking on the whole of the housing activities that
you've got. How much cross-selling are you actually doing between those areas
(00:53:48) CALA Homes to new mortgages, new protection policies how much existing
mortgages are moving into equity release mortgages? Anything you can give us on that,
please?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll do one and three, Jeff, if you'll do two on this. The direct investments, we
obviously warehouse direct investments the following year and those typically cover a
large proportion of what we want to complete during the following year. So we have that
in hand.

Page 18 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

We knew we had a huge pipeline of customer business which, in a certain sense, was one
of the reasons we didn't press all the way hard on the very large back-book transaction
earlier in the year. We've been quite to see £3 billion of it a la Aegon (00:54:33) but we
have so much customer business that we want to focus on the customer business and
refer to deal team. They just did a great job of doing that.
The sorts of assets that we're getting, similar to last year, and the margin itself on the
deal will be much more related to the duration of the liabilities that we've taken on rather
than the policy of the assets that we have in the portfolio. And Jeff mentioned the
movement between what gets shared between us and the customers is similar going
forward. So we won't see material differences from the margins that we expected on the
back book.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of slide 29, the synergies exist not in (00:55:20) a few more mortgages for our
business. If you take Build to Rent, Build to Rent is generally something to create
synergies between all three divisions where LGIM a big – are trying to build and will
indeed, I think, succeed in building the first institutionally-funded asset flats (00:55:40)
around housing. LGC, obviously, building – providing the equity capital to kick-start that – all
those schemes going in partnership with PGGM who are great partners for us, and have
lots of expertise in this area.
And once we structure those portfolios, LGR will take a cash-flow-based, matching
adjustment approach to getting assets which fit the portfolio. I could go through all of the
others and at some point, we'll arrange a presentation where we'll go through all the
ecosystems of how things have joined up together, but that's probably the best example
of how we – how we're currently working together. And investing in new real assets which
we can structure in such a way that they benefit LGC, LGIM and LGR, an (00:56:30)
regeneration, we talked about Cardiff and Leeds and Manchester before. There's more
of that going to happen because we have much more capability to do that which was
really what Kerrigan was saying and the answer to – answer the earlier question, Jeff.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. On the SCR, I mean, there's no single big driver of that. There will be an element of
rates. There will be an element of slight changes in diversification and what we would
cover our bite-in (00:56:57) scenario as we call it. There'll be elements of small pieces
along the line where we're optimizing model changes on an ongoing basis, et cetera. As
you saw in the up-variance, there was a whole load of things that's just sort of cancelling
out, but in terms of how many of those do we have to go, I mean, there's a long way to
go of evolution. We're constantly optimizing. So what does it do for capital? What do we
do that we – do we use an internal reinsurance? Do we change the structures that we
have for external risk transfer et cetera? So there's a long way to go and always add a
benefit on that in understanding how it all diversifies in the model and what optimizes it,
what makes it a business et cetera?
We have a long way to go around that and there will still be material areas where we
believe we can improve the model and simply bring the SCR down, and PRA will have a
(00:57:46) few when they think it goes up.
Page 19 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

So (00:57:52) too and then A and B. Just on home, the combined ratio of 92%, if my
memory serves me correct, we used to be running around 94%, 95%. That's 92%
(00:58:05) Now, you've done a whole bunch of new deals. I assume you would have to
bid up for the deals. I would've expected the combined ratio to have gone up given all
the other (00:58:13) rates in the markets et cetera.
So is – I mean, why has – why have you got such a favorable (00:58:18) with the combined
ratio? And are there any other sort of bulk – distribution deal costs that aren't included in
the combined ratio that say, below the line in your start-up spend or something like that?
That's question one.
Second one is, just with (00:58:34) to between its March results and its disclosures,
Solvency II to convert it with equity release portfolio from – to change the internal ratings
from AA to A. I was wondering what – if you've had conversations with PRA around your
sort of circa £13 billion direct investments and the ratings on that and if there's any risk
from that?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third question is, I'm surprised by the material savings operating profit in the first
half. I was wondering is there going to be any further contribution in the second half from
that element.
Cheryl takes the first question. Kerrigan, I'll do little introduction then you can take the
second question, Jeff takes the third question. So, Cheryl, do you want to just answer the
first question?

A - Cheryl Agius

{BIO 20013065 <GO>}

Thank you. Our client ratio has continued to improve excluding weather because we have
been much more strong in our pricing discipline and our risk selection and we've also
been rebalancing – balancing our portfolio. So we reduced our exposure to broker
business and increased it to the direct. And going back to the point about acquisition of
the new deals, they're being reflected in the combined ratio too.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Just in terms of the – in the old days, we used to go and get every deal
that we did in direct investments have a non-objection from the regulator.
We've moved on since then because we gained the trust of the regulators. So we
certainly had no discussion on the raising of the lifetime mortgage book, but Kerrigan is
there anything else you want to add?

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Well, I guess just reflecting on the slide that we showed earlier. So, on the top 10 LGR
direct investments there could be the LGC ones also is a very robust internal ratings
process that's been agreed and discussed with the PRA extensively. We have an
Page 20 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

independent team based in LGIM filled with experts, group credit risk officers (01:00:31).
So it's a very substantial process across a very diverse set of assets. So, we're very
comfortable with those – internal rating process and no reason to expect any wholesale
shift in what we're doing there.

FINAL

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I think our internal – (01:00:48) committee give their team a particularly hard time. They
seem to enjoy giving Mark, Kerrigan and those who are here, particularly difficult time.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

And the material savings is relatively straightforward. It's just an accounting thing. We're
not allowed to realize all of the profit from the transaction until the Part VII. Therefore, we
sort of amortize that, if you like. It comes out whilst we're still on a reinsurance state rather
than a Part VII. So, we expect the underlying £20 million to £25 million each half year until
we get to that Part VII as it just unwinds.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Andrew? Then we'll come back.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Can I ask three questions? Firstly, could you give a
slightly more numerical answer to the – what the impact of 1% impairment (01:01:40) rate
is? And also, the growth rate in the direct investments from £2 billion. What sort of growth
rate per annum are you looking at?
Secondly, your ambition to grow earnings to 2020 by 10%. The dividends are growing at
7%. Should we expect A to come up to B or B to come down to A?
And thirdly, could you talk a little bit about the, I suppose, toxic culture in LGIM? Particularly,
that would be a concern to me if it involves the area, which is doing internal ratings.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Indeed, it would if that were true. I'll take the culture things first, if I may. And then, Jeff, if
you take the second question. Kerrigan, I think you've got to come back and give a better
answer on the growth of DI.
I'm very proud of everything that Mark and the team have achieved over a number of
years in LGIM. And any time we have any whistleblowing across the group, we – in a sense
that culture is about actively encouraging whistleblowing for people to come forward in a
very anonymized way if there are issues that they want to raise. It's part of our openness
as a firm.
We have a policy which allow, which says every non-executive can go to any management,
meeting, anywhere in the world at any time. Our regulators, including (01:03:07) sitting on
Page 21 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

a whole day in the life of L&G and so they see how we work, starting with the 7:00 o'clock
management meetings (01:03:17) finishing up in the call centers most of the evening
listening to calls. So, we want to be totally transparent about all of this.
It's unfortunate these things have gotten in the media, relating to incidents that happened
in 2017, but they have – but reassured, we're totally convinced and know that we have a
positive supportive culture here, we have an independent review from Latham & Watkins,
which assessed our culture and it came out as positive, supportive and respectful. Any
firm at any time, will have a number of whistleblowers, and we're no different from
anybody else around that. And we've actively encouraged (01:03:56) to come forward.
And there's an independent review of whistleblowers carried out by our internal audit
function once a year, and every year that I've been here, that's turned out to be a good
report, and supportive report, the things that we're trying to do as a firm. I don't know
Mark whether you want to add anything to what I've just said?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I think, I guess I would just encourage everyone to look at this topic as
comprehensively as possible and focus on facts. Things can be alleged at any time and
how the press chooses to portray it, we can't control, but we have an outstanding culture
in LGIM. It's something that we take pride and we know it drives absolutely everything in
our business, every aspect of our business. It's what we're primarily known for, I think with
our brand in the marketplace. And situations like this are actually really unifying for the
employees.
I spent much of the last couple of weeks, most of the last couple of weeks talking with
employees and clients. And it's just been extremely supportive, understanding situation,
not to say we don't have situations that come up, not to say that there is always going to
be issues in a large organization like Nigel mentioned, and we'll continue to address them
within the controlled framework that we have. And in this situation, I think we – it acted the
way it was intended to do independent investigation, and I'm trying to bring closure to the
activities that were alleged.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Jeff, you want to discuss the lifetime mortgage and...

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

And the dividend.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

And the dividend.

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

I mean, yeah, the last time – we're not going to give any more on the numbers. You can't
just look at it at the deferment. You have to look at how do you structure it in the SPV
(01:05:45), how does it flow through MA to get the total capital implications. So, we –
Page 22 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

we're perfectly happy it's not material to group capital and as others it will be worse off
than us on that number. So, we don't need to sort of cover that further, we don't think.
The 10% versus 7%, well, we made a pretty clear statement about sustainable medium
term, 7%. We've only done it once. But probably it would make sense to have a record if
it's sustainable medium term of doing that. There's no magic number about the 10%
versus the 7%. And I've said a number of times we look at the whole range of metrics. We
don't just look at (01:06:27). And we use some of that headroom for investment. We look
at what else we can do with it, and we look at Solvency II. We look at our capital position.
We look at our cash position. We look at earnings and other basis, how much are we
generating. So, there isn't a magic between the two on those.

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

I'm going to give you slightly better figures in it. Just in terms of H1 gross new investment
for direct investment in the portfolio was just over £700 million. Obviously, CALA was over
£300 million of that, net new investment round about the £500 million level or just over
the £500 million level. As Nigel said, we certainly got the team, the quality, the capability,
the bandwidth, and the opportunities to keep exploring opportunities at that rate. So, that
would be the rate of opportunity discovery precisely, which ones will do and where it will
be a little bit lumpy.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Just work our way around.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi. Andrew Baker, Citi. Just two questions please. So first one, on growing the bulk market
you're seeing some competitors do some larger longevity transactions, you got £7 billion
second half pipeline. Are you seeing longevity reinsurance capacity concerns either this
year or just your longer term outlook on the capacity there?
And then secondly, you're obviously further down looking at IFRS 17. Are you in a position
to give an updated view on what you see high level potential impacts on that. Thank you.
Okay. On the longevity we've seen no capacity issues whatsoever. And so we're very
happy with our relationship we have. In certain sense, in the protection market, we see no
capacity issues at all for the last 25 years. And so we've been doing a one-time business
for a long time. And on the other side, we're absolutely fine.
Jeff, do you want to take the second question?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean IFRS 17 we did lots of work. We're comfortable. And as we've said before
actually has limited impact in terms of back book versus new business profits, et cetera
because of the way it works. But it's a reasonable distance. Often, all the latest debate is,
is there 11 or 14 issues that need to be changed.
Page 23 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

So, version of IFRS 17 and when it's coming in is probably the question. So, our focus
remains implementing efficiently not burn in money trying to bring something in, until that
we get enough clarity, but being far enough advanced and improving our technology so
that we can implement it. But we're not nervous about the accounting implications that
this takes and we wait for more clarity to talk about it when we get that.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I think we have four more questions here. And so, if there's any more than the four more
questions here, you can put the hands up because I think we've got four more questions
here to answer, four multiple questions.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Morning. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Got three questions, please. First on annuities.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're pricing for longevity? You actually are already
taking semi-2016 into price maneuvers since we're actually moving ahead of two semi2016s, first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, could you give us update, please, on what's happening on L&G Homes? Is that
up and running? Are you still sort of test manufacturing or you're actually full-launched
there?
And then, finally, lifetime mortgages, you've obviously built fantastic origination capacity
there very quickly. Is there an outcome from the payroll review that makes it less attractive
for backing the annuities? And is there actually a role for the balance sheet even if it isn't
at all actually that interesting any more from the annuity perspective?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, I'll answer the third one, which is no. I think Jeff made that point earlier on – to
the lifetime mortgage. The remaining (01:10:00) attractive for us anyway in terms of the
back (01:10:06) the competitors around that. If Kerrigan answers two and you answer one,
Jeff, if that's okay. Kerrigan on two?

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Correct. Just on (01:10:14). I'm sure we all know the strategic reasons for being there.
Anybody in residential house-building is probably Real Asset's portfolio and needs an
answer to this significant skill shortage we already see on building sites around the
country. That's getting worse. You might be thinking Brexit. But aging demographic in the
workforce on site is a very significant feature there. So, you need an onset to address that
skill shortage as we go from 20,000 to 300,000 houses.
And taking that construction off-site and putting it in the factory and doing 80% of the
build there makes a lot of sense from a strategic rationale. We are already producing light
houses that people will live in with the first set of houses, first of all house now on our
(01:10:57).

Page 24 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. On longevity in pricing, obviously for PRT business in the UK, we reinsure a vast
majority. But the more important question is what are the reinsurers doing? We continue
to see very aggressive terms. We think they're already being forced because of the
competition reasons to factor in a lot of this, in the slowdown in longevity improvement
into their pricing, so that naturally flows through in that. Obviously for the individual retail
annuities, we're very careful in anticipating where we think the basis will be and Chris
(01:11:35) wants to be more aggressive. He still knows (01:11:40) he's only going to be
reporting it from what we've actually implemented by the year-end. So, we have to
balance that at any point in time.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Okay. Any order.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Dominic O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions for me all on PRT. The
first is – so 2018 is going to be great year in terms of audience for the market. You're
excited about H1 2019, and I think we all understand those are the structural drivers. What
I'm trying to get my head around is whether – the sort of the recent dramatic
improvement in funding positions is creating a surge in 2018, early 2019, which will then
settle down and then revert to sort of a long-term growth, whether you actually you see
this as sort of a step change?
The second question on pricing, it sounds like H2 is going to be dominated by very large
ticket items, does that affect the pricing dynamic and the capital strength dynamic, or
actually would you expect it to be similar to last year? And then, finally, in terms of pricing
and capital strain on non-UK business, are there any different dynamics there that we
should be aware of ? Thank you.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. The markets are so big. And as more deals get done and our capacity to do more
deals and bigger deals has increased by definition our clients have – some of them have
£5 billion, £10 billion, £15 billion, £20 billion that they want to do, we've done bits of that
so far. So, it's definitely repeat business with existing clients. We do have £400 billion of
LDI business that we've done in previous years, so the hopper is enormous, and we've
created a similar hopper as you know in the United States.
When you coming into the yearend, that's why we had all that DI that we have a very busy
year. To be fair, it's a bit busier than we thought, but it's still within the parameters of
being the direction (01:13:32). I think people are thinking that the market could go from
£20 billion to £40 billion in any given year, and there's still a few back books to do, so
there's lot of shortage of demand from clients.
There's a similar picture in the United States. There's a very (01:13:49) hopper of things
that need doing. We can't be absolutely certain, but certainly 2019, first half which we have

Page 25 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

reasonable visibility on already is also very busy for the DI team? Do you want to add
some color on the pricing and capital, Jeff ?

FINAL

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. It isn't just large ticket. We have a number of deals that we're in the discussions on
in there. The dynamics change all the time on the pricing. It will be sometimes people will
say a big deal is really attractive, they really want to do it and they're less interested in
smaller deals and the smaller deals look more attractive to us. So, it does move around
quite often, which is a tricky one to explain to the board actually.
You tell them one strategy and then there's another. And then in terms of the non-UK, the
dynamics are pretty similar, we ourselves are very conscious of using economic capital in
our pricing for that. So, in terms of return hurdles on an economic capital, they are very
similar. We're newer to the market. So, we're therefore a bit more wary on what we
report to make sure that we are – we've just been slightly more conservative on that. But
in terms of return, targets and economic profit (01:15:06).

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think one of the other lucky things we've got. We've got the likes of Simon Gadd and Tim
Steadman who have been around forever, and having been up and down the cycles
(01:15:15) we've got long term knowledge of the way the markets (01:15:17). So, rest
assured, their heart beats never get above 65 when we're discussing any of this stuff.
And so, we're very measured in our approach and never get overexcited about the stuff,
but I get a bit excited about at times and Jeff starting to get excited. Of course, Kerrigan
has been being with us a long time and worked on the LDI business for a long time as
well. So, there's a great team, there's a very experienced team that are dealing with all of
these issues. Two questions to go.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi. It's Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Just two questions if I can. Firstly, coming back to
PRT, why do you think the PRT deals have been skewed towards H2 this year? Is there
something peculiar going on during H1.
And then what proportion of deals in exclusivity do you typically close, is it 100%? And
then, second question on direct assets, how will the yields on your liquid assets tracking
relative to triggered assets. Have you seen any compressional or are they stable related
to last year?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I think – the answer is all the things are positive. And so we've got a great origination
capability and NDI (01:16:34) assets, so I'm very, very happy with all of that. And so,
anything else you want to add Jeff ?

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}
Page 26 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

FINAL

Yeah. I don't think there's anything magical about H1 versus H2 deals, take a while to land.
There's a lot of discussion that needs to go on. So, I don't think there's anything there. As
Nigel said, we're already in conversations about things in Q1 2019, that could easily then
move to Q2 2019, et cetera. So, I don't think there's anything magical there. Yeah,
percentage exclusivity, we're confident that's...

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

We had 10 deals last year, which at beginning of H2, we're exclusive and the team
delivered all 10. So, they were 10 for (01:17:15) 10 last year and that's – I'm sure that's the
kiss of death. And I can see them all – they're all glaring at me and will give me a hard time
tonight when this is all finished. But so far, so good. And (01:17:28) touch it, but we usually
have a very high conversion rate. Clearly, there's some macro exogenous things happen,
which are outside our control or the clients control then things tend to fall away. But they
rarely fall away perpetually, they come back maybe 12, 18 months or two years, two years
later.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning. It's Barrie Cornes, Panmure Gordon. I've got three questions, if I may. First of all,
back to lifetime mortgages. I think you talked about the market at £6 billion by 2020. I just
wondered if that's the slowdown, I thought maybe (01:18:01) have given a sort of bigger
figure. I wonder if that's related to the consultation paper. So your outlook on lifetime
mortgages, please.
Second question, LGIM, when you held Capital Markets Day, was about to launch a retail
savings campaign, it seems they're relatively quiet. I wonder if you could comment on
that, please. And thirdly on the GI side, you talked about weather in Q1, but just wondered
if the (01:18:28) claims from previous years (01:18:30) dried up?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll let Cheryl answer the third one. Mark, do you want to answer the second one. One the
first one, Steve Ellis is my sort of guy – my sort of guy. You've got all the compliance
people who just give you a hard time about future projections or you always have to be
very cautious to proven design.
But I think the market could be a lot bigger going forward. And certainly the FCA have
been encouraging that, the treasury encouraging that, it's very good for the economy. I
think there's only 2,000 agents out of the 7,000 agents, which are trying to sell the
product or actually selling the product so far. And if just Chris and the team could just get
out and do a bit more of this thing, then clearly we would have an even bigger and more
successful business going forward. Cheryl, will go next and then Mark.

A - Cheryl Agius

{BIO 20013065 <GO>}

Just on escape of (01:19:24) water, so it's an industry-wide issue. It's parallel just like
(01:19:28). Last year we had higher number of claims than we anticipated. We are pricing
now at the right levels and choosing the right risks.

Page 27 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Mark?

FINAL

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. We didn't intend to have a big bang approach launching our newer direct
investment business, but we did launch it with a new ad campaign, Own Your World, which
you saw somebody introducing around town and you've seen it earlier in the presentation
slides.
So positioning our brand in the marketplace, adjusting pricing on some of the existing
funds, launching some new funds, especially some of the more thematic Future World
funds in that range, improving the customer experience, tracking metrics more effectively.
We're seeing some really positive trends and (01:20:14) and I were just talking about this
this morning. And there'll be another series of ads and so forth in September. So, a series
of steps that will continue to occur over the next year and on an ongoing basis. So, we're
very much looking at this in that context, not just a big bang one-time launch.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Saving the best for last.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just couple of question. Jeff, you mentioned about
warehousing assets for the expected volumes. Can we just get some thought on how
does the mechanic for the profit booking work? So, are the warehousing assets in LGR
currently earning profits in LGR, which will move to the new business, or how does the
mechanics for the profit booking work for warehousing assets for future business? So that
would be good.
The second one is – I mean LGIM assets you still see very strong positive flows, £12 billion,
£14 billion in the first half. Having said that, you have lost around £30 billion of assets in
index funds, which is one of your core business, whereas we always hear as an analyst
that it is a massive shift from an active to passive. So, what is the dynamic not working
here in UK, or is it that some of your index fund is moving towards a structured solutions
or something? Any thoughts on that?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Mark you're going to take the second question. Jeff, do you want to...

A - Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. The asset one is relatively straightforward, we basically haven't allocated it to back
the annuity portfolio. Therefore, the warehouse is simply set in the balance sheet. The
Page 28 of 30



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

market value in the annuity business when we allocate that to bucket it flows through the
IFRS either in business surplus where we put it or (01:21:59) come through an investment
there. So, we haven't allocated that yet. We're not taking account of those yield up less
compared to the underlying portfolio.

FINAL

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Because we designate business that we know we're probably going to get, we don't
have to book the profit. So, we don't – that's why we carry the positive, but (01:22:15). So
we physically know which deals were highly likely, so we align into those deals pre the year
end, and it's always been our policy to do that. Mark?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. With regard to the index flows, so looking back on where this business started, it
was predominantly in UK DB Equities. And obviously that's instructional runoff as those
plans are derisking. And so that's what's driving – it has been driving for a while the other
sustained net outflows in our index funds, not every year, but frankly most years since I've
been in the job. But meanwhile, those clients are going into a broadening range of all the
solutions. Our percentage market share has gone up from low-20s to around 30%. So,
you can think of that as a shift out of equities into a broadening range of LGI solution
strategies ultimately into some kind of buyout situation if they can afford it and want to do
that.
Then meanwhile, we are growing our index business and all their channels. So, we're
seeing positive net flows in other channels, in other regions, the core building blocks for
our multi-asset products, which are multi-asset solutions, but they're building blocks for
those products. But we do have to accelerate the growth in these other markets and
channels to offset this, what will be continued structural outflows in the UK DB equity
space.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I'd just like to echo one of the point, Mark, that we have a
multi-asset team which has just done a tremendous job with the – (01:23:49) and the rest
of the team have just done a great job. They have a huge opportunity because there's
tons of whitespace to expand into in a market (01:23:57) of leading the diversification of
the portfolio just being in DB index. We wouldn't be enjoying being £1 trillion AUM
company right now. So, great credit to all of the team within L&G.
I'd just like to say thank you to all my colleagues yet again for their great efforts in H1.
(01:24:17) able to turn up for this particular presentation, they're hard at work at their
desks. I'll be winding down (01:24:26) in about 15 minutes time just checking up on
everybody, and thank all of you for your questions and your interest today. And we do
remain confident about H2, and we'll see you all again in March. Thank you.

Page 29 of 30



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-09

Page 30 of 30

