Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Daniel Bischof, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome to the Half-Year 2018 Results Conference
Call and Live Webcast. I'm Sarah, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that
all participants will be in listen-only mode, and the conference is being recorded. After
the presentation, there will be a Q&A session. The conference must not be recorded for
publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmür, Group CEO. Please go
ahead, sir.

Philipp Gmür
Thank you, madam. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our conference call and the
results of the ﬁrst half of 2018. Within the next 45 minutes, we would like to give you
detailed information on our business development and the key ﬁnancials of the reporting
period. We proceed as every year. Following my introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will
go through the ﬁnancial ﬁgures. And after my summary at the end of the presentation,
Paul and I, as well as our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Ralph Honegger, will be pleased to
answer your questions as always.
Let me turn to slide 4. On slide 4, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the
main performance indicators. Paul will give you detailed information on the developments
of these ﬁgures later on. In view of the challenging environment, we can look back on the
resilient key performance indicators in the ﬁrst half of 2018. We achieved a solid result
despite headwinds from the capital markets and losses from bad weather. Growth,
combined ratio in non-life and new business margin in life business are developing in line
with our strategy.
Page 1 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

In the ﬁrst half of 2018, we achieved a business volume at group level of roughly CHF 5.8
billion compared to the ﬁrst half of 2017 of CHF 5.5 billion. On a currency adjusted basis,
this represents an increase of 2.9%. The main growth driver was non-life business, which
achieved higher premiums of 5.5% year-on-year. The European units, which are back on
growth track after the portfolio restructurings as well as Active Reinsurance, signiﬁcantly
contributed to the pleasing growth.
In life business, volume increased by 0.8% in original currency. This was mainly driven by
higher volumes in investment-linked products in Switzerland and Germany. At CHF 224
million, the IFRS result after-tax was above the IFRS result of CHF 210 million for the same
period in 2017, but below the respective underlying earnings of CHF 258 million. The
main reason for this was the weaker performance of the stock markets in particular, which
was reﬂected in both non-life and life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In non-life business, the quality of the portfolio remains good overall as reﬂected by the
solid net combined ratio of 92.7%, yet a higher number of bad weather events in
Germany and Switzerland had a negative impact. The factors just mentioned above
naturally also weighed on the results of the segments, Switzerland and Europe, which
therefore lagged behind the previous year. The development at Specialty Markets,
however, has to be positively emphasized. Driven by strong technical results in France
and in Active Reinsurance, we were able to increase earnings by 12.7%.
I am also pleased with the development of new business in life. The new business margin
rose compared to the ﬁrst half of 2017 and now stands at 1.4% compared to 1.2% in the
previous year. One driver was the higher new business volume in capital-light,
investment-linked insurance solutions. On the other hand, the product adjustments made
in traditional saving products also had a positive eﬀect.
Both in terms of combined ratio and new business margin, we continue to meet our
targets for the current strategic period. Helvetia continues to have a solid capital base and
a strong dividend capacity.
With that, I would like to turn over the presentation to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now
provide you with the most important information about the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to this conference
call. Within the next 25 minutes, I'll give you more detailed information on our ﬁnancial
performance in the ﬁrst half of the 2018 ﬁnancial year.
I'd like to start with slide 6. Before we look at the ﬁgures in detail, I would like to brieﬂy
explain that following the successful completion of integrations, we will no longer report
underlying earnings. I would like to point out we are comparing with 2018 IFRS reported
results with the 2017 half year underlying results. This is because the 2018 half year
reported ﬁnancial statements are comparable with the previous half year's underlying
ﬁnancial statements except for one item. The amortization of bonds, which we eliminated
Page 2 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

from the underlying results, will continue for several years as the bonds come to maturity,
but the amounts will gradually reduce over the years. This accounting adjustment reduces
the current half year reported results by CHF 8 million.
We achieved a solid IFRS result of CHF 224 million against underlying earnings of CHF
258 million in the ﬁrst half of 2017. As I mentioned above, the IFRS result in the ﬁrst half of
2018 was reduced by CHF 8 million due to the ongoing bond amortization, which is
purely an accounting eﬀect from the acquisitions.
Let's turn to slide 7 with more details on the business areas. In the non-life business, IFRS
earnings amounted to CHF 147 million against CHF 177 million underlying earnings in the
ﬁrst half of 2017. The decrease was mainly driven by a signiﬁcantly lower investment result
because the weak and volatile development of the equity markets. We will have a closer
look on the non-life proﬁt by sources in a few minutes on slide 10. IFRS earnings of the life
business stood at CHF 78 million, almost half the reduction compared to the previous
year's ﬁgure is due to the bond amortization I mentioned above, included in the reporting
period, which is purely an accounting eﬀect.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to a number of other eﬀects, the weak stock markets also had an impact here. I
will provide you with more details on the proﬁt by sources on slide 12. The result from
other activities, which includes the Corporate Center and the non-insurance activities of
Market Unit Switzerland, such as MoneyPark and Deﬀerrard & Lanz, however, increased
compared with the ﬁrst half of 2017. The rise can be attributed to consolidation eﬀects
from the funds included in this segment. The result also beneﬁted from good and stable
technical results in group internal reinsurance.
Let's turn to the segment results on slide 8. All segments delivered good results despite
the impact of the poor equity markets. In the Switzerland segment, the IFRS result for the
ﬁrst half year was CHF 151 million. This includes a total of CHF 7.2 million of bond
amortization, net of tax and policyholder eﬀect, which impacted the life result in particular.
The non-life and the life results were lower than the previous year, mainly due to poorer
investment results in both areas following the weak performance of stock markets.
In the non-life business, the result was additionally burdened by a high number of
weather-related events. In the life business, the operating result was lower due to
declining yields and a lower death result, which could not be fully compensated by the
improved stability result. The lower gains and losses from investments mentioned above
were partly oﬀset by lower expenses for policyholder participation and lower expenses
for interest-related reserve strengthening.
The segment result for Europe, which comprises the market units of Germany, Italy, Spain
and Austria, amounts to CHF 55 million against CHF 59 million underlying earnings in the
ﬁrst half of 2017. The non-life result improved compared to the previous year. The increase
is attributable to a positive tax eﬀect whereas technical results are weaker mainly due to
higher weather-related claims predominately in Germany. The life result decreased
compared to previous year because of lower gains and losses on investments and higher

Page 3 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

expenses for interest-related reserve strengthening, the regulatory mandated ZZR in
Germany.

FINAL

The segment result for Specialty Markets increased to CHF 16 million. The improvement
was due to better technical results in France and following higher volumes and also better
technical results, higher volumes in the Active Reinsurance. Specialty Lines Swiss and
International reported stable technical results.
The Corporate segment includes the corporate functions and Group Reinsurance, in
addition to the ﬁnancing companies and the holding company. Its result of CHF 2 million
rose against the previous ﬁgures of minus CHF 9 million. This was due to positive
consolidation eﬀects from the funds allocated to this segment. In addition, the result
beneﬁted from stable technical result of the group's internal reinsurance.
I will continue with our growth in business volume on slide 9. In the ﬁrst half of the 2018
ﬁnancial year, Helvetia Group achieved a business volume of CHF 5.8 billion. This equates
to a currency-adjusted increase of 2.9% over the previous year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the non-life business, we achieved an increase in premium volume of 5.5% in original
currency. The growth was driven by the European entities, which are back on track
following the portfolio restructurings in the past as well as Active Reinsurance being in
line with our strategy.
In the life business, business volume rose by 0.8% in original currency. The increase was
mainly driven by a very good development of investment-linked products in Switzerland
and Germany. Helvetia also recorded growth again in the Group life business.
Looking at the individual segments, business volume in Switzerland rose by 0.9%. In the
non-life business, we recorded premiums of CHF 1,000,057,000 (00:11:53) in the ﬁrst half
of 2018 compared with CHF 1,000,053,000 (00:11:57) in the corresponding period in 2017.
Underlying growth was 1.9% compared with the 0.4% reported growth. This was distorted
due to a one-oﬀ accounting adjustment in 2018.
Business volume in life business increased by 1.1% with the biggest eﬀect coming from the
pleasing growth of investment-linked products of nearly 20% in individual life. Volumes of
modern capital eﬃcient products like Helvetia Garantieplan and Helvetia
Auszahlungsplan increased. Furthermore, Helvetia successfully launched another tranche
of the Helvetia Value Trend in the ﬁrst half of 2018. In contrast, the business volume of
traditional insurance solutions declined as planned.
In the Group life business, Helvetia increased premiums to CHF 2.1 billion. Regular
premiums rose by nearly 4%. Growth drivers were positive changes within the portfolio of
full-insurance solutions, i.e., lower transfers to other providers and a successful new
business development with capital-eﬃcient solutions provided by Swisscanto.

Page 4 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

In the Europe segment, business volume increased by 4.6% in original currency. Except
Austria, all country markets recorded higher volumes compared to the previous year.
Spain and Germany posted the highest rates.

FINAL

In non-life, all European entities were back to growth. After several years of declining
volumes, predominately resulting from motor insurance in line with market conditions, the
Italian non-life business also recorded growth again.
The European life business, however, slightly decreased by 0.8% in original currency.
Volumes with investment-linked products decreased compared to last year, mainly
because of lower volumes from large contracts with single premiums in Austria according
to plan. Traditional products, by contrast, increased. Following the ﬁnancial turbulence,
the Italian market unit saw an increasing demand for traditional savings products.
However, our Italian subsidiary focuses on the sale of products with low guarantees or on
so-called hybrid products.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Specialty Markets segment, we also achieved a 12.1% increase in volume in original
currency. Growth was mainly driven by Active Reinsurance, resulting from targeted
diversiﬁcation by region and business lines, selected expansion of existing business
relationships, as well as rate increases due to Ogden. Specialty Lines Swiss International
(00:14:33) also recorded strong growth, about half of which is due to a one-oﬀ accounting
eﬀect.
Now, I would like to look at the proﬁt by sources in the non-life business on slide 10. In the
ﬁrst half of 2018, the technical result was down 7.2% on the previous year, mainly due to a
higher number of weather-related events in Germany and Switzerland.
The investment result, net, decreased by nearly 40% compared to the ﬁrst half of 2017 and
was therefore the major driver for the decrease in net income. The capital markets and, in
particular, equity markets showed a volatile and weak performance, which led to much
lower capital gains on investments.
I would now like to move to the net combined ratio on slide 11. Despite higher weatherrelated losses in the reporting year, the net combined ratio is on a good level at 92.7%.
The increase compared to the ﬁrst half of 2017 year is mainly due to a higher claims ratio
following the winter storms Burglind and Friederike, as well as a higher number of
thunderstorms with heavy rain and hail, mainly in Germany and Switzerland. Due to the
warm spring, thunderstorms season already started at the end of May, earlier than in
previous years.
The claims ratio excluding NatCats also slightly rose in a year-on-year comparison
because of a lower run-oﬀ result. However, the three-year trend in the loss ratio still
reﬂects the successful portfolio restructurings over the last three years.
Looking at the cost ratio, we were able to improve the cost ratio due to economies of
scale resulting from growth. All segments reduced cost ratio with the biggest impact
coming from Europe and Specialty Markets.
Page 5 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

Looking at the segments, Switzerland showed a net combined ratio of 86.3%, still on a
good level. The increase compared to last year was due to the above-mentioned bad
weather events. With 95.7% Europe also recorded a higher net combined ratio compared
to the ﬁrst half of 2017, mainly as a consequence of the higher claims burden from
weather-related events. All European markets achieved combined ratios below 100%.
In the Specialty Markets segment, the net combined ratio improved to 96.2%, driven by
the lower cost ratio.
If we turn now to slide 12, we can see that in the life business, net income in the ﬁrst half of
2018 was CHF 5 million below the previous year's ﬁgures due to diﬀerent eﬀects. Looking
at the proﬁt by sources, the operating result was down mainly due to a lower savings
result and a decreasing risk result. The savings result was driven predominately by Swiss
group life business, as the mandatory interest rate for retirement assets remained
unchanged. If you remember, the federal government left the minimum interest rate at 1%
while market yields declined.

Bloomberg Transcript

The lower risk result also mainly resulted from Swiss group life business, as the lower
death result, mortality result was not fully compensated by a better disability result. In
addition, we had a positive one-oﬀ eﬀect in individual life in Switzerland in the previous
year arising from the Nationale Suisse integration.
Gains and losses from investments decreased. Given our strong reserve position, we did
not have to reserve as much this year and expenses for reserve strengthening were
consequently lower than in the previous year. All these eﬀects, both positive and
negative, were oﬀset to a large extent by the policyholder participation mechanism, which
resulted in a net decrease of only CHF 5 million.
I would now like to switch to new business, which has developed very positively, as you
can see from slide 13. New business is developing well. The new business margin rose
compared to the ﬁrst half of 2017 and was 1.4% against 1.2% in 2017. One driver was the
higher new business volume in capital-light, investment-linked insurance solutions. On
the other hand that the product adjustments made to traditional savings products and the
consistent improvement of the new business mix in individual and in Group life business
had a major impact as well.
I would now like to move to the direct yield and guarantees in life business on slide 14.
Direct yield in Switzerland and EU countries declined compared to last year because of
lower interest rates. In Switzerland, the interest margin went down when comparing the
ﬁrst half of 2018 to the ﬁrst half of 2017.
This was attributable to the following reasons. Direct yield decreased on the one hand
due to special eﬀects such as an aperiodic dividend payment; on the other hand, in the
ﬁrst half of 2018, U.S. dollar bonds with higher coupons, but also higher hedging costs,
were switched into Eurobonds with lower coupons, but also lower hedging costs. As
hedging costs are not included in current income and are therefore not considered when

Page 6 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

calculating direct yield, the shift had a negative eﬀect here in the diagram. The average
technical rate also declined.
The main drivers here were the successful revision of our traditional product portfolio and
the focused sales of modern, capital-light products; maturing insurance contracts with
high guaranteed rates, which were being replaced by modern, capital-light products; and
ﬁnally, additional reserve strengthening. However, as the direct yield declined at a faster
rate than the average technical rate, the interest margin went down.
In Europe, the interest margin shows an increase from 0.35% in the ﬁrst half of 2017 to
0.47% in the reporting period. Here we see a sharp drop in the average interest rate
Helvetia has to generate in order to meet its obligations due to additional reserve
strengthening and new contracts with lower guarantees replacing old contracts with
higher guarantees.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the following slides, I want to provide you some more details on our investments and
move to slide 15. The current investment income of CHF 506 million did not quite reach
the previous year's level of CHF 521 million, partly because of the ongoing low-interest
environment and partly because of these aperiodic dividend eﬀects, which will be oﬀset
in the second half of the year.
As expected, the direct yield fell slightly to an annualized 2.1%. Realized gains and losses
balanced each other out, resulting in an overall zero eﬀect. Unrealized gains and losses in
equity decreased by CHF 549 million, mainly due to slightly higher interest rates. As of
June 30, however, unrealized gains and losses were still respectable CHF 1.5 billion.
Overall performance was slightly negative at minus 0.1%, this was mainly due to the weak
performance of the equity markets and the result from investments with market risk to the
policyholders as a result were at minus CHF 42 million.
By the way on slide 19 (00:22:13), you can see the investment result broken down by asset
class if you wish to go further.
On the slide 16, about two thirds of the current income of CHF 506 million came from
bonds and mortgages, which contributed CHF 273 million (00:22:32), respectively, CHF
43 million in absolute terms. Dividends accounted for CHF 50 million and investment
property for CHF 121 million. Gains and losses on investments balanced each other out
resulting in a zero result.
As already mentioned, unrealized gains and losses decreased by CHF 549 million. The
lower half of the slide shows the return on new and reinvestments. CHF 3 billion in total
reinvested or newly invested in the ﬁrst half of 2018. Just over 85% of the funds were
invested in Euro and Swiss franc ﬁxed-income securities, the remainder in mortgages,
equities and real estate. Due to increased hedging costs for the U.S. dollar as a result of
higher interest rates, the portfolio was partially reallocated to reduce the weight of the
American currency. The average return on new investments totaled 1.3%.
And on that note, I will now hand over back to Philipp Gmür again.
Page 7 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Paul, for the details of our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of the 2018
ﬁnancial year.

FINAL

In the last part of the presentation, I would brieﬂy like to share my conclusions with you.
Let's move on to slide 18. Let me summarize, we have reported a good set of key ﬁgures
for the ﬁrst half of the year. We achieved a solid result despite headwinds from the capital
markets and various storm events. The quality of the non-life portfolio is and remains
good. Storm and hail events are part of the business of an insurance company, after all
our clients want to be ﬁnancially protected precisely in the case of such extraordinary
events.
In life business, the improved new business margin demonstrated once again that our
eﬀorts to revise traditional insurance products and to focus on the sale of capital-eﬃcient
insurance solutions are bearing fruit.
Both, in terms of combined ratio and new business margin, we continue to meet our
targets for the current strategy period. Helvetia continues to have a solid capital base and
a strong dividend capacity.

Bloomberg Transcript

I am also very pleased with the good non-life growth overall. However, I am convinced
that the Swiss market has even more potential. Thus, we want to unlock the growth
possibilities in Switzerland and have therefore launched corresponding initiatives.
We see growth opportunities in the SME business on the one hand. The SME segment is
particularly interesting for us because insurance is rather a low-interest product for these
customer groups and therefore trust and quality of advice are much more important than
price. The SME segment works in a similar way as the retail business does. Important
success factors are simple and standardized processes and products.
We are an all-line insurance provider with a strong position in property, liability and
specialties and have a good proﬁtability in the SME business, which is a good basis for
future growth. Thanks to our close and comprehensive sales network and our strong Swiss
brand, Swissness. We are well positioned for the SME segment. What makes SMEs
successful are also values that we embody, such as quality, reliability, trust, proximity to
the customer and appreciation.
We already have an attractive product range for SMEs. Convenience and so called all-inone solutions are important purchase arguments, and therefore, we have revised the
product range for SMEs accordingly and now oﬀer eight products in one policy. In order
to meet the needs of customers, whose needs cannot be covered by the standardized
product range, individualized product solutions are available.

Page 8 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Technological change creates new insurable risks for Swiss SMEs, such as cyber, sharing,
drones, etc. To all those demands, we can react quickly. Thanks to our size and ﬂexibility.
This year, for example, we launched a simple cyber product for SMEs.

FINAL

Another trend is the increased internationalization of the value chain. Here, we have
started to oﬀer a new innovative and simple Freedom of Service solution via Liechtenstein
to support SME customers with international insurance needs.
On the other hand, we are opening up growth opportunities by expanding our
distribution channels. In the Swiss market, we are already well positioned. We rely on a
strong sales force and established partnerships with brokers and bank partners.
I have already mentioned at our Full-Year-Results presentation that we also distribute
insurance products via our network of specialist retailers, through which customers can
conclude tailor-made digital insurance solutions. We call that the B2B2C channel. In the
ﬁrst half of the year, we further expanded our activities in this area.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our focus is primarily on Switzerland, but we are also active in Europe. In Switzerland, for
instance, we have started a cooperation with a major retailer for consumer electronics. In
Europe, we have initiated a very promising partnership with a broker operating
throughout Europe in the automotive sector. In both cooperations, customers can take
out an extension of the warranty provided by Helvetia with their local dealer.
We use the digital technology of INZMO. INZMO is the operator of a fully automated
insurance solution, which makes it possible via a web platform, be it B2B2C or B2C or an
app B2C, to process all processes in the life cycle of an insurance company within
seconds. Helvetia has invested in INZMO via the Venture Fund in December 2017.
Finally, we are also making great progress in implementing our strategy. The aim of the
Helvetia 20.20 (00:29:35) strategy is to strengthen the core business, tap into new
sources of revenues and promote targeted innovation. One example of the successful
strengthening the core business is the implementation of a new software solution for the
Specialty Lines.
This allows our employees, supported by artiﬁcial intelligence, to process all information
from internal and external sources about a contractual partner in a structured manner.
This not only saves a considerable amount of time, but also enables a better premium
calculation for the risk to be insured.
Furthermore, we are opening new sources of revenues, for example, with the home
ecosystem. Here, we made further progress in the ﬁrst half of the year. For example, we
invested in the Zurich based start-up ﬂatfox via our Helvetia Venture Fund. ﬂatfox uses its
platform to enable private individuals and professional property managers to digitize
their rental process for residential properties.

Page 9 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

The ﬂatfox oﬀering is integrated into home ecosystem. MoneyPark, the largest Swiss
mortgage broker, is a strong anchor within this ecosystem. In addition to the mortgage
comparison, MoneyPark also launched MEx in the ﬁrst half of the year, Switzerland's ﬁrst
mortgage exchange for owner used properties. MoneyPark is thus creating completely
new oﬀers for mortgage borrowers and also for institutional investors.
MEx enables investors such as family oﬃces and pension funds to invest in mortgages as
an asset class, which was previously often not attractive due to the costs for risk
management, the reporting, the settlement and portfolio management. The technological
basis for MEx is provided by ﬁnovo (00:31:52), a start-up that MoneyPark itself acquired at
the beginning of the year.
An example of the innovation portfolio is the chatbot for contract renewal and the chatbot
for regulating bicycle theft, both of which Helvetia tested as part of a prototyping project.
Due to the high acceptance of such chatbots, Helvetia is now planning to introduce a
chatbot for permanent operation.
Helvetia is also driving automation in the European markets by means of targeted
innovations. In Italy and Spain, for example, the use of a digital signature was introduced,
which makes it possible to conclude an insurance contract without any paper.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Germany, the focus was on automating the claims process. For example, the process of
claims settlement for glass damage has been fully automated. In addition, claims are
digitally checked for insurance fraud. If a claim is reported online, an automated coverage
check is carried out when the claim dossier is opened.
The successful implementation of our strategy will make us more agile, innovative and
customer-focused. We will continue along the path we have chosen without neglecting
our core business.
And this brings us, ladies and gentlemen, to the end of the presentation. My colleagues
and I would now be pleased to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Q&A
Operator
The ﬁrst question is from Peter Eliot, Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst one was, I guess, we've
seen a nice convergence of underlying proﬁt and IFRS proﬁt with these results as you'd
indicated would be the case. I was just wondering if you can sort of help us identify where
– well, help us identify the synergies that have come through from the Nationale Suisse
deal a few years ago now. I mean, if I look at maybe the administration ratio in non-life, for
example, that's come down by 40 basis points, but you have seem to be sort of
Page 10 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

attributing that to a volume eﬀect from this recent growth in that rather than anything
that's sort of acquisition related. And I guess, in life, we're not really seeing the cost ratio
come down, so that is clearly there, but I was just wondering if you could sort of help us
identify where we can actually see these in the results?
Second question was on, I guess, a little bit more speciﬁcally on the life earnings. I was
just wondering if you could sort of take us through how those results compared to what
you consider a normal run rate. And I guess especially (00:35:18) the risk results given
your comments on the impact of the debt result investment (00:35:25) and maybe the
other as well.
And then ﬁnally, last question. Thank you very much for the capital management
disclosure on slide 59. It's very helpful. I guess the one sort of or two remaining parts of
that is sort of actually quantifying the free distributable reserves and also exactly how you
think of those? I mean, perhaps, you can correct me, but I think we're looking at about
sort of CHF 700 million there. And I'm just wondering what the next – what your decision
process is around how much of that you would consider to be excess? How – at what
point would you think about distributing that? And if you did so, could you do that
quickly? Is this sort of cash available or do you need to sort of think about upstreaming
anything to do that? Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Peter, for those three questions. I'm happy to turn over to Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. The synergies, it's actually diﬃcult to see the (00:36:47) synergies. They are coming
through. There's no doubt about that. Yes, we have attributed mainly to volume increase.
It is a factor of life that costs do increase, particularly in Europe. Part of the problem we
have is that in all European insurance industries that I know of, there are collective
bargaining agreements with the employees, unions, or associations, and you have a
regular increase of costs coming through, which you can't avoid. So, there are deﬁnitely
cost increase if you start (00:37:26) oﬀsetting those synergies.
In other areas, of course, we mentioned at the end of last year in a press conference in
March, we do have projects and some of the costs are being absorbed by those new
projects. But it's – we do see – on the run rate, we do see synergies coming through which
are then oﬀset by some other costs. The net eﬀect is generally positive, but in this case,
the predominant eﬀect has been the volume.
The life results compared to the normal run rate, this is something we're looking at in
more depth at the moment. We have a sort of range of results where we think the
mortality rate should be. It is clearly – shall we say the top end of the – in terms of number
of deaths and cost of deaths, it's probably even slightly outside it.
We also know that we've probably had too low tariﬀs for the last couple of years to some
extent and so we plan to look at both the quality of the portfolio and the corrections to
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

the tariﬀs. This is mainly in the Swiss second pillar (00:38:46) business.
Then on the capital management – oh, in other, you want to know that. That is very diﬃcult
one because we have this consolidation eﬀect which comes in, which I also showed I think
on a theoretical way of how it should works on 36 – 35. And I have to sit down and think
about how we can maybe show the exact numbers here because that is really an
accounting noise, which makes the other segment look a little odd. The one thing that is
stable in there is clearly the Group Reinsurance results. They're roughly stable and that's
the kind of thing we expect. They can vary plus or minus, acts as a buﬀer for the main nonlife segments. So, as they (00:39:32) go up, they'll go down and then vice versa. So, that
is a stable development (00:39:37).
The investment results in the other segment are also reasonably stable. We've moved a
lot of the investments into the non-life segment last year. So, you'll get less volatility to
that (00:39:48). So, the one big uncertainty is this fund consolidation eﬀect, which we
have to look at how we better disclose or even better book.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for capital management, we took a bet that more disclosure is very helpful, but we
took a bet that people would actually ask us for some detailed numbers on that. The free
distributable shareholder reserves, we've done quite some extensive analysis on other
companies and nobody gives that number, and we can go into detail but not on this call
and – one to ones, but I can assure you nobody gives that number.
And we do have ﬂexibility in producing that and turning into free cash. We don't need
much liquidity. It is all located in the operating units. The holding company has no free
distributable reserves which are liquid. Any free distributable reserves you see there are
accounting reserves, which have no liquidity behind them, so – the holding company
versus a pass-through company. That's all it is.
So, it's all in the operating companies, and as I said, there is some ﬂexibility and we are
continuously working on that to work out the best balance of short-term cash remittances
out to shareholders and a longer-term sustainable dividend plan.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Paul.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you very much. It's a very detailed (00:41:27) so many. If you don't mind me,
just coming back on one – that (00:41:30) the last point, and I guess the only other
outstanding issue was just how you come to the decision of whether, out of that – I mean, I
appreciate you can't speak (00:41:44) the number, but whatever that number x is, how
you come to the decision about whether you should distribute that or did I understand
that that is something you're also working on?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Page 12 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

That is part of this process of looking at what is a sustainable dividend plan and what is a
short term. And we look at – I think we mentioned it clearly that the combination of payout ratio, dividend yield, and obviously what needs to remain (00:42:11) for growth. And,
again, we want to balance oﬀ the short term with the long term. So, we don't want to be in
a position where we're ramping up the dividend like some of our competitors are doing.
They're not too far away from us here. And then you're in a situation where you're – you
could be up against a ceiling where you can't payout anymore, and we would prefer a
longer-term sustainability.
So, I say, we balance those elements oﬀ and come up with a ﬁgure. So, you won't see a
huge great increase in dividends. We'll see the steady increase. The question is, how
steep is that path? And that will depend each year we look at it looking for a mediumterm sustainability.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much. Thanks a lot.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is from Daniel Bischof, Baader Helvea. Please go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, and good morning, everyone. And I also have three questions. The ﬁrst one
is on the growth – the strong growth you reported in non-life. It seems you're getting
more bullish on motor. Could you explain some of the moving parts here in (00:43:32)
Germany plus 18%, Spain plus 13%? And related to that, I mean, we are seeing a
continued expansion on the engineering side, I was just wondering if you could get a bit
more – provide us a little bit more details on where this growth is coming from, what's the
underlying exposures are, how comfortable you are in terms of the quality of that
business?
And then secondly, a follow-up on Peter's question, it's positive to see the improved
productivity in non-life. I was wondering whether you think you have more room here for
kind of productivity gains or you think that further growth is now kind of closer links to
additional investments or additional costs.
And then, lastly a question for Ralph on the reinvestment rate sort of bond – on the bond
side, it came down from 1.5 to 1.2, and presumably this is because of the switch from euro
and U.S. dollar investments in the Swiss book, and obviously, it's gross of hedging costs.
On a comparable basis, how would it look like so on the net basis and then also more
generally, I mean, should we expect the lower reinvestment rate for 2018 compared to last
year?

Page 13 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

A - Philipp Gmür

FINAL

I will answer the ﬁrst two questions and then hand over to Ralph for your third question.
Your ﬁrst question dealt with the question about our growth rates in the European
countries. Here, I would like to make the point that we see, ﬁrst, a slightly lower growth
rate than you'd just mentioned before in original currency, of course, that the growth rates
are lower.
The second point, we see a rebound in the growth rates, of course, in property and
casualty throughout Europe because we come from a period where we have to very
carefully look at the portfolios, especially at the portfolios we were taking over from
Nationale Suisse, be it in Spain or be it in Germany.
The third point is that we are very carefully looking at growing Inter Motor (00:46:03)
business. You mentioned before, we have, of course, realized some growth there, but we
are pretty positive with regard to the quality of the portfolio.
And the fourth point, ﬁnally, is that in Specialty Lines, we not only see a certain rebalance
because of the measures we took before, but we see a slight increase with regard to
certain business lines in the rates, we can ﬁnally get on the market, be it, for instance, in
Active Reinsurance, be it to a certain extent in marine.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, after all, we think that this growth is, to a certain extent, is and remains sustainable
because we come out of a period of downsizing our portfolio.
The second question, the productivity in non-life, I mean, the productivity is – depends on
two success factors, I think. One is, are we able to launch new products, such as, for
instance, the cyber product or are we able to produce new demand for our products, and
here we are pretty much involved in looking for new opportunities to launch new
products, new insurance coverage, new solutions.
The second point is, are we able to expand our distribution channels, and yes, we are. I
mean, we – as I mentioned before, we expanded our distribution channels not only in
Switzerland but also in Spain via a new broker cooperation, in Germany via new
opportunities we are undertaking and we are leveraging now in the online business.
Paul? Sorry, Ralph, for the third question.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. Well, as you said, you know the direct yield is coming down because we stopped
investing in U.S. dollars because of the net basis after hedging. It just doesn't make sense.
So, the euro and the Swiss franc is just more attractive.
This didn't only concern new investments. We also switched some of the portfolio from
U.S. dollars to the other two currencies. So, on the net basis after hedges, this made a lot

Page 14 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

of sense, but I can't really tell you and we didn't do the simulation how it would have
looked like if we wouldn't have done this approach.
And then looking to the year-end, I mean, I really can't tell at the moment that there are
two points actually that we have to consider. On the one hand, the third and the fourth
quarter in insurance business are not really very cash rich in the sense that there will be a
whole lot of new investments. And what (00:49:39) a portfolio looking at (00:49:42), it just
depends on the relative interest rate development. So, we manage that as we go ahead.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you, Ralph. More questions?

Operator
We have a question from René Locher, MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - René Locher
Yes. Good morning. It's René Locher from MainFirst. So, if we go to slide number 11, so I'm
trying out to ﬁnd – yeah, ﬁrst of all, kind of underlying combined ratio, we have seen that
NatCats ratio is a little bit up with 0.7% in 2016 and 0.7% in 2017, now we are at 2.1% and
perhaps not sure if you have every given a guidance here. So, what will be a reasonable
NatCats ratio for the full year? And perhaps you can also remind us what is the reasonable
run rate for (00:50:58)? That will be my ﬁrst question.
Then, it's just what Daniel asked before. I mean also on slide 38 on the investment
income, here again, there's a minus of CHF 15 million in the current income year-overyear. So, I am wondering when we should see a bottoming oﬀ of that current investment
income. Now, I do see the shifts you made in the bond portfolio make sense. What I'm
really wondering, going forward, when should we see a bottoming out here? And
perhaps a quick word on the rental income, which, yeah, is on also downslide (00:51:46), I
mean, just now looks especially for the Swiss market.
And then I saw in the Appendix, on slide 62, the Italian credit spread sensitivities. So, I
mean, what's the key message here? I guess, we shouldn't be that much worried about
spread widening in the Italian market. And then I saw some interesting slide, that slide 35,
the treatment of own funds in other activities, could you just quickly run us through this
very interesting slide? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, René, for your three interesting questions. I would ask Paul to answer your ﬁrst
question with regard to the combined ratio and its developments referring to slide 11.

Page 15 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Then I would ask Ralph to answer the second question referring to slide 38 with regard to
the current income statement. And then, ﬁnally, please, Paul, answer the third question.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. René, you're right. We don't give a run rate for the underlying combined ratio north
of the – or claims ratio north of the further (00:53:16) NatCats. The NatCat ratio is clearly
higher than prior year. We had something (00:53:24) more than CHF 20 million NatCats
(00:53:28) large losses this year, weather-related claims this year in this period than in the
previous period.
I'm not sure how much of that was due to the weather in May and June in Switzerland and
Germany, which was clearly not typical, and certainly in the second half of the summer in
July and August, it's been much milder. So, it could be just a shift. So, it's very diﬃcult
particularly on a half-year basis to give you an underlying rate.
And the claims ratio as well, we mentioned the slight one-oﬀ eﬀect, that's a couple of still
all (00:54:09) claims within the all (00:54:10) Nationale Suisse book coming through, but
otherwise, it's reasonably stable. We don't speciﬁcally disclose standard run rates for
either the main underlying sort of attritional (00:54:24) cost ratio – claims ratio nor for the
large losses or the NatCat ratio.

Q - René Locher

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks.

A - Philipp Gmür
Ralph?

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. To the direct yield, well, it came down CHF 15 million as you mentioned. So, there's
a couple of points I would like to give as an explanation. First, as Paul said, there is a
aperiodic dividend eﬀect in there. As you know, we are quite an important investor in
(00:55:01) and the dividend payout (00:55:04) was not as the years before in April or May
but only in July. So, this accounts for more than half of the diﬀerence you're seeing here.
And the other things are, again, the investments that we stopped in the U.S. dollars, which
brought the yield down since the hedging costs are not included on a net basis; basically,
it looks the other way around. And the remaining small rest (00:55:41), basically, is the
yield deals coming down generally.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Ralph.

Q - René Locher
Ralph, can I quickly – (00:55:53). I mean, just on the rental income, I see diﬀerent articles,
some of them are quite bullish, some of them are quite negative, around the Swiss
Page 16 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

(00:56:04) real estate markets on the rental income. I mean, is that a reasonable run rate
going forward, or yeah, do you see some pressure here on the rental income?

FINAL

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

No, not for the moment (00:56:20). Things are quite stable. Moving ahead, I'd like to
mention again we have basically a residential property, which is very stable. This property
is in a very well (00:56:40) average looking at rental prices in Switzerland. So, we really
have quite good and a lot of stability yield (00:56:49).

Q - René Locher
Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Question number 3.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

3a actually and 3b (00:56:57), I guess, is the credit spread sensitivities on page 62. Yeah. I
mean, from a group perspective, it's probably one of our biggest exposures, and when
you look at it from the equity perspective, 200 basis points would lead to – Italian Treasury
bonds would lead to CHF 45 million reduction in equity, which is not the end of the world.
But it's clearly Italian bonds could increase more based on the crisis (00:57:27) before.
And the biggest impact would be in the local Solvency. As you can see, you lose
(00:57:32) 52 basis – 52 percentage points on the local Solvency II, which at the year-end
was 150. So, it had (00:57:41) come down to around about 100%. So then, we have to talk
to the regulators and so on as to what we need to do there.
Having said that, if you all remember back to 2008, 2009, this was already a problem
then, and the Italian regulators eﬀectively said (00:58:03) to stop this decline because
you ended up with this sort of accelerating eﬀect of the mark-to-market, and that
stabilized the market for a couple of years until things could return. And I would strongly
suspect that that's what they're (00:58:17) doing in the future because we certainly
wouldn't be the only ones (00:58:21) aﬀected here by that.

Q - René Locher
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

And then going to the slide we put in on page 35, I think it was, was to help you
understand that. This goes back to the volatility in other activities, and it's really to do
with, unfortunately, technical accounting and reporting systems. The internal funds we
hold are predominantly held by non-life Switzerland and life Switzerland. And we book
them in the books for trading (00:58:58), so that you have the volatility going through the
P&L.

Page 17 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

And what that means is that the reason for that is it's almost impossible to split up the
funds and book them as available for sale, which goes to the balance sheet. I mean, if you
personally hold a fund or any institution that buys a fund would always certainly hold
them as participations, as percentages of trading, just systems (00:59:22) wouldn't be
able to cope otherwise.
On a group basis, we don't want the volatility. So, we book them at the group level as
available sale with the volatility going through the proﬁt and loss account – sorry, through
the equity, through the valuation reserve and equity. So, to compensate that out, you
need to book eﬀectively an opposing entry through the proﬁt and loss in the other
activities side to oﬀset that volatility in non-life Switzerland and life Switzerland. And that's
why you get, in this case, a plus to oﬀset the negatives in the two operating segments.
I've got (01:00:01), our Chief Accounting Oﬃcer, and I'm going to afterwards have a word
with him and see what we can do to – if not do it otherwise and we have looked in the
past, maybe to disclose it otherwise because I do appreciate it doesn't help you in
understanding what's going on in the underlying activities of other activities.

Q - René Locher
Okay. No. That's helpful. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

Are there more questions?

Operator
That was the last question.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. So, I thank you on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of Helvetia in your interest
in our company. I wish you a good day. And if you have any questions, please do not
hesitate to contact us, be it Susanne Tengler or our Head of Communications, Claudia
Sauter. We are happy to get back to you as soon as possible. Have a good day.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
Page 18 of 19



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

