Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

S1 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chris Figee, CFO
Jos Baeten, CEO
Michel Hulters, Investor Relations

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Matthias De Wit, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Investor Call Interim Results ASR H1 2018 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference
over to Michel Hulters. Please go ahead sir.

Michel Hulters

{BIO 19111905 <GO>}

Thank you, Operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the ASR
conference call on our ﬁrst half year result. On the call with me today are Jos Baeten our
CEO, Chris Figee the CFO. And Jos will kick-oﬀ as customary with an overview, the
highlights of our ﬁnancial results and will discuss the business performance. Chris will
then delve into the developments of our capital and solvency position and after that we'll
open up for Q&A. We've got schedule till 12'o' clock and as usual, please review at a time
that's convenient for you the disclaimer that we have in the back of the presentation on
any forward-looking statements and the disclaimer.
So, having said that, Jos, the ﬂoor is yours.

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thanks, Michel and good morning everyone. Good to have you all here. Thank you for
joining us on this call. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen from our this morning
Page 1 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

published numbers, we realized very strong results in the ﬁrst half of this year, and we
continued to deliver solid performance.
I believe we are well on track to meet or even exceed all of the medium term targets for
2018. And without further ado, let's turn to the highlights and those are on slide two. As
you may see at this dashboard, it shows our performance over the ﬁrst half of 2018 and it
has been solid on every key metric. Operating result amounted to 382 million almost at
the same level as the already very strong result of last year, which we already knew was
going to be a tough to compare with due to the exceptional favorable claims experienced
last year while in January this year, we suﬀered from a severe storm that impacted our
non-life results with 31 million, 3-1.

Bloomberg Transcript

Underlying our non-life performance continues to be very strong and each of the other
segments reported higher results in the ﬁrst half this year, reﬂecting higher investment
margin and good momentum in the fee-based business segments. Our business yielded
an operating return of 14.7 on an annualized basis, well over our target of up to 12%.
Overall, I believe this is an outstanding achievement. Combined ratio of ASR stood at 97.1
just above our target of 97. The 97.1 include the impact of the storm, which is 2.1
percentage points, and furthermore, the inclusion of the Generali Nederland portfolio
with a combined ratio of 101.4 in the ﬁrst half of 2018 which had an impact of roughly 0.5
percentage point on the combined ratio. We remain as you know sharply focused on cost
levels and are pleased with our achievements. Our operating expenses headline ﬁgure
increased with 60 million to 299 and it was due to the inclusion of the EUR22 million of
operating expenses from Generali.
Adjusting for additional cost base of Generali Nederland our operating expenses
decreased by 3.2% over the ﬁrst half year, mainly driven by expense savings within the
Life segment for EUR8 million. Our Solvency II ratio remained very robust, still based on
the standard formula at 194 after the interim dividend that will be paid in September. So
basically, we have been able to keep our Solvency II ratio pretty stable while absorbing
the impact from the Generali transaction for 9 points, organic capital generation
amounted to EUR179 million adding 5 points to the solvency and there are some other
moving parts that Chris will provide further detail later on in this presentation.
Quality of our capital remains high with unrestricted Tier 1 capital alone representing 151
of the Solvency II, and then there is still plenty headroom to maneuver. In total we have
the possibility to issue almost 1.6 billion of hybrid capital within the Solvency II framework.
Our strong solvency position enables us to remain entrepreneurial as we have always set
everything above 160 allows us to be entrepreneurial and to pursue proﬁtable growth,
which we have proven to do so with for example the acquisition of Generali Nederland
last year.
Speaking about Generali, as you may recall from the call, which we hosted in June, this is
progressing very well. Generali Nederland contributed to the operating result for already
8 million in the ﬁrst half of this year. As announced last February, we introduced an interim
dividend of 40% of last year's dividend. This amounts to EUR92 million of interim
dividend or EUR0.65 per share together with the full-year dividend already paid, we will
distribute in total EUR321.5 million to shareholders this year.
Page 2 of 24



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

Let's now turn to our business portfolio and talk about the developments there, that's on
slide three. Starting with our solid back books in box B. In the ﬁrst quarter of 2018, we
ﬁnished the migration of two individual Life books towards the software as a software -sorry towards the software as a service platform, making the cost more variable in order to
keep cost in line with the decline of the book. Migration of those two books were
completed with a total of roughly 215,000 policies. Like I mentioned earlier, strict cost
control is key and in the Life segments this lead to a decline of EUR8 million of operating
expenses.
This is due a decline of 5 million within the individual Life business driven by the system
rationalization and a decline of 3 million within our pension business. In the top left, in
box A, are our businesses that provide opportunity of growing cash ﬂows. In funeral, we
successfully migrated to ﬁrst portfolio of Generali Nederland to the ASR funeral platform.
The migration of 363,000 policies was ﬁnished on the 1st of July. In P&C organic growth
was driven by inﬂow in the broker channel as well as price increases in the motor
segment. Within disability, we launched two new products, the so-called Langer Mee
disability insurance in June of 2018.
This is the disability product aimed at the blue collar group to oﬀer an aﬀordable disability
product for this class with a kept payment for the insurer in case of disability. Initial market
response was very positive and already in the ﬁrst few weeks, more than 100 -- we could
welcome more than 100 new customers in this product. Within pensions, we see good
momentum in the DC area as employers decided to move to the so called
WerknemersPensioen. This half year, we have reached the milestone of 50,000 active
participants and almost reached 3,000 employers who have opted for a contract with this
product. Currently over 600 million of assets under management are in this product
group and this is going to grow on a year on year basis.
In asset management, there are also very good developments to mention. We see that
investors appreciate the recently launched ESG funds and we saw already an inﬂow of
over 0.5 billion. Also the mortgage fund proved successful with new inﬂows of 700 million
and mortgage fund today has now reached over EUR1 billion of assets under
management. Within the real estate funds, we see continued interest from investors over
there. This half year we have a withdrawal request from an investor that we were able to
provide liquidity for that investor and actually realize more inﬂow than outﬂow.
Let's now move to slide four, as this slide shows momentum in our operating result
remained high in the ﬁrst half of 2018. Despite the severe January storm, we managed to
almost equal last year's result. Higher results from Life plus 26 million bank and asset
management plus 6 million distribution and services plus 2 million and the holding and
other plus 3 almost oﬀset the decline in non-life. We are conﬁdent with our performance
but would urge some caution and not automatically multiply by two when projecting for
full year because as you know, typically we see in the ﬁrst half year seasonality mainly
driven by the investment margin, because most dividends are in the ﬁrst half. For instance
half-year too dividend could be roughly 30 million lower than the ﬁrst half year's
dividend. Let's have a closer look at our business segments.

Page 3 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

Starting at slide ﬁve with non-life. In this segment, we still see a very strong performance,
despite the storms in January, we managed to keep our combined ratio at 100% sharp.
The disability combined ratio improved even further from already very strong levels. Our
gross written premium increased by 16.5 mainly driven by the inclusion of Generali
Nederland, excluding Generali Nederland, the gross written premium increased with 4.5.
So organic growth over the ﬁrst half year again was very high with 4.5.
All of our business lines showed an increase of the gross written premium driven by new
sales and in some areas with price increases within the existing portfolio. We still see
good opportunities to grow organically in the non-life segment. Combined ratio as said
was 97.1 in the ﬁrst half and slightly above our target of 97. The storm in January had an
impact on the combined of 2.1 percentage points and the inclusion of the Generali
Nederland portfolio had an impact of 0.5 percentage point.

Bloomberg Transcript

When adjusting for those two events, a normalized score of the portfolio is below 96,
meaning that we have a very proﬁtable underlying combined ratio at this moment. As the
health business is a more regulated also from a margin and proﬁtability point of view. We
also look at a non-life combined ratio, excluding health and consisting of only P&C and
disability. On this basis, the combined ratio of ASR would be 96.7. The combined ratio of
P&C and disability excluding Generali Nederland would be 96.0. So all in all, a very solid
combined ratio in the non-life area.
In the breakdown of the combined ratio, you can see a pickup in the claims as an eﬀect of
the storm of January this year. We had roughly 12,000 claims only due to this storm. The
increase in the commission ratio is mainly a consequence of the inclusion of the Generali
Nederland portfolio. This portfolio comprised mostly P&C projects, which in general
come at a higher commission ratio. Therefore the uptick in the commission ratio is a
reﬂection of the change in the distribution mix. If we were to look at the combined ratios
for each of the diﬀerent business lines, you can see good momentum in the disability
portfolio. Last year we saw unfavorable claims development in the absenteeism portfolio,
though we took measures of the result -- we took measures over there and resulting in
margin expansions within this portfolio.
Let's now have a look at slide six, the Life segment. In Life, we saw a strong increase of
operating result of 8.3 towards EUR340 million. This increase was mainly driven by an
increase of the investment margin of 27 million. The increase of investment margin was
driven by a number of factors. First of all, our direct investment income beneﬁted from the
re-risking we have done of the last year of the investment portfolio, for instance, we
received 10 million more -- EUR10 million more dividends. Furthermore, as the individual
Life book runs oﬀ, the results show a decline of required interest, which is positive for the
investment margin as investment income remains relatively stable.
Generali Nederland had a contribution of 8 million mainly within the investment margin.
We see most of the increase of the Life result as sustainable for the coming years. Please
bear in mind that H1 is typically supported by dividends as I just have mentioned.
Furthermore, we are pleased with the inﬂow, which we see in the so-called
WerknemersPensioen. Currently 82% of the new business APE is for the new DC solution,
which is very positive development, because it's all recurring premiums. The gross written
Page 4 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

premium of the Life segment increased towards EUR885 million, due to the increase of
capital light gross written premium within pensions and the contribution of EUR54 of
Generali Nederland. This positive development was slightly oﬀset by experienced higher
lapses in the individual Life portfolio.
Let's now turn to the other segments of ASR, which are gaining traction and that's on slide
seven. Operating result of the bank and asset management showed a strong increase to
11 million. This was written by the launch of the mortgage fund and ESG funds which
resulted in additional fee income from third parties for the asset manager and higher fee
income from the real estate funds. Furthermore, the operating result of the bank
increased mainly due to lower cost.
Operating result of the distribution and services segment increased with 20% to 12
million. This was driven by a strong contribution from Dutch ID and the contribution from
the Generali Nederland distribution companies like ANAC which contributed almost EUR1
million. Holding results were slightly better. This was mainly driven by lower net current
service cost due to our own pension scheme for amount of 1 million and lower incidental
cost compared to last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let's move to slide eight to measure our performance against our targets. As said in
my introduction, our performance has been strong on all key metrics in the ﬁrst half of
2018. We've been able to keep our business momentum at a high level and our
performance is better than our medium term targets. As you may know, 2018 is the ﬁnal
year of the medium-term target and will -- and we will present a new medium-term target
at a Capital Markets Day in October this year.
Having said this, I would like to hand over to Chris for further details on our capital and
solvency. Chris the ﬂoor is yours.

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you very much Jos. Ladies and gentlemen please turn to page 10 where
we start to talk about our solvency. Firstly, apologies for my voice. Fortunately, our
solvency is better than my voice, still better than the other way around. But my voice
keeps cracking out from time to time. So, bear with me.
Page 10 shows our book values, IFRS equities and Solvency II owned funds. And we see
continued growth in book value is something we like. In the long run we appreciate that,
the book values of our company whether measured from an IFRS perspective or a
Solvency II perspective continue to grow. Grow slightly less than last year, grows on 1% to
2% mark year-on-year. Due to the fact in the ﬁrst half year, we tend to pay our dividends.
We acquired Generali in this ﬁrst half year. And as you understand in ﬁnancial markets, the
valuation, the unrealized capital gains were bit less than last year. But in spite of dividends
in the Generali acquisition, we continued to grow our book value. Interesting to note that
the owned funds of our Group, including hybrids touched the 7 billion. That's not a
speciﬁc goal itself, but it's fun to see that we've met 7 billion just before we paid interims.
And the unrestricted Tier 1 level is on 5.4 billion.

Page 5 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

Just a bit of background to our solvency levels. Then turn to page number 11 please on
our solvency level. Solvency II 194% as per the standard formula. After payment of interim
dividends, before interim dividend at 196. So business wise eﬀectively our solvency stayed
stable from the year end last year 196 to 30th of June this year of 196. And you take out
the interim dividend, you get to 194. In the appendix E, you'll ﬁnd more data and more
intelligence on the development of the required capital. At this point safe to say that we
feel strong and comfortable with the level and quality of solvency. Tier 1 is about 78% of
our capital, the Tier 1 ratio alone would be 151%, and Tier 2 and Tier 3 headroom is 750
million, actually an increase from Q4 last year. ASR does not use Tier 3 capital, we do not
have the DTA. We still have a net DTL position on our books.

Bloomberg Transcript

LAC DT is stable 74 and our market risk is at 43%, leaving some room to re-risk our
business. And it's fair to presume that depending on markets in H2 of this year, we will
spend some of our capital on re-risking our business. So we feel that the strength have
not widened to and around where they become attractive again. The equity market is
stable, so expect -- but view some of that market risk will typically into support our
earnings, not the entire 7%, but some point or so that we will spend on market risk.
So as far as we can see a solvency good from a level perspective and good from a quality
perspective. Please move to page 12, on capital accretion. We continue to amass capital -page 12 show the breakdown of the sources and uses of capital generating an accretion of
331 million or about 9% to 10% of our required capital. Then after repayment of 92 million
of interim dividend, we get to the retention of capital of about 239 million or at 6% of our
capital base. So 6% retention or 9% net accretion. That actually is the increase in the
fungible and upstreamable and investable capital that we have. And as you are aware, we
have a very strong and consistent capital spend framework, but at 240 million gives
additional ﬂexibility for our Group to invest.
Page number 13 is our alternative view or the most common view these days on capital
generation. It's a solvency ratio movement. Let me give you some further details on this.
On this page, you can see how we spent 9 percentage points on Generali acquisition
from 196 to 187. So that actually is the base, you could use to start with to assess how our
solvency moved through year. And we moved to 187 to 197, which is again the 9% to 10%,
capital accretion that I explained in the previous page. In this page we have an operating
capital accretion of 179 million or organic capital generation of 179 million. Slightly less
than last year, but if you appreciate the fact that we this year had a signiﬁcant store as well
to absorb, the underlying capital generating ability of the Group actually gone up. I just
explained the storm charge in H1 was 31 million in January, secondly, there was some
water damage in May, last year we had no large claims in Q1.
So eﬀectively, and our property and casualty business on a like-for-like basis we
generated less capital last year, fully understandable it's a comparison thing large claims
or it's a storm thing. If you adjust for the storm, you can actually see that the underlying
organic capital generation is up. And if you dive deep into the sources of that increase of
the structural improvement in capital generation, it is with a lower UFR unwind, which
eﬀectively counter by slightly higher hybrid cost, but it's higher excess spreads is lower
cost and higher returns in our disability business.

Page 6 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

So all in all, we feel comfortable with the organic capital generation 179 million, but
structurally elevated versus last year. And also of course Generali starts to contribute to
that level. Think about the 5 million to 7 million of cap gen, structural cap generation of
the Generali business adds to this number.
And if you look at our OCC over the quarters, there's not much point in (inaudible)
quarterly OCC, but in Q2 this year Q2 '18 versus Q2 '17, we already have 9 million higher
OCC in the quarter, which conﬁrms in a quarter where there is no storm and in normal
claims pattern, this Group generates more capital than it is last year.
Finally to preempt any questions that are no doubt coming towards us, if we were to align
the investment spread to the actual market rates, so instead of using our long-term
investment assumption to market rate, the OCC would increase by about 7 million, so we
aligned ﬁxed income spreads, we aligned the VA, we add about 7 million and if we were
to put our equity and ﬁxed income with -- actually in real estate return let's say 7%, you
could add another 60 million to the organic replicable capital generation. Now, again,
that's not our policy but just for your perusal for your background, aligning to ﬁxed
income market rates at 7, aligning to 7% as an example for equities in real estate,
(inaudible) 60 million. But that's for you to assess how you use it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall we see 10% solvency accretion, out of which is 5% is organic, 3% paid out in
dividends ending up with a virtually stable solvency ratio in spite of the acquisition of
Generali, in spite of the lowering of the UFR. From our perspective tantamount to the
ability of ASR to continue to amass capital.
Move to page 14 please, if you wish sensitivity of our ratio to the UFR. You can see the
stock of our solvency with various UFR levels, the ﬂow, the addition of our lower UFR
unwind and the amount of owned funds, at this point in time the UFR is 4.05, we expect it
to be dropping by 15 basis points a year. So by the year 2021 as far as you can see today,
you're expected to drop to 3.6% at least according to the current market information.
Roughly every 15 basis points drop of UFR cost us 3.5%, 3.6% of solvency, but adds about
5 million of lower UFR unwind per year. That was also the case in this year, this was the
actual development in the UFR contribution and the UFR unwind. So we're 183%. We are
very well able to absorb any lowering of the UFR if they come due.
Furthermore, please note the solvency at the UFR of 2.4, you may be aware of our more
economic view of the UFR where we say that, economically speaking, you would like the
UFR to reﬂect your investment income and use that as a more economically consistent
solvency metric. The economic UFR will increase from 2.2 to 2.4, reﬂecting a higher
investment income also in line with the IFRS results and operating result just reported in
Life. I think the investment income is structurally higher than where it used to be adding
20 basis points to that long-term more economic view of our, which gives a Solvency II
ratio at UFR of 2.4 of the 154% safely in north of 100 -- safely north of our risk-appetite 120.
And ﬁnally, if you were to calculate the Solvency ex-UFR and ex-VA, depending how you
deal with tiering think about the number around 110%, 125% in terms of solvency ex-UFR,

Page 7 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

ex-VA. So, (inaudible) the impact of LPD [ph] measures on our solvency is very, very
manageable and very, very well under control.
Moving then to page 15, which is our strong balance sheet. Balance sheet strong with
ample ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. You can see again our solvency composition of 194%. Financial
ﬂexibility, again, there is no DTA, we only have a DTL on our balance sheet. Headroom has
increased, so we can actually -- we have that suﬃcient ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, if you wanted to
further strengthen our capital base.
Financial leverage is at 25%. I think if you did on a more like-for-like basis compared to
industry norms and use it just for the share of accounting reserve that are not reﬂected in
our book equity a more comparable number would be around low 20s. So both from a
Solvency II perspective, as an IFRS perspective, this Group has ﬁnancial, ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility. Just conﬁrm the interest cover, which is still at 12 times on basis of IFRS. If you
had an high operating result, interest cover it would be 9.4 versus 10.2 last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So again, way we take the IFRS perspective or you take the operating results perspective,
interest cover is stable to strong. A strong balance sheet with ample ﬁnancial ﬂexibility.
And last but not least, our solvency and cash position, all in cash at the ﬁrst half year is 229
million. Just to reiterate our holding cash policy, we do not strive, we do not strive to
maximize cash at the holding. We believe for a company as ASR, one jurisdiction, one
management team, one regulator, the cash is best placed at the operating entities. That is
just the way we do things around here and the way we continue to do things around here.
So we were holding cash to cover, holding cost to cover hybrid cost and to cover
dividends, not too much optimize a cash ﬂow as a whole, we believe it's best served in
the business where it supports our customers, where it yields an income. Holding cash at
the Group 229 actually comparable to last year with 201, so up 28 from last year. 195
remittances, little details, little note here, the 195 is a net remittance, actually the gross
remittance to the Group was 246. So, the upstream is 246 million out of our entity to the
group, injected 51 million back into the Generali entities just after the acquisition, you
know, to fund some re-risking of the Generali business, which gives the I95. So 246 was
the upstream out of the traditional ASR businesses, which is equal, roughly equal to the
253 we up-streamed last year, we just injected cash back to the Generali, and when the
Generali entities merged back into ASR Life and ASR P&C that cash showed up back into
the ASR Life business. So it was small kind of, circa [ph] amount of cash to support the
timely re-risking of the Generali balance sheet.
And again remittances exceeds our operating capital generation around 70% of the net
operating proﬁt. And ﬁnally, all our entities this year will contribute cash at holding, not
just Life and P&C, but also for example, the asset manager, also for example distribution
businesses are able and will be able to upstream cash. So in terms of cash, holding cash,
we hope cash to support the operating businesses. And for that we keep the cash in the
holdings or in the operating entities.
With that, I get you back to Jos, who is going to wrap up.

Page 8 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Chris. And as said, to wrap up this call, I would like to conclude that we are
very pleased with the strong set of results. We were able to match our records of
operating result in the ﬁrst half of 2017 despite the severe impact of the storm in January.
Our businesses are all very well performing and that enables us to remain
entrepreneurial. We have shown that we put our excess capital to work.
We are pleased with the progress of the integration of Generali Nederland, but also with
its contribution to the operating result and the OCC of ASR. Before we open for Q&A,
may I remind you of our Capital Markets Day, which will be hosted on the 10th of October,
where we will provide a full update on -- of the strategy and the fresh new set of mediumterm targets.
And with that, I would like to conclude this presentation and we are very happy to take
any question that you might have.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We can now take our ﬁrst question from Cor Kluis from
ABN Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO, I have a couple of questions. First of all, about the
(inaudible) Solvency II. Could you elaborate a little bit more on the category markets and
operational developments, which is minus 53 million, and that includes of course the UFR
eﬀect of minus 93 million that which are the components are in that category? And related
to that also the re-risking, what could be the eﬀect of the -- on the solvency ratio of the rerisking in the second half of the year. And of course related to that the P&L eﬀect of that,
how much could it ﬁnance the proﬁt, the proﬁt stream. And as we are already in at the end
of almost the end of the second month of the third quarter, could you give us a date on
the Solvency II ratio developments in the third quarter especially given what's going on in
the macro-environment. And the last question is about the bank and asset manager,
which had quite strong results in the ﬁrst half. Is this kind of a run-rate or was there
something one-oﬀ in -- that's all my questions.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Great, good Cor. Chris here. Thanks for your questions. I'll take them all for one by one.
On the book, on market development, indeed it was minus 53. I mean, key driver of
course was the UFR decline. Had it not been for the UFR decline, this thing would have
been roughly 50 million positive. And the rest is really a collection of diﬀerent bits and
pieces, some pluses, some minuses.

Page 9 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

On the positive side, you have an increase in the VA, that supports this bucket. We have
some positive revaluations in real-estate especially. On the neutral to slightly negative
side, we had impacts on equities in the ﬁrst half year and to some, but lesser extent credit
spreads widened. There were some tailwind from rate developments, especially on our
DBO owned pension plan according to very speciﬁc IAS 19 modelling. And then there
were modelling and assumptions changes in the Life best estimates. We increased our
lapse rate assumption when we just talked about the Life business, we see a structurally
elevated level of unnatural lapses, which has to do with a deleveraging cycle that's going
through our country, clients are paying down their mortgages, lapsing policies.
It's slightly less than what it used to be last year, but we think the last level in Life is
structurally elevated. We reﬂected that in our best estimates. And ﬁnally we made some
modelling changes in our disability business and here it gets a bit tricky and a bit geeky.
But for example, claims handling costs used to be classiﬁed as claims costs, we moved
from claims to expenses and when you expense them, you had a capital charge for
expense risk and NPV of the duration of the disability book is a bit higher. So we reserved
more capital due to the reclassiﬁcation of claims handling costs, which (inaudible), so
nothing changed in the business. It just that charge for it goes up. By the way we got it
pretty prudently, if you would go further that means the reclassiﬁcation of expenses would
also actually lead to a lower modelling of lapses, which should lead to a small release of
lapse risk, which we haven't yet put through.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in summary, a bunch of I'll say a very nitty-gritty almost geeky changes in modelling
where we've taken a prudent approach. And that together drove a minus 90 -- minus 53,
but again if it had not been for the UFR decline, it would have been 50 million plus.
On your second question, on the re-risking, I think it depends a bit on the market, when
we commenced this year, we had a re-risking ambition. During the ﬁrst half, we paused it,
if you look at the developments in market, spreads that were widening, there's no point in
re-risking while the markets are very jittery. Today with spreads widening, we think we can
continue again. Think about up to ﬁve points of solvency. It depends a bit on how the
market develops, but think of up to ﬁve solvency points that we can spend, we will
continue on real estate. We're very comfortable on our real estate business. We'll
continue on mortgages, I think we will pick up the tab again on credits where spreads
have widened and there will be some room to buy an equity -- buy equities.
I think the return on solvency capital is today around 12% after diversiﬁcation is our
estimate since we got the direct yields that we're going to make on these investments
after diversiﬁcations on this 5%. We think we can make 12% return on capital, which will
again, gradually feed in, so that's not immediately it will feed in, if you reinvest the cash
and it will gradually start to contribute to earnings. But at times the order of magnitude
that we are looking at. Solvency II during the quarter is positive. Market was a little bit
volatile. The VA widened a bit year-to-date. I think the VA is now around 12-ish point. So
from where we are today, which is the 29th of August, solvency of the Group has probably
moved up a few points.
But again, that's really the weekly lay of the land, the formal numbers I think will be done
on a quarterly basis. But when I look at our weekly monitor, it shows a supportive
Page 10 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

development. And ﬁnally on the asset manager, indeed we're proud with a signiﬁcant
increase in earnings, signiﬁcant increase in fee-based earnings. What I like a lot is that,
both the asset manager and distribution business together are fee-based earnings are
now at 23 million earnings. So they are on track to contribute for the full year at least one
point of solvency, which is where we wanted, actually we'd like it to go further, but the feebased earnings adds one point of solvency during the year from an OCC perspective.
I wouldn't double the number, I would be careful just to take, full year is twice half year.
But we'll continue to see some growth in the asset management earnings.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Helpful. And the 12% return coming back on your re-risking, you said around 20
million or something in extra proﬁt stream pre-tax.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

No, it's 75 million of required capital right, so that if you think about the current solvency is
194 which means 75 million required capital is about up to 5% of ratio impact. So again
that 12% on the required capital is more like 10 million to 15 million.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Useful.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

It is also a numerator and denominator eﬀect. If you spend 5% on the denominator, the
total ratio you need to multiply by the ratio itself. So 5% is after the multiplication eﬀect.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from Albert Ploegh from ING. Please go ahead.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. I have basically three. One is on
the Life earnings, which it really were quite strong. In your opening remarks, you already
mentioned and also couple of time not to double for the full year. I recognize the impact
of the extra dividends in the ﬁrst half, but adjusted for the diﬀerent eﬀects, can you then
underlying basis say okay, the second half could then mirror the ﬁrst half adjusted for the
diﬀerence. So that's question one.
On the non-life premiums, which stripping out the acquisition impacts were still up I think
around 4.5% organically, quite a strong performance. So I guess you clearly owning
market share. I know in the past you alluded that you want to remain very disciplined in
Page 11 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

underwriting, but yet the low combined ratio give you some leeway to become also bit
more aggressive on the market share. Is this basically a reﬂection of that and should we
expect this to continue going forward as well?
And then the ﬁnal question is a bit more related on accounting on IFRS 9 and 17.
Competitor for yours disclosed that you made quite some upfront investment costs
already for the implementation. Yeah, is there anything in the results of ASR already and
what are your thoughts on the potential impact of IFRS 17? Thank you.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Albert. I'll take the ﬁrst two. Chris will answer the last one. On the Life
earnings, yes, it's right that we said you shouldn't double it, and your assumption that if
you take out the dividends and could you double it then, the answer is, yes. So, the
assumption made by you that would be a fair way of looking at the Life earnings. And on
your non-life, question the 4.5 percentage points of growth. We are very happy with that
indeed. We however did not change our way of looking to risk. We still are running the
Company value over volume. But within that, we have identiﬁed market parts where we
are able to grow our business especially in packages, in individual packages for families.
There we have seen signiﬁcant growth and that is all within the strict criteria of accepting
risks. And for example, in Q2, our combined ratio was at 96, which is below target. It's
better than target, so we haven't changed our philosophy. And yes, we are growing in
market share, but not at the price of getting sloppy on how we look at risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay, Albert on your question on IFRS 9, IFRS 17, to be honest Albert, the mood in this
Group is very cheerful this morning. But now as you're mentioning IFRS 9, and 17 it's
darkening a bit, you know, we're repeating our (inaudible). In the ﬁrst half year we spent
about 3 million on IFRS 9, IFRS 17. So, it actually is a costly project. I think we're going to
set this on 3 million, I think the second half we'll spend probably at least another three,
probably more 5 million in the second half of the year. We'll try to keep our costs as low
as possible, be as constrained as possible, that's kind of the realistic perspective on this.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. And any thoughts on, let's say, actual implications of IFRS 17 or 9?

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Again, many. Early days, I think we'll spend some time on this in our Capital Markets Day
in October. Perhaps not then to the full extent because if we're all trying to read tea leaves
here (Technical Diﬃculty) IFRS 9, IFRS 17 we postponed one year over two years. I mean,
our honest perspective is, I wouldn't mind a small postponement, but not a lot. I mean, if
we have to go through it rather close our eyes and work our way through it and just not
continue to postpone it.
So one year would be good, more than two -- if you actually postpone it by more than two
years, you'll ﬁnd that the cumulative cost will go up, the more you take, the more you
spend. But again, in the CMD we'll talk about, more about IFRS 17. We can give some ﬁrst
Page 12 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

color on what it means, but it depends also a bit on what we get and what we learn on the
timing from paper [ph].

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
Next question comes from Matthias De Wit from Kempen. Please go ahead.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Hi, good morning and thank you for taking the questions. The ﬁrst one is on the Life
business. You referred to the decline due to the acceleration of lapses linked to the
mortgage prepayments. Just wonder if you could expand a bit on this. So, what are, for
example, the like-for-like decline in reserves or number of policies. And is there any risk
around that this could accelerate going forward to a level, for example, where it becomes
more diﬃcult to cover the costs? And then just linked to that, I remember you updated us
once on the unit cost assumptions in the best estimate liability. Can you update us on
these in light of everything what's happening in the Life business?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then just secondly on the non-life business, can you provide the breakdown of the
organic growth in the premiums to tweak pricing and volume, and is there anything you
can say in general on the pricing environment you're currently observing in the non-life
business? Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

All right. Matthias, on Life, the unexpected lapses, and the unexpected lapses were up.
We said to ourselves, we think the book growth -- when we IPO-ed our business, we said
our book will decline in terms of premiums, in terms of policies by about 9 to 10 -- 9 point
a year on average. I think if we compare to our premium levels today, as to the IPO, which
is now two years back, our premium level is about 5% less than what we expected at IPO,
which is two years down the road. So actual expiration of Life polices were -- in terms of
premium levels of 5% more than what we expected. So the unexpected lapses think about
another two percentage points in a number of policies on number of premium level on an
annual basis.
I'll give you some color on the order of magnitude. Now in terms of competent nuances,
actually this level, the unexpected lapses peaked -- appeared to peak in Q3-Q4 last year.
If we look at the unnatural lapses, the Q3, Q4 last year that really are high. Also in our
mortgage business, we saw an increase then in mortgage redemption, since then, so
today H1 '18 versus H2 '17, the unexpected lapses have dropped back by another 20 point
-- 20%. Mortgage redemption has also dropped by another 7%.
So in the last two years, two percentage more decline in our premium levels per annum
that we expected because of unexpected lapses, it's probably structurally at an elevated

Page 13 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

level, but calming down a bit after last year's deleveraging way, that's kind of second
bumping.
Second observation is, this eﬀect -- premiums eﬀect number of policies, it eﬀects much
less our reserve base. So the reserve base in our Life entity declined by 2.5 percentage
points a year. So you get to see lapses in terms of number of policies and lapses in terms
of number of clients, but much smaller impact when it comes to the total reserve base, in
terms of total asset base, which in the long run will have the consequence that our Life
business becomes much more investment business. You can see a shift at the investment
contribution to our Life earnings will gradually grow, the contribution from technical
results will gradually fade away as the book declines. In the last half year, we have been
able to keep the technical result stable, so components vary, but you have mortality and
cost result were virtually unchanged for the last year. But in the longer term expected to
decline -- expect the investment results to keep up for longer. So that's kind of some point
on lapses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly on unit costs. So, the unit costs on Life has gone up a tiny bit, the cost per
policy, simply because of this lapsing eﬀect, we are reducing cost in the Life business, but
when there is a peak lapse event, you can't just cut your cost as quickly as that. So our
cost initiatives will continue to feed through. I would expect us to take additional cost
initiatives in the coming years, that's something we're contemplating. We're moving as
fast when it comes to the migration of policies. And then the integration of Generali for
example at scale will ultimately lead to further improvement in the cost per policy.
So we're responding to this by cutting costs faster in the migration and doing scale deals
like Generali where you take out much more cost. So the average cost policy goes down.
When it comes to the unit cost assumption, our best estimates, we feel very comfortable
that the assumptions in the best estimate today we can and will meet. So there is lowering
lapses, we've had some -- has been reﬂected in our liabilities, but it's more on a best
estimate side than in the cost element. So, and then when it comes to unit cost on best
estimates, we feel comfortable in that area. Hope that answers your -- it's a lengthy
answer, but it gives you some color on the lapse development.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yeah. (Multiple Speakers) yeah, sorry, can I just very brieﬂy follow up regarding, I know,
correctly, you were assuming rising unit cost assumptions for both funeral, individual Life,
and group Life, is that still the case or?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah up to a certain -- not eternally up to -- there some reason. So you can't -- in 2014 you
deﬁned all the cost on one policy. So there's gradual increase up to a certain point
mitigated by long-term some varialization. But our cost assumptions in our best estimate, I
would not see them as very aggressive in light of the book development.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Page 14 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

On your last question, on Life, organic growth it was on average 4.5, all three businesses
were able to meet that number. In P&C, it was mainly pure organic growth, roughly 4%
out of the 4.5 was organic growth and 0.5% was due to price increases especially in car
insurance. In the disability business, the pricing in the individual area remained stable.
And out of the total growth of 4.5 disability, roughly 3% is due to a better market position
and 2.5% is due to price increases especially in absenteeism that we have done over last
year. And in health, there we also have seen some growth, there the total growth is due to
premium increases that we did last year.
And on your second part of the question, pricing conditions in the market, we still see the
continued hardening of prices, especially in P&C, the storm over the ﬁrst -- in the ﬁrst
quarter has helped to stop thinking about lowering prices in the markets. So we think that
is still a favorable development going forward. Same in disability, there is currently not a
lot of downward pressure on the price level, so that's also good. And health we will have
to see in the last quarter because health insurance, as you may know, Matthias, in the
Netherlands is only a December a product where people can -- can make a new choice
for their insurance company. So general pricing conditions still favorable in terms of
better margins going forward.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, very clear. Thanks a lot.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Next question is from Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there guys, thank you very much. Could you comment again on your plans for internal
model. I know it's a pain to do it. And you've talked about in the past, but it seems to me
that, as you think about growing inorganically and given EIOPA et cetera, et cetera, it
seems to be something that probably has gone up your agenda. So could you comment
on operations for that. And on the debt capacity, is your kind of capacity numbers that
you gave on slide 15, do they also work on a kind of rating agency framework, where you
look at ﬁnancial leverage and interest coverage ratio. So do you think you could raise that
much debt and remain within tolerable levels? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay, hey Farooq it's Chris. On the internal model, couple of perspectives. As -- if you
look at our solvency level today, standard formula, there is no immediate need or
immediate beneﬁt to go to an internal model. As you will say, we could report a higher
number, but that would materially change the business. We of course continue to look at
the EIOPA rules and regulations. I think, the recent consultation paper that they published
is reasonable, although version 0.1 did get us -- the version 0.1 of the consolidation
(inaudible) in December last year had some very inappropriate ideas on how to calculate
solvency for a Dutch insurance company, luckily they didn't make that a ﬁnal report. So
the ﬁnal report gives a solvency number that we still see as reasonably appropriate.
Page 15 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

We are, of course, always on the look out for what it would mean and could mean, if you
would move to an internal model. We've done some sketches and done some
calculations on what it could mean, and what it would require. We need to be vigilant in
understanding that today, the same people that would build the internal model would
also be the same people that would built IFRS 17. So, you think very carefully about
capacity planning where you could do in parallel.
And ﬁnally, when it comes to M&A, I can't imagine cases where internal model might very
well, work very well in an inorganic growth situation. But that depends, of course on that
very situation. So in summary, Farooq, not much news to add, there is no immediate
obstacle to building an internal model. We need to be careful on capacity planning, I can
see the uplift in the numbers from doing internal model. But we have to ﬁnd a meaningful
way to then use the proceeds from that model.

Bloomberg Transcript

And it depends on how the external market develops and depends a bit on how EIOPA
develops. When it comes to debt capacity, I go to slide 15. You asked question about the
rating agencies and how they look at stuﬀ. I think from a rating agency perspective, we of
course would have room to lever the business. I think the capital redundancy from an S&P
perspective, we're at a AAA level, whatever that could mean, but basically we're at AAA
level. I think the formal upper limit for leverage in an S&P environment is 40%. And
interest cover is between 4 times to 7 times. So with the current level we could actually
add more debt within the current rating band. I think within the current rating band, I
would think that we'll be pretty strong in the similar rating band that we have. But again, it
also depends, what do you do with the debt. If you just raise money just for the heck of it,
I don't think S&P will see the humour of that. If you take debt to make a meaningful
acquisition, make an investment, you know, put the money to work, it could make sense.
So I think, at today's rate and today's balance sheet there is no constraints from either our
own balance sheet or rating agency perspective.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Can I just come back on one thing, sorry, this is actually a third question. But just on the
great development that you've had in bank and asset management and all of the feebased businesses. What is your ability to grow further inorganically there. I mean, it seem
the payback from what you've been doing has been great. So is that something that you
are -- is constantly on the radar as well still?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

So Farooq maybe one more comment on your -- on the pieces on debt. It's not that we're
just now about to got to massively do debt ﬁnance acquisitions, but we have the
headroom to do it. It would also dependent on what you're actually doing with it. If you
have a business -- suppose if you were to acquire a business completely debt free, it
would make sense to buy the leverage, if you were to buy a business already has
signiﬁcant debt on the balance sheet, we deﬁnitely need to take into account in the
funding mix. But I think what we have today is ﬂexibility for multiple perspectives to
optimize ﬁnancing and then you have to take into account what you should do with the
money.
Page 16 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

When it comes to the asset manager, we're very pleased with the fee-based income, it's
both in the real estate business and in the capital markets business where the fee has
grown up. We've -- today we're looking at mostly organic growth opportunities, we are
not at this point looking at massive inorganic opportunity in the asset management space.
I think most asset management are fairly expensive and or not for sale. But if you bump
into a more niche play or where you can continue on our buy and build strategy, yes, we
deﬁnitely look at it.
So if you look at what we've done, we bought a small LDI specialist. We bought a
specialist in (inaudible) for government institutions. We have invested money in buying a
portfolio, warehousing then turning into a fund. Thinking more about those buy and build
type of initiatives rather than pursuing a big standalone asset manger at current
valuations.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Operator
Next question comes from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. Sorry to going back
on the bank asset management and distribution services. But last year you seemed to
show quite a bit of seasonality on H2 versus H1. So I appreciate the comment you made
before, but can you may explain why that seasonality is there just to give a little bit more
of understanding what kind of number we should add to the second half of the year.
And the second question is on the economic UFR spreads and yields have moved up and
down quite a bit over the last few years. And this is the ﬁrst time you've basically changed
your economic UFR. So just wondering why now and how often are you planning on
doing this?
Third question is on M&A, I guess I won't ask too much about fees out speciﬁcally. But I
was more wondering from an operational and ﬁnancing point of view, I mean, you've
been talking about M&A for quite a while, there's still lots of opportunity in the funeral
market. And then in the non-life and in the Life market. So just wondering how would you
prioritize M&A from an operational perspective, from a ﬁnancing perspective, if you could
elaborate on that a little bit that would be very, very handy. Thank you.
With operationally, I mean, basically integrating the asset, is it a binding constraint that
you can only do one or can you do more at the same time basically.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Page 17 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

On the seasonality I'll pick -- I'll tell you a bit on the seasonality of the asset manager, Jos
will take distribution business. On the asset manager, in principle, it's not that much
seasonal, it depends on how your assets under management develop.
So I think, you see continued earnings growth in H2. I just wouldn't double it, simply
because if you look at the pipeline of assets under management discussions we have,
there are a number of signiﬁcant potential assignments out there, but they need to fall,
right, they need to close. And of course, the summer periods, you get new inﬂows in the
months up to May and June then July and August is very few new managers [ph] are
being assigned. So you have always this seasonality when money comes in. So there will
be growth in the asset management fees, it's just not something you double because it
depends on actually how the pattern of new inﬂows actually evolves.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And in distribution, distribution is commission business, for us the inﬂow is -- are
commissions earned by the distribution company. And there it fully depends on how a
portfolio looks like. If you, for example, have a portfolio only existing out of car insurance,
and they came in constantly over a year, then there will not be a lot of seasonality. But
traditionally, the ﬁrst quarter and the last quarter, you see more commissions in
distribution companies and in the second and in the third quarter, the level of commission
is lower because people tend to go on vacation don't buy insurance. So it's fully
depending on the portfolio of the distribution company. If (inaudible) for example is more
in the P&C business, that's more through the year a consistent picture both our Group is
more in disability and there it is more loaded in ﬁrst quarter and last quarter.
That to the seasonality on distribution. Chris, on the economic UFR?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Well, the economic -- the setting and determination of the economic UFR is actually quite
an elaborate process. It's not that there two guys in a room (inaudible) let's take a number.
We look at the actual returns we make on the investment portfolio and then we run an
extensive monte carlo simulation. If we value our liabilities with this new UFR and we run
10,000 risk and return scenarios around it, what are -- and we just continue our policy,
distribution policy that we have to date, what are the odds of us at some point missing our
solvency level. So you stress it, you monte carlo simulate it with the UFR of 2.4 and then
re-assess the annual and the underscoring probability.
That's how we do in the ﬁrst quarter every year. So it's quite an elaborate process, it takes
time. So we do it once a year, mostly around the end of the ﬁrst quarter when the full year
results are done, when the strategic asset allocation review has been done. That program
is underway and implementing and that's when we do the annual economic UFR
reassessment. So it's an annual thing done around March-April.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your last question, the M&A ﬂexibility from a more operational point of view, I
think Chris already elaborated a little bit on the room to maneuver that we do have
Page 18 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

ﬁnancially it's depending on how the balance sheet of the company looks like, whether it
is fully loaded with debt or not. Operationally, it depends on the type of business you
acquire, for example, we already integrated the funeral portfolio of Generali. So, if we
could do a funeral transaction tomorrow, the team in Enskede [ph] is ready to integrate
such a portfolio because they are already done with the integration of all the funeral
portfolios we acquired recently.
In non-life, we are in the middle of the integration of the portfolio of Generali, that should
be done somewhere over the ﬁrst quarter. So, that wouldn't withhold us from looking
seriously at potential non-life portfolios. Same for disability.
In Life, it's more a matter of building a queue to integrate, to bring of portfolios to our
software as a service platform. So that wouldn't withhold us from buying businesses if and
when we could do a very good and responsible transaction. So in general, there is no
operational reason for us at the moment for not looking at potential transactions in the
area of the insurance business. Same for distribution, distribution companies are not
integrated into ASR, we leave them alone and entrepreneurial so that wouldn't withhold
us in that area. So in general, Robin, if and when there would be an opportunity, there
wouldn't be a lot of operational reasons not to look at it. Having said that, let's assume
there starts a process tomorrow, it normally takes three to four months to get a signature,
then you need two to four months to close a transaction. So any integration would start as
from mid next year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay, that's very helpful. Maybe Chris one follow-up on the economic UFR. I mean, I
guess it's some sort of game between stock and ﬂow, but is there any implication
connected to the fact that you've raised it on how you look at M&A as well or is it
irrelevant?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

No, it's not linked to M&A, it's more -- it gives you more feeling our -- well, in essence, it
gives you some feeling on our capital capacity right. If the UFR move from 2.2 to 2.4 from
our perspective, we believe that if you compare that number 154 to say 120, there is a
good 30 percentage points of capital that is actually, you know, not immediately needed
to run the business. From that perspective, it gives you more feeling on our capital
strength and on our investment thought.
But it's less, it's not so much -- it's not given by (Technical Diﬃculty) we did it once a year,
we run the numbers, we tested and out comes the economic UFR and this which then
drives, and gives you feeling of our distribution or investment capacity. It's not -- but it's
not that mean, it's that comes ﬁrst and how we spend it comes later, it's not that the
spending plan comes ﬁrst and then (inaudible) how we're going to make up UFR that ﬁts
this plan. That's not the way we work.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thanks.
Page 19 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

Operator
Next question comes from Andrew Baker from Citi. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi, thank you for taking my questions. Just two questions please. First is on the individual
Life systems. I know you converted two in this period to the software as a service platform.
Can you just remind me how many are left in the queue and what the approximate timing
and size of these conversions are? And if there's any reason to believe that cost savings
associated with the two systems in this period would be materially higher or lower versus
the other systems in the queue?
And then secondly, you touched on the EIOPA changes or proposed changes for the
standard formula brieﬂy. You are in a position where you are able to give any potential
impacts to your ratio at this point? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

On the individual Life systems, the software as a service system, Andrew, is a system which
we don't own. So we only pay the variable cost per policy. There are two in the queue
currently, one of that is a portfolio of our own and the other one is the Generali portfolio.
And they should both be done before the end of next year and then we might be able to
shut down some of the existing systems where -- which are all based on ﬁxed cost and
that would be a next jump in lowering the cost in our Life business. But that's all projected
in our targets to lower the cost according to the less -- the decrease of the portfolio. So
that's already in the plan, those lower costs.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah, on the EIOPA review of the standard formula, Andrew. If you go through the entire
report, which I hope you do not do, but if you were to do it, (Technical Diﬃculty) we could
be aﬀected or it could impact us, which is the capital charge for rate risk, which is
government guaranteed mortgages and which is LAC DT. On rate risk, that could be a
small negative for us, the existing standard model does not allow for negative rates and
the new model actually does allow for negative rates, which makes all the sense in the
world. That will feature in over time, there will be a small negative, in the past six months,
we actually did tighten our rate exposure a bit, we reduced our interest rate exposure. So
the impact of this change is a function on your interest rate exposure, anyway, how much
you're lower or negative rate assumption could aﬀect you, it's going to be a small
negative, but not, not a huge amount because through rate management you can actually
manage a lot of this.
Secondly, the new EIOPA regulation do actually recognize government guaranteed
elements in mortgages, that will reduce the counterparty default element of your
mortgage book, that's a small positive. And ﬁnally, there is a LAC DT, to-date our LAC DT
does not require any future ﬁscal proﬁts to substantiate our LAC DT. Our LAC DT is fully
build up, current year proﬁts and DTLs (inaudible) of the risk margin. So pure future proﬁt
are not in there. And the way I interpret the EIOPA documentation is, that actually there is
some more room to include future proﬁts under certain conditions as substantiation for
Page 20 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

FINAL

your LAC DT, so it could give some upside to your LAC DT, if you were to use that
component as well to substantiate and underpin your LAC DT assumption.
To-date, we haven't done that yet. The net of all those three components, I would guess
it's a neutral, possibly a small positive, depending on how far you want to go in your LAC
DT assumption. So far we've been quite conservative on LAC DT and our -- the way we
substantiated. So, depending on how far you want to stretch yourself in that ﬁeld, it's a
neutral to possibly a small positive given the fact that the tightening of our interest rate
hedge. And if you reduce (Technical Diﬃculty) small rate shock.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Last question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, Baeten and Chris. I have three questions, if I may. So ﬁrst of all, I mean,
if I read the press release and your presentation, it looks like you're talking about rerisking your assets versus full year '17. But then if I look at one of the slides, which is where
you had shown the market move -- the SCR movement, slide number 26. So that says that
market risk is going down by 63 million in the SCR, so, you re-risked your assets, you have
acquired Generali's asset portfolio, so that should have bought some market risk. But as
this slide shows, market risk has gone down. So what am I missing because this slide
shows that spread risk has actually decreased whereas you have moved more into
corporate bonds.
So that's one question. The second question is, I may have misheard it, but you
mentioned that your Solvency II ex-UFR is 154 and if we ex-out VA, it's somewhere in 110%
and 125%. So that looks like your VA beneﬁt is north of 30 points, that number doesn't
sound -- doesn't make a lot of sense to me, because if I look at your sensitivity, you have
always given that one point VA is equal to one point of solvency. VA at the moment is like
10, 12 points. So is that understanding correct or I misheard something when you
mentioned ex-UFR ex-VA number.
And the third thing is, can we get some clarity as to your IFRS numbers and Solvency II
capital generation is diverging a bit. For past two years as well and this half as well your
Solvency II capital generation dropped by 7% year-on-year whereas your IFRS earnings
was only down 1%. And in past two years as well that similar trend has been visible 2017
versus 2015. So, any thoughts on these three questions would be very helpful. Thanks.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah, Ashik, it's Chris, I think you referred to page 26, in these you can see our market risk
down by 63. That market risk reduction actually is a result of various moving parts. In the
ﬁrst half year, real-estate risk was up a tiny bit, equities is virtually stable in a portfolio,
Page 21 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

spread risk was down slightly not because we declined our corporate bond portfolio, but
we shortened the duration of our corporate bonds. So, (inaudible) was down. So, it was
the duration of credit spreads rather than credit spread as such. But the main driver of the
reduction in market risk was a limitation on the rate exposure on rate risk because we felt
that actually the expected return on an open interest rate position is very small and given
today's rate and market environment, we felt it was again not very useful to run some rate
risk. So we have to reduce our rate risk, that interest rate risk component that was the key
driver behind market risk.
If you net for that, market risk would actually have gone up during the ﬁrst half. And so,
the re-risking we're proposing to date will be as of (Technical Diﬃculty) solvency for today.
So in the ﬁrst half, market risk X rates went up tiny bit. It was net negative due to interest
rate risk charge. And (Technical Diﬃculty) will go up again. But that will be of a classical
(inaudible) credit equity and some on mortgages.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Sorry, just a follow-up on that, I mean, sorry, just a follow up on that, you're mentioning
that you're shortening the duration of credit and you are taking hedges on interest rate.
So how does that stack up with your duration matching or cash ﬂow matching year-onyear. Is that not getting changed because it's, I mean, I think, last year as well, you
mentioned that you have shortened the duration of your sovereign bonds. So if you keep
on shortening your duration, does that match with your cash ﬂow proﬁle or duration?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

No, because we also have a signiﬁcant derivatives program. So, the interest rate
management is a function of corporate bond, swaps and swaption. So it's a mix of the
thing that works. So we've tightened the interest rate risk on a total holistic basis in that
we shortened corporate credit to some extent, we swapped some traditional (inaudible)
even for Italian government bonds post the spread widening. And we -- and there's a
swap at swaptions portfolio that is still the rounding to make sure the total interest rate
risk is where it is. But we felt at this point, in the ﬁrst half year, that was more basically,
slightly less duration credit plus more elongated swaps than the other way around.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

And on the UFR, you've slightly misunderstood me. Our apologies for that. I think the
solvency of UFR of 2.4 is 154 right. That is it's not UFR of zero, but UFR of 2.4 is 154. Our
VA eﬀect is around 10, where one point of VA is one point solvency eﬀect. So if you were
look at our solvency ex-VA, you would move from 194 to 180, 184. The solvency ex-VA and
ex-UFR is 113 to 127 to be very precise, depending a bit on whether you -- if you take a
simple UFR out, you get to 127, if you (inaudible) also take a hit for less tiering risk. If the
UFR would be taken out completely, you would have a tiering issue like most of us have
today. If you adjust for the tiering, you move to 113. So to recap, solvency 194, solvency exVA 184, ex-VA ex-UFR 127. And if we then take the harshest view on tiering, assuming that
Page 22 of 24



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

there would be mechanical consequences for tiering, I get to 113. So and with the UFR of
2.4, is 154%.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Got it. That's clear. Thank you.

Operator
That concludes the question --

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And the third question on IFRS.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sorry, Ashik on your third question, I think there are various parts. I think that gap
between (inaudible) on operating result and solvency cap generation is practical [ph]
shadow accounting. Shadow accounting results do contribute to operating result or the
release of the capital gains reserve, thus contribute to the operating result, but does not
contribute to our solvency. And a cap gen release was eﬀectively stable versus down 6
million in the ﬁrst half year, eﬀectively stable.
When it comes to headline IFRS numbers, I think therefore we move more in sync, there
you see slightly less capital gains than we had last year and a good contribution to the
Generali social plan cost just on the reorganization of Generali.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's questions. I will now turn back to the host for any
additional or closing remarks.

A - Jos Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well, thank you. Hopefully this call was helpful to answer all your questions. We were
happy to do so. We look forward to meet you all at our Capital Markets Day at the 7th of
October. And in the meantime, we continue to deliver on our medium term targets and
we are conﬁdent that we will be able to continue to deliver in a way as we have done it
until today. So thank you all and I wish you all a very good day.

Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. Ladies
and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.
Page 23 of 24



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2018-08-29

Page 24 of 24

