Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Prudential PLC Investor Conference (Day 1)
Company Participants
FINAL

Ali Parsa, Founder & CEO
Andrew Wong, Chief Health Officer, Malaysia
Chantal Waight, Director of IR
Colin Graham, CIO
Guy Robert Strapp, CEO and Director
Lilian Ng, Vice Chairman
Mark Thomas FitzPatrick, CFO & Executive Director
Michael Andrew Wells , Group Chief Executive & Executive Director
Michelle Qi, CIO China Equities
Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou, Executive Director
Raghunath Hariharan, Former Director of Strategy and Capital Market Relations

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Research Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew John Crean, Managing Partner, Insurance
Barrie James Cornes , Insurance Analyst
Blair Thomson Stewart, Head of the UK and European Insurance
Colm Kelly, Director, Co
Johnny Vo, MD
Jonathan Michael Hocking, MD
Scott Russell, Head of Financials Research, Asia
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Welcome to Singapore. I'm glad everybody got in safe. I
understand, we lost no one in transit. One bag. If you see this person wearing the same
clothes for three days in a row, you'll all know who that is. I won't make them stand up.
We're excited to have you here. It came up last night a couple of times that -- and it
doesn't feel this way to us. But we hadn't been here in a while. Obviously, we're here on a
very frequent basis. But it's been a number of years since we've been back. And I think
one of the things about Singapore as a proxy for all of Asia, there isn't -- there's massive
Page 1 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

differences, obviously, between the different countries we're in and markets -- is you
cannot replicate the energy. You can't replicate what it feels like on the grounds.
We were just talking before the meeting, we were over -- we helped sponsor a major
FinTech event here that's grown in just a few years to over 40,000 people. Was just
asking Will if we'll get you a little clip of what that looks like tomorrow? But it is almost -the level of energy in something like that in this part of the world is, it's contagious. I
mean, you just walk out of there like you've had 9 cappuccinos. And you need to take a
programming class. But the amount of innovation, the amount of new ideas, not just in the
tech space and the alignment between the various stakeholders to see those actionable
are unique. And it's part of the reason we wanted you to come here.
It's been for us -- it's a business we started in 1924. It's one of our most successful in
terms of 1 in 3 households in Singapore have our products. They have -- we're talking
about -- someone asked me last night, we're a little over 2 -- about 2.5 products per
household here. And so you'd think it would be one where we were mature, we were
peaking. And yet -- as you'll see over the next few days, it's -- it was by choice where we
decided to put some of our most advanced technology and some of our best and most
modern ideas. And there's an awful lot of reasons for that. And I think, those will be clear
to you in the next few days.

Bloomberg Transcript

Everything we're doing here is exportable to everything we're doing elsewhere. So
there's a lot of things the group is learning to do better. And I hope you'll see that in the
next few days. And I'm, obviously, very proud of the folks that we're going to put up in
front of you.
But there's a number of folks that are new joining us. Welcome for your first time. One of
the questions they had is, can you give me a little bit of the logic on the demerger? And
what's the purpose of that? And how do we see that? And so I just want to recap for a
couple of minutes this journey we're on and where we're going. And I'm going to keep
my comments today fairly high level, because you're going to get a deep dive on almost
all of these subjects from my colleagues, as you've seen from the agenda for the next
couple of days. So let me start with why?
So if you look on the left, you see the shape of the group in 2007. And we were
disproportionately a U.K.-based firm. And the size and scale of the firm meant that the
business units were interdependent on each other for capital and resources and often
talent and even for strategic work and things. And it was a very successful model relative
to its peers. And the international businesses were starting to really come online. Again if I
back this up to 23 years ago when I joined, as I told you before, it was much -- it was
basically a U.K. firm.
You fast-forward to last year. And I just use these numbers because it's a -- to be
consistent on the slides you've seen before. You now have 72% of the business
international. And if we look at other metrics like new business profit or some of the other
dynamics that might measure future value, it skews even more so.

Page 2 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

And it's not that the U.K. businesses aren't successful, they are. But there -- you see a
difference in characteristics now. One is, each business unit has scale in its own right and
different attributes to scale. They're not all the largest in the world. But they certainly have
the ability to self-fund organic -- the organic production. They have the ability to compete
at the top of their markets in almost every market they are in. And they have the ability to
reinvest in their own entity to provide a level of technology, operational expertise, design
that's competitive with anybody in their space, okay?
Now that doesn't mean there's not capital synergies and things like M&A and some of the
stuff that you'll -- the capabilities you'll see we've added. But the scale of the businesses
has reduced interdependency.

Bloomberg Transcript

So why break them up? Well the U.K. businesses now compete internally for capital. And
just given the objectives that we've been very consistent about on how we want to
allocate capital, that means they compete against the U.S. and our international
businesses in Asia and Africa instead of against their peers. Their business plan is defined
by the role in the group instead of what would maximize the opportunity for our
shareholders in the U.K., European markets and their international capabilities as well. And
again, they are getting less and less from the group, given the success of M&G and the
success of Prudential U.K.
So we got to the conclusion from that that by breaking them up, we'll get better
alignment. And that's everything from the focus of the management teams, the
currencies, the likely investor basis, I think, over time. We are definitely seeing now
enhanced execution. You're seeing -- where we have 2 of everything in the U.K., you're
seeing an objective to get to one. Any process like this is cathartic. You look at everything
you've done and why. And what's a better way to do it? And how do we want that to look
in 10 years? And what's the leading technology in that space? And we're going through
170 years of decisions. So there's quite a few things to look back and say, why are we
making that decision?
But it's going very well and very fast. We'll give you updates on that over the course of the
next couple of days. But the gist of it is, you get focus, okay, you get alignment, they have
plenty of scale, okay. And we think you'll get value creation. We think, you get a better
alignment between the various stakeholders of each entity, that could be anything from
currency based, to investment thesis based, to shape of earnings, shape of financial
results. So that's the logic. And that's how the board came to the decision it came to.
So I'm going to spend most of my time this morning then focused on the international
business. John and his team will present later in the program. So we'll give you an update
on where they are. And Mark's going to give you an update on the project itself and how
it's progressing.
And in the presentation tomorrow, there's a finite amount of things we can say given the
period we're in and hope everybody respects that in the Q&A. But there's -- they'll give
you a good update on the progress and things are going very well with M&G Pru.

Page 3 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

But this is what the international business looks like. And we think it's a very
complementary portfolio of businesses. And let me tell you why I think that statement is
true. If you look at the strategy and the ambition for the group and the operating
principles that we intend to govern it by, it is looking at the international opportunity and
the businesses we're in and saying, "Let's follow the structural growth."
And I think, courtesy of the people that came before us, the actual footprint this business
has is unique. We are in a material part of the world's markets. There isn't a market that
we wish we were in, for example, that has a -- structural tailwinds that we don't have
some presence in, okay? Clearly, we'd like to develop every market we have further. But
we have a footprint that we think is unique.
We intend to operate the business with discipline. And I think, we've demonstrated that.
I'm going to give you some examples of that in a second. But this is not a growth at all
cost, top line at all cost, market share at all cost business model, okay? I think, personally,
we are too big and too successful and we have too profitable of existing relationships
with consumers to start doing things that are -- that show a lack of discipline on margin or
add risk we don't necessarily need to take or expose us to market factors that challenge
the counter-cyclicality that we want from the earnings, okay? So this is a quality of earnings
play.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now what does operating discipline mean? It means from allocating capital, we have very
strong views of risk-adjusted return expectations, of payback periods and that gets us
into some of the product sets that we've been very successful in. But it's key.
It also means we continue to have to enhance our capability, okay? It's not just again
about a single metric. I was at the -- that FinTech event yesterday and it's -- when you're
speaking to thousands of entrepreneurs in the tech space and you're standing there
representing a firm that's 170 years old, they think you actually have met a dinosaur, right?
They're looking at you like, my firm is 17 months old or 17 weeks old and they're -- all of
them are looking at us saying, "We're going to challenge you." And the one-on-one
conversations are fantastic afterwards.
And what they don't get, right, is the capabilities and the tech investment. And all the
things you're going to see over the next couple of days that are inherent in the success of
the company. What they do get correctly is if we did nothing, that at some point would
make us uncompetitive. We would look like a slow, nongrowing insurer that may or may
not be a player in the market.
There is no reason we can't innovate at the pace to compete with anyone. And we'll show
you some of that innovation. But it does require us keeping a very sharp eye on how
dynamic the firm is and how capable the firm is. And we have to look at not only our
traditional competitors. But our nontraditional competitors in doing that.
So it's an honest assessment of where we see gaps in the firm and where we need to
grow. And I'm going to show you some of those we've addressed. But it is continuing to
enhance the capabilities of the firm and that has multiple dimensions to it.
Page 4 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Then if you've done those things correctly, it should produce very high quality, resilient
outcomes. And we define that again by quality earnings, recurring earnings occurring
across the cycle that are not necessarily correlated to any equity or interest rate scenario
and good diversification of those earnings.
So structural. Let's go to tailwinds for a little bit. So why do we believe any of that's true?
Okay? So I don't believe that we have a competitor that has our geographic footprint,
okay? We are in the largest and most successful markets for the businesses that we want
to pursue. And I'm going to walk you through a variety of metrics on why we think there
are structural tailwinds.
The reason we like structural tailwinds other than the obvious benefit is the investments
often to capitalize on them take years. So you're not trying -- this isn't a short term, let's
time this market, let's try this promotion and get this out for 90 days. We're capable of
that sort of behavior. But it's not sustainable behavior and it's reactive behavior.

Bloomberg Transcript

The strategic view here is what markets -- what are the dynamics of the markets that are
changing and what do we need to do about it and what do we need to look out 10 years?
We had our leadership team together just a couple of weeks ago, not even that. And the
thematic things that we go through in that to look at the next decade and see what our
clients' needs are, are effectively demographics, they're AI and GI intersects, they are
language changes online, they are connectivity with customers.
They're all these sorts of macro themes, because basically if we don't figure out how to
connect with clients in this footprint, shame on us, okay? We have incredibly strong
structural positions in terms of geography. All of our markets have multiple sector drivers,
okay? They have multiple tailwinds, not a single concept. So we think that's unique. We
think that gives us a very successful platform to approach the business with.
Another view of that would be GDP growth and penetration levels of products. So this
goes to where we start getting into strategy. Can we produce business plans that grow
faster than the economies we're in or faster than the segments of the economy that we
want to capture? Okay? So it's a mix. Again, if you're looking for a portfolio that
complements each other, you want different characteristics, different dynamics, different
risks embedded in that portfolio and we think we have that. And you approach those
markets differently.
The -- our Africa and Asia businesses have immense potential and just sheer growth,
right. And a variety of attributes that come with that. Our U.S. market is seen as mature.
But that -- it can be mature, it certainly had regulatory noise lately. But it's also there's no
denying the structural demand for the retirees in that market, right? So it's got scale and
it's got structural demand.
So we approach the different markets differently. In Africa, it's a build, it's an initial -- it's a
medium-term option for us, it's something to get a presence in. I'll give you a little bit
more on that in a second. But it's something to make sure that as that market goes, it
doesn't get away from us.
Page 5 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

In Asia, we need to leverage the scale position we have, because as large as we are in
Asia, right, the demographics and the tailwinds are growing at least as fast as our
business is growing. So we've got to make sure we capture the share of that that we think
is appropriate for our stakeholders.
A key part of that is expanding health and protection. We've been saying this to you for
the last few years. It is a key, key driver in this market. And I'll give you some statistics here
on the -- just quantifying the need there.
Then penetrating the wealth market. As clients are getting more money here and being
more successful and moving further up their career ladders, okay, they are making
decisions faster and more effectively about savings and that savings will lead to wealth
products and we have to be in that space.
So the operating with discipline expression, I'm sure you have heard at a lot of
conferences and a lot of meetings and, I think, it requires a bit of proof. The way we
allocate our capital, I think, is going to define our long-term success, okay. And our shortterm strength, okay, our short-term resilience. So it's this -- it's the key driver in this.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in a sense, you have to think of us as, are we willing to be an active portfolio manager?
Are we willing to be agnostic about businesses that have been a part of the group for a
given period of time or a business line or a distribution relationship and look at that on a
frequent basis and say, is that still the right or wrong thing to do? Okay? Are you willing to
walk away from something? And are you willing to invest in something? Those are 2
different decisions. And they need to be taken independently.
So if you'd look back, I think, we can make a pretty good argument that we've struck a
good balance between growth and returns, okay? We've done a number of things. We've
exited markets. We've exited channels. We've exited countries. We've exited entire
businesses. We've also entered countries, channels, businesses, product lines, okay?
The goal here isn't to run every business until its last viable relationship, okay? The goal is
to reallocate the capital away from things that we think have a risk or a return signature
that's different than the opportunities we have elsewhere or isn't sustainable over, say, a
10-year time horizon, okay?
Proof statement, there are buyers for the businesses we exit. It isn't a quality issue. It isn't
an operational excellence issue. It isn't necessarily -- some people in the market are just
at a different position than we are, it doesn't mean for them it was a right or wrong
decision. But it's core to the capital allocation that you would be willing to leave a business
as well as you are willing to reallocate capital to a business.
The other element in that that's absolutely key is none of our successes come evenly,
regardless how good our teams are. There tends to be a sort of lumpiness to them.
Some market factors, where we've done a good job. And our team's built everything they
should build on product and distribution and regulatory relationship and consumer
proposition and all of a sudden it takes off. We have to be big enough to absorb that
Page 6 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

success and that means if one of the businesses is having an unusually good year or 2 or
3 that, again, the size of the group, the scale of our financial metrics is such that we can
capitalize on all the work that came before that and, I think, we can demonstrate that we
have that as well.
So equally we think that this adds to our performance and our capability. If you look at
some of the resource allocate, where we move things around, there's capital efficiency in
there, there's risk management in there, there's growth of earnings in there, there's
investing in new markets, right? The Thai Military Bank, that's expanding our fund
capability in Thailand also comes with some distribution; John Hancock, the recent bolt-on
in the U.S., there's efficiency of balance sheet and earnings and growth of general
account. These are all actively managing the business, okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

Now funding. This is the kind of thing -- I get the question all the time that, well, couldn't
the businesses stand alone anytime they wanted, go to the market, raise equity or raise
debt? You could. But together, they can do this in a normal course of business without
showing a hand to a competitor who wants the same resource, okay, without having to go
through a formal process to do anything about debt or equity or structure, simply from
the scale, the financial scale of the business. And it makes us a very credible and efficient
and fast counterparty in our negotiation. And that is not a currency we're looking to give
up.
Okay. Have we expanded the capabilities of the group? And how do we look at that? So
capabilities is probably a little too broad a term. But let's define what that looks like for a
second. So we're agnostic to these being developed in-house, incubated, JV'd or even
acquired. Obviously, our preference is a bit on an internal side. But if -- we'll trade capital
for a time if we think something's emerged as a technology or capability that we want.
But if you look across --- these are the -- sort of the key (axis) -- we think are capabilities.
What should we be good at? Okay? And start with the idea that insurers historically feel
like everything they do should be built end-to-end in-house, that is not us, okay? We are
fine-partnering with whoever is best-in-class in whatever it is they are good at. And the
more we are advancing our skills in that, the better we're getting at that, the more
partners we have available to us.
I will tell you the single most interesting thing about announcing the demerger is the
number of non-obvious, non; -- traditional firms that have approached us and say, we like
what you're doing in this market, we have an idea that would help.
Yesterday, at the Singapore FinTech Event, I did a presentation to the group and
afterwards, we have our -- we're going to show you a little bit of this. But we have our
booth there and it's doing incredible well. It shows a lot of the new technology in
Singapore. And the number of people coming up saying, "I like that small business
platform you have, we have an idea that would be an incredible enhancement to that."
Somehow when you're in motion, people view you as being open to -- more open to new
ideas or easier to find or our business plan is more obvious to them. But we're getting --

Page 7 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

and again -- and they know, they can look at this and say, "This is a firm that's willing to
work with other firms."
Now another way to do this would be to incubate, to invest, to build these from scratch.
That's not our primary goal, okay? We're not looking to spin out some of the technology
the teams have built out in the market. It works. There's -- we've got one competitor in
particular that's good at that, that's not our model. Our model is to be able to work with
the best and to have technology that links quickly with whatever the most advanced idea
on distribution, on customer service, on operations and digital is and continue our core
business.
So again, you can go down this -- if you look at the distribution, the banker deals in Asia,
the Hancock deal and 158 selling group agreements now in the fee-based space in the
U.S., okay? Those are expansions since the last time we talked. There's technology here
from IBM to FinTechs here in town that the employees could fit at 2 of these tables, right?

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a unique capability to be able to work with a variety of people. But you see this is our
lens, this is how we're looking at it, okay? Is the firm better than it was last year? What can
we do now we couldn't do last year? What are we going to be able to do in 24 months
that we couldn't do a year ago? You're going to see a lot of that over the next couple of
days, okay? We're starting with a position of strength. And to maintain that growth, to
maintain that strength, we've got to continue to add capabilities to the firm.
All right. Balance, are they complementary? So if you take a look at the growth profiles,
again this is U.S., Africa and Asia only, okay? This is what the geographic balance and the
product, really the risk balance, if you will, looks like. So is there diversification? Are they
correlated? Those sorts of things.
So you see everything from -- we've got 30 businesses here in 20 countries. So I'd argue
there is geographic distribution, that's measurable. And you can see that from the
metrics, from new business profit to free surplus generation, just as a couple of proxies,
okay? We think -- and the earnings characteristics, obviously, you go down to the lower
boxes here, the -- how the product is coming in is diversified, the types of risk profile,
from investment to insurance to spread, okay, are well balanced.
We are not looking for this to be a third, a third, a third, let me be very clear. It isn't that
we won't do spread product. But it's inherently more capital -- has more capital strain and
has different risks to it. And we like the earnings. But we would value them less than we
would similar earnings on products in the insurance or investment space.
Upper right-hand corner, you have businesses that are coming online that were nascent in
some of our emerging market business that growing at a very rapid pace now. Again
you're talking compounding rates of growth of 24% over the last decade. These are -there were meetings, not the last one here. But the one before that some of you were at
in Asia, where we were arguing about our new investment in Indonesia, right?

Page 8 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So I would suggest to you not to underestimate some of our up-and-coming markets. The
demographics on those markets, our alignment with national policy, our brand, our
capabilities, they're growing nicely and are getting better and better at moving our
capabilities across markets.
So the cross-fertilization piece is something that historically we probably should have
been a little better at, we did it with people. Now we do it with a much more sophisticated
playbook and we still use people. But we also use systems in our -- and distribution
models and relationships across region and now across geography, across continents.
And you'll see as -- with a few more slides coming up here, that's got some real leverage
to it.
So that should produce then, if that's all true, measurements of quality of earnings, not
just scale of earnings. So -- obviously, the combination of that strategy, the portfolio and
execution.
So 70% of the first half of this year's earnings came from insurance, okay -- up 61% in Asia,
despite the fact that those operating earnings have more than doubled, okay? In the U.S.,
the fee income has doubled, half year -- again the same period, the 5 year. And again,
the fee income in total plus the insurance income for the combined entities is now 83%,
okay, taking into account the growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we think that's an incredibly high-quality earnings. Could we have done more in the
spread space? Yes. Does the accounting favor that a bit? Yes. It's not the objective, right?
Demographics. Some of this it's -- going through Asian demographics always feels like I'm
preaching to the choir when I'm up here, particularly when you're here in Asia. But the -- as
we get more and more accurate -- more and more current research -- I wouldn't say,
more and more accurate research -- more and more current research, we are seeing
every key metric for us on demographics that are important to us improving. Let me give
you some examples of that.
On just global growth now, okay, Asia is growing 5x faster than the balance of the world
on the chart on the left there. Between now and 2023, it's not that far out, it's projected
to be 39% of global growth, okay? And again, if you look at our footprint in Asia, we're in
the markets where (a disproportion) to that is measured and intended to be.
Another dynamic. We have always been -- our core scale has always been emerging
middle class. We're getting better at segmenting markets and working below and above
that. But that's been the core historic capability of the business in Asia. That is our sweet
spot and, again, we're getting very good at other things. But that's been the one that I
think, we're the undisputed champion of, okay?
That rise of middle class in Asia is expected to head to 3.5 billion, representing 2/3 of the
world's middle class in a couple of the current reports out there. So what does that mean?
Well it means we're probably going to have a lot more agents, Lilian's thinking half of that
3.5 billion. Right, Lilian? Somewhere around there?
Page 9 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

The urbanization of the populations, this trend's got a variety of dynamics that are in our
favor. Raghu is saying more than half, okay? We will work on that in the plan discussion.

FINAL

Why does urbanization matter? On the health side, it's better access to health care, okay?
It's more efficient for us. Now the expectation of every government we do business with
is that we do not focus simply on cities. And we're very good at going upcountry and
working in a variety of markets, it's one of our core capabilities.
But the urbanization is changing the way people work, it typically changes the amount of
free time they have. And again, it drives them towards products and services we have and
it gives us different distribution options. So this trend's very valuable to us. And again
you've got 2 billion people moving into cities in the next 15 years, roughly 6x the
population in the U.S., just to put some scale around this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then finally, working age, another tailwind. 181 million people entering the workforce in the
same time period. So again, by comparison, that would be Italy, France and the U.K.
combined. These are massive demographic tailwinds for us. And these are into markets
where we're licensed, market-leading, scalable, right. And we think have the right
products and services.
In the last -- 1 of the last 2 I want to show you on demographics in Asia. So are they
insured? What service do they need? Mortality gap, how much insurance they should
have? Right? This is relative to Western markets. But I had somebody ask me the other
night about this in the airport. And he said, "Yes. But that's because they self-insure." It's a
good observation. If on average, cash position in Asian households are 40%, they're
materially higher than you see in the West.
There is no policymaker that we ever deal with that wouldn't rather see people pool risk,
reinvest that excess capital in the real economy and pull it out of cash, okay? There's
complete alignment with what we do in the governments and the jurisdictions we do
business with.
Even Singapore with very sophisticated state-sponsored health and retirement, here we
do supplemental around that in savings and health and other services, because some of
the demographics on the individuals, which I'm not going to get into today, on longevity,
advancements in medicine, those sorts of things, everyone's looking at the fact that these
consumers are going to need more assets longer, better, more sophisticated health care
models, all those sorts of things that we're bringing to the market.
But again, the health gap at $1.8 trillion in Asia, that's about 7% of GDP. The states in most
cases, there's a few exceptions over here, aren't interested in stepping in and providing a
national health safety net, a national retirement safety net. They're looking to the private
sector to provide those services. And they view the private sector as a more natural
owner of the administration of those services. So structurally, these are good alignments,
again tremendous demand.

Page 10 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

And the one we've not talked about that I want to finish with on the tailwind side. So I've
gotten a question a few times this year, "Is there a retirement opportunity in Asia?" Now
this is more complicated here. The answer is, absolutely. The answer is, it's now. But it's
also -- one of the current pieces of research, I'd say, by 2050, there will be an additional
450 million people over 65 in Asia, okay?
The middle graphs -- we did some work done showing a savings gap for India and China
for its population to fund retirement. It's the same 2050, you'll have 700 million 65-plus
year olds looking for retirement, health solutions and things in retirement, okay?
So -- and then on the high net worth, this comes up a lot. It's the largest market now in the
world. And it's projected in the next decade to grow to about $40 trillion. This is key for
Eastspring and some of our more sophisticated product offerings that we -- again, we
continue to grow into that space.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're not looking -- I get the -- "Are you going to do a Thai baht variable annuity?" And
the answer is, no. When we sit down with governments and they say, you know what -they know our expertise in the retirement space and they want to know what we can do
with pensions, they see that in the U.K. and they see that in the U.S. as well. In some of
these markets, where you lack a proper yield curve and the maturity of securities, it's very
challenging to come up with a risk appropriate product or service. But there is no lack of
interest in the leadership of these countries to solve this quickly, okay?
So I don't think it's any surprise that our China team is one of a handful of firms on a pilot,
on a pension product in China. The expertise we have, the technology we have, the risk
management skills we have from our U.K. business, from our U.S. business and individual
pensions, will be applicable in Asia quickly, because this is a structural need that's got to
be solved. So it's a dynamic that you'll see come online over the medium term. But again
the numbers are there now.
Okay. So I'd argue we're well placed to capture some or all of these opportunities. Scale:
why does it matter? It matters in not only the risk management of success, the risk
management of failure, the ability to invest in those innovations, the ability to be key to a
market, it means it's -- in practice, I would tell you, with 3.5 years in this role, it means
you're a part of policy decisions, you're not a taker of policy decisions, that's a material
difference.
We have a chance and we've got -- we have a chance to be a part of the key contribution,
key conversations on what products and services, regulation, capabilities need to be in
the markets we're in. It's important, it's exciting and it positions us as a trusted ally in the
markets we're in. And it's -- again, it's trust that's ours to lose. It's a key currency, I think, of
the brand. And I think, as a management team, it's one of the most important things for
us to be stewards of.
But what you see in the Asia markets is the firm is viewed as a place to go for solutions by
policy makers. And we're going to show you a lot of that over the next couple of days.

Page 11 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

We're dealing with some fairly complex issues with them and I think we're well positioned
to do that. And those require scale, okay? It's got to be a firm.

FINAL

If you're giving us anything from your individual pension to your corporate plan to the first
product you've ever bought, you have to believe that the Prudent's logo on the policy or
on the digital policy, that whatever that outcome is you're afraid of, we will pay, okay?
You have to believe if you're the government, the partner, that if we say we're going to
do something, it will happen and it'll happen in a way that won't embarrass you and it'll
actually enhance the social model -- those are all true. And they occur day-in and day-out.
And they're a function of our size, our scale, our success in multiple markets and they give
us a chance to participate in the sort of structural growth, okay?
It also produces resiliency. So if you take all of these points and combine them. So -- as
we've shifted this business towards recurring relationships with consumers that have
regular premium, that means products where the consumer each year has a payment to
continue the benefit, just to make sure we're all on the same page. Okay? Becomes very,
very important the resilience of the earnings and premium income of the firm. With a
retention rate now of 90%, again, these are by industry standards, excellent numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Think of it as a satisfaction score with your consumers and think about it isn't particularly
unusual for 10% of the consumers to have something happen in their lives where they
can't anticipate, that could be a death, loss of a job or some other major event in life. So
90% is an outstanding number. 94% of that premium is recurring and again the business
growing in customer count, okay?
Use the MSCI ex Japan here just to give you a sense of stability of earnings or lack of
correlation in the earnings to markets, okay? That's what we're driving towards. That's the
responsibility of this part of the book. And what it should look like in practice is you take a
very successful, correctly priced set of client relationships like this. And every year, you
add another cohort of successful client relationships that are profitable, correctly priced to
this. And this grows and grows and grows.
All right. (Just kid you guys), this structure is one of my favorite slides. So what's it look like
for Asia? If you do all this correctly, right, the outcome should produce very good financial
metrics. And they should be balanced. Again, we have the ability as a -- theoretically, as a
management team, you could drive any one of these metrics a little bit, again at this
scale, a little less so. There is some base effect in here. But the reality is you should see
the outcome you want in these metrics, okay. And you should see it across cycles. So new
business profit, IFRS profit, free surplus generation. And to continue that obviously
requires the effort and the agility and speed to market we were talking about. So that's
Asia.
Let's go to the U.S. for a couple of minutes. What are we trying to do in the U.S.? Well the
U.S. has had an undisputed leadership position in an industry with a lot of policy noise in
the last 36 months. There has been policy noise on -- in the DOL with President Obama's
watch. There was policy noise with the NAIC on capital. There's been tax changes.
Page 12 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So the model has had -- and we've had competitors distill their businesses, for a lack of
another term, where they have failed to execute as they originally intended and they've
spun them off. And again, that's a consequence of decisions made decades ago. Okay?
These decisions have tails. So it's been an interesting time for the U.S.
So that said, Jackson's quality hasn't changed. What's changed is the market around it.
What's changed is the policies around it. So it still leads in terms of market share,
technology, cost of administration, client quality, right, all of the key variables, risk
management. It is market-leading in all of those dynamics. And I want to talk a little bit
about the market in a second.
But there are -- you're at an inflection point in the U.S. on policy. And Chad's going to get
into some of the financial metrics, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on that -- on the
resilience, I'll give you a little bit of a look in a second. But you're seeing an end to the
DOL work stream. You've seen the NAIC stuff finally come through. And what you haven't
seen is any change in the structural demand for retirees.

Bloomberg Transcript

It is about the only thing I can find Democratic politicians. And Barry's here to give you a
chapter and verse on this later. But it's about the only thing people on both sides of the
aisle agree to right now in the U.S., okay, is that there are a lot of people going into
retirement. And they are grossly under-protected. And private solutions, again, need to
step up, right. And they need to step up in a way that provides the client some sort of
assurance they won't run out of money in retirement.
Now there's a number of demographic keys in this that define the structural piece. I mean,
61% increase in people over 65 between now and 2035, a 73% reduction in defined
benefit plans, that would look the same in our U.K. business. 50% of the consumers with
no plan or coverage available to them, okay? Just think of the scale of this market, scale
of the asset, scale of the households, okay?
So in the retirement gap here, we defined it differently in this one. And I did this on
purpose, because I don't think it's always clear to people outside of a market how people
retire. So U.S. retirees get a pension from the State, social security, it's theoretically selffunded. There's a lot more demand on those funds than there has been historically or
other purposes.
But historically, it was a -- it was set up as a federal pension fund 1935, Barry -- '34 or '35.
And one of the interesting things you should know is the retirement age at which you
were allowed to participate in it was also when the mortality -- the expected mortality in
the U.S. So your first payment was due when you were dead, was sort of the math in the
actuarial world. Obviously longevity's improved. And they haven't moved that date, it's
very political.
But this is what an average retiree in America would see. So they would expect about
40% of their preretirement income to come from social security benefits. So they're not
destitute. There's coverage there. But it's quite a gap. And 70% is about what they need
to retire comfortably.
Page 13 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Also every piece of research, I've ever seen in my career, Americans spend more in their
first year in retirement than they did in their last working year. And they have a variety of
justifications for that. But it's a lot of things, they buy boats. And new golf clubs and all
sorts of things that -- if they can. But that gap's critical.
So defined contribution plans have worked well in the U.S. They're growing. But current
language makes it -- in the law, makes it very difficult for you as the plan -- if you're the
head of your company's plan to provide a guarantee, okay, without getting into too much
detail, it's the safe harbor language. So only about 5% of the new pension plans that most
Americans have had any form of withdrawal guarantee, okay? So they are exposed to the
market. And that isn't -- if you look on the right-hand side, that isn't what they want, okay?
Consumers don't say, get me the #1 performing growth account or value account yearafter-year. What they want is their individual situations solved and derisked. They want to
know they won't run out of money in the extremes, exactly the services Jackson provides,
okay? So the structural demand in the U.S. is absolutely there. But so is the opportunity to
act in an undisciplined fashion. And we've seen this, The U.S. industry's brilliant at this,
okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

So Jackson has not -- it has been disciplined the entire time. Now there's some trades in
that. On the left, you see that we manage the volumes of new business, we talked about
this years ago, actually even put gross sales gaps in place at various points, okay? But
what it ends up with is a book well diversified across various cohorts in the S&P 500, just
as a proxy, you see very consistent pricing. So does an adviser, who has been
recommending the product for a decade or more, okay?
It's still basically the same product, the same quality of product that they started with
when Jackson was a much smaller player in the market. And there's an integrity issue in
that and there's a trust issue in that, that gives it the -- again, usually the top ranking in any
sort of advisory polls on the quality of the firm.
It is a model on risk where even though you can customize the product, individual benefits
are individually priced and risk managed, okay? And certain combinations of benefits
aren't available to you. That's a technology issue. It's always been conservatively hedged.
And Chad's going to come up and give you some updates on that later.
Then it's always been a view that protect the tails economically, okay? What would the
actual economic impact be? We've got multiple regulatory and accounting statutes that
go across our U.K. -- U.S. business, excuse me. And the goal is the economics first and
take the noise that comes with the various accounting regimes.
Then on credit right now, it has a balance sheet. 97% of that is investment grade. It's
underweight risk sectors. It's diversified across 650 issues, again a way to reduce risk is to
not have major positions. Its average holding is $53 million. So again, in the U.S.
presentation you will get more detail on risk. But just to give you a feel for the
conservative nature of it, not stretching for yield, not stretching for pricing risk, staying
consistent to the tenets that got the firm the success it's seen.
Page 14 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

All right. How does that look relative to peers? Been a couple of slides with hypothetical
data used in the marketplace in the U.S. last year. I thought we'd actually give you one with
real data, this is historic. So Jackson's return on statutory capital, pre and post the tax
reform, is 19% or 16%. The industry reported 10%, okay? Total adjusted capital before
dividends and regulatory impact, you can see in the middle chart. And the consistency of
the RBC ratio, including all of those changes, the policy and dividends we discussed is on
the right.
So when competitors were talking about major assumption changes, major capital
infusions, the last couple at over $5 billion apiece U.S., this is a business that's produced
$5 billion of dividend over the same period of time, is well capitalized and the
assumptions have been consistent across its life, okay? So it is in a different quality space
than its competitors. I appreciate on valuation that gives it some challenges. But this is a
high-quality business with structural demand, correctly priced, well positioned to capitalize
on where we're going next.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now in the market -- in the U.S., excuse me, the space that we think has the most
potential, (that space) our distribution partners, I can tell you from a recent trip to New
York, think has the most potential, is that movement into the advised or fee-based space.
Doesn't mean we have to give up anything from the commission-based success that
Jackson's had on a consumer who chooses to pay a onetime fee for the product with the
advisory, that pay-as-you-go model.
As we discussed, Jackson entered that space about 1.5 years ago. It's about 3% of the
overall market growing quickly, because again you'll need that final language from the
SEC to clarify what is or isn't proper ownership for all of the firms to be online. There's a
technology component the U.S. will tell you about. But in the less than 24 months they've
launched into that space, they have over 50% market share. And the feedback I get from
people running firms in New York is, best wholesalers, best service, great technology, all
the things we would expect people to say about the firm on a new endeavor, okay?
So Africa. Okay? This is a medium-term opportunity for us. Part of our responsibility as
managers of the company, stewards of the company, is to make sure there is always
additional new J Curves, growth engines. And this is a growth continent. This is a J Curve
continent for us.
It's not only -- we've had some success from our 2004 entrants in our -- with our
traditional capabilities, which is agency and bank. And I think, if you looked at what the
team has done there, they're punching well above their weight. They're winning
mandates and relationships that establish players in a market on a more -- where we'd
have thought they would have been the winners of.
And we think we have a footprint in the parts of Africa that we think have the most value
and the most leverage going forward and give us the greatest optionality on the
continent. It is the single largest most underserved insurance market in the world. It is the
youngest continent in the world. It is where we're trying new technology.

Page 15 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

This is where we've done the -- again, our first mobile pay micro insurance product
successfully. So you're seeing it skip technologies, you're seeing it move at a different
pace and it is a part of our future. And again, we think it's the responsibility as a
management team to continue to invest in things that will be a part of our future.
All right. And I'll finish with this. So a slightly different look to my favorite slide. What do you
see in this when you split the U.K. businesses and the international businesses? You see
different financial characteristics. This goes back to part of the logic in the demerger, all
good. You see stability, value, cash flow, okay. And you see growth, right?
So we think we end up at the end of the day with 2 very high-quality businesses, 2 highly
competitive businesses in their space, okay. And 2 businesses that can compete with
anybody with a similar portfolio or skill set with very good proven track records on new
business profit, operating -- IFRS operating profit and their ability to generate free
surplus, obviously, leading to cash.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, I'm going to walk you through the -- you've got the agenda in your deck.
Mark's going to follow up with a financial update. I couldn't help but notice. But for me to
do the agenda slides. And you've got the afternoon and you've got tomorrow, drink your
coffee at pace. We've got a long couple of days ahead of us. There is a -- we have loaded
a tremendous amount of content into the next couple of days for you. I appreciate it's a
demanding schedule. But we've got you here.
There is more we want to show you than we have time for even at this pace. But you'll
see there's time for Q&A at various points in the session. And we're going to run you
through as much as we possibly can when we have you. And again, I want to thank you
very much for giving us this much of your schedule, flying to Singapore and staying with us
through what's going to be a pretty heavy agenda. Thank you. Mark?

Mark Thomas FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

So thank you, Mike. Good morning to you all. In my presentation today, I will aim to cover 4
main areas. Firstly, an overview of new business performance in the nine months to
September. Secondly, I will provide a brief analysis of our risk profile and our credit
positioning within that. Thirdly, I will update you on our progress on the actions needed to
execute the demerger of M&G Prudential. And fourthly, a more detailed outlook at how
the quality of the business we are writing is driving sustained growth in both group value
and cash generation.
So starting with our performance for the first nine months of 2018. The group continues to
make good progress in each of our key geographies. In Asia, the U.S. and in the U.K., we
are demonstrating a high degree of resilience against the more challenging backdrop of
volatile markets, disruptions to global trade and the ongoing political change and
uncertainty across multiple countries.
In our life businesses, we have delivered growth in new business profit of 17%. This strong
result reflects our focus on value. We achieved this through favorable changes in mix and
Page 16 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

in pricing actions, while continuing to offer products with good outcomes for our
customers. We have also benefited from lower U.S. tax with 3percentage points of
growth, which will unwind at year-end. We have also seen rates rise over the period,
accounting for about 4percentage points of growth.
In asset management, external funds under management are slightly lower than at the
start of the year, reflecting weaker market conditions and the redemption of some large.
But low value institutional mandates. The group performance remains underpinned by a
strong and resilient capital position with solvency cover of 205% at the end of September.
This reflects positive underlying capital generation in the Third Quarter. And as stated,
after the acquisition of TMB Asset Management and the payment of the 2018 first interim
dividend in the same period.
In Asia, our portfolio of life businesses has delivered 15% growth in new business value in
the first nine months, up from 11% at the half-year stage, following a stronger
performance in the Third Quarter. The year-to-date result remains broad-based too with
double-digit growth in 7 markets and in both banker and agency channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our focus on value has also generated further improvements in quality with new business
profit from health and protection growing by 19% in the period as a result of increase in
sales and a shift towards higher-margin products within health and protection. The
consistent addition of recurring life premium income also benefits our asset management
business, generating consistent net inflows from internal insurance business.
In our external asset management business, funds under management increased to $49.8
billion, driven by additional assets from the acquisition of TMB. The full benefit of this was
reduced by the impact of lower gross flows into retail funds, given volatile markets and
redemptions from institutional business.
In the U.S., Jackson's underlying new business performance at the 9-month stage is
largely consistent with the first half of the year. New business profit was up 22%, reflecting
the positive impact of 2 factors: firstly, lower tax rates following reforms at the end of last
year worth 12percentage points of growth; and secondly, the benefit of the continued rise
in interest rates, which have seen 10-year treasury yields increase 73 basis points over the
prior 12 months to reach levels last seen at the end of 2013.
Although overall sales were lower primarily due to reduced participation in the wholesale
market, sales volumes in variable annuities, excluding Elite Access, continued to track the
run rate of the last two years, demonstrating the strength of Jackson's position in a
market that has been impacted by regulatory uncertainty since 2016.
Separate account assets, the main driver of fee-based revenues, are up 5% since the
start of the year, mainly due to asset appreciation. But also reflecting positive net flows.
Looking further ahead, our Jackson team continues to position for opportunities in the
advisory market, which should drive additional sources of new business over time.

Page 17 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

In our U.K. business, PruFund has continued to see strongly positive net flows in the Third
Quarter, building on the performance of the first half, leading to year-to-date net inflows
of GBP 6.6 billion and resulting in funds under management of GBP 42.9 billion, 19% higher
than at the start of the year. This strong result for PruFund-backed products was a key
driver of the overall rise of 18% in new business profit, which also benefited from the
impact of higher rates with 4percentage points of the total increase.
In asset management, M&G's external funds under management declined by 4%. This
primarily reflects the redemption of a single institutional mandate of GBP 6.1 billion, which
although large, was very low margin and was therefore only making a modest contribution
to revenue. Excluding this mandate, net flows were positive in the first nine months.
So in summary, across the group, we are continuing to add value through the strength and
diversification of our businesses with disciplined execution, demonstrating that our focus
on quality is undiminished.

Bloomberg Transcript

So moving to my second topic, that of risk exposure. We continue to take a conservative.
But active approach to the group's balance sheet, maintaining a good balance of risk
across all of our businesses and managing shareholder asset exposure for quality and
resilience. Our active approach has seen continued derisking of the balance sheet and
investment mix, more recently demonstrated by the sale of a part of the U.K.'s annuity
portfolio, which has reduced exposure to both credit risk and longevity risk.
As shown on the right-hand side of the slide, the share of the group's risk profile
contributed by credit under Solvency II would have been 17% at the end of 2017 without
M&G Prudential. As the international businesses continue to focus on new business with a
low credit risk attached, for example, through higher concentration of health and
protection business, we would expect balance sheet exposure to the credit cycle to
moderate over time and lead to additional improvement in the resilience of our financial
position.
Our cautious. But active approach to managing risk is a key point of differentiation for
Jackson. By carefully managing risk through pricing, portfolio management and hedging,
Jackson has been able to absorb periods of material market volatility, historically low
interest rates. And more recently, significant impacts from regulatory reform, while making
healthy dividends to group and maintaining a strong statutory capital position.
Now the Jackson team will provide a lot more detail on this tomorrow. So I don't want to
steal any of their thunder. But one area I want to touch on is that of how statutory reserves
are impacted by movements in equity markets.
Now given that only a very small proportion of our variable annuity customers have policy
guarantees that are in the money today, our economic reserves are currently significantly
lower than the minimum that is permitted under statutory accounting rules. In a truly
economic accounting regime, a rise in equity markets would lead to a reduction in the
reserve since the policyholder's guarantee would be further out of the money.

Page 18 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

But because our reserves are effectively already floored out to the minimum, they cannot
go any lower. So if equity markets rise, there is no recognition in Jackson's statutory
reserves of the positive economic benefit that this creates. Conversely, the value of the
hedge portfolio that protects against equity market declines will fall in value. The
combined impact creates a headwind to capital formation, which is a trend we have seen
in recent years.
However, this dynamic also provides an important capital buffer in the opposite scenario.
If markets were to fall, the economic reserve would need to increase up to and above the
minimum reserve floor before Jackson has to post any additional statutory reserves. The
ability to absorb the early stages of a market correction in this way is a material benefit to
statutory capital and provides a meaningful degree of financial resilience to the RBC ratio
in times of market stress.
Continuing on this topic. But turning to the quality of our investment portfolios, starting
with the U.S. on the left-hand side. Jackson's investment portfolio has been significantly
de-risked since the financial crisis. Our modest exposure now remains in the categories
that were most impacted in the 2008 market downturn, such as residential mortgagebacked securities and high yield, which combined accounted for 20% of the portfolio. But
are less than 4% today.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, Jackson has built up a material holding in U.S. treasuries in cash, together
representing 13% of total assets and providing a high degree of security and liquidity.
In corporate debt too, the portfolio is defensively positioned with good diversification by
sector and by issuer and low relative exposure to higher risk sectors such as financials.
In Asia, our focus on unit-linked and health and protection means that there is less
exposure to credit risk with assets primarily backing regulatory capital and surplus. The
debt portfolio is almost entirely government bonds or corporate bonds of investment
grade. So again, the emphasis here is quality and resilience.
In the U.K., our credit exposure is driven by the annuity portfolio where assets are closely
matched to liabilities and generally held to maturity. The business has consistently
maintained a well rated and diversified portfolio with a good track record. There have
been no defaults since 2011 and even in 2008, they were limited to around 15 names
amounting to just GBP 93 million.
Following the sale of the U.K. or part of the U.K. annuity portfolio, the assets backing
shareholder annuities have been reduced by over 1/3 to GBP 24 billion, significantly
lowering exposure to credit risk.
In addition, there has been an improvement in the rating profile of the portfolio with
securities rated AA or above, now at 47% versus 44% previously, predominantly as a
result of asset trading, which has improved the overall quality of the bonds held. And with
86% of the asset portfolio currently rated at A or higher and BBB exposure heavily
weighted to the upper notches of that range, this too is a very high-quality portfolio.
Page 19 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So on to my third topic, that of the demerger. As you will appreciate, there is a lot to do
here. But much has already been achieved. And we are progressing with pace and with
dedication. For simplification, I've broken the process down into 4 main areas. The goforward corporate structure of the 2 businesses is taking shape. We have created the new
Holdco for M&G Prudential. And we are engaging with regulators to ensure the legal
transfer of the relevant entities to sit under the new Holdco, including the transfer of
Hong Kong from U.K. to PCA.
Mike Evans has been appointed chair of M&G Prudential. And he is leading the process of
appointing nonexecutives to that board.
We are working closely with the Hong Kong Insurance Authority to define the regulatory
capital approach for the group, both transitional and longer term. And I will update you
further in this once we have an agreed position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operationally, we are ensuring that M&G has an appropriate head office capability and are
unwinding activities and infrastructures that are currently shared. For example, M&G
Prudential need to set up their own consolidated financial reporting systems and
processes as well as take on the group's Solvency II reporting. There are over 100 IT
applications on shared infrastructure, which we need to separate and migrate from one
system and one side to the other.
Now taken individually, these are not overly complex. But there is significant volume
needing careful management. As I've mentioned before, the transfer to Hong Kong -- of
Hong Kong to PCA and the Part VII transfer of the annuity portfolio, are the areas that are
least within our control. But there is currently nothing to suggest that we cannot meet our
expectation of completing these before the end of 2019.
And finally, on the debt management process, we believe we've made a fairly good start
on that. In particular, we are pleased to have issued in October the sterling equivalent of
GBP 1.6 billion of subordinated debt at group with the substitution clause that will enable
the bond obligor to transfer from group to M&G Prudential close to the point of
demerger.
So in summary, we are on track with our expectations of where we would be at this stage
of the process and remain very focused on the job in hand, noting that for all but other
than around 200 people, it's very much business as usual.
Following on from my last slide, I wanted to repeat the additional disclosures we've made
at the time of the debt issues in October. Although there's quite a lot on this slide, I
wanted to point out 3 key aspects. Firstly, we expect the debt rebalancing to result in
M&G Prudential holding around GBP 3.5 billion of debt at the point of demerger. Secondly,
that M&G Prudential is expected to have a Solvency II coverage ratio of around 170 at the
point of demerger, assuming current market conditions and assumptions. So this is after
further adjusting for operating capital generation in the period before demerger and
payment of a predemerger dividend to Group to enable partial redemption of existing plc
debt. And thirdly, that the rating agencies have now published their assessment of M&G
Page 20 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Prudential's financial strength, reaffirming its credit strength with strong ratings from each
of Moody's, S&P and Fitch and a stable outlook across all of them.

FINAL

We believe both M&G Prudential and Prudential plc will have the appropriate level and mix
of capital at demerger with a buffer above regulatory requirements and sufficient liquidity
for essential needs and shock events.
So I'll now move on to my fourth and final topic. The drivers of growth in value and cash.
Those of you who were in the room in London at last year's conference will recall I
focused on our approach to the management and deployment of capital and how that
differentiates Prudential from the peer group. This time, I want to demonstrate how that
same approach is driving favorable outcomes for shareholders through sustained growth
in both value and cash generation.
As this slide highlights, the dynamics are powerful and positive with group embedded
value more than doubling in just 5.5 years adding incremental value of GBP 25 billion in
that period. The red bars are particularly significant, representing the discounted value of
the future profits of the in-force life portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

While both net worth and value of in-force have both doubled over the period, it is the
value of in-force that has made the largest contribution to the uplift in the period,
accounting for roughly 2/3 of the total build and demonstrating the benefit of strong
compounding new business, as I will discuss further.
Looking at the movement on a regional lens, you can see on the left that all of our
businesses have made a material contribution to the increase in group embedded value
over that period. However, it is clear that the contribution from Asia has been the largest,
accounting for half of the total movement. And that Asia contribution is even stronger in
the context of the red bars from the previous slide, representing the value of life in-force
business as shown here on the right.
In this case, the high level of growth from Asia's insurance business drives 2/3 of the total
increase. So the largest drivers of growth in the group's embedded value are the value of
the in-force book and Asia within that.
My next slide looks at these components in more detail. Taking the increase in Asia inforce -- value of in-force from the previous slide, shown again here in the top left of the
corner in red, this page demonstrates the benefit of adding new cohorts of profitable
business in building future value. A true growth business should not increase the level of
earnings that are reported in each subsequent period. But should also grow its stock of
future profits. Put simply, a real growth business is adding more each year than it is taking
out.
So to illustrate this point, I want to draw your attention to the components in the dotted
box. The red bar represents the amount of additional future profits that have been
contributed by new business written within Asia since 2012, totaling GBP 10.9 billion. The
blue bar shows the amount of in-force that has emerged into the current year profit over
Page 21 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

the same period. Therefore, to achieve sustainable growth in the overall stock, the red
bar needs to consistently exceed the blue bar and on this measure, the Asia business is
truly outstanding.
The strength of contributions from new business mean that Asia has added to its in-force
stock at more than twice the rate that it has extracted and, thereby, has been continually
building the stock of in-force future profits. This highlights the impact of capturing the
health and protection opportunity and the benefits of increasing our scale in this region.
The speed of growth and the extent of the differential between the 2 key components
represent a highly distinctive characteristic of Prudential's insurance business and a major
driver of the earnings outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

And my next few slides cover Asia's new business contribution, given its prominence in
the sustainability of the Group's earnings growth profile. Breaking out new business into
separate reporting periods on the left, highlights the consistency of Asia's delivery and
the rate at which this has grown. And the chart on the right shows that the increase is
driven by our ability to capture the growth opportunity together with active management
of the new business portfolio, which includes adjustments to pricing or shifts in mix
towards high-margin products and channels.
Economic effects while positive have delivered only a small uplift in comparison. This
shows that the factors that have generated Asia's growth are overwhelmingly those that
are within our control, evidencing our ability to execute on what remains sizable structural
opportunities. So how do we determine the quality of the new business that is being
written and does the value that we place on new business come through as we expect it
to?
So to be able to answer these questions, we can look at the assumption set that drives
the calculation of new business value at the outset, on the left; and on the right, the
differences we have experienced against that assumption set in subsequent years. Now
our assumptions follow European embedded value methodology, considering all of the
capital constraints on the business and reflecting the prevalent operating environment. As
a result, the rates we use for projections and discounting move with the bond yields
currently available in the market. The approach makes a separate and explicit allowance
for the time value of options and guarantees and the cost of capital, which is distinct from
traditional embedded value when allowance from these items is implied rather than
explicitly reported. Therefore, you would expect a traditional embedded value discount
rate to be higher than that for an equivalent book under EEV.
Moving to the right-hand side, the chart illustrates that our initial assumption set has
proved to be highly robust. Changes in assumptions and the variance against our
experience have been both positive and largely immaterial, equating to combined
average annual impact over the last five years of less than 1% of the opening in-force. This
therefore underpins confidence in our assumption set and the methodology used to
calculate the value of new business in Asia.

Page 22 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So our disclosures also provide detailed analysis of how new business converts to cash
and the time frame over which that is expected to emerge. The chart on the top left of
the page shows for a single year, the new business profile of the business written by Asia
in that year. And in this case, 2015. So there we invested GBP 413 million of our free
surplus in writing new business, which had a future expected payback period within the
first three years and a total undiscounted payback of GBP 3.9 billion over 40 years.
Taking this on a combined view across the last five years, Asia new business has added a
combined GBP 21.7 billion to the stock of expected free surplus, seeing it more than
double in value since the end of 2012. However, whether the cash generation actually
emerges as anticipated rests not only on the quality of the business at the point it is
written. But also the ability to successfully manage and retain the business. And it is only
through effective management of our in-force portfolio that we can have confidence that
returns will be delivered to the level expected and that the payback is achieved within the
anticipated time lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

The analysis on the right-hand side shows our actual experience of cash has emerged
over the last five years in red against our expectations at the beginning of the year in gray.
That the experience is consistently positive validates the conservatism in our assumptions
and demonstrates our ability to manage both the high volume growth engine of new
business and the back book generating value and rapid recycling of invested capital.
So bringing this all back to a higher level now. What this all means is that the growth and
quality of Asia's new business and its emergence as profit when combined with a capitalefficient balance sheet, has generated strong and stable returns over multiple years. This
translates to attractive sustainable returns for group shareholders. Now it is worth noting
that the group returns are consistent at the operating level and the net income level over
the 5-year period at 17%, highlighting that while there may be timing differences from
year-to-year, movements below the line have effectively been neutral over the medium
term.
So in concluding this section, there are 3 key messages, which I'd like to repeat. Firstly, for
Prudential, the key driver of value and cash is new business centered on Asia's high
quality, compounding contributions. Secondly, we are adding more to the stock of future
profit in cash than is emerging from the in-force each year. And thirdly, this provides a
powerful positive dynamic that underpins the outlook for earnings and cash generation.
So to wrap up my presentation this morning, our businesses have continued to deliver
strong and good performance, reinforcing the resilience of both our business model and
our capital base. The combination of management actions and our organic mix effects is
driving improvement in the group's risk profile, enhancing our ability to perform through
all stages of the cycle. The demerger of M&G Prudential is progressing as planned with
some key milestones already achieved. And finally, as a management team, we remain
very focused on building the drivers of value and cash across the group.
And with that, I will now hand you over to Nic and his team. Thank you.

Page 23 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Singapore, the home of
Prudential's second-oldest life business in Asia and Eastspring's regional's headquarters.
So let's talk about business.
So in Singapore, we currently employ 1,900 people. We have nearly 5,000 financial
consultants. And as Mike has said, we look after the savings and insurance needs in 1 out
of 3 households. We're also Singapore's largest fund manager, managing assets with a
value of over USD 100 billion. Our local life entity is undergoing a significant business
transformation and it's fast gaining the reputation of being Singapore's most digitally
savvy life business.
Tomorrow afternoon, you will have an opportunity to visit our new offices in the Marina
Bay area, meet our local team and hear directly from them about the transformation
journey, which forms the blueprint for our other businesses across the region.

Bloomberg Transcript

In today's sessions, we will provide you with a detailed regional update on our strategy,
performance, current initiatives. And future priorities. I am joined by 22 of our senior
leaders from across our main businesses of Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia and
Malaysia, who stand ready to share their progress with you and answer your questions.
I will start by acknowledging upfront that the operating landscape in Asia continues to
evolve and change rapidly across multiple dimensions. You only have to look at the new
sections of your devices to know that the external environment remains volatile and
unpredictable. And we have seen many examples of this in 2018 alone. Perhaps the
defining change over the last year is the pervasive impact of technology on customer
expectations and behaviors and how this is shaping the business capabilities that are
needed in response.
Prudential Asia is well accustomed to dealing with many of the changes shown here. In
relation to technology, it is our response that will determine whether this is a headwind or
a tailwind.
Against this backdrop, it is somewhat reassuring that the industry's mandate remains well
aligned to the growth and prosperity agendas of both consumers and governments. The
region's long-term structural trends shown here will be very familiar to this audience. In
essence, Asians are both underinsured and undersaved during their working lives and are
inadequately prepared for their retirement. These multiple growth curves underpin a
strong demand for savings and protection across this region and provides significant
tailwinds for our industry.
Let me give you some more color, which brings these trends to life. Continued economic
growth in this region will see wealth creation increase by some USD 5 trillion for the next
few years -- each year for the next few years. This rising affluence will in turn mean by
2030, 2/3 of the global middle class population will be in this region. That's 350 million in
China, 380 million in India, 210 million elsewhere in Asia, compared to 130 million for the
Page 24 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

rest of the world. Entering the middle class is typically the trigger for individuals to
consider protecting both their wealth and health.
At the same time, we will see a near threefold increase in the number of Asians who are
over 65 years old to around 700 million people by 2050. The fact that the ratio of
workers to retirees will be around 3:1 is a major area of focus for many governments in
this region. Improvement in living standards over my lifetime alone has significantly
extended life expectancy in this part of the world.
In China, for example, average life expectancy increased from 43 years in 1960 to 76
years today. There are now over 200 million senior citizens in China, a number that is
expected to almost double by 2050.

Bloomberg Transcript

Similar trends are evident in other markets across the region. Even markets with smaller
populations are facing challenges. We recently commissioned a study in Singapore to
establish how prepared people are from a health, wellness and a physical perspective to
live to 100. This is relevant in Singapore as it has one of the fastest-growing aging
populations in the world with more than 1,100 centenarians as of 2015. Unsurprisingly, only
23% said that they were ready health-wise and 26% said that they were prepared
financially. The study found that even the most devoted saver will struggle to meet their
needs between -- from 62 to 100.
So there is structural demand at both ends of the spectrum. The younger, more
educated, more affluent middle class will look to both grow their wealth and to protect
their health and that of their families. The older more established population wants to
ensure that they live longer and healthier and be financially prepared for any health crisis
that they may face. These trends and needs pose significant and unprecedented
challenges to both policyholders and individuals across Asia. The challenges span several
dimensions, ranging from how to finance income in retirement, which maintains individual
standards of living at an appropriate level, to how the rising demand for health care
consumption is met and paid for and finally, to how the elderly are cared for.
Within these areas -- while these areas overlap, the sums in both are astronomical. The
pensions' funding gap is already sizable in Asia's largest markets and is set to rise to USD
119 trillion in China by 2050 and to USD 85 trillion in India. Today, there are no U.S. or U.K.
styled decumulation products in any of our markets. So retirement solution represent
white space.
The health protection gap remains large and continues to expand. Last month Swiss Re
sized it at USD 1.8 trillion in 2017. The growing cost of elderly care are similarly
underinsured. These drivers are putting significant pressure on both individual and public
resources. Ultimately, this pressure can only be alleviated through close cooperation
between governments and private enterprise. This hopefully demonstrates why the
opportunity set for our industry is one of a kind. The near sixfold increase in premiums
since the turn-of-the-century primarily reflects population growth. Despite this increase,
the absolute level -- the absolute life penetration levels across the region remain low at
2.7%. The lack of social safety net, rising consumer awareness of the need for protection

Page 25 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

and a growing appreciation of the importance of inflation-proofing savings means that our
sector is set fair for decades to come.
Finally, the opportunities are present across all key markets in this region underpinned by
both size and projected population growth, rising household wealth and the prevailing low
levels of insurance and health coverage. As I said before, what will differentiate the
winners from the losers will be discipline and quality of execution. Here, Prudential has a
number of clear advantages. And I will repeat some that Mike has already flagged as
these are worth reinforcing.
The first is our footprint, which is well aligned to the opportunity set and gives us access
to over 3.6 billion Asians. We are in all the right markets with scaled presence, unparallel
distribution reach and have significant capabilities everywhere. We retain top 3 positions in
9 out of our 12 life markets. Meanwhile, Eastspring remains the largest pan-regional retail
asset manager in Asia ex Japan. In addition to our strong agency credentials, we

Bloomberg Transcript

have more than 300 distribution partners across Asia, 100 on the life side and over 200 in
asset management. Our local and regional bank assurance agreements give us access to
a branch network in the region, which is twice the size of our nearest competitors.
The second advantage is our disciplined approach to execution. We have always
prioritized regular premium paying products, which meet real consumer needs for savings
and protection. This customer-centric approach has delivered strong business retention
and an optimal earnings mix. Our focus on recurring business also underpins the sustained
growth and resilience of our premium income, which has not been unduly impacted by the
unpredictable and volatile external environment. This resilience is also due to a very wellbalanced portfolio viewed through a channel, product and geographic lens.
Our diverse platform gives us the freedom to opt out or withdraw from product lines
where we see uneconomic competitor behaviors, something that we have done on
several occasions in the recent past.
Our third advantage is that we have a number of unique assets. These are summarized
on this slide and include a valuable individual medical reimbursement business, which sits
alongside our other insurance products. Today, we provide medical cover to over 5 million
customers across 11 markets, accounting for 23% of our health and protection sales. As
you will see later, this is an important gateway to accessing a significant business
opportunity across the region. The fact that Eastspring has supported all our life
operations across Asia has given us broad region-wide reach and has allowed us to
expand into third-party business.
Today, we have more top 10 positions in retail fund management than any of our peers in
Asia, allowing us to participate in the significant demand for mutual funds expected across
the region. At the same time, our deep local investment market expertise has enabled
Eastspring to deliver above benchmark performance over a long period, particularly in
relation to our large participating funds, which underpin our savings offering in both Hong
Kong and Singapore. Other unique strengths include our market leadership in Sharia
Page 26 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

business, which is projected to be the fastest-growing segment of the population in both
Malaysia and Indonesia.

FINAL

Furthermore, in India, where we participate through a 26% and 50% JV with ICICI in life
and asset management, respectively, our strong market positioning in a country which is
still new to savings and protection represents a valuable engine for future growth.
Finally, in China, we have built out our market reach to 18 provinces, the largest amongst
the foreign players, giving us access to all the important parts of this country. You will see
later that the benefits of this expansion are yet to fully come through.
Our fourth advantage is the breadth of our product offering, which today is primarily
directed to the mass and affluent segments. Our propositions are frequently upgraded.
So much so that 30% of this year's NBP comes from products launched or refreshed since
the start of 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

We stand to benefit significantly as the current population cohort of under 30s comes into
our sweet spot. At the same time, we have the opportunity to stay with the customer as
our current 30 to 50-year-old cohorts mature and look to us for broader health and
income in retirement solutions.
Our fifth advantage is the Prudential brand, which maintains very broad appeal across all
of our main markets. In the minds of Asian consumers, our 170-year-old British heritage is
an important business attribute as it conveys fairness, security and trustworthiness. We
continue to invest in both brands, in line with our brand ambitions and are constantly
testing our positioning
And finally, in a region where the opportunity size outstrips the available talent pool, our
proven ability to attract, develop and retain talent is a key source of competitive
advantage. Across PCA, we have a high-quality, young and diverse workforce with strong
retention trends. What I have come to observe in my time here is that Prudential is a
favored destination for top talent amongst insurance professionals. Now as we branch out
into new areas, particularly in relation to our digital aspirations, we're taking steps to
broaden the gene pool by sourcing people from a wider set of sectoral backgrounds.
Almost half of our new hires this year came from outside financial services. Our Singapore
business is a prime example of this trend and you will have an opportunity to hear more
about this tomorrow.
On taking the CEO role last year, I carried out a strategic review of the business to
identify any gaps, confirm that we remain well positioned going forward and inform
investment prioritization decisions. We did this by reference to current and projected
profit pools, which are analyzed separately for the traditional life, medical and retail asset
management segments. We also considered broader consumer trends and preferences
to identify other addressable opportunities. The work is now complete. And I would like to
briefly share with you the insights and actions that emerged from it.

Page 27 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Starting with traditional life, the profit pools shown here represents one year's new
business profit based on 2017 production. The review confirmed that we have a dominant
share in the addressable part of the traditional life segment in the 6 markets shown. This
should not surprise you as we have top 3 positions in 5 of these markets with a heavy bias
to regular premium protection-oriented new business.
In the next five years, we expect this profit pool to grow at a double-digit rate led by
protection, driven by the many factors that I outlined earlier. Our presence, scale and
broad product and distribution reach in these markets position us well to participate
strongly in the expected growth of this profit pool.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to health, which for the purposes of this exercise, comprises medical
reimbursement business, hospital cash and similar types of products. The contribution
from critical illness insurer -- insurance is included in the traditional life segment. So it's not
here. The profit pool of the health segment is expressed as a multiple of 2017 earnings
and is comparatively smaller reflecting the much lower levels of market penetration. Our
overall share in the addressable part of this segment across these 6 markets, is
estimated at 9% and comes primarily from Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and
Singapore. We expect to see strong growth in this segment over the next five years,
reflecting a rising demand for medical consumption, which is why we are increasing our
emphasis in this area.
Finally, on wealth, the analysis shown captures the Asian retail investing into Asia mutual
fund opportunity, which is where Eastspring is mostly focused today. The size of the
opportunity here is represented by reference to the 2017 full year profits from this
segment for the markets shown. Eastspring has a 5% share of these profits, which
represents a leading position in this segment, reflecting our region-wide presence and
our strong operating credentials. Mutual fund penetration across Asia remains modest by
Western standards. So the expected strong rise in wealth creation will drive significant
increases in AUM in the next five years. Higher growth rates are forecast for India, where
we have a market-leading position and for China and Thailand, where we have taken
action this year to strengthen our presence.
Having sized the opportunity by market across the traditional life, health and wealth
segments, we evaluated their relative attractiveness versus our market positioning.
Through this, we established where we will seek to extend our leadership position, where
we will target greater participation and in which new areas we will direct more of our
efforts. Our business plans now reflect the output of this work and includes specific
business initiatives for each market.
This slide sets out the top-level summary initiatives.
For those markets where we're seeking to extend our leadership, our initiatives are
geared towards pushing our advantage forward by deepening customer engagement,
increasing the number of touch points and expanding into adjacent product and customer
segments. For those markets where we're looking to grow our share and presence, we

Page 28 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

are targeting greater participation in several areas through product, channel and
customer segment initiatives.

FINAL

Under new opportunities, we are adding services, which are complementary to our core
offering and pursuing retirement solutions. Technology investment is required across the
piece. And while this aspect of our annual expense budget is rising, we're extracting
greater value from this spend through a modular build-once-and-reuse approach.
Now the rest of the Prudential Asia section of this conference is entirely dedicated to
bringing the output of this strategic work to life. I would like to start this by covering our
progress and plans in a few of our key businesses. The drivers of growth are different in
each case, requiring a tailored approach by market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Hong Kong is our most valuable business testament to the work of Derek Yung and his
team over the last decade. The business has built a strong organic growth platform with
scale, quality and high levels of automation. It leads the market in agency and has a 28%
share of the Mainland China segment. Sales momentum has accelerated through 2018
with a 15% increase in APE in the Third Quarter, boosted by a 23% rise in sales from
mainland China.
Our systematic approach to extending our health and protection offering has increased
the protection proportion of our sales to 26% in 2018, driving overall NBP higher by 19%
year-to-date. While our withdrawal from the broker channel last year precipitated a drop
in Mainland China sales from the 2016 peak level, the volume of the more valuable
protection sales from China has continued to rise throughout this period and is now at an
all-time high. This is a great example of where focusing purely on top line trends risks
missing the real underlying value story.
This last point is more clearly demonstrated on this next slide, which shows that Hong
Kong's NBP has maintained its strong forward progress, notwithstanding the recent sale
trend. Furthermore, the compounding effect of sales, which are 98% regular premium,
has sustained a significant rise in premium income and IFRS profits. The prospects for the
Hong Kong market remains strong. And we are exceptionally well placed to benefit.
Continued immigration, rising wealth levels, higher health care consumption and a fastaging population are expected to drive future domestic demand, supported by
government stimulus in both health and retirement. Visitor numbers from the Mainland
seeking financial products remain sizable and are expected to rise further aided by the
new train and road connections established in recent weeks.
The Hong Kong government is also actively promoting the benefits that can be unlocked
through a closer business collaboration across the neighboring regions of China as it
seeks to cement Hong Kong's role as the main financial center across the Pearl River
Delta. Meanwhile, the most recent surveys of Mainland visitors confirm that Hong Kong
remains a preferred destination for their savings and insurance needs. The positive sales
trends in the most recent 2 quarters evidence that the strong buying intention trail by
these surveys is translating into actual new business flows.

Page 29 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Our business initiatives here are well aligned to these opportunities. We're targeting
higher customer holdings through continued product innovation and value-added services.
We will drive further distribution efficiencies, address the Mainland China demand and
respond to the government's initiatives for closer South China regional collaboration. We
will also participate in the government's plans to stimulate greater adoption of health and
retirement solutions.
Finally, we will continue to digitize customer fulfillment building on our work this year, which
you will have the opportunity to see for yourselves in this afternoon's showcase sessions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Singapore business continues to leverage its sizable market position. It has the
largest agency force in the market, ranks first for both regular premium business and
shield medical products. It also has the highest policy per customer attachment rate of
any of our businesses. We achieved a 24% increase in new business profits this year,
driven by an expanded individual protection offering and a sustained demand for its highperforming savings products. This performance was delivered alongside an ambitious
modernization program, which is fast transforming this business into a highly digitally
enabled operation.
Despite the more developed nature of this market, spiraling health care costs, aging
population and a rising wealth pool held principally in bank deposits, are expected to drive
significant future demand for protection and longer-tenured savings. Both Prudential's
opportunity -- but Prudential's opportunity in Singapore is broader than this because our
success to date has been concentrated in the mass market segment. Under Wilf
Blackburn's leadership, the business has launched a number of initiatives to drive a much
greater participation in the high net worth, affluent and corporate segments. As a result,
over the last year, Singapore has refreshed its individual protection offering, created more
flexible saving solutions, launched employee benefit and high net worth propositions and
has innovated in the management of the medical business. You will hear a lot more about
these new capabilities during the course of today and tomorrow.
The work, which has already started here will continue to frame our near-term business
initiatives in this market with retirement solutions coming next.
In Indonesia, we remain positive on the attractiveness of the market, given the well-known
structural fundamentals. With a population of 267 million, 80 million of whom are middle
income, a segment that is growing at a rate of 9 million each year. And on the 18 million
policies in force in this market, insurance in Indonesia has a very long runway. For a variety
of reasons, which Lilian will outline later, market growth has been muted over the last five
years with the most recent uptick driven mostly by sales of products with high early year
guarantees and to a lesser extent, by group business. Rightly, we chose not to participate
in the trend to offer early year guarantees, opting to maintain our focus on the higher
value agency-linked protection business where we enjoy a 38% market share. However,
with consumer demand for linked business sold through agency leveling, we were slow to
innovate and diversify distribution in response to some of the emerging market trends.
While this is disappointing, it is fixable and our local team led by Jens Reisch is hard at
work to turn the situation around. My optimism for our long-term prospects in this market
is grounded on the many unique attributes of our Indonesia business.
Page 30 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

As shown on this slide, we maintain an unparalleled scale and market presence. We have
the largest agency force in the country and our 403 sales and GA offices across 165 cities
provide us an unrivaled reach. We have 2.3 million customers, the largest by some margin
in the market. We're also the biggest medical insurance provider in Indonesia, a market
where out-of-pocket health care spend is among the highest in ASEAN. Finally, in a country
where 87% of the population is Muslim, we are the leader in Sharia business with a 30%
share of premiums and 70% of registered Sharia agents in the Indonesian market. Our
sales from this segment of the market grew by 18% this year. And of course, the business
remains highly valuable generating significantly higher premium income and profits than
our local peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have kicked off a number of initiatives to retool the business and improve its
operating credentials. We are busy refreshing and extending the product range with the
first step being the launch in September of an upgraded version of our flagship mass
market product, incorporating many new customer-centric features. The new product is
performing well and we're seeing an uptick in submissions, case size and rider
attachment. The development pipeline for next year will see us launch new products in
every quarter, including a lower end nonlinked traditional savings product and an
employer benefit proposition for the SME market.
We're also upgrading our agency onboarding, training and sales management tools,
which are now being deployed on a more segmented basis. We will continue to push the
automation envelope and we'll look to access new retail bank distribution. We will also
launch health-related value-added services next year in collaboration with nontraditional
partners. These business initiatives should drive our future momentum in this market and
you will hear more on these from Lilian later today.
I would, however, caution you from projecting a fast business turnaround. But I would
reassure you that we are on the right path. The drivers of demand and opportunities for
our sector in China should be very familiar to this audience so I will not repeat them today.
We continue to build out our presence in this market, working in partnership with CITIC. In
the last 12 months, we have extended our life business footprint and have been effective
in growing into it. We started doing business in Sichuan, bringing the total number of
provinces in which we're present to 18 and have started preparations to enter Hunan.
Today, we operate in 85 cities, up from 74 this time last year. This footprint gives us
access to over 75% of China's population and GDP. We have a well-balanced channel and
product mix and have adopted a quality-first approach focusing on regular premium
savings and protection business. We have also applied a strong risk mindset. Our
operating model is completely aligned with the direction set by the Chinese authorities
for insurance to return to its core, provide genuine derisking products and be a source of
long-term investment in the economy.
The benefits of our approach have only just started to come through. New business profit
doubled last year and despite a market-wide disruption to sales in 2018, our quality focus
has enabled us to build on the 2017 high base, delivering a 16% increase in NBP this year.
Our regular premium buyers and high customer retention has sustained a strong
compounding growth in total premium income, which has continued this year at a rate
Page 31 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

which is above 2018 market-wide trends. Our growing scale and value-driven approach is
now starting to translate into strong earnings momentum.
However, the benefits of our expansion in China are yet to fully come through. The reason
for this is set out on the next slide. The slide depicts the contribution to annual sales from
provinces that we entered in 4 different time periods since our launch in 2000. This
analysis shows that 49% of our 2017 sales came from the 2 provinces that we entered at
the start with another 24% of the sales coming from the 7 that we entered between 2004
and 2006.
The key point here is that it takes time to be fully deployed in a province, which is not
surprising, given their sheer size, particularly when we're consciously safeguarding quality.
Entering Anhui is akin to saying that we have come to the U.K. and opened the sales office
in the City of London. It may be obvious. But it's only after more offices are opened in
multiple cities that you begin to reap the rewards of the initial entry.

Bloomberg Transcript

So our 9 most recent entries since 2007 and, for that matter, the 7 between '04 and '06,
still have significant growth runways as we expand our presence and reach within each.
The good news is that we have secured the licenses, we are up and running and that our
expansion-led momentum is building. And of course, this momentum is compounded by
the significant underlying market drivers.
So going forward, our first priority is to grow into our footprint and expand our reach to
other central and western provinces. We will also drive productivity gains from our existing
channels and look to add new ones. Our proposition will continue to evolve in line with
emerging consumer needs and our engagement with them will remain fully digitized. The
asset management license that our life JV has secured this year will allow us to invest
directly in securities, giving us greater investment flexibility. We have taken actions, which
will enable us to participate in the retirement opportunity, including applying for a
pensions license. In light of all this, I remain bullish about our long-term prospects in China.
We will cover the progress that we're making towards our ambitions in the health space
more fully this afternoon. This is an important area for us and one where our credentials
and capabilities are strong. It is also highly relevant that many governments in the region
have moved health care to the top of their policy agenda. So alongside evolving our
propositions to cover more conditions and multistage events, we're enhancing our
offering to include broader health and wellness digital services, which will allow customers
to take control of their health and better inform their health care decisions.
Babylon's AI is the centerpiece of this digital health services offering and very soon our
customers will be able to use a single app to check symptoms, find a doctor, record
health and lifestyle data, even see their digital twin. Our work is at an advanced stage and
later today, you will hear from Andrew Wong, who is our new regional Chief Health Officer
on our implementation approach for Malaysia, where we plan to roll out these services
first.

Page 32 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Launch plans for our other markets are also being developed with Singapore and
Indonesia next. To bring this more to life, this next slide summarizes the types of health
services that we will make available in various phases by reference to our implementation
plans in Indonesia.
We believe that by putting this technology in the hands of our customers, we will be
driving a step change in health services in many of our markets making it simpler and
more affordable for customers to manage their health. The benefits for us from
enhancing our core offering are significant, spanning new customer acquisition, increased
customer touch points, higher customer loyalty and retention, reduced claims frequency
and lower cost severity. It also has the potential to expand the insurable population and
accelerate the takeup of medical insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

I referenced earlier that improvements in life expectancy across Asia is creating a new
opportunity in the region. In many of our markets, both the number of people and the
proportion of the population that is over 65 years of age, are set to rise significantly. None
of our markets in Asia are financially prepared for this demographic transition. Even in
Hong Kong and Singapore, the 2 markets where the situation is more pressing and which
already operate mandatory provident funds, the level of provision is below Western
norms. Hong Kong is actively looking to provide fiscal stimulus to encourage product
innovation in the market and incentivize people to top up their retirement plans.
Consumers are expressing concern about their ability to maintain their standard of living in
retirement and governments are starting to formulate the necessary policy underpins.
We're supporting these efforts in several markets. The current product set in the region is
heavily skewed to decumulation, providing a lump-sum payment at or after retirement.
There are no U.S. or U.K. style annuities or the decumulation products.
Corporately, Prudential has the longevity and the investment expertise to participate in
this emerging opportunity. And we have started to develop propositions in Hong Kong
and Singapore, where investment markets are deeper and insurers are free to hold
foreign securities.
In China, we are only -- we are 1 of only 2 foreign JVs to be granted a license to
participate in a tax-deferred pension pilot in Shanghai, Suzhou and Fujian.
Furthermore, the goal-directed Robo Advisor tool that we're launching in Taiwan can also
be used to provide a decumulation solution. While it is early days in this space, the needs
are real and our capabilities are second to none.
Eastspring has been a little below the radar in my view, operating in the shadow of the
much bigger regional sister life company and a larger U.K. cousin. However, having double
profits in the last four years, Eastspring was the fourth largest contributor to the region's
2017 IFRS profits. The business has 3 distinct advantages, which are often overlooked. The
first is its broad regional presence allowing Eastspring to participate in the fast rising
demand for wealth solutions across the entire region. The second is the reliable and
consistent annual flows from our Asian life businesses, which are sizable, largely
Page 33 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

uncorrelated to market factors and growing. This in turn provides Eastspring the
opportunity to develop investment strategies that can be subsequently deployed to thirdparty retail customers and institutions once the performance record is in place and
external demand develops. This is a third distinct advantage.
Eastspring is, therefore, well-placed to benefit from the expected rising in local, regional
and global demand for Asian assets. While our core focus to date has been the Asia retail
into Asia segment, many of our capabilities are transferable to the other 3 opportunities
shown, which represent further potential sources of future flows.
Now to fully participate in these opportunities, we need to evolve our capabilities to be
broader than an Asian focused value-style manager. Under Guy's leadership, the team
has done a lot in the last year to expand its offering, address portfolio and market gaps,
as well as leverage technology to enhance efficiencies and service quality. You will hear
and see more about all these later today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So our strategic priorities, which I first shared with you last year, are clear and unchanged.
The review that I referenced earlier, validated these priorities and guided our decisions on
the specific market initiatives that sit behind these. The words and images on this next
slide cover some of our achievements this year as we drive for greater efficiency through
automation, add new products and services which broaden our customer appeal,
establish new partnerships which extend our reach. And deepen our engagement with
customers. A number of these will be covered in later sessions.
While we are doing all this work to improve our efficiency and create future revenue
streams, we remain steadfastly focused on delivering performance. Our year-to-date new
business profit grows by 15%, having benefited from improved volume and value
momentum during the Third Quarter. Raghu will provide more color on the year-to-date
performance, which is broad-based by market, channel and product.
So in summary, our priorities are clear. We have a strong operating platform and attractive
strategic road map and a proven execution track record. Alongside improving what we
currently do, we're working hard to unlock new customer segments through a broader set
of propositions and channels underpinned by digital technology, capabilities and tools.
Now the agenda for the rest of the day is summarized on my final slide. After the coffee
break, Lilian will update you on the various country initiatives to improve distribution
efficiency, broaden product offering, digitize the onboarding process and enhance
fulfillment at critical points of the customer journey. Guy will update you on Eastspring's
progress and will be joined by Michelle Qi and Colin Graham who will respectively cover
our plans for the China WFOE and our new capabilities in multi-asset solutions. After
lunch, we will showcase our recent innovations starting with health value-added services.
We will then split you up into smaller groups and take you around for innovation
showcases. Raghu will round off the day, covering the drivers of our financial performance,
then we will then hold the Q&A session for Asia.
Thank you for your attention. I will now hand you over to Chantal for logistics.
Page 34 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Okay. So you'll be glad to hear you've earned a coffee break. If you could back please in
your seats for 11:00 to hear from Lilian. Thank you.

FINAL

Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

Okay. All right. Good morning. So hopefully for the next 45 minutes, I will take you through
the delivery journey for PCA Insurance.
So as mentioned before, we've achieved 15% growth on value generation and 14% value
delivery from the in-force management.

Bloomberg Transcript

So PCA is a portfolio of businesses across 12 markets. So each one contributing to these
set of results. So please allow me a few minutes to give recognition to each of them.
So in Cambodia, we celebrated a fifth anniversary and already a USD 20 million business.
So we are expanding the multi-distribution business, partnering with ACLEDA Bank and a
full-time agency force. In the Philippines we doubled the active agency force in three
years and crossed PHP 5 billion for the first time in 2017. Now with the robust growth in
Vietnam, we are the first insurer to achieve over VND 600 billion in a month while shifting
to a more capital efficient product portfolio. In Thailand and Taiwan, we operate a multipartner platform, offering engagement and positions to align with our partners ambition.
Our joint venture in India is the #1 private insurer with strong contribution from ICICI Bank
and segmentation to drive agency productivity. Now true to the spirit of our Prudential
song, we are #1 in Malaysia for life and Takaful combined. And the only insurance group to
exceed MYR 1 billion in APE 8x in a row. In Indonesia, we are recruiting 3x more than our
next player and a market leader in the agency space with 22% share.
So right here in Singapore. Competition for distribution is fierce and we focus on our
preferred space. And sustained the #1 position in regular premiums and improving health
and protection mix.
In China, our award-winning health and protection solution generated 15% growth in NBP.
We are the only foreign insurer with an integrated risk rating of 8.
Momentum is accelerating in Hong Kong with 15% APE for the discrete Quarter Three and
H&P mix is standing at 26%. Our productive agency force has just crossed 20,000, the
first in the market. So together, we are serving 15 million customer and servicing 17 million
policies. And we just added 1.7 million policy for the first nine months of 2018.
Now moving from a market lens, let's look at the delivery from the capability lens. Now in
our -- in today's connected world, consumer expectations are changing. They look for
simplicity, they look for on-demand information and unique solutions. So we are
consolidating from the position of strengths that include delivery of customer excellence,
investment in digital capabilities, end-to-end redesigning for process efficiency and fit-forgrowth execution culture. Now, to sustain delivery in the next decade, we need to look at
Page 35 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

the value chain and reimagine from the customer's perspective as we look to delight
them ahead of the expectation. So in addition to value for money products, customer
looks for ease of doing business and to develop an affiliation with the insurer.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Now I would like to use proof points from the business to showcase how Prudential in Asia
innovates and differentiates across the value chain to better meet the needs of customer,
sales force and our partners.
Hong Kong topped the global rankings for the highest life expectancy. With men living to
81 years and women even longer to 87 years. Now one of the many reasons that people
in Hong Kong are living longer is universal health care for hospital treatment. Now while
there have good hospitals for everyone, the downsides comes from excessive usage
leading to crowded facilities and long waiting time. So those who could afford tend to
resort to private facilities for treatment bearing out-of-the-pocket expenses.
Earlier this year, the government introduced voluntary health insurance scheme to
recalibrate health care funding between the public and the private sector. Now, while
there is universal health care, this is not the case for primary care. Health protection gap in
Hong Kong is over (HKD 20 billion), while mortality gap is 23x larger. The costs of
diagnosis and treatment of serious illnesses are escalating every day. So acute illnesses
mean loss of income, change of lifestyle. And at times permanent disability. So people
look beyond just paying medical bills. They also look for compensation to cover everyday
expenses and to fulfill dreams. Now these needs and concerns from Hong Kong
consumers are also relevant to Mainland Chinese visitors. 85% of those surveyed said,
they are likely to purchase the insurance in Hong Kong for legacy planning and health
protection.
We have adopted a region-wide approach to narrow the protection gap and support the
customer to lead a more financially secure life. This integrated approach has 4 pillars:
refreshing and upgrading the protection offered that are relevant to customers based on
ongoing research; value-added services, to enhance the appeal as well as allowing more
frequent engagement; equip distribution through advisory training and channel marketing
to raise awareness. And structure reward to motivate desired behavior; and last. But not
least, provide delightful customer experience, especially at the moments of truth.
Now let me illustrate using the capabilities built in Prudential Hong Kong. Recognizing the
needs for financial freedom, during difficult times, Prudential Hong Kong embarked to
evolve its range of critical illness offering since 2010, to combine protection and long-term
savings. Since then, we have the leadership position in the CI space in Hong Kong. The
business consistently conducts extensive customer and distribution focus group to ensure
proposition are relevant and reflect the evolving medical advancement. We also have an
established infrastructure on distribution training and has embedded health and
protection as part of their reward system. To drive awareness, integrated marketing
campaigns are designed to create engagement and receptivity.
Now, the number of diseases covered under the single-pay solution has increased from
59 to 75. And we introduced reset benefits, that was the first in market. We are also the

Page 36 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

first in the market to offer multi-pay critical illness and disease-specific offerings. There are
bespoke solutions for children, a unique feature of covering benign tumor and femalespecific illnesses.

FINAL

Now let me show you the journey of our CI innovations over the year.
(presentation)
So we've improved the health and protection mix to 26%. But what is more pleasing to
see is how we have supported our customer to narrow the protection gap? Our critical
illness new business Sum Assured grew 10x over the past several years compared to 5x
for APE, demonstrating that we are not just offering protection to more customers. But
also higher level of coverage per customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

To enhance the appeal, we are also engaging customer with a range of health and
wellness value-added services. Now, as you know, life insurance by nature does not have
frequent transaction with customer. So this value-added service platform also allowed
more frequent engagement and drives loyalty. Actually the current concept, value-added
services is not new. Our PRUlady CI plan, which was launched a decade ago, already
offered regular medical checkup. We are always listening to our customer and the
services that they value most are post-hospitalization treatments, medical checkup and
daily support in managing disease.
So based on this feedback and to make delivery more efficient, we deployed the health
and wellness platform digitally. Partnering with health tech and health care institutions to
offer services along the themes of prevent, postpone and protect. Now for prevent, we
look for services to improve health and identify risk factors in genetics and lifestyle that is
unique to each. For postponement, the focus is on managing existing conditions through
lifestyle coaching. Now this service proves to be very popular with our customer when we
introduced myDNA.
For protect, according to a survey by Swiss Re, the most valued service is the actual
treatment, including prescription, triage and consultations. We offer choices in terms of
doctor discovery and second opinion. This platform creates affiliation with our customers
and has improved our customer satisfaction score by 5 points.
We look to reduce anxiety at each point with seamless customer experience across their
lifestyle cycle. Now to do this, we have leveraged application of data analytics and
advanced technology. We constantly and consistently collect data and these are
aggregated and analyzed to guide the development of solution and next-best action we
offer to customer. At the point of purchase, we provide upsell decisions to address the
customer protection needs with real time, best offer, based on their profile. For the critical
illness product launch quarter 3, acceptance rate was as high as 26%. Now at the point of
purchasing, smart underwriting using reflexive method enabled instant underwriting
decisions, with confirmations of terms. Our auto-underwriting rate is at 62% and our
ambition is to get to 80% overtime. At the point of claim, is when our customer needs us
and these are times that we could either please them or annoy them. So in Prudential
Page 37 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Hong Kong, we have introduced E-Claims with paperless submission, VIP service (PRUpreferred) hospital network and also autoclaim adjudication for instantaneous approval.

FINAL

So from the 15% claim rate that you saw there only two months ago, this has now moved
to 24%. And Prudential Hong Kong will showcase this seamless customer experience later
this afternoon.
So moving to Malaysia. The Malaysian government is keen to improve penetration for
insurance. The recent budget announced increased allocation for health care and
expanded life and Takaful solutions for the underserved segment. Now to fulfill the
government agenda, it is critical for both public and private sectors to work together.
Whereby, the public sector sets the key policies and private sector drives innovation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So at Prudential, we have a 2-pronged approach to expand life and lead in the Takaful
sector as our foundation for growth. We have, as you can see, a comprehensive range of
life insurance and Takaful solution to suit various wealth segments. Our market-leading
protection link solutions offer a choice of protection writers, including medical, critical
illness and term. On average, our customer adds 5 protection writers per base plan.
We are also at the forefront of the government's agenda to cover the bottom 40% of the
household. Our Microtakaful product offers the B40 segment simple, affordable,
protection. For the health platform that we've mentioned earlier, Prudential Malaysia will
be the first to introduce Babylon for all Malaysians. But we are also onboarding local
services such as prayer times for the Muslim and a dengue outbreak prediction platform.
Now this strategy has improved our link protection mix by 5 points to 78% and provide
over GBP 1 billion of coverage to our customers in Malaysia.
Singapore is the top global financial hub and recognized as the premier wealth
management center. Now, although it's being called an established insurance market,
there is significant room for growth driven by domestic demand. Now Singaporeans have
wealth, 1 in 30 Singaporeans being millionaires. However, they like to keep their money
close to their hearts with a saving rate of 48%. Singaporeans are also very health
conscience. This spend over SGD 600 million in vitamins and health supplement in a year.
So to tap into the growth potential requires target marketing and this involves breaking
the market into segment and concentrate our efforts on the key ones with highest
potential.
The size of the health protection GAAP is USD 23 million in Singapore, with mortality
GAAP 17x higher and growing. So according to a poll, 8 out of 10 Singaporeans are
underinsured by industry standard. So it's natural that providing relevant solutions to
narrow the protection gap and the relief of financial burden is definitely a space to play.
Now potential from the high net worth has been mentioned. There are 184,000
millionaires in Singapore tremendous opportunity from a large addressable market. 99%
of businesses in Singapore are small to medium-sized enterprises. And they import 2/3 of
the workforce. This is an underserved segment and half of the SME owners said insurance
is low on their priority list.
Page 38 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

The protection gap is applicable to everyone. So solutions need to reflect the diversity of
the different groups. The millennials are the most health-conscious generation ever. This
is because of better education, social media awareness and also checking devices that
proactively monitor their health. Now being digital savvy doesn't mean they are financially
savvy. They look for peace of mind and financial independence. The solution needs to be
simple and simplified. Singaporean parents are willing to spend whatever it takes on
education with 70% of parents sending their kids for expensive tuition. However, only 6
out of 10 Singaporeans believe they are financially prepared to cope with a life crisis and
only 20% have sufficient basic cover. So whether you are young and free-spirited or
settling in life, they are all looking for tailored solution for specific milestone as well as
financial independence at the time of need. Prudential Singapore has designed a highly
customized saving and protection plan for customer to reach their specific goals because
every dream has its day. So let me show you how this works.
(presentation)

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. The advanced affluent wealth is generally the provenance of brokers and private
bankers. Insurers are seen as product providers only. But the high net worth individual
already demonstrate an ability to make money. So what they need is an adviser that goes
beyond simple investment advice. They are looking for financial professional that will add
value through relationship and address the full spectrum of needs.
OPUS from Prudential Singapore is a platform for high net worth with personalized expert
advice. Now beyond offering tailored insurance solutions, our private wealth consultants
tap into a panel of experts, including wealth transfer, business protection and international
medical, depending on the customer's requirements. And OPUS customers receive
preferential treatment at purchasing and servicing as well as loyalty rewards and
experiences. Now since the launch of this integrated program, we have seen 13% growth
in APE from our high net worth clients. And if you're joining the office to Prudential
Singapore tomorrow, you will see this comes to life.
Similarly, we have built a one-stop shop PRUworks to delight the servicing experience for
business owners and their employees. PRUworks go beyond just offering competitive and
comprehensive insurance solutions. Now given the small size of the SMEs, their HR
solutions tend to be manual, eating up valuable time with low-value administrative tasks.
Now to address this pain point, PRUworks come with a 24/7 digitally enabled HR solution
with access to employee benefits and services. The platform also provides a range of
value-added services for employers and employees such as lifestyle perks.
PRUworks has enabled our agency force to increase activities with business owners and
has added 2,200 schemes this year. This SME market opportunity is not just in Singapore.
But across Asia. So SME contributed to 70% of GDP in Asia and accounts for 98% of total
employment. The desire to penetrate this segment by insurers is not new. Approaches
have been fragmented and more as a hobby. So at Prudential, we are taking this seriously
by building an all-inclusive platform and to position PRUworks as the go-to solutions for
SMEs in Asia. We have a replicable model to leverage as we continue to roll out PRUworks
across the relevant markets. And PRUworks will be a showcase later this afternoon.

Page 39 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Indonesia. Indonesia retail sector is one of the most promising in Asia. And being retail
based, this is relevant to insurance. Now we mentioned about low penetration, sizable
protection gap and growing middle-class, opportunities are plentiful. The growth of the
industry is also encouraged by regulators. The new regime of OJK launched the program
Infinity to drive innovations in the financial services. The Insurance Association has set a
mission to build 1 million agents to serve Indonesians across the archipelago reinforcing
the importance of face-to-face advice. However, the market is facing some headwinds.
Consumer confidence is somewhat muted, reflected by a decline in FMCG consumption.
Competition for our agency recruits are not just coming from within the industry. But also
from new economy industry that offer fast cash in pockets. The recent growth in insurance
was driven by bancassurance and single premium. Such strategy to buy market share
could backfire as one local insurer has failed to pay maturity claims to customer due to
liquidity issues in October. The same insurer collected a total of USD 1 billion of single
premium in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

So Prudential continues to build upon this solid platform. We have an extensive reach
servicing 3.3 million policies. Our ability to drive the expansion and provide long-term
protection make us a clear market leader as we deliver twice the profits as our nearest
peer. Now to expand our quality market leadership, we need to keep moving to innovate
and to invest for growth.
Now Prudential Indonesia is always reshaping the business model to address the evolving
distribution landscape and customer preferences. We are moving from one size to
differentiation and segmentization, enabled by data and technology. Now this will span
across agency management, customer excellence and managing the in-force book.
Progress has been positive so far, as we see our productive agency segment of MDRTqualifiers growing 17%. We have transformed PRUforce from a point of sales digital tool to
a workbench that covers tracking and monitoring of every aspect of agency life cycle.
We launched our new flagship product, PRUlink Generasi Baru with case size being 19%
higher since launch. We paid special attention to the Sharia agency, with relevant training,
resulting in 18% growth in Sharia business. This had been encouraging as the business
continues to innovate.
To deliver operational excellence across each customer episode we have developed
capabilities to serve the entire chain. Now at the initial stage of research and engage,
customers seek information on insurance. But given the nature of life insurance, we need
to drive awareness through online and off-line platforms. There are big and small niche
social networks to promote insurance on blocks. And we host a range of customer events
with 2-way dialogues to engage customer on their needs and design of insurance
solution.
Next is the seamless buying experience. We have accelerated our transformation to
enable our customer to pay and complete purchase in just 20 minutes. Now this requires
the front-end and back-end to be in sync. We do instant underwriting and our customer
Page 40 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

after E-paying of initial premium, can walk away comforted that their families are
protected instantly and adequately. In order to fulfill our promise, we ensure each touch
point is frictionless. We provide options for them to get in touch face-to-face through our
agents, branch office and bank branches, as well as online channels by mobile apps and
chatbot. Now at the end of the day, we will be judged more at the time of claims. It is
important, as mentioned, to remove anxiety at the moments of truth. Using advanced
technology, we pay valid claims swiftly in minutes. We continue to build out our
PRUmedical network and extended the care footprint with 186 partner hospitals. Just
yesterday, we signed up the first overseas preferred medical partner covering Malaysia
and Singapore.
Now Prudential Indonesia launched the first protection link product in the market. This
product, together with our agency force, propelled us to be the leader in the market.
Over the years, we have continued to expand the range of protection benefits attachable
to the linked chassis from term to critical illness, from hospital cash to medical
reimbursement.

Bloomberg Transcript

As part of our DNA to be always listening to the needs of our customer, we conducted
focus groups to survey what are the customers looking for as we upgrade the link chassis.
The feedback from customers emphasized their concerns for retirement, hospital fees,
children education and protection against serious illnesses.
Now in September this year, we launched our new flagship unit-linked product, pulling
PRUlink Generasi Baru, which literally means new generation and the PRUlink Sharia
Generasi Baru. This brand new product have many first in the market features and
upgraded range of protection benefits. Now given the richness of this product, it's best to
show you through a video.
(presentation)
So the launch was delivered via an integrated campaign. And within the first month of
launch, we have digitally certified 35,000 agents to sell and onboarded 43,000 cases.
So the mass recruitment model and the early mover advantage to second tier cities have
allowed us to build breadth and depth and have created the most widespread agency
network and the #1 agency force in Indonesia. But with changing distribution landscape,
we have moved to segmentation since 2015 with a focus on building out the core agency
and nurturing the elite agency, our top segment.
We have transformed PRUforce into an agency workbench. PRUforce empowers the sales
force to track and monitor the activities when selling, recruiting, learning, racing for
rewards and managing. It covers all aspects of the agency life cycle from onboarding,
client management, performance management to integrated learning. This is an agency
activity variable in a pocket, accessible anytime, anywhere.
New agents are licensed and onboarded in five days. Now with the launch of PRUlink
Generasi Baru through PRUforce, we were able to conduct 650,000 man hours of training
Page 41 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

on demand, with nearly 100% e-submission and 81% of our customer adopted e-policy.
Now as we innovate and invest for growth, we have seen the numbers of our PRUElite
increase by 80%. We also have the most MDRT qualifiers in the market and ranked 20th
globally. Our agency market share is 22% at par with #2 and #3 combined.

FINAL

The Prudential Indonesia agency is future-ready to take on the next wave of growth. And
Prudential Indonesia will showcase PRUforce later this afternoon.
So from agency, let's move to partnership distribution. At Prudential, we operate a multidistribution platform. We tied agency and partnerships mainly bancassurance. The term
partnership distribution was first adopted by PCA 20 years ago. That demonstrated our
ambition and approach at that time. Partnership distribution is core and fundamental to
our growth, contributing to at least 1/3 of our new business. From working with 8 partners
in 2010, we are now working with 100 partners, with access to over 10,000 outlets across
Asia. And the #1 bancassurance franchise in Asia. Now we treat each of our partner as
unique and deploy dedicated resources. We have cocreated and innovated distribution,
products and marketing tools with a track record of fast activation and integration,
targeting retail and mostly walking customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now as customer behaviors change in a more connected world, they are looking for
interaction that are still human and personable through digital means. We are reimagining
the approach and engagement with new way to partner and with new wave partners
moving from segmentation by wealth through segmentation by customer persona.
Our strategic partnership includes multinational banks, regional banks and prominent
domestic banks in China, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia and Laos. So with
the large customer bases from our strategic partners, there is still plenty of room to grow.
Penetration in the priority segment is promising with tremendous potential in personal and
mass segments.
We are celebrating the 20th anniversary with our partner, Standard Chartered Bank.
Throughout the years, our entanglement strategy has enabled us to reach in-branch
customer, offering a range of savings and protection solutions. With the integration with
their global platform, we are now able to cocreate digitally and offer simple health and
protection products online targeting the personal bank customer. Just yesterday, SCB
China became the first in Standard Chartered Bank group to launch a life insurance
product in their mobile app, partnering with CITIC Prudential. Hong Kong is next in
December.
Our partnership with Vietnam International Bank started in 2015. This is a progressive bank
as they have been named the Digital Bank of the Year with the best retail mobile banking
services. We have cocreated an off-line to online model with the insurance specialists
offering advice and using Prudential's mobile point of sales for issuance and servicing. And
our growth has been nearly 200%.
Now to win in the partnership distribution space going forward, we need to reinvent new
ways to partner and new type of partners. We are engaging with partners as (categorical)
Page 42 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

provider to serve and identify segment. Now the core ingredient is to have a marketleading product. In Thailand, we were one of the first insurer to be granted a license to
offer investment link in 2011. Since then, we have continued to upgrade our offering with
end-to-end servicing. Now when Siam Commercial Bank was looking for an insurer to
serve their wealth segment, we won the RFP because of our reach capabilities. The
partnership was launched in February and already contributing to 17% of Prudential
Thailand's new business.
O Bank is the first digital bank in Taiwan, with 30% share of digital bank accounts. They are
rapidly accumulating young customers adding 10,000 to 20,000 a month with an average
age of 34. Our exclusive partnership with O Bank is to grow new customer by offering
tailored solution, leveraging their in-house analytics and the customer lifestyle attributes.
In Indonesia, we are working with Eureka. Eureka is the big data management analytic
platform equipped with advanced analytics. They have exclusive access to Indosat at
Telco with 110 million users. And experienced developed tailor offers and execute
campaigns based on insight.

Bloomberg Transcript

So moving to China. The opportunity demand for Insurance China is undisputed. And the
rapidly aging population, low penetration, protection gap of $805 billion contributing to
the growing demand for insurance. And this demand is also fueled by continuous flow of
rural Chinese moving to the urban areas. The CBIRC introduced their 1+4 supervisory
policy to foster sound development of the industry. The 4 underlying policy revolve
around risk management, market conduct, asset liability management and expanding
capacity riding on the 1 belt, 1 row investment facilities. This policy promote disciplined
behavior from the players in the market.
For any company in any industry to succeed in China, it is important to align to own
strategy to the economic and social goal set by the party and the government. The State
Council has the ambition to double insurance penetration to 5% by 2020. And has
stressed the protection nature of insurance.
(presentation)
CITIC Prudential is a powerful franchise with 2 prominent shareholders. CITIC being an
SOE has an influential brand in China. The crux of our advantage platform is the extensive
footprint across China accessing 76% of GDP and 1 billion residents. We have a truly multidistribution platform as we build capabilities, both technologically and infrastructurally.
Our agency force is digitally savvy with a strong disciplined foundation. Training for our
agency leaders are institutionalized to ensure that only those capable to build a quality
team are promoted. Leaders that have been certified increase the average monthly APE
by 26%. Now our refreshed new agent recruitment and training program improved new
agent activation by 6%. And our top-tier rookies grew 8%.
CITIC Prudential devises banking strategy based on the nature of the partnership. The
overall focus continues to be driving quality business with NBP growing 23% from this
channel. This is a testament of the first mover advantage to regular premium. We
Page 43 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

continue to leverage on the extensive reach of CITIC Group of companies and bank
partners to offer group solutions. And already delivered more than RMB 0.5 billion of APE
in the first nine months.
We have an online broker called Yijiu. We partner with an AI actuary to offer affordable
protection product. A positive start with 10,000 policies onboard. So these impressive
results are also supported by key propositions, a premier critical illness product and health
management platform as well as the wealth management solution that provides wealth,
transfer, trust and legacy planning advice. For all of this to work, CITIC Prudential simplifies
customer experience through digital innovation.
CITIC Prudential is now 18 years old, starting in Guangzhou in 2000. In 2013, CITIC
Prudential has installed local leadership with Prudential taking up the chairmanship. The
board at that time gave the mandate to management to accelerate value creation. The
CITIC Prudential management team has built scale and quality over the past five years,
with delivery above expectations. From a scale perspective, CITIC Prudential is the thirdlargest business within PCA. APE grew 4.5x and NBP even faster at nearly 6x. Pretax
profits grew 4x to RMB 1.4 billion and crossed over 1 million customers. In terms of quality,
the regular premium mix is now 94% compared to 77% in 2012 with persistency at 93%.
Total asset now stand at RMB 6 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now above all that, we have developed the best-in-class management framework with A
rating from CBIRC. The only (foreigner) to receive this for 10 consecutive quarters.
Going forward, CITIC Prudential is building a comprehensive structure to provide best
insurance and wealth management solutions to customer with 4 business pillar. The life
insurance continues to be core and to drive value creation as well as capital efficiency
through protection products. We have seen an impressive growth in protection of 33%
per annum over the past five years and GBP 60 billion of sums assured.
We have set up the health insurance as a separate vertical and built an infrastructure to
provide end-to-end health care solution. We also have approval from CBIRC to establish
an insurance asset management company as a subsidiary to CITIC Prudential life. This will
enable wider investment activities and create investment optionalities for customer and
CITIC Prudential life. We are also looking at the opportunity arising from the aging
population. And to look to provide enterprise annuity and tax-deferred pensions. We are
one of the 12 insurers granted approvals to offer tax-deferred annuities in selected cities
and provinces. We will consider seeking a pension license at the appropriate time.
So the business is working towards being an integrated insurance company that provides
a full range of solutions and services for customers across China. So we have a robust set
of strategies to growth. The key is to execute and to reach more customers. Our principle
of geographic expansion is to firstly identify the talent, then set up the institution. Now
with our experience of setting up 80-plus sales officers, we employee a replicable model
to start up a branch office using Henan as an example. Henan branch was established in
late 2015. It is China's third-largest province with a population of 95 million. Now with a

Page 44 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

replicable model and disciplined execution, the branch achieved triple-digit growth in APE
and NBP today. And highly recognized by the local CBIRC.
We are also investing to future proof our multi-distribution system enabled by advanced
technology. Now using analytics, our aim to support our agency to recruit, train and
conduct performance management for efficiency and productivity. We also look to explore
partnership with e-commerce platform and implement online to off-line models with our
bank partners. The proposition-led solutions are to be expended. For education, this is
built on the safety theme for children and adolescence, while leveraging experience from
businesses across to shareholders to develop retiree proposition.
Last. But not least, the key is to delight our customers when they engage with the
business at every touch point. So let me show you what good looks like.
(presentation)

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So we embarked to transform our operation since 2014 across the businesses. Now
this allowed us to redesign processes before automation for efficiency gain. But more
important, priming for scalability and flexibility. So our obsession to deliver customer
excellence and empower distribution to reach, attract and retain customer is our
differentiator. And we continue to build capabilities to analyze data to drive customer
decisions.
So with our ready -- future-ready business platform and people, our ambition is to deliver
ahead of customer expectations and moving our portfolio businesses to a network of
businesses to execute for growth.
So thank you very much for your attention.

Guy Robert Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Well thank you Lilian. Good morning, just. In the next 15 minutes, I'll provide an update on
the successes we have delivered at Eastspring over the past 12 months. I'm also delighted
to have 2 of my team here today with me to share the excellent progress that has been
made in 2 strategic areas, capturing the opportunities in China and building a world-class
multi-asset solution offering in Asia. You'll get the opportunity to hear from Michelle Qi
who joined Eastspring in June. And Michelle is known as a first-generation China-Asia
investor. The average investment experience of China-Asia in mutual fund managers is
less than three years. Of the several thousand portfolio managers, fewer than 30
managers have more than an 11-year track record. And Michelle is one of them. Michelle's
appointment was a strong hire for us and her understanding of the China market
positions us well to serve professional investors, both in China and globally.
And following Michelle, you will hear from Colin Graham, CIO of multi-asset solutions who
has 25 years of investment experience. Colin joined in January from BNP Asset
Management, where he was managing about USD 55 billion and a team of 20 people.
Prior to that, he was at BlackRock for 15 years, also running multi-asset solutions.
Page 45 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Eastspring has been operating in Asia for more than 24 years beginning in 1994 by
establishing offices in Singapore and Hong Kong as the Asia asset management business
of Prudential plc. As at September 2018, we had a record USD 195 billion in assets under
management. We had been ranked the #1 retail asset manager in Asia by Asia Asset
Management in 5 of the past six years. And additionally, Eastspring has been awarded
Asia Fund House of the year by Asian Investor in 3 of the past four years.
Today, Eastspring employs more than 3,500, twice the number of people we had 10
years ago. Now over half of these people sit in our India JV, where direct to customer
sales is a key driver of success. We employ more than 350 investment professionals
investing across global, regional and single country, equity and fixed income strategies.
We also have significant global asset allocation capabilities, serving the outcomeorientated needs of our life client. Additionally, we are building out teams in multi-asset
solutions, quantitative solutions and alternative assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Eastspring is in the enviable position of having investment professionals in all locations.
The only exception being Japan equities where our highly rated Japan portfolios are
managed in Singapore. Unlike some of our peers who have retreated from maintaining a
local presence, we continue to invest in Asia in local investment talent. This differentiates
us as a truly Asia-based asset manager, servicing the global needs of our clients with
deep insights into the region's most important, emerging economies.
We continue to focus on capitalizing on this by developing investment capabilities and
products to capture a larger higher quality share of assets across Asia. We have an
unrivaled footprint in terms of breadth and depth of our presence. We now have offices in
11 countries, in Asia, following this year's acquisition of TMBAM, which gives Eastspring a
major presence in the important Thai market.
We also have distribution offices in the U.S., U.K. and Europe. At our LBUs, we have sizable
on-the ground presence, including investment and noninvestment professionals all led by
local CEOs. This footprint gives Eastspring a very unique peer advantage. We have 7 top
10 positions in markets across Asia, namely Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, India,
Thailand and Hong Kong.
To put this into context, this slide shows a geographic breakdown of where we manage
money. Singapore is our cross-border hub and the center where we've managed our
large life portfolios. We have strong geographic diversification, which is shown on the left
hand of this slide, with more room to grow in key markets, including China. On the right, I
have lifted out the Singapore book of business, which reinforces our strength in equities
and fixed income. And also shows the importance that GAA overlays play for our life
companies.
Over the five years from 2014 to September 2018, our assets under management have
increased by USD 95 billion. Nearly 60% of the increase in AUM has been driven by flow,
with USD 41 billion from Asia and U.K. life and $26 billion from third-party clients.

Page 46 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

On the right, our source of funds has remained relatively steady with approximately 60%
sourced from life and 40% from third-party clients.
Asia represents an immense opportunity and a strong sustainable structural growth story.
Large populations with a rapidly emerging middle class combined with strong economic
growth sees the amount of private new wealth creation rising even faster at $5 trillion a
year. However, Asian investors hold 65% of their wealth in deposits compared to about
14% in North America. In addition, across Asia, the mutual fund penetration, expressed as
AUM as a percentage of GDP, is extremely low at 13% compared to the U.S. at 114% and
Europe at 92%.
As a result, McKinsey estimated that the Asia Asset Management revenue book is set to
double over the next five years from USD 66 billion to USD 112 billion by 2022.
The opportunity for mutual fund providers in Asia is evident. Our scale and strong product
platform means we're well positioned to capitalize on this opportunity.

Bloomberg Transcript

So last year, I showed you this slide with our strategic priorities. And here is a summary of
the 2018 highlights. We have hired 18 senior investment professionals in key growth areas,
including alternatives, emerging market debt, multi-asset solutions, quant and our
onshore China growth equity WFOE team. We also became a signatory to the principles
of responsible investment. And we are now the largest signatory in Singapore and the
third largest in Asia, ex Japan. We take this commitment seriously. And it is simply the right
thing to do.
On enhancing distribution and coverage, a highlight this year has been the progress we
have made in China. Eastspring was a relatively early mover in China with the
establishment of our joint venture CITIC Prudential Fund Management Company back in
2005. Today, our JV is the 29th largest fund management company in terms of
nonmoney market AUM. And as at the 30th of September, manages USD 17 billion.
In March, we established our investment management wholly owned foreign enterprise,
our WFOE, in Shanghai. And that is established as a private fund manager with the Asset
Management Association of China. Our WFOE is now a regulated entity, capable of
managing onshore investments for high net worth institutional clients in the Chinese
market. And Michelle will talk more to this in a moment.
In terms of transforming the way we work, we are in the third year of the target operating
model project, affectionately known as TOM, which is investing in processes and
infrastructure to enable rapid growth, enhance risk management and arm our investment
professionals with the best-in-class tools for portfolio construction and risk management.
This is part of a broader digital transformation program. And later today in the showcase
sessions, you'll hour ave the opportunity to hear from Jeroen Buwalda, Head of Strategic
Transformation, about our partnership with Alkanza and how we are launching a roboadvice platform in Taiwan to augment our D2C sales business there.

Page 47 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

One of our key strategic priorities is to deepen our investment capabilities. Although I'm
sure that many of you are not aware of the depth and breadth of our current platform,
we're well recognized for our strong value offering in Asia and Japan equities and our
award-winning fixed income team. But here I show the broad range of investment
capabilities, which provide solutions for our life and third-party clients within country, panAsia and globally. We have been investing in multi-asset, quant and alternatives to expand
our offering. To put this in context, this slide shows where we currently have institutional
and retail clients and where we have identified potential. In these areas, we are
accelerating our go-to-market efforts. This year we have launched 44 new products and
created 6 new bespoke solutions to alleviate capacity constrained funds in Malaysia,
Indonesia and Singapore. We're also working on new products to launch in Thailand. An
example is the first TMBAM Eastspring product, the TMB Eastspring Asia Pacific Property
Flexible Fund. The fund will seek income and low volatility from REITs and complement this
with the growth characteristics of property developer stocks. And this product is still
subject to regulatory approval.

Bloomberg Transcript

This chart highlights how we have been organically building our business and the time it
takes from product inception to institutional acceptance and ultimately full
commercialization. Today, we're one of the region's largest Asian bond managers with
USD 60 billion in AUM. In Singapore, we have 19 investment professionals, 8 of whom are
credit analysts, with a particular focus on China given that renminbi-denominated debt is
the world's fourth largest bond market according to the Bank for International
Settlements.
Our fixed income team were recently upgraded by Mercer for our local currency bond
capabilities. We are now importantly A-rated by Mercer in Singapore bond, Singapore
credit and Asian local currency bond. We have a well-resourced team that has delivered
strong performance through challenging market episodes and is consultant rated. This will
enable us to benefit from deepening Asian bond markets and rising Asian demand for
fixed income assets.
In addition, we are accelerating our product capability to also cover global emerging
market debt. In the fixed income capability, the product shown here is first quartile over
three years.
In Japan dynamic equities, which is a flagship capability for us, we have a strong stable
team and a highly disciplined investment process, which we actually soft closed three
years ago to protect alpha for our clients. We are now one of the most recognized
Japanese equity providers with clients in Asia, Europe, USA and LATAM. Now despite
difficult markets for value managers, our Japan equities are ranked in the second quartile
over the past three years.
In global emerging market equities, our patient, high-quality build has recently been
recognized by a German pension fund who awarded us a mandate for EUR 175 million.
This is our first major separate account win in Europe. Our GEM dynamic fund is ranked in
the top decile over three years. In fact, it's ranked in the top decile over 1, 3 and five
years. With 95% of our GEM peer group portfolios biased towards investing in growth
shares, we have a compelling proposition of potential upside and diversification of risk.
Page 48 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Quant is a new capability, grown in-house. And we have assembled a high-quality team
with diverse backgrounds and industry experience. We now have several externally
sellable strategies with good track records and are making traction in the retail market in
Singapore via retail and private banks as well as platforms and IFAs. And we observe that
there is a large potential for quant with institutional clients.
The quant team are also playing an important role in helping the life client diversify
investment styles and solve some of the difficult capacity issues in the region. The key
message here is that it takes three years at least to build a track record before an
institutional client or for that matter, a gate-kept intermediated client will engage in a
meaningful way. Importantly, our investment in new capabilities will give rise to 6 new
strategies with a 3-year track record by 2022, those being Asia small cap, quant
multifactor in both Asia and the U.S., emerging market debt, multi-asset solutions and
China Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last year, I noted at this forum that China was a conspicuous gap in our footprint. In July,
we announced the acquisition from TMB Bank of 65% of TMB Asset Management with an
option to increase our ownership to 100% in the future. We received SEC regulatory
approval in September of this year. Eastspring was the winning candidate in a competitive
bid, chosen for our excellent reputation, expansive footprint in the region, strong global
product offering and client-focused culture. The acquisition further cements our unrivaled
presence in Asia.
TMBAM is the fifth largest asset manager in Thailand with AUM of USD 12 billion and an
8% market share. Furthermore, the business has grown its AUM at 26% CAGR for the last
three years ending March of this year, which is more than double the underlying growth
rate of the market. We manage assets on behalf of more than 1,000 corporate clients
and more than 160,000 retail customers in Thailand.
Our presence in Thailand also enables us to provide on the ground support for
Prudential's life business there. Thailand is an underserved market for asset management.
The growth prospects in this market are immense with an expanding middle class, rising
affluence and strong savings culture, albeit significantly skewed towards deposits.
Thailand is the largest and fastest-growing mutual fund market in ASEAN.
Now Eastspring is experienced at growing businesses through acquisitions. We acquired
our businesses in Taiwan and Korea in 2000 and 2002, respectively. In both instances, we
invested in local talent and built strong successful teams. Similarly, we have a proven track
record of working with joint venture partners to take them to the next level of sustainable
growth. We are confident that this partnership with TMBAM will deliver exceptional results.
As I mentioned, the target operating model is an important strategic initiative, which has
given us common operating platform and the ability to scale at pace allowing us to
introduce new agile ways of working, enabling greater collaboration, more purposeful
cross-functional teams and new tools. We are seeing improved data quality, richer
investment oversight and more transparent risk reporting. Through the successful
execution of TOM this year, we have been able to decommission systems with a total of

Page 49 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

33 decommissionings to be completed by the end of next year. This creates a more
simplified and derisked business. TOM is not only about new systems, processes and
tools, it's also about cost reduction. And it's also part of the broader digital transformation
agenda, scaling Eastspring for future growth.

FINAL

With that, I'm delighted to introduce Michelle, who will share with you our ambitions for
China. Thank you.

Michelle Qi

{BIO 20839001 <GO>}

Thank you, Guy. Good afternoon. It's my pleasure to come here today to represent
Eastspring China WFOE and to share with you the opportunities and our plans in China. My
name is Michelle Qi and I joined Eastspring China WFOE as CIO for China equities in June.
I have over 17 years of experience in China equity market. Before joining Eastspring, I was
Head of QFII and QDII Investment at BOCOM Schroders Joint Venture Funds in Shanghai,
where I spent nearly 13 years managing QFII and institutional mandates.

Bloomberg Transcript

So why did I join Eastspring? Firstly, the opportunity -- the attraction of the opportunity to
join Prudential, who has a strong brand name and reputation in China. Why I decided to
leave my previous firm? I had peers and friends call me and asking where I was going.
When I said I was joining Eastspring, the Asian Asset Management firm of Prudential,
people said to me, "Wow, I have a Prudential policy. What a phenomenal company." In
China, Prudential is viewed as trusted and well-respected company with global capabilities
and high quality people.
Secondly, the growth potential of the China funds management industry. The industry only
turned 20 years old this year. I believe there are 2 key opportunities for future growth,
MSCI inclusion of China into global indices and the low penetration of mutual fund product
in China. Currently, Chinese household only allocate 5% of their total assets to China Asia
equities and other onshore fund products.
And finally, the opportunity to be one of the original team members building Eastspring's
WFOE in China, it's a fantastic platform for me as I can bring my investment experience to
build an equity investment team and a practice that I hope can better serve local and
international investors.
As Guy said earlier, Eastspring has a strong presence in China. Eastspring and Prudential
were early mover having established our joint venture CITIC Pru Fund Management back
in 2005. In Singapore, we have a dedicated Greater China value equity team with a
average of 13 years of experience. We have 8 investment professionals in our regional
fixed income team who are focused on China bonds.
Last year, Guy talked about enhancing distribution and coverage and capturing
opportunities in China. In less than a year, we have made great progress. We established
our WFOE in Shanghai in March. And we registered WFOE as PFM with AMAC. Our
registration only took 5 -- 9 business days, one of the fastest PFM registrations, reflecting
the approving authority's recognition of Prudential. To put this to context, such a process
Page 50 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

usually takes months. Our WFOE is now capable of managing onshore investments for
qualified investors in China.
I often get asked by clients and investors, (if China stories do you stand). And where I see
the growth opportunities? Let me take you through the 3 key market segments of the
fund management industry in China. Number one, local investors investing in China. In a
report published in March 2018, Oliver Wyman estimated that local-to-local AUM for the
broader asset management industry in China will increase from USD 18 trillion in 2017 to
$30 trillion in 2020, representing a CAGR of 10%. Growth will be mainly driven by
accumulation of household wealth and increase of allocation. Number two, local investors
investing overseas. Local-to-global AUM is expected to increase from USD 194 billion in
2017 to $711 billion in 2023, according to Z-Ben representing a CAGR of 24%. The growth
is driven by internationalization of the RMB, capital account liberalization and the
diversification demand of Chinese investors.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last one is the global investors investing in China with the inclusion of A-shares and RMB
bonds to global and regional indices. Global-to-local flows are expected to increase as
well. Reuters reported that incremental inflows into Chinese stocks driven by the full
inclusion of China Asia into MSCI indices are estimated to be USD 300 billion. Incremental
inflows from inclusion of RMB bonds into bond indices are estimated by HSBC to be USD
286 billion.
So in my view, the growth story is strong. But how will the Eastspring WFOE team capture
these opportunities? First, the joint venture. We are focused on energizing and fully
capitalizing on the CITIC-Pru relationship. CITIC-Pru currently has USD 780 million of QDII
quota allowing it to sell overseas products to investors in China. We're discussing with
CITIC-Pru regarding the usage of the QDII quota for their clients to invest in Eastspring
funds.
Collaborations. Eastspring already has a strong Greater China investment capability with a
value equity team led by my colleague, John Tsai, who has 20 years of experience. The
Eastspring Investment culture is anchored around candour, debate and challenge. Having
a China value team based in Singapore allows for collaboration and sharing of investment
knowledge.
Third, our WFOE. In addition to existing China strategies, our WFOE will focus on building
onshore China focus investment teams. As a PFM, we can now sell onshore private funds
to qualified Chinese investors. We will also be able to provide research advice to other
Eastspring entities for offshore China mandates. We have established a QDLP entity as a
subsidiary of our WFOE. We're applying for QDLP quota, which is similar to QDII quota and
a successful registration with AMAC will allow us to set up private funds investing
overseas to be distributed to qualified investor in China.
For our WFOE, we started the regulatory application process in October last year. Our
General Manager, Michael Lu, joined us in February from Robeco where he led their China
business for more than 10 years. Currently, we have 11 employees, of which 5 are
investment professionals. We will launch our first onshore private fund product within the

Page 51 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

next six months. By the end of next year, we expect to have around 200 -- 20 -- sorry, we
expect to have 20 professionals in our WFOE. Subsequent private fund products are
expected to include fixed-income thematic equities and multi-asset solutions, where Colin
will touch on in a moment.
After fulfilling local regulations, the WFOE will also seek to secure subadvisory mandates
for offshore funds investing in China. And importantly, we'll be able to manage China fund
strategies for our life lines across the group.
Since joining Eastspring, I have been focused on building a high quality and credible team.
Our investment philosophy is anchored around the belief that the China Asia equity
market is inefficient due to the short-term nature of many of the market participants. We
run macro and policy analysis using top-down approach to obtain insights of the economic
cycles and the industry trends. With an onshore research team, we're able to conduct on
the ground sector and company analysis, focusing on medium; to long-term growth
potential.
Sector and company analysis will be based on active fundamental research with bottomup stock selection approach. With these, we will be able to generate alpha over the long
term for our investors. We look to invest in companies with strong growth profile, equity
earnings, quality earnings and credible management. We also specifically integrate ESG
considerations into our investment process. I believe that this approach is competitive in
the marketplace as we can leverage on best-in-class global risk management controls in
place, a well-positioned investment approach and process supported by strong credible
team and the commitment made by Prudential and Eastspring to China market, which is
evidenced by our commitment to build one of the biggest onshore WFOE teams in China.
Over the long term, we see structured opportunities in sectors such as health care,
technology and consumer sector, driven by demographic changes, rising household
wealth and technology innovation in China. To ensure we can capture these opportunities.
And we have built a team of high quality investors. We have a macro, strategy analyst,
Jingjing, to help from the top-down view and analyze sector cycles, where the sector
analysts focus on company fundamental analysis in their very sectors.
Our sector analysts have in-depth industry experience and strong academic backgrounds
to capture the key trends of their sectors. Our health care analyst, Xu Xiang, has a
background in neuroscience and life science, which enables him to spot opportunities
arising from the disease spectrum shifts in China along with aging population. And his
previous onshore bioscience analyst experience helps to better interpret fast-changing
government policies in this area.
Technology is another key sector and that distinguished semiconductor engineering
background helps provide incisive prospective on technology investing, which features
high growth potential, driven by AI, cloud computing and 5G.
Before I talk you through the key details of our first product, I would like to give a
background -- backdrop of the private fund management industry in China. The industry is
Page 52 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

highly fragmented with over 8,700 PFMs. And consolidation is expected under the new
stringent regulatory framework. As a result, PFMs are expected to have a more
institutionalized investment process and framework while qualified investors are seeking
equity returns with capital preservation. We're well positioned to capture the market trend
with the setup of our growth team and our underlying investment approach and process.
Our first onshore products and absolute return equity strategy will look to capture the
long-term growth opportunities with lower volatility. Our product will be distributed by
domestic security firms and third-party wealth managers, which we believe will be
competitive, given my long track record in investing A-shares supporting by a high quality
and credible team. This is just the beginning for our WFOE in China. We have immense
opportunity. And I am proud to be one of the founding members of the team.
For 2019, our key priorities are: first, building a stable track record with full execution of
our investment philosophy and to promote them to long-term investors. Number two, to
establish market reputation of Eastspring as part of Prudential brand name in China.
Number three, getting prepared to fully embrace the market opportunity when the WFOE
is qualified.
With that, I'm delighted to introduce my colleague, Colin Graham, Chief Investment
Officer of Multi Asset Solutions. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Colin Graham

{BIO 4188967 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Michelle. And I'm delighted to speak to you today about the
opportunity in the multi-asset solutions space. I'm just going to take up the next 10
minutes talking to you so you better understand the opportunity we have in front of us.
Firstly, I'm going to talk about why the market is so interesting. Secondly, why Eastspring is
well positioned to take advantage of that. And thirdly, what we're doing further to
enhance our position in this market.
So as you've heard, my name's Colin Graham. I've been brought on board at Eastspring in
January to build the external multi-asset solutions business for Eastspring. This is a core
part of Eastspring's investment plan of the next few years. And this is going to offer global
solutions to Asian investors.
So over the last 2 decades, there's been a significant change in investor behavior globally.
Investors are seeking outcomes rather than relative returns. And these demands have
driven the multi-asset portfolio management AUM to around $10 trillion of assets and
that's been growing at about 14% annually. Of which, only about 6% of this has actually
been sourced from Asia. So you can see that Asia is underserviced. According to Spence
Johnson report, looking at Asia, which is the largest market and is growing fastest is
China. And China is going to grow its multi-asset funds in three years to around USD 450
billion. And this very much ties into the vision that Eastspring has, our plans for China. And
Michelle and Guy both touched on that earlier.

Page 53 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Now the multi-asset solutions space is not a new market. But it's highly competitive, both
in terms of what's going on in the U.S. and what's going on in Europe. You can see this
slide demonstrates the immense competition in this market. However, if you move to
Asia, we can see there are very few asset managers with multi-asset solutions teams on
the ground in Asia. So Asian clients are underserviced in multi-asset solutions. Our
competitive advantage is our investment and distribution footprint in Asia, plus the
strength of our parent, Prudential.
Now many global commentators have talked about how Asia will be the investment
center of the 21st century. And we expect -- or we've seen reports talking about 2027.
Now 2027, it's expected that Asia will become the largest investor -- largest equity market
in the world, overtaking the U.S.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also Asia ex Japan bond market is going to grow to be in line with the JGB market. It's a
huge growth in assets. Also pan-Asia mutual fund business is set to grow around 9% per
annum to around USD 13 trillion. Even if these numbers are only half true, you can see
there is an immense opportunity in Asia. However, trying to understand this growth, what
is happening on the ground in Asia is -- can be very challenging. The information is hard to
come by, hard to access, hard to interpret. So in our business model, we're going to use
that to our advantage. And we're going to attract wealth management clients and thirdparty clients. Asian assets in this area are expected to reach $40 trillion by 2025, nearly
doubling in the next eight years.
One of the structural shifts we are studying is the enormous intergenerational wealth
transfer between the baby boomers and the new millennials. Today, in Asia, in particular
China and India, there are 415 million millennials. This is bigger than the entire workforce
of the U.S. and Western Europe. So you can imagine the enormous potential we have
here.
As mentioned, Eastspring has unrivaled access to Asia, in which will enable us to capture
this opportunity for our clients. Personally, I joined Eastspring to be part of this huge and
unique opportunity. So you might be asking. So how are you guys different to all your
competitors in Asia and the rest of the world? Well we -- there are similarities. I'm not
going to get away from that. We do, do things some -- same way. However, what is
unique about our capability is that we manufacture equity and fixed income products
across Asia. So not just in Singapore, not just in Hong Kong, not just in Japan, we have
access in Indonesia, Malaysia and most recently, our acquisition of TBAM (sic) (TMB) Asset
Management in Thailand. Trust and alignment between the investment teams and the
local clients is essential for partnership and long-term success.
Being based in Asia, we are better positioned to understand the unique needs of our
clients and benefit from this informational inefficiency. Ultimately, clients in Asia are looking
for global products, which diversify away from their home markets. We're focused on
building and offering global products that are tailored to our local market.
So your next question might be, well how is Eastspring planning to capture this
opportunity? Well MAS is well positioned because of the 4 Ps. And that is people, that is

Page 54 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

process, that is platform, that is products. So let me start with the people aspect of the
team. As you know, I joined in January. And in the middle of this year, we welcomed Jason
Hepner and Mary Nicola. Jason has 20 years of investment experience and was one of
the founding PMs on Standard Life GARS product in the U.K. Mary joined us from Aviva
Investors in Singapore. She has also worked on the multi-asset absolute return product. I
think you might notice that there is a bit of a deliberate theme here. And I'll touch on that
again later when we talk about products.
Most recently, we welcomed a dedicated client portfolio manager, Adam Matthews, who
has 20 years experience in the industry. Jason, Mary, Adam and myself were attracted by
the immense opportunity in Asia and at Eastspring. We're also in the process of hiring a
senior macro strategist and also the search is underway for a volatility portfolio manager.
In addition, our next member of the team will be a graduate who is joining in December.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you heard from Guy, he's already talked about our strategic priorities of expanding
Eastspring Investment offering and expansion of our multi-asset capabilities to external
clients. In less than a year, we've made phenomenal progress. And we have in place a
strong team of 5 members with over 17 years of collective experience each, on average.
Collectively, our team has invested and lived through the global financial crisis. And sadly
to say, Jason and I have also been investing during the TMT bubble, don't know how
many people can remember that. But I remember it very well.
Secondly, if we move on to the second P in terms of the process. We have a robust
investment process, focusing on delivering the outcomes that clients desire with a proven
track record at other firms. The multi-asset team also leverages the investment talented
across Eastspring as well. If we think about our platform, the reengineering of our
investment technology platform by moving on to Aladdin has provided us with scalability
to grow assets, not costs.
And secondly, world-class risk analytics that enhances our PM's investment toolkit. And
also, we're able to leverage the skills and knowledge of our global asset allocation team,
who have a 15-year track record of managing asset allocation requirements of our life
client.
So moving on finally to our product. Well we are designing the next generation of multiasset capabilities. We have a strong product offering to build on. And let me just talk you
through the products we have on the shelf at the moment and what we're planning to do.
So currently, we run about USD 1.8 billion across our multi-asset funds. Our flagship fund is
our Global Market Navigator Fund. It's 4-star rated by Morningstar, first quartile over 1 and
three years and has a 10-year track record. Our next product we have is the Global Equity
Navigator. This has a slight growth theme. And this again is 3 stars rated by Morningstar
and first and second quartile over 1 and three years with a 7-year track record.
Our Monthly Income Plan here in Singapore. This is one of our flagship funds. It was cutting
edge when we launched this 13 years ago. And one of the other differentiators we have
here is we're able to offer within this product clients in Singapore an active Singapore
Page 55 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

equity subportfolio. So again this differentiates us from the global products that we're
competing against.

FINAL

We've recently launched a Global Income Fund and with the 3-year time -- 3-year track
record on the horizon, we're able to -- next year, we will be able to monetize the track
record and be able to raise assets in this portfolio because three years is very important
when talking to the distributors.
Now if I think about the ratings that we have achieved on these funds, they're very
important because they independently show that we are consistently outperforming our
peer groups. And this is majorly important when we're talking to the wealth management
platforms and prospective third-party clients. We are committed to delivering competitive
performance and grow our AUM in this space.
So you can see we have a strong platform to build from. So what are we going to do
next? We have some exciting products we really think are going to fill the pipeline and
capture those external products.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we go through. The first one is the Multi-asset Absolute Return Fund. And again, you
see the theme with the people that we've been hiring onto the MAS team. This is the
large and growing area. And we can see client demand for this growing significantly.
Because as the business matures -- business cycle matures, you're going to see the
demand for more absolute returns in investment solutions. This is also an investment
solution, which can underpin the development of Prudential's retirement solutions as well.
Next product we're thinking about is the multi-asset income in Asia. Asia was in our DNA
for our stock pickers and our bond pickers. And this is a product that's had huge traction
within Asia. Asian clients are seeking regular income. Now every client's reasons for
seeking that income may be different. But we think it's linked to the wealth transfer to the
millennials that I've been talking about.
Global Market Navigator is sustainable. This represents huge opportunity for us.
Eastspring became a signatory of the PRI earlier this year. This focus on sustainability is not
something that's just happening in the U.K., it's not something that's just happening in
Europe, not something that's just in the U.S., not something that's in Australia, it's
happening here in Asia as well. And ESG is becoming increased focus for investors in Asia.
So this strategy will be focused on sustainability. And this allows us to target a wide
spectrum of clients from millennials to institutional clients, sovereign wealth funds to
family offices.
And you can't go through a presentation about products without mentioning China. So
what are we doing in China? This is a longer-term project. We're working out how to
integrate our current offerings, our current China investment capabilities with our new
WFOE capabilities into one strategy. As with everything in China, the potential is
enormous. But the execution is a key to success.

Page 56 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So whilst this is early days, I'm delighted to have the opportunity to share with you the
progress that we're marking. Our ambition in the multi-asset solutions capability is to grow
AUM faster than the multi-asset market here in Asia.
And so if there's 3 key messages I would like to leave you with today is, client
preferences have changed. Asian clients are demanding more global investment products
with a clear home market bias. The structural growth story is clear. Asia will become the
epicenter of the 21st century investment world. We have limited competition. And we will
have a compelling global proposition. We have a strong team in place with the right
experience. We have the right platform through Aladdin and we have the right processes.
And finally, through the multi-asset solutions area, we can enable Eastspring's transition
from Asian manufacturer to global asset manager of scale.
Thank you very much for your time. And I'll hand you back to Guy.

Guy Robert Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Colin. Thank you, Colin and Michelle. Whilst these initiatives are clearly very much
in their infancy, hopefully, after hearing from them both, you have a deeper understanding
of 2 of the opportunities we've identified for long-term growth, our plans to capitalize on
these opportunities and how are we different to our competitors and that we have a longterm vision for success.
In closing, I'd like to leave you with 3 clear messages. The structural growth story and
supporting trend for long-term mutual fund growth in Asia are sound. Our unrivaled
footprint across Asia and global distribution capabilities will enable us to capture this
opportunity. And we have a clear strategic road map and are successfully executing
against these priorities. Thank you very much. Chantal?

Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Okay. So it's now time for lunch. Lunch is where you had breakfast at the Prudential Club
Lounge, Level 2. And if you could be back by 1:30 for the Asia Innovation Partnership
overview. Thank you.
(Break)

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. If everyone's ready, if I can ask you to take your seats. So that we can get the
afternoon started. Fantastic.
Okay. Thank you, everyone, for coming back from lunch so promptly. As I explained this
morning, the bulk of the afternoon will be dedicated to showcasing our new capabilities
and innovation. Now I said at the start of my presentation that a defining change over the
last year was the impact of technology on customer expectations and behavior. And I
went on to say that our response is what will determine whether this is a headwind or a
Page 57 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

tailwind. In this afternoon sessions, we will show you how we are turning this potential risk
into an opportunity.

FINAL

The first showcase will be on health value-added services. But before we go into it, I
wanted to provide you with a brief context on why we're looking at this and why
embracing health tech is a natural extension of what we currently do.
We covered the demographic trends using this slide earlier. So the only point I will make
here is that clearly people living longer increases health care consumption, which
combined with a declining dependency ratio, places a huge burden on public resources.
Resources, which, of course, also have to stretch to cover infrastructure investment,
retirement provisions and broader welfare needs.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now the situation in Asia is even more acute, not just because of the population size, the
consumption of health care goods and services across the markets in which Prudential is
present, was estimated at USD 941 billion in 2017, having risen at a double digit rate over
the last five years. Remarkably, some 43% of this spend, roughly equivalent to $400
billion, is settled out of pocket. So that's what that 43% translates to in monetary terms.
This level of personal outlay far outstrips what is paid by individuals in the west and can be
readily defrayed through insurance and risk pooling.
Now behind this rise in health care spend has been the upsurge in chronic diseases,
somewhat abetted by the more sedentary lifestyles. Asia has not escaped this global
trend, which is said to drive medical consumption higher for the foreseeable future. By
2020, 60% of ailments like heart disease, cancer and diabetes are expected to occur in
emerging markets. Specifically, at a count of 216 million people, Asia has 47% of the
world's diagnosed diabetics today. This condition is both a major cause of death and a
key driver to medical consumption. The current and projected levels of health care
spending in Asia are putting significant pressure on both individual and public resources.
Millions of people are pushed below the poverty line every year by unplanned health care
expenditure.
Across Asia, public health resources are stretched. Lilian was making the point, which is
already translating into longer waiting times to access medical help and into public
hospital occupancy -- bed occupancy rates, which are above the 80% threshold
recommended by the World Health Organization. With medical consumption expected to
rise faster than GDP across the region, the burden on the public purse is set to increase.
And across the board, authorities are forecasting significant shortages in medical
resources.
And as I said this morning, ultimately, this challenge can only be addressed by close
cooperation between governments and private enterprise.
Turning to our credentials. Prudential is today a leading health and protection player in
Asia. Last year, we grew sales by 13% to over GBP 1 billion for the first time with sizable
contributions from all our major markets. This product segment accounted for 27% of our

Page 58 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

new business APE and was the largest component of the sales mix in Indonesia, Malaysia
and China.

FINAL

Our capabilities when it becomes -- when it comes to providing a very broad spectrum of
health insurance cover, is second to none. And we are continuously evolving our health
offering. As you heard from Lilian earlier, we're constantly extending coverage to more
conditions. And we're being -- bringing many first-to-market innovations.
We continue to invest heavily in simplifying our customer-facing processes and in
removing friction points. This investment spans the adoption of reflexive underwriting to
personalize and fast track the new business acceptance and the use of AI technology to
accelerate claim settlement. It also includes establishing hospital panels, which provide
upgraded services to our customers and speed up the process at the point of discharge
by settling claims directly with hospitals.

Bloomberg Transcript

Despite our considerable success, the fact remains that today we provide medical
reimbursement cover to only just 5 million customers collecting premiums of around USD
1.6 billion. When you bear in mind that nearly USD 400 billion is paid out-of-pocket across
Asia, the opportunity to pool risk more widely and in doing so deliver reductions in
medical costs to millions of consumers is fairly self evident.
Ours and more broadly the sector's key challenges, therefore, is how to raise consumers'
awareness of the availability, affordability and value of insurance cover. In our minds, this
has to start with engaging consumers on how they can improve their health and live
longer. Today's current service model for insurers is principally focused on paying for
clinical care. Yet 90% of the drivers of health care consumption are genetic, lifestyle and
environmental related. So we have to evolve from being a pure provider of cover to
partnering with customers on wellness, guiding them on how to improve or preserve their
health as well as supporting their treatment and recovery from adverse health events.
The advancement of technology is a real changer here and the 5 billion mobile phones in
the world provide a readymade engagement avenue. Mobile technology is the medium
that we have chosen to adopt. We believe that health tech is key to delivering affordable
and accessible health care for all.
So alongside providing core protection, we can now play a part in helping to prevent and
postpone the onset of disease. This more holistic approach to health care has the
following key components: shifting from sick care to wellness, identifying and working with
partners who have complementary capabilities, empowering customers with intelligent
self-help tools and using machine learning to provide personalized guidance to
customers. The convergence of medicine and technology is a natural playground for
health tech service providers who have proven tools that can enhance our offering.
In August this year, we signed an exclusive multiyear partnership with Babylon, a U.K.based health care and technology service company. With this unique collaboration,
Prudential is combining its leading capabilities as insurance, broad market footprint and
wide range on products and services with Babylon's market-leading AI platform and
Page 59 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

experience in partnering with governments. We plan to offer consumers 24/7 access to a
comprehensive set of digital health tools, featuring genuine AI. Once launched, this
scalable digital platform will be accessible to millions of consumers across the 12 Asian
markets covered by our agreement.
Babylon's AI platform is comprehensive, spanning from the sick care and health care cycle.
It draws on a vast pool of medical knowledge, which it applies to a person's medical
history, lifestyle data, test results and even their genetic profile. The platform has a huge
number of features, which Dr. Ali will cover shortly. These features provide patients more
and better access to medical information and help reduce the overall cost of health care.
The Prudential Babylon partnership represents a step change in health services in Asia.
Alongside promoting financial inclusion by making this available to both our existing and
new customers across Asia, we will afford them ease of access to health services and
information, drive engagement and improved awareness of the importance of wellness,
build trust through personalized medical interventions and drive high quality medical
outcomes.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said this morning, the benefits for us from enhancing our core offering span new
customer acquisition, increase customer touch points, higher customer loyalty and
retention, reduce claims frequency and lower cost severity. We also expect that it will
allow us to provide cover to previously uninsurable risk groups such as diabetics, subject
to adhering to specified lifestyle changes.
Researches confirm that insurance companies are set to be the future #1 distribution
channel for such health apps. We're convinced that this extended approach to health care
provision will deliver significant benefits to all.
This next slide sets out how technology has impacted service delivery in the U.K. As part
of efforts to care for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Harrow CCG
trialed a wireless monitoring services linking patients to nurses. Results showed that in the
three months, that the wireless remote monitoring service was used, admissions fell by
50% and hospital bed days by 63%.
In addition, an app recording health data of COPD patients allowed these patients to
monitor their health reducing GP calls by 63 -- 83% and GP visits by 57%.
In short, technology helped deliver lower admission rates, better adherence, more
efficient use of resources and higher patient satisfaction.
Returning to Asia and to Prudential. A partnership with Babylon is just one of several valueadded health services that we offer our customers. In 2017, we invested in Prenetics, a
start-up in Asia's leading -- a start-up that is Asia's leading genetic testing company.
Working alongside them, we launched myDNA Pro, which is a DNA-based personalized
health program specifically designed to help customers identify and reduce their risk to
type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The program provides nutrition
advice for optimal diet and fitness as well as health coaching for 12 months. Customer
Page 60 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

response has been extremely encouraging with 70% of users making positive changes to
their diet and lifestyles and 94% using it to help them lose weight.

FINAL

The services is being made available in Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines.
We're also working with health providers to offer our customers in Singapore, Malaysia,
China, Indonesia and Thailand, access to doctors and other health services tailored to
their broad and fast-changing needs.
With that, it is now my pleasure to invite Dr. Ali Parsa to the stage who will introduce and
demo the technology. He will be followed by Andrew Wong, who will cover how we will
integrate Babylon into our health offering and share with you our implementation plans for
Malaysia, the first country where this new service will be rolled out.

Ali Parsa

{BIO 17460634 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Nick. Nick just described the awful situation that health care globally is facing.
We have spent $10 trillion a year on the delivery of health care. And yet 50% of the world
population has almost no access, 0, to any kind of health care. The 50% who do have
access, often get very bad access. If you live in a second-tier town in Southeast Asia or in
a second-tier city in China or in India, your chances of getting the right diagnosis, even
after you see a doctor, is less than 50%. For those of us who live in a developed country,
we sometimes often have to wait. It's inconvenient to get health care. But we get it. But
it's expensive.
And that is only for physical care. If you think about mental health care, the situation is
significantly more dire. 50% of all our emergency access now in the Western countries is
because of mental health issues that it is started. And do you know what we do with you if
you're a child of somebody who's nonmiddle class, has mental health issues at the early
age. And we ignore it and we lose it until that child develops an addiction or another
problem and we'll end up putting them in jail. 70% of the people we have in the Western
societies in our prisons are people who had simple mental health issues.
And while the problem is significant in the delivery of health care worldwide, I believe it is
possible to make health care accessible, affordable. And put it in the hands of every
human being on earth. In that mission, we share the same values, the same beliefs as the
leadership of Prudential. We're delighted to work with them because at their core, they
believe also it is possible to change the life of ordinary people on the streets of the
countries in which they operate. When I say it's possible to make health care accessible
and affordable and put it in the hands of everyone, people often think that, that is a
dream too -- in too distant future. What I'm going to do today is show you what can be
done today. I'm going to show you how the future is already here, it's just badly
distributed.
Remember, when I was a student, I chose my university to seek -- to learn physics, almost
on the size of the library it had. Only 20 years ago, it was impossible to access the
information of the world. For those of you who are younger and do not remember a world

Page 61 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

without Google, you do not remember that it was impossible to get access to information
unless you had a big library at your fingertips.
When I was a child, growing up by the Caspian Sea, if I wanted to get music, I had to wait
nine months for the publication of that music to go to the capital city of my country to buy
a tape, bring it up to the North, pirate it and sell it to the rest of the kids. So they can also
get that music. Today, it doesn't matter if I live in Kabul, Connecticut or Turkmenistan or in
Singapore or in Malaysia, I can download music almost instantaneously as it comes out.
We can do the same with health care.
And we can do it because 4 things have happened in technology that were only a few
years ago, impossible to imagine. One, information -- diagnosis has become almost free.
Before Babylon, I used to own and run a chain of hospitals. 10 years ago, it would have
costed me $1 million to do a tip-to-toe diagnosis of you. Today, we can do that with
$10,000. And we can throw in your genome sequencing. That's a 99% reduction in the
cost of diagnosis in a single decade, double the rate of Moore's law.

Bloomberg Transcript

But that is just a beginning. We are not going from hospital, from clinics into your
(apartments), to your homes. The other day, I was at the offices of Google X and they
were talking about the nano molecule that they're working on that you digest in a pill, that
in the -- it circulates in your vascular system. And it will monitor your blood for
abnormalities. And it communicates it with your mobile phone.
Whether that is five years away or 10 years away, what matters is that we are in places
that we never imagined to be in before. We will soon, we will soon do with you what we're
already doing with your car. Monitor you 24/7, all the time, have you -- predict what is
going to happen to you next.
Second, the technology in health -- the information in health care is already free. I have
access now for almost the entire humanity's knowledge on medicine on my mobile
phone. The problem is that knowledge is doubling every 18 months. Fundamentally what
that means is that the sheer amount of what we are inventing now is so huge that it's
impossible for any human brain to capture it. Last year alone, 11,000 papers was
published on dermatology. Which doctor can memorize all of that? Next time when you
see a doctor and they say, "I know it all." Just be careful how much we are learning in the
last few years. Almost 2/3 of everything we know in medicine, we learned since 2010, in
this single decade. So we now need different tools to be able to analyze, to get on top of
what it is that we are dealing with.
Thirdly, we don't need hospitals, we don't need clinics all the time in order to reach
people now. We now have a mobile phone in the pocket of almost every human being on
earth. And we can do with these mobile phones what Google did with the information. We
can put most of the health care most people need and deliver to them on the devices
most people already have. We already do that in Rwanda, one of the poorest countries in
the world where we look after 2 million population, not just in Kigali. But in some of the
most remote villages on earth. Paid for courtesy of Bill & Melinda Gates. But now the
government of Rwanda.

Page 62 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

And what is amazing is whatever it is that your phone does today is only 1/2 of its
capability next year. It's a 1/3 of its capability three years from now. five years from now,
whatever it is today, is only 3% of what it can do. In 10 years' time, it can do 1,000 times
more. Can you imagine what a phone that can do a 1,000 times more will do? It is
important. What I love about the leadership of Prudential and the conversations I have with
them, is that they're not building a business for today. But they're building a business for
what the (future) is going to be. Their thoughts, a lot of their thinking is not just to look
after what they have now. But where is it it's going to go.
When Reed Hastings did the business plan for Netflix, it would have taken four months,
yes, you're right, four months to download a single episode of Game of Thrones. But he
knew always that the technology is going to get there. And it's important to know where
the future is going to be and build for that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally. And fourthly, everything you and I know about medicine is melting into air and
we are creating new models of delivery. It really doesn't matter if you're a evolutionist or a
creationist. It's neither God nor evolution that is creating new models of life. Just go to the
synthetic biology library -- department of the Imperial College in London. And see what
we are doing. Whether it's creation of new nano molecules or new organs. Whether we
are creating new laser treatments or ultrasound intervention. Everything we know in
medicine is changing.
So what I'm going to do with that, is to show you why some of this -- none of this is a
dream. And why all of this can be delivered -- much of this can be delivered today. There's
not one thing I mentioned now that is not a reality. If I can switch to the camera for you
and try and put on my mobile phone, my apologies for those of you who don't believe in
miracles, that woman married me.
I'm going to show you Babylon because here in this, I'm going to show you a quick
demonstration of it that...
(presentation)
You can download this. You could use it as you wish. But I'm just going to do a quick test.
(presentation)
So when you just want to do that, you just make an
appointment with a doctor. And then a doctor will show up and you just have a face-toface. So the artificial intelligence deals with the parts that you need. And then you have a
conversation with a doctor face-to-face. This doctor will have the result of that
conversation. So you can reduce the amount of time you spend together. Then you rate
our doctors, they rate very well to anything less than 4.7 with our company. And once your
conversation is finished, we have the video of your conversations for years to comes. So
the doctors can use it. Or if you need to pick up a prescription, we either send it to your
Page 63 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

home or you collect it at a pharmacy near you. It actually just figured out where we are. I'm
hoping this is where we are and you can just send it to a pharmacy right next door. And
you're done. You just go and pick it up.
And so all of this stuff we do, just think about now what we've done. We have collected a
significant amount of information from you through our interactions. We actually can do
more than that. We can actually run a consultation that is done for no other reason but to
create a health assessment of you. For those of you who live in London. And I just met a
few that have traveled from London, we just did last week with the Evening Standard a big
health assessment of all of the city. Tens of thousands of people participated. And we just
asked them about 10 to 15 minutes of questions like this. Interestingly, over 50% of
people who has started the flow, finished the flow. And we gave them a full health
assessment. So the result they get, which is this is what I have, is a digital trend of
yourself. This is a rather flattering digital twin of me but it shows everything, item by item
about my health. And including from my biometrics to my behavior to -- in future, my
environmental and also my genetic data.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then by adding to that, having all of that data in one place, creating a graph database of
every human being on our system, we could do amazing things. We can, for instance, try
and stimulate your future and just see, in this particular case, it knows everything about
me. It doesn't know if my parents have had diabetes. If I say no, it will tell me that my risk
of having diabetes is very low. And otherwise, it will give me a plan to manage it and so on
and so forth.
So what we could do is we could get to a place where we can monitor you, if you want us
to monitor you, all the time. We can be with you, not as a doctor who comes when
emergency happens. But a doctor who can tell you things are going wrong before they go
wrong. So for instance, in my country, U.K., today we will lose 15 wonderful human beings
to suicide. For every one of them, about 10 will attempt and fail. We will have 10,000
people sitting at home today with clinical depression who are not leaving their bed. If they
stay in bed for three days or more. And they look at their mobile phone more than normal
by 50%, we will know that they are 80% more likely to commit suicide. So we can come in.
We can intervene when the problem becomes too expensive.
(presentation)
Actually, in my case, I was just watching Game of Thrones. So that's fine. So I'm going to
show you now something that not that many people have seen, which is the brain behind
Babylon. We put that brain, we need to do it because we showed it as part of the
Amazon's worldwide developer conference. The CTO of Amazon, Werner, put that on.
And we did an experiment where we turned Alexa into a real doctor. Now unfortunately,
today, we can't do it in real life, because Alexa is not HIPAA compliant yet. So the
backbone behind Alexa is not -- doesn't have the level of security we need. But Alexa is
working on it. And strong -- soon we will launch it on Alexa.
But I want to show you a real case instance where we ran a consultation on Alexa. If you
can run the first film for me, please.

Page 64 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

(presentation)
What you see in the back is the real brain behind Babylon. 530 million streams of
knowledge. This is really something.

FINAL

(presentation)
So the timer is not done on this. But the entire consultation happens at a fraction of the
time of a real doctor. And what you see is the machine is constantly calculating the
probabilty of what could or could not be wrong with you.
(presentation)
This is an indication of a full graph -- data graph of a patient in a same way that Facebook
will have a full data graph or Netflix. No health care company in the world has a graph of
its patients in the way that we have created now.

Bloomberg Transcript

(presentation)
So then what we did is we moved that on to the second -- to a consultation, real-time
consultation with a doctor. And what you will see now is the doctor -- what the doctors
see. 40% of our patients just do a consultation with the AI. And will decide that they are
reassured and don't need to do more. Of the ones who come in, now we can do a
consultation with a doctor, just watch this consultation. It will go on for 2.5 minutes. But you
already feel satisfied. You feel that I got enough out of my doctor. Remember, the costs in
health care -- 70% of all costs in health care are salaries. What we need to do in order to
reduce the costs significantly is to minimize what our doctors can do. So they can you see
more patients more effectively. Please run the second video for me, (Jeff ).
(presentation)
So what you see on the right-hand corner is a full summary of the AI consultation for the
doctor. Below that, everything the doctor and the patient are talking about is being taped.
So there is no legal issues about what has been told or not told. You see on the right -- on
to your left-hand side, a medical history of the patient, all pulled out on the bits that are
most relevant to the doctor. And you see the digital twin of the patient that the doctor can
touch and highlight the parts of the patient they want to know about. The machine is
suggesting questions underneath in there for the doctor to follow if they wish to. In some
countries, this is very important because the quality of the doctors needs crosschecking.
And the machine is constantly improving its analysis. If you look at the face of the patients,
we're using facial recognition. So when there is a problem, the doctor will be able to cross
check. So if they see the patient all worried or the patient are not necessarily -- are
stressed, they can be calmer on that.
(presentation)

Page 65 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

Well you saw the patient was worried. The doctor can immediately ask, does that sound
okay? How can I reassure you? And also with what you're seeing now is that the machine
has had enough. The doctor presses the button. So look, it starts writing the notes. So the
machine can write extensive notes for the doctor. He's in no rush. It has perfect
handwriting. It can write what it needs to be done. Thank you very much. That's fine.
So think about what is happening now? To make health care accessible, it's almost
singular. As long as we can now put most of the health care most people need, as Nic
quite rightly said, on the devices most of them already have, that is highly accessible. In
Rwanda, I do not need to build clinics anymore, I can just deliver services to people
wherever they are.
In United States, we can do exactly the same. What -- but there is no such thing as
accessibility without affordability. And the costs in health care sit in 2 buckets. As I said, 2/3
of all our costs sit in the salaries. And about 70% of those costs sits on preventable,
predictable diseases. All we do in Babylon is to create technologies that allow us to
minimize what doctors can do and maximize their value on where it matters. And to try
and predict people's problems before they become expensive.

Bloomberg Transcript

Through doing that, for the National Health Service in Britain today, we can deliver services
to 4% of the young population of London, for instance, on NHS, who within three months
switch their NHS GP to Babylon. And we can do so at 3x more value. We can provide 24
service -- 24/7 services to the NHS for the same price they pay a GP for 8 hours a day.
We do that in Rwanda. We are now doing it in United States. We just launched in the -- in
Canada. But Southeast Asia is one of our most important markets. That technology has
just been embedded inside Tencent, for WeChat for people in China to be able to do
their primary care with AI in the first instance. But in here, our partner is Prudential. This is
one of the most important markets in the world. We're delighted to be partnering with
the leadership that doesn't just start for what exists today. But looks at where the future is
going to be and create the capabilities of tomorrow, today. So we can make health care
accessible, affordable and put it in the hands of every human being on earth. Thank you
for giving me the time to talk to you.

Andrew Wong

{BIO 20095518 <GO>}

Thank you. Dr. Ali. A very impressive presentation. That's what we need after lunch, I think.
Good afternoon, all. My name is Andrew Wong. I'm the Chief Health Officer of PCA. I just
joined the organization in January this year. Following on Nic and Dr. Ali's presentations, I
would like to recap our visions on health value-added services. And the regional
implementation approach to go live for Babylon AI and other value-added services in the
region. And also the progress we made so far in Malaysia.
Our ambitions is to protect the health and wealth of our customers by the use of artificial
intelligence to enable access to affordable and quality health care. We are a life and
health insurer and given our customers' increasing needs in health care, we need to
Page 66 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

transform ourself from a health payer to a health manager. And we would like to take the
prevent, postpone and protect concept against illnesses to the market, as mentioned
previously by both Nic and Lilian. We would like to work with different partners and
introduce the following 5 areas of services to our customers.
Lifestyle and wellness program. We would like our customers to keep track of their daily
activities, sleep and dietary patterns and to provide coaching to encourage our customers
to improve their health by maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Our customers will be able to
monitor their current health and identify future risk factors through the use of DNA testing
and health assessments. And if our customer unfortunately is suffering from chronic
illnesses, the use of chronic disease management programs can help them to maintain or
even improve their health conditions by improving adherence to medications, diet and
exercise regimes.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the use of triage and symptom diagnosis can direct our users to appropriately and
timely treatments based on their interactions with the AI-backed chatbot or data collected
from various devices.
In the event, if our users they do require to see a doctor, we can obviously arrange
consultations with doctors, either through video or physical visits. We can also arrange
medication to be sent to the user's home or office address. So with Babylon Health as our
exclusive partner in Asia, how do we maximize the capabilities of Babylon and integrate
with other various other value-added-services in the region. So our goal is to do the
regional rollout. And initially, we want to go live with the core features of Babylon AI and
local telemedicine services in all Asian markets to be supplemented by additional features
such as wellness, rewards, chronic disease management programs and other services to
be progressively delivered over 2019.
The first country of the rollout is going to be Malaysia, where we have started the
program three months ago. And the project team is very busy in collaborating with
Babylon team and local medical experts to localize the content with the aim to launch the
PRUhealth app to our new and existing customers in March next year. Other than Malaysia,
we also initiate implementation programs in Indonesia, Singapore, Hong Kong, following
the same approach and playbook. And of course, other markets will follow within 2019.
So Malaysia is the first country we're going to roll out. And it has a very young and digitally
savvy and increasingly affluent population. 88% of the population has smartphones. And
this is likely to increase in the future. And the economy of Malaysia is going to perform
strongly as well, it's on its way to achieve high-income status by 2021, in accordance with
the World Bank. As such, we do think that's a big opportunity to extend our presence in
Malaysia by tapping into the digital consumer base.
Our health platform will benefit local Malaysian communities by improving further the
awareness of health and wellbeing, drive more digital innovations and also reduce health
cost in that particular country. And customers will have better access to affordable and
personalized health services and they are empowered with the necessary health
information and data.

Page 67 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

So what are we going to do in terms of the regional approach? So we're going to
implement Babylon Health in other value-added services in 4 phases, i.e. prelaunch, pilot,
launch and accelerate. During the so-called prelaunch phase, we need to localize the
Babylon AI content in terms of language, epidemiology data and culture. So the
localization is more than just translation of the language. We need to take a lot of other
aspects into consideration, which I'm going to explain later in another slide. We also need
to obtain the relevant approvals and support from regulators and government
departments. And also ensure full compliance with data privacy.
Other value-added service providers are going to be identified in order to complement
Babylon Health and to provide more holistic services to our users. We will enter into the
pilot phase once the localization of Babylon Health and integration with telemedicine
service is complete. And the applications will be made available to our employees,
agents, distribution partners and subject to further rigorous user testing and feedback.

Bloomberg Transcript

With the call features in place, the health app is now ready to launch and go live with
Apple Store and Google Play Store. And made available to our new and existing
customers. And there will be press releases and various marketing promotion activities
associated with the launch. And once we have additional features such as wellness,
reward and loyalty programs, we will be able to accelerate the launch and address to the
general population of the markets by empowering the users everything they need in
order to improve their health.
We will, of course, coordinate with additional distribution partners, such as
telecommunication companies, retail chains and large corporates in order to increase
awareness and adoption of the applications with more repeat engagements. Users are
also encouraged to link with their contacts and affinity groups and set their own
challenges. Personalized and optimized notifications will be sent out to encourage users
to progress with new goals and also use additional services. Appropriate rewards
programs will be created to incentivize achievements and continue engagement with the
applications, which is very important for the success of the launch.
And of course, more viral digital marketing campaigns will be carried out at the same
time. This can be supported and promoted by incentivizing users to promote app through
the use of discount or other rewards. And specialized social media content will also be
used to promote sharing and sign-ups. So we got this regional playbook, this regional
approach in mind. So what have we done so far in Malaysia?
We kick-started the rollout program in Malaysia in September this year. And we've been
very busy undertaking the following activities during the prelaunch phase. Well firstly, we
engaged Bank Negara, our regulator in Malaysia. And also Ministry of Health. And
explained to them our ambitions on Babylon Health and health value-added services and
obtained their support and approval wherever necessary.
We also localized Babylon AI services. And it's going to be available in both Bahasa and
English. And as I said before, it's not simply just a translation of the application, special
attention has been given to ensure the use of appropriate tone and express sensitive and

Page 68 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

alarming topics in a suitable manner. Local culture and habits and diets of Malaysians are
also taken into consideration.
There's another important element of the localization is the incorporation of the local
epidemiology data into the software, such as some of the tropical illnesses like dengue, it
has to be recognized by the AI. And the triage (advice) is also adjusted in accordance with
the local health infrastructure. And medical doctors hired externally and also from our local
business units, they are also heavily involved in this localization process. And we also think
engagement with other stakeholders is important as well. And that's why we engage
continuously with various hospital groups and Malaysian doctor associations. Our medical
advisory board for this Prudential Health app will be setup. And members of the advisory
board will include medical directors from reputable hospitals and senior physicians.
At the same time, a number of local value-added service providers such as DoctorOnCall
and AIME identified to supplement the Babylon AI services. So who is DoctorOnCall?
DoctorOnCall basically provides online consultations by local physicians. And if necessary,
electronic prescriptions are issued and users can choose to have their medications
delivered directly to them instead of collecting from the pharmacies.

Bloomberg Transcript

And AIME is a startup company that make use of AI to analyze weather and data in the
common domains of public health in order to predict the probability of dengue outbreak
in Malaysia. And as a result, this helps respective users to take necessary precautions
against the outbreak of dengue fever.
As we are making great progress in Malaysia, the localized core Babylon AI service,
together with the useful health content, will be released internally and make available to
all our 2,500 employees in Malaysia next Monday, i.e., the 19th of November.
With rigorous user testing and feedback and full integration of Babylon AI with
DoctorOnCall telemedicine services. We anticipate to release the enhanced version in
February 2019 to our 20,000 agents and distributors. In March 2019, the PruHealth app will
go live in App Store and Google Play Store. It's going to be available to all our new and
existing customers, government agents, affinity groups and corporates. And in total, the
addressable base is going to be more than 2.5 million.
Packaged not only with the core services of Babylon Health and DoctorOnCall. But it will
also come with other features such as dengue protection from AIME and electronic
payment, whereas distribution, promotions and marketing campaigns will be carried out in
order to bring awareness and excitement among the users. We target to accelerate the
launch starting Q2 2019, where we're going to expand the futures of the app to include
wellness and lifestyle, rewards, DNA testing, chronic disease management program. And
of course, we will work with additional distribution partners and undertake viral digital
marketing campaigns to target the entire population, which is 32 million.
So with all this great work being carried out, now it's time for us to look at what the
application is going to look like. Once the application is downloaded. And you can see the
application's length and page with the 4 split screens of different designs to attract
Page 69 of 95



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

different user groups. And users are required to register the account by the use of his or
her e-mail address or Google or Facebook. And provide some basic personal
informations, as you normally would sign-up with other accounts or applications. Once the
registration is complete and the users log-on, the user will arrive at the application
homepage, which you can see on the right-hand side of the screen. So the home page is
in the Bahasa. And I will take you through some of the functionalities in details later on.
And you can see that the home page has few icons and quick links, which allow users easy
access to the core functions.
So the next slide I'm going to show you is the detailed functionality of the applications. So
let's have a closer look at that. And it basically serves as a portal for easy access of all
health value-added services. And also the Prudential insurance-related services. So on top
of the home page there's a advertisement slider where we're going to deliver targeted
information and news to the user. Then in the middle of the screen, you can see there's 4
functional icons. On the left, you can see the Pru4U icon, which will enable user to have
access to all Prudential insurance-related services such as the change of address, policy
statements, claim submissions, inquiry, premium notice and other policy-related services.
And next to the Pru4U icon is the getting treatment. This is where you can have access to
DoctorOnCall telemedicine services. And next to it is the heart shaped icon, it's staying
well. And when you click the icon, it will allow you access to a range of wellness services,
including Babylon Health and other fitness tracker activities. On the right-hand side,
there's my rewards. It will allow the user to check the reward balance and provides healthrelated gamifications and rewards to keep the user engaged on regular basis. Then, at
the bottom, the home screen, you can see there are a few static icons. They basically
provide users very easy access to the call functionality of the PruHealth app.
So the home icon is self-explanatory. And next to the home icon is the check symptoms.
And this is where the user can have access to Babylon symptom checker to initiate a
dialogue with the AI-backed health chatbot about any medical conditions the user may
have. So this function will provide the user, as explained by Dr. Ali earlier, the access to
health advice from anywhere or any time, 24/7. And which is very handy and useful and
particularly, in Malaysia and also other Asian countries, where access to health care
sometimes is challenging.
On the right, you can see there's a access health icon, which will allow the user to use the
Babylon Health assessment program. And to undergo a series of health self-assessments
through the interaction with the chatbot as well. And lastly, in the middle of the screen,
just below the advertisement slider, you can see there's a quick navigation pull-down
menu, which will allow more frequent users to jump straight to the desired application
directly from the home screen.
So as you can see, this is a very simple. But yet feature-rich home screen, which will
provide our customers easy access to all the necessary health value-added services as
well as Prudential insurance-related services, all in one place.

Page 70 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

As I mentioned earlier, the user can click directly on the corresponding static icons at the
bottom of the home screen, to get direct access to Babylon AI services. So if you're
unwell or you're familiar with the app, you can click the check symptom icon, which will
take you directly to the Babylon symptom checker service. And of course, it's localized to
the Malaysian market. And through the interactions with the chatbot, the user can get
useful information and advice about the conditions anywhere, any time. And they can
equip themself with better understanding about their situations. So as to make conscious
decision on what are the next steps, whether they simply need to take a rest or they
need to go to the pharmacy to buy some Panadol or they need to go to see a doctor,
have video conference or to call the emergency hotline.
And by clicking the assess health icon, the user can have access to the Babylon health
assessment service. And that service will assess the user's current health based on the
questionnaire interacted with the Babylon chatbot. The health assessment will focus on 4
areas, as Dr. Ali described, body nutritions, activity and mood. And it's all based on the
information provided by the user. It will also help the user to predict the future risk for
some of the most common illnesses, such as diabetes and heart attack.
So based on the outcome of the health assessment, a digital twin of the user will be
generated to illustrate the user's health conditions. And is available in 3 formats: organ,
muscular and skeleton, which is shown on the right-hand side of the screen.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this is the end of my presentation. And I hope that, that gives you a good
understanding of Prudential's ambitions on Babylon and health services, our current
implementation and localizations in Malaysia and also the road map for the rest of Asia.
So now, I will hand over the stage back to Nic for his closing remarks.

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you, Dr. Ali. I've seen the demo a number of times. But
every time I'm very, very impressed.
I mean, there's a reason kind of why Babylon chose us. It's not just because we just
happen to share the same vision in the health care space. But because working with a
single company, working with Prudential, we can give them access to 12 markets. And
ultimately, we have a warm customer base of around 15 million. So we can make rapid
progress working together.
And there is a reason why we chose Malaysia to launch this first. Malaysia is a market
where 85% of the population is unbanked. And actually, in our discussions with regulators
and authorities, they are asking us what is it that we can do to help accelerate financial
inclusion? And we think this can support that. Of course, we have 2 million customers in
that market. We already have a big health business. We're connected with DoctorOnCall,
who can provide a medical -- real doctors and dispense medicine. And of course, we've
got 50-odd medical network hospital.

Page 71 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

And there's a reason why we're going to Indonesia next. Again, 2 million health
customers. We're working with Halodoc, which is a doctor network. And we have a 90-plus
hospital network as well. And of course, in places like Indonesia, if you're living in some of
the outer regions of that country, it can take you up to three days to travel to go and see
a doctor. And that's not unique to Indonesia. The same is true in the Philippines, parts of
Malaysia. In fact, in Cambodia, if you need specialist health, you need to get a visa to
travel to neighboring Vietnam or Thailand.
Why have we chosen them? Well because of the quality of the AI. Actually, the track
record, the fact that they are you using this in (inaudible) in a number of markets. And the
second reason is that this is real AI. And there are plenty of similar type of services
available. But in a lot of cases, they're backed by physical doctors, literally keying in their
text reply. This is really, really scalable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ultimately. And we believe this and research shows, that a customer is more likely to trust
the company when that company has been there in a real crisis. And that is why this
technology is important. So AI-driven health tech disseminated through personal devices
in a way which complements the provision of insurance will play, in our view, a pivotal role
in making health care affordable and accessible. Prudential is now in a position to leverage
such technology, deliver cutting-edge consumer outcomes and create a win-win
environment for all.
So if we can now move to the other 4 innovation showcases, where we will display some
of the new technology-based capabilities and solutions. All except one of these are
currently live across our business. And are being used at scale to support our day-to-day
operations. In distribution efficiency, colleagues from 3 businesses will showcase how the
new technology is supporting agency training, prospecting and client servicing.
In customer fulfillment, you will see 4 new technology innovations, which are currently
deployed in our Hong Kong business. And are transforming and digitizing customer
fulfillment. In customer segmentation, you will be shown how our new digitally-enabled
employee benefit proposition, currently on offer in Singapore. And soon to be rolled out
in other markets across the region, you'll see how we're making that work.
And finally, in the direct-to-consumer section, you will see our new Robo Advisor D2C
wealth offering, which is about to go live in Taiwan. And which will also be deployed in
Malaysia next year.
I hope that you will enjoy them. Chantal, over to you for the logistics.

Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Thanks, Nic. Okay. So the 4 showcases have just been described to you. You will all be
able to access all 4. So you've been allocated groups. They're on a loop here. So watch
out for your group. It's also on your app. So these showcases are going to be held on
Level 2. So if you could make your way down to Level 2 where hostesses will meet you

Page 72 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

and take you to the right room. Then, if I could ask, in the interest of time, if you could be
back here at 4:45 for the Asia financial update from Raghu, please. Thank you.
(Break)

FINAL

Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome back. So if you settle down quick, then we can get
started.
So I have the privilege of wrapping up the PCA presentations -- the presentation from
PCA today. So if you take -- cast your mind back to the morning, I think Nic set out the
what for the strategic context for PCA and the initiatives that are in (train). And Lilian and
the showcases after, gave you the operational context and they helped you understand
the how. And what I will attempt to do in my presentation is the why, i.e. how do you
translate strategy into financial value?

Bloomberg Transcript

So I aim to cover 4 areas in my presentation. The first is to recap the strength of the
operating model of PCA. Second is provide you some proof points on selected market
performance on 3 dimensions, growth, quality and cash. And how they underpin the
delivery of value. Go -- the third update would be on the -- on our results, our Q3 results,
go beyond the headlines and give you a bit of flavor around what's going on in each of
the businesses. And lastly, I'll attempt to put a financial assessment on some of these
strategic initiatives you've seen today.
So with that -- so the performance context for PCA and the execution is anchored by 5
very clear levers. And some of these are enduring and some of these are things that we
put more emphasis on. The first one is long-term orientation. It seems very obvious. But
this is in our DNA. This is a long-term business focused on providing protection products
to mostly underinsured and/or uninsured agents. And as you'll see soon, this provides or
produces very resilient and compounding economics for the business.
The second is around quality growth. Given the vast opportunities that we have been very
clear about where we allocate our capital. And you've seen Nic talk about our focus on
health and protection. So there are 2 areas where we have chosen to allocate our capital,
which is protection products, which as you guys know, are uncorrelated to investment
markets. And asset management products, which are capital-light. Now these produce
good consumer outcomes. But they also deliver attractive shareholder economics.
The third one is around portfolio management. And this is a -- and Mike referred to this in
his presentation. And this is where we spend a lot of time. We have finite physical capital
and financial capital. And we have to be very clear about where we allocate the capital,
whether it be across products, across geographies and across channels. And you'll see
some examples in the Q3 financial update of some movements that's happened this
year. But this approach is very integral to delivering our financial performance. And often
an underrated attribute for PCA.

Page 73 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

And the fourth one is around the capability build. You heard about the strategic initiatives,
which are in train and plan for PCA. I call them the 2 Rs. The first one is reinforcing and
expanding our current propositions. And there's a lot of work going on in this space. And
the second one is reimagining the delivery and scope. So what I'll try to do in my
presentation later on is to give you a financial dimension to the strategic and operational
dimension that you've seen today. And that will hopefully complete the picture.
And the fifth one is really a measurement of success. And Mike referred to this again,
saying our definition of success is very, very clear. And it's a high bar, it's a high bar. PCA
and the group, we pride ourselves on growing 3 metrics in tandem: New business profits,
IFRS operating profits and free surplus generation. And that's because, we believe that
underpins the delivery of sustainable value.
Now as many of you in the room would know, maximizing any of these -- any one of these
metrics is perhaps easier. But it certainly delivers suboptimal outcomes to customers and
to shareholders. So PCA in this context has a very unique financial signature. And this
underpins our execution. Lastly, if you do this well, these levers have multiply effect. And
delivering very good outcomes to the company.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'm going to canter those -- canter through these levers real quick. The first one is, as I
said, this is dead obvious. But it's not clear that the resilience, the long-term orientation
for producers for the business or the compounding is that well appreciated in my view. So
we -- our raison d'etre is to collect small contributions regularly from first-time consumers
over a long duration.
Now what that produces is just very compelling. You see these small premiums coming in,
they aggregate over time. And they start compounding, producing the blue bars. And
they overwhelm anything that we might do, any premiums that we might collect in any
one year shown by the red bars. And as you can see, that produces the resilience and the
compounding across economic and market cycles.
Now this resilience is clearly very attractive for shareholders, because it produces a
smooth progression on revenue. Then that flows through into profits. But it also gives
peace of mind to our consumers, who at the end of the day are dependent on us to pay
claims.
Taking a quick look at just the blue bars, the renewal premiums. I mean, the shape here is
excellent. You see that they compound and they compound at scale, they've been very
consistent. And is very diverse. And you see businesses getting bigger. Some -- you have
4 businesses now, who deliver more than GBP 1 billion of renewal premiums as compared
to none 10 years ago. So this is a very attractive financial picture. And so far this year, the
picture continues. You see renewal premiums are up 16% to GBP 9 billion with 8 markets
delivering more than 10% growth.
Now new premiums are very critical over time to delivering this compounding. So indulge
me here a bit if there is a -- just a bit of a lesson. So last year, we collected about GBP 3.7
billion of new premiums. About 95% of that was GBP 3.5 billion was regular premiums,
Page 74 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

first year regular premiums. Now over time, they compound the cumulative premiums as
these small contributions come in from our customers, compound to GBP 18 billion, on a
discounted basis. And as you can see, that's more than 5x initial amount of GBP 3.5 billion.
Now it -- that only works if you can hold on to these consumers. And we track these
metrics very aggressively. And you can see the retention rate is -- as Mike said, is very
healthy at 90%. So it gives you comfort that these premiums -- expected premiums are
actually realized.
So what this tells you is that, it's not the level of premiums that are important, it's actually
the duration and the mix that actually drive value for both customers and for shareholders.
So going on to the mix. So what this picture shows on the left is really a critical piece of
our execution. We have a very conservative product set that offers low risk exposure to
policyholders. And very complementary economics for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

So there are 3 points to make here. And I'll stick to the left-hand side chart, which shows
you the economics of our products. The right-hand side chart just shows you the cash
signature. So the first point to make is the returns, as you can see from the red bar, for
PCA, are very attractive on a margin basis. And you can see across products, if you scan
through the columns, the diversified product set produces great returns. The first point.
Second one is around the differentiation between volume and profits. So if you look at our
2017 picture of volumes, you see that about 1/2 of our sales came from participating
products. Now participating products, as many of you know, have a very unique financial
signature because they -- we have very little or 0 initial shareholder capital investment
due to the unique funding model. And clearly, that produces long duration cash flows,
which underpin our earnings. For consumers, it allows them to take or get exposure to a
diversified asset base producing higher returns than otherwise.
And if you skip to H&P. And we talked a lot about H&P, health and protection today. You
can see that they contributed almost 1/3 of our 2017 sales. But the NBP mix is clearly high,
at 70%. So what's going on here? So you can see that H&P premiums are less than 1/4,
premiums are less than 1/4 of the participating products. While the margins are about 4x
higher, illustrating the higher risk that we take on behalf of consumers and this is
underwriting risk, which is uncorrelated to markets. But this dynamic produces a very
attractive financial picture for shareholders delivering high-quality NBP growth over cycles.
So therefore, I would urge that to gauge our revenue progression, NBP probably is a
much better metric to assess our financials.
So that brings me to the second point, which is around high-quality growth and our
protection bias, which I referred to earlier. So the compounding revenues that are
produced by high regular premium mix. And the attractive shareholder economics of H&P
products, produces this kind of progression. So you can see that NBP has consistently
grown. And I have also shown you the proportion of NBP that is contributed by health and
protection, which has clearly ticked up over time. And Mark illuded to this in his
presentation. NBP is really critical in driving future value for the company. So here you can
Page 75 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

see that NBP contributed over the 10 -- nine years shown, about 70% of the increase in
(EEV) for PCA.
I'd like to make 2 other points here. First is, the operating variances and assumption
changes were a very small amount, a mild positive, which reflects the conservatism of our
assumption set. And if you concentrate on the small blue bar with the GBP 1.3 billion
number on it, this shows you that impact on markets, which includes 2009, is awash, it's a
mild positive. But it's awash. This illustrates that our business is more structural than
cyclical given the capital allocation choices.
The last point I would make on this slide is that NBP is very critical in driving the stock of
future value. So you can see that the value of in-force, which is just a discounted value of
future profits, has gone up 4.5x from GBP 3.7 billion to GBP 16.8 billion over this period. So
the question really is how does this convert into cash, over what time and at what pace?

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me try this on you. So I'll take the GBP 20.9 billion of 2017 closing EV. That has a
discounted fee surplus emergence, i.e. future cash on a discounted basis of GBP 18.7
billion. If I were to convert it into an undiscounted number and this is what you see in our
2017 financial statements, GBP 37.8 billion. And that's the cash signature of the GBP 37.8
billion. It unwinds to 2057. There's about more than GBP 6 billion of cash expected to be
released over the next five years. So the unwind from the in-force is pretty steady.
What I wanted to show you is the accretive nature of new business, given that NBP is such
a driver of future value. So for that, I need to roll a year back. So if you go to end 2016,
your in-force cash flows are GBP 32.3 billion compared to the GBP 37.8 billion. And the
bridge is just new business written in 2017.
So you can see on the right that the undiscounted cash from new business written in 2017
was GBP 5.5 billion, pre-new business investment. And these are -- and the new business
has returned a very attractive shareholder economics, at a payback of three years, 40year total of GBP 5.5 billion on a cash 10, which is our internal measure of what proportion
of cash comes -- is released to shareholders within the first 10 years, which is 26% of APE.
And this is what it does to your cash -- to your future cash. So in one year, new business
increased your future emergence of cash by 17%, from GBP 32.3 billion to GBP 37.8 billion.
So that sets the context for the next slide, which is to show how does this cash emerge
into profits and earnings over time, which is a real question.
So on the left-hand side, you see the stock of future value on an undiscounted basis. So
what's this showing you? So you recognize the GBP 37.8 billion of undiscounted cash at
the end of 2017. And in six years from end of 2011 to '17, you've seen it double primarily
because of the stacking of new business. The blue bars are every year's new business,
cash -- expected undiscounted cash from new business. So far so good. So this stock
initially added at inception was GBP 25.1 billion from -- for these six years.
So going from the left to the right, you want to see how this unwinds and at what pace. So
clearly, the in-force unwinds in line with the red bars. But what's really interesting is how
Page 76 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

the blue bars unwind.
So you can see that the blue bars unwind over time and here you have an interesting
dimension where not only does it -- not only is the pace right. But the duration is long. So it
gives you a steady progression that we are all accustomed to seeing. The point I wanted
to get across was that to deliver this 14% growth in cash or in-force free surplus
generation, we had only utilized about 8% of the undiscounted cash that six years of new
business have provided. So of the GBP 25.1 billion, you've just utilized GBP 1.9 billion to
deliver a cash growth of 14%. Said another way, you've got another GBP 23.2 billion of
cash from six years of new business that will unwind over the next 40 years. That provides
a great underpin to your future cash generation. And this converts into earnings. Clearly,
this creates a flywheel effect because every year you add a new business, you're going to
see the left-hand side tower grow higher. And it doesn't need to unwind at a huge rate to
produce this double-digit growth on the right.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that's our kind of the financial model for PCA. Very simply, we write high-quality new
business at very attractive economics. This leads to compounding value that converts into
earnings and cash. So that kind of sets the construct for what I'm trying to do next. So
you'll see a bit of new disclosure here. So we'll show you -- or I'll take you through some
of our -- a few of our select markets and illustrate how the compounding effect of new
business and the conversion of cash comes through into our reported financials.
So the duration I've chosen here is five years to both reflect recent trends. But also to
take a long enough duration so that it is representative of our business. So this comes
under portfolio management. So let's skip through. So let's take Derek Yung's business,
which is Hong Kong. And you should all be familiar with the stunning progression of this
business. Embedded value has quintupled over five years. Over 60% of the growth has
been delivered by new business. I'd also note that variances and market movements,
which are captured under nonop, is positive.
So if you look at new business, new business has gone up 8x, reflecting volumes, which
have gone up 4x and the rest just reflecting a richer H&P mix. Not only has H&P content
gone up. But we've also been selling, as Lilian alluded to earlier, richer products.
And you can see that within the mix and quality bucket, H&P NBP has actually gone up 12x.
And volumes here went up 4x, which means that you got the rest of the upside from this
richer protection mix.
The customer mix, which I know is a great point of interest, has provided diversity to our
financials. So if you look at the domestic business that has gone up 5x, the NBP has gone
up 5x. And that has been aided by faster growth from the Mainland Chinese business,
which obviously has grown from a very small -- from a very low base, aided mostly by
higher H&P growth.
And this growth has converted into IFRS operating profits. So IFRS operating profits have
trebled over the period. And you can see that insurance margin has actually grown faster.
So you've seen higher-quality, fast growth earnings from the business. The IFRS
Page 77 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

progression in Hong Kong is interesting, given the unique mix of products we sell, Par and
H&P. Par produces a steady underpin to your profits, while shareholder business reflects
the profitability from the high H&P content.
So that's all about growth. How do you assess the quality of the growth that you've seen
when embedded value has gone up 5x over the last five years? The first one is to look at
the premium mix. And the chart here shows you 2 things. One, it shows you that the
premium mix has been getting richer. So you can see that H&P content, which is shown in
the first half, in the last line, you've seen MCH business is 27%, has gone up 7 points.
Domestic business has gone up as well. And over these five years, H&P mix has gone up
6 points.

Bloomberg Transcript

It also has significant regular premium buyers. So about 98% of our business is regular
premium. So that's on an absolute length. You can see from a relative length. And this is -these are statistics published by the IA. PHKL or Hong Kong business, Derek's business,
has 30% share of the regular premium market. So that's what's going into our EV. So this
is our premiums. And the second one -- the other lens that I've used to judge the quality
of the business, is really the experience in our in-force. So first, the value of in-force, which
as you would remember, is the stock of future cash, has a protection bias. No surprises
here given that NBP has been -- NBP growth has been led by protection growth. And our
customer retention ratio remains excellent. And this unwinds into cash. So you can see the
cash profile. And it has got the characteristics that I outlined to you earlier, a steady
underpin from the Par book and a richer shareholder mix coming through the blue bars.
Let's do the same one for Indonesia. This should get easier as I go through these
markets. So I know a lot of debate around Indonesia on the financials. But you see very
similar dynamics here. EEV shareholder's equity over the same period has gone up 2.6x,
led by a growth in the value of in-force, which is up 1.7x.
Now we know that NBP progression has slowed. But that has led to VIF growing at a
declining rate and still driving value because you're adding new stacks of new business,
albeit at a slower rate. And this new business has very good economics. So you can see
the payback on the slide. So the question is, how does it convert into IFRS profit? You can
see that IFRS profit has doubled over these five years. Again, insurance margin has
outpaced the overall delivery. So the IFRS profit here has 2 dynamics. What you've seen
here is the stacking effect of new business, has allowed fee income to grow on a growing
in-force. But, more importantly, you're also seeing growing insurance margin from the
stacking of new business.
So that's -- those are numbers you know. You can see from here the inflows -- the
undiscounted cash that is expected to emerge from Indonesia over the next 40 years.
And that's a handy GBP 4.7 billion. And this will provide the earnings and cash underpin as
we take the actions that Nic and Lilian alluded to and as we pivot this business to grow. So
the message here is that there is a steady financial cushion, giving the teams the
headroom to fashion a turnaround.

Page 78 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

I'm going to do one more. So China, internally, we call it a start-up business, has -- we just
started in China in 2000. And it exhibits exactly the same dynamics. You can see that EEV
growth -- EEV has quadrupled over these five years, led by new business. But also led by
scale effects, which is in the in-force growth and variances bucket. And positive
experience. So as we've grown the business, we've seen expense leverage come into
the business and some of the assumptions that we rightfully were very conservative from
a -- in a start-up as we get more experienced, that gets released into the EEV.
Very familiar picture again. You can swap some of the names here. The NBP has gone up
6x over this period. Volumes have gone up 4.5x. So the rest of the growth is just richer
H&P mix. Viewed through either profit lens or a premium lens, the progression is just
excellent. So you've seen H&P APE mix go from 28% to 42%. And the H&P NBP mix going
from 39% to 62%. And you recall that, at the PCA level, H&P is 70% of our NBP. And it's a
highly regular premium business. So it's a high-quality business, with 98% regular
premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the same dynamic again. IFRS profits have followed this progression, quintupling over
the period, led by insurance margin outpacing the overall growth. This shouldn't be
surprising, again, given the high H&P content -- growing H&P content within the business.
You'll be relieved to know that I'm not going to do this by every market. So I'll do a
consolidated view for the rest of the markets and apologies to Wilf if I'm not calling out
Singapore separately. But you can see that the rest of the businesses have seen similar
dynamics. You've got Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines, Vietnam, Thailand, India and Taiwan
in here. India has doubled, with NBP leading most of the growth. And you can see that the
NBP mix for Singapore and Malaysia is dominant given that they are older businesses.
EEV growth is translated into IFRS profit, nearly doubling over the period. And you would
expect that the more nascent businesses, Thailand, Philippines and Vietnam, have grown
at a faster rate.
Moving on to the -- moving on Eastspring. Nic referred to the synergistic appeal of the
asset. You've seen the structural life flows give us the opportunity to incubate a very
successful and growing third-party business. So you can see that the flows almost match
each other, producing a compelling proposition for both shareholders and for customers.
You heard from Eastpring around the strategic initiatives. I'll come back to the financial
impact of some of these initiatives later on in the presentation.
So at a portfolio level for PCA, we have a collection of high-return businesses, which have
compounded earnings at scale, both in Eastspring and in life with diversity. So the
business is getting real scale, as shown on the right. And these earnings have been high
quality. So as I said to you, this is a pretty high bar.
So moving on to a more shorter-term period, looking at Q3. You guys have all read the
press release, you have seen that the sequential momentum has improved. So Q3 sales
are up 9% compared to the 6% in Q2, leading to a flat outcome for the year-to-date.

Page 79 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

You see some similar dynamics that I outlined earlier. You can see that it remains a regular
premium business. 94% of our business is regular premium. And H&P mix has actually
ticked up 1 point. NBP progression is faster. And I'd urge you to remember the earlier slide
around the relative sizes of the premiums and the richness of H&P products in NBP. So
NBP growth is 15%. Most of it has been driven by improving mix, positive variances,
positive effects on our existing business and some management actions around pricing in
Hong Kong.
The mix effects by country. It remains very, very healthy. So here, you can see that 7 out of
12 markets had positive mix movements. So we've taken significant action again in these
markets to change mix. China, Hong Kong, Singapore and India saw improving H&P mix,
producing high-quality NBP growth. Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand, we've seen a lift -- we
have seen a shift into linked, in Vietnam from Par, in Thailand from non-Par and Malaysia
into linked protection. And you can see that the product-level NBP growth has followed as
a result of these actions. So that completes the life picture.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Eastspring, you can see that the structural and cyclical dynamic play out this year, given
what markets have done. So you've seen GBP 5.7 billion of internal flows, which have
offset the external net outflows, which have mainly been led by our institutional business,
which has seen outflows of GBP 1.5 billion because of mandate and regulatory changes.
And the retail business saw GBP 0.5 billion of outflows, mostly in the Third Quarter due to
lower inflows in India and China.
As a result, our average FUM is up 11%. But our closing assets under management are up
7%, reflecting the acquisition of TMB Asset Management, which contributed GBP 9.3 billion
of assets.
So if you indulge me here. So that is the absolute picture. The relative picture remains
very strong. So if you are to compare our relative growth profile measured by NBP as a
proportion of EV to a select group of multinational or regional peers, in Asia, you can see
that our EV compounds at a higher rate because of NBP growth and it's 50% higher than
the peers who remain unnamed on this chart.
On the right-hand side, I wanted to take a moment to talk to you about the portfolio. So
what this shows is our regional portfolio of businesses. And as Nic alluded to -- Nic alluded
earlier, we have top 3 position in 9 out of 12 markets. Eastspring investments is the
leading asset manager in Asia. And you can see the earnings mix. The earnings mix across
our markets is very balanced. And they're growing at pace and high quality. So that gives
you a sense of the portfolio affected in PCA. What this allows our local teams, our market
teams to do is to deal with cyclical effects. And while dealing with those cyclical effects,
not compromise our value delivery or, indeed, the regional delivery.
So I promised at the beginning that I would give you a financial assessment of some of
these strategic initiatives that have been outlined today. So that's what this is aiming to
do. So you saw our strategic initiatives today were in 2 groups. One is leveraging existing
capability. And the second is to build new capability, to drive 3 strategic outcomes: one, to
extend our leadership position, (comes up); second, to access new revenue pools, which

Page 80 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

will accelerate our business; and third, to pursue new opportunities. Now the financial
outcomes of these initiatives will be driven by the performance levers listed on the lefthand side.

FINAL

Now the bubbles, which will come up soon, is an estimate of the financial impact, which
show you 2 things: one, the relative scale of each of these initiatives and their impact on
value; and the shading will impact -- will display the variability of the outcomes.
So let's take actions in our core. So actions in our core comprise actions across
distribution, products and operations. And these have near-term impact, as you can see
from the bubbles -- the positioning of the bubbles. And they leverage existing capability.
And you shouldn't be surprised, they have the most upside.
You heard about our focus on health and protection. Initiatives here, from a value
perspective, span the entire capability and time dimension. So activity 4 is the narrowing
of the health and protection gap, which Lilian referred to around our deployment of
products across the region; 5 is implementation of Babylon, which you heard about in
Malaysia and then later on in Indonesia; and 6 is the digitization of our health platform
over time and that's sitting in the new opportunities bucket.

Bloomberg Transcript

Eastspring. Actions undertaken to broaden our investment range and/or expand our
regional presence have -- is clearly new capability, new capability to the company but they
will have near-term value impact. And clearly, the digital build-out, which is bubble 9,
future-proofs this business.
So the last set is new customer segments. So you see the focus on SME and high net
worth propositions, which are already in flight. And you would have heard about them in
the (carousels), have a similar impact to the 7 and 8 on Eastspring. So they have -- these
are bubbles 10 and 11. So they'll create -- they're creating new capability clearly. But they
have near-term financial impact.
And the last one is the retirement solutions, which, as Mike alluded to and Nic referred to
it, is a significant long-term opportunity. And we are taking some initial steps in Hong Kong
and Singapore.
So the key point of this slide is that PCA has multiple performance levers to generate
both value and resilience. And this underpins the financial outlook for the businesses.
I'm going to canter through these. These are very familiar pictures for you. The business
has been compounding at scale across all the 3 metrics. And you're all familiar with these
-- with the return profile. What's not on the slide though, is the strategic and commercial
capability that the businesses are built. And these are enduring. And they will underpin our
financial progress going forward. All this slide is saying is that these returns have -- these
financials have grown at good returns and delivered value for shareholders.

Page 81 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

So in summary, the performance recipe for PCA is well aligned to the structural trends in
Asia. Our business model construct has long-term compounding. And it is uncorrelated to
investment markets. The regional portfolio of businesses, which are high return and very
diverse and high quality, produces a portfolio effect, which allows us to take cyclical
impacts in our stride. And lastly, the strategic choices and initiatives that we are
undertaking at PCA underpin our resilience, our future financial outlook and will generate
long-term sustainable value for PCA and for Prudential plc.
That's all I was going to say. So thank you very much for your attention. And I think we're all
on the stage for Q&A. So team PCA?

Questions And Answers
A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

We are missing Lilian and Andrew. Andrew, can you join us on the stage please?

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. We're happy to take the Q&A. We have got a hard stop at quarter past 6 in order to
get on to the dinner. But we've got a group session tomorrow, where we can take any
other questions that don't get asked in this session. If you could wait until you have a mic
handed to you and if you could state your name and institution as well, that would be
much appreciated. Okay. Thank you. So maybe if we can have Jon?

Q - Jonathan Michael Hocking
Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got 2 questions on China, please. I thought the
slide you put up was very interesting, about the maturity of the provincial licenses and
how the sales have a big lag. Sort of striking you've got sort of roughly 50% of sales
coming from the original 2 provinces. What can you do to accelerate the distribution
rollout in the new provinces? And what are the CapEx implications of that? And how does
that impact with your JV partner? Do they have the appetite for putting the CapEx into
those Prudential licenses? Then the associated question, what are the pros and cons of
increasing the ownership in a JV?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Lilian, would you...

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

I'll take the first one? Yes. In terms of -- I think if you look at where we have the 2 top, it's
actually correlated to, if you look at the premium of the top 10 provinces. So I think it is
where -- I mean, China is 50 -- 20-something provinces. So it's depending on the
economic growth of each. I mean, as I mentioned to you, Hunan, which we -- it's a rising
province. And that's why we are able to make that APE and NBP grow faster. So it's not
that we're not investing in it, we are. I think it just takes time depending on the economy
of that place. So...

Page 82 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes, look -- thank you, Lilian. And just to reinforce Lilian's point, it's a speed and quality
trade-off. We -- it is China. It is easy to get things wrong, unless you're careful. That's why I
was very deliberate in my statement that we have a quality-first approach and a strong
risk approach consciousness in the way in which we do that. The important thing is that we
go in and we do it well rather than necessarily fast. Whilst the CBRC can license us to
enter a province, often there are local province requirements that we have to meet
before we can actually make a sale. So it's -- in some places, not universally, it's -- there
are multiple gates. So again, we take our time and do that right. To your point on, is there
any misalignment between us and CITIC? Absolutely not. Both of us are very pleased with
the performance. We are -- the meetings that I chair, they're very active -- participate -how they participate in the board meetings, pushing like we do, management, to do
more and faster within the risk and quality constraints. They are just as keen as we are, if
there are opportunities to accelerate and invest. The decision around setting up an
additional asset management company underneath to give us the investment flexibility
was joint. That will require some capital. As we apply for a pension license, again, that's a
decision that was taken jointly, which we both supported very strongly. And that will also
require us to commit some of the capital. Now some of the capital is present within the
company. So no, there is no difference between us. Look, the pros and cons of doing
more -- of owning more, we'd like to know -- own more not because we think alone we
can do something different, better or faster. You saw Lilian's slides, they have 80 million
customers. The reach that they have within China is phenomenal as a state-owned
enterprise and one that is involved in a whole host of other industries and sectors. It's not
a -- we'd like to own more because 70%, 80%, whatever the number is, of the economics
is more valuable than 50%. So -- but we do believe. And I've said this on stage before,
that in China it's important that we operate with a respected partner, who understands
the system. It's a well-respected state-owned enterprise. So it's not somewhere where I
would like us to be there on a 100% basis.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Any further questions? Okay. If you could keep your hand up. (Heather). Mic over here.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Two unrelated topics. First is, could you talk about how you're going to monetize Babylon
and what you expect the incremental free cash flow to be? Then how much moat is there
on that value proposition? Then second on Indonesia. You mentioned that a competitor
had liquidity issues in October. So what impact is that having?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Do you want to talk about Indonesia?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

The Indonesia? I think, I mean, the impact -- there is impact where the local player that we
spoke of, obviously, they also operate a bancassurance model. So actually, obviously,
there is some sentiment from a consumer's perspective to buy insurance product in the
banking environment and, I think, that's where the regulator and the rest of the industry
Page 83 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

needs to address. So I think we need to work on that one. I think, from our perspective,
we continue to focus on regular premiums. So I think from our product delivery
perspective, I don't think there's any impact. But I think it's more from a consumer
confidence that their products like -- they're not meeting the maturity claims.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

There will be. But I think -- at this point, I think the nervousness of -- suddenly -- because
this is a reputable insurance company, right? It's a local company. It's actually a stateowned company as well. So I think it will take time for people to understand what's
happened.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I think, to Lilian's point, it validates the approach that we took not to participate in this
particular type of business. I mean, clearly, in the intermediate aftermath of the liquidity
issues that are being faced, this isn't the time to be triumphalistic about it. We will let that
issue play out. And at the appropriate point, yes, we will remind people of the benefits of
our propositions and our approach. Look, on monetizing Babylon, it's -- I gave you at least
some hints in the presentation in the areas, in which -- in the way in which it will deliver
value. I mean, clearly, our first priority is to deploy it to many millions of customers that
actually hold health policies with us. These are customers that are claiming. I said we have
USD 1.6 billion of premiums so, clearly, there's a lot of claims that come with it and the
ability to defray costs, reduce frequency and severity, is significant. The -- it will be used as
a customer acquisition strategy. Ever since we've made the announcement, there are
numerous types of organizations that are interested in partnering with us and sharing their
customer lists with us in the very -- in the first instance. And the other area that we are
looking at. And I referenced it in my presentation, there are 216 million diabetics. Those
people are uninsurable today because they are diagnosed diabetics, they're not in a
prediagnosed basis. We've been talking with reinsurers about pricing a product in a way
that makes it affordable for people to buy, as I said, provided that they adhere to certain
lifestyle behaviors. So look, we've got many ideas. And I look forward to sharing more
information on this once we're up and running.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Sorry, I didn't catch that part of your question.

Q - Unidentified Participant
How difficult will it be to replicate it?

Page 84 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

How difficult it will be to replicate?

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

Yes. (inaudible)

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Look, I mean, we think, ultimately, the technology that Babylon has is unique. We didn't
partner with the first company we came across. We did some deep research in this
particular area. We know pretty much everything that's happening, both in Silicon Valley, in
other parts of China. We were very -- yes, as I said, we were particular in the way we
assessed who we work with. As I said in my presentation, we like the fact that this is up
and running. We like the fact that it's got accreditations in the U.K. and in a number of
other parts of the world. And we liked the fact that it is genuinely scalable because of the
AI nature. So look, ultimately, things can be replicated. But there are first-mover
advantages. Your technology (rally) is four years old. But it's already got the, effectively,
the experience and the knowledge of a 10-year qualified doctor. That is -- the machine
learning accelerates very, very fast. Some of the statistics are staggering. So there will be
other apps, there will be other devices. But we're up and running. And we're pleased to
be partnering with Babylon.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Can we have just one question each to get around more people please. (Greg)?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Is this -- you're giving me feedback that my answers are too long?

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Well we've got half an hour. People are keen to get to dinner.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Mine is around the -- you moving to the Hong Kong solvency regime. And the current
mindset is that's going to move to Solvency II, which would be great for you guys. But I've
heard some commentary that it will go to Solvency II-light regime And does that mean
there'll be some kind of release on a proven capital position. And a supplement as b, on
the same question is, could you just talk about the back book on the Universal Life. I know
you've exited that market. Do you not have a substantial back book with an ALM issue
there? I don't know if you just want to update on that?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Do you want to cover the universal life?

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}
Page 85 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Sure. I mean, look, the Universal Life product is mainly in Singapore. We've got about GBP
1 billion of liabilities. These are within our portfolio of GBP 87 billion. I mean, this is de
minimis. And our capitalization in Singapore is about 200%. So I think we are in a great
position. And it looks good on an RBC basis as well.

FINAL

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

And we've taken some reinsurance...

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

Reinsurance, yes. So we've taken some derisking actions on the tail.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. Against adverse spread and interest rate movements.

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Look, on the Hong Kong solvency regime, there is a quiz exercise that is currently being
undertaken. Like everyone else in that particular market, our Hong Kong team is basically
running those numbers. They'll be submitted later in the year. And of course, there will be
a third exercise in the course of next year. I think it's just too soon to give you any
messages as to the directionality or otherwise of where that regime may end up. Thank
you, (Greg).

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Colm, one question, please.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thank you. I don't know if I've ever asked just one question. But I'll give it a go. Just on
China and following up on Mike's opening comments around capital allocation and
deployment being a key differentiator here for the business. How does the risk-adjusted
returns on capital of China compare with the rest of Asia? And also, how does the riskadjusted return on capital of the emerging Asian markets compare with the more
established markets currently? And maybe just give some color on what exactly is the riskadjusted return metric. I know, in the U.S., returns were viewed on a statutory capital
generation basis. In the slide pack, for Asia, there's a new business profit over EV equity.
So maybe just a little bit of color on what that risk-adjusted return metric is in Asia and
how China compares and emerging Asia markets compare with the wider Asia markets?

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

Look, I mean, in my presentation, you've got a new -- on the new business, you've seen
the payback periods, it's between 2 to three years. And primarily with the right health and
Page 86 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

protection business. So if you were to use a cost of capital calculation, the beta would be
quite low given the local relation with markets. I mean, there is another external published
metric, which would be an ROE, which is well north of 30%. The other way I'll answer this
question is to say, look at our liability profile. And there's not much balance sheet risk. So
that gives you a sense of both the R and the E. The capital allocation framework, we'd like
to have more. The opportunity set is significant. Our capital allocation framework, as I set
out at the beginning, is very, very clear. We choose where to play and we choose where
not to play. And (Greg's) question around Universal Life in Singapore is something that we
walked out of. And it hurt us for a year or 2. Indonesia has been the same. We didn't play
in the traditional market. The traditional market is going gangbusters. So our capital
allocation framework is very clear. We understand the risk-adjusted returns for each of
these markets. And I think you judge us by our delivery in terms of the growth in EEV,
growth in NBP and delivery of profits.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, the nature of the risks that we write in China are not really that different or
the products, at least, different to what we do elsewhere. We said it's 42%. It's regular
premium business. A lot of it is savings, part -- for the most part. Some unit-linked. But not
a lot. Hardly any effectively endowment spread-based business. So no, we like that profile.
It's in with kind of the risk profile that we seek across our portfolio of businesses. And as I
said, because we adopt a very quality-first approach with a keen eye on risk, we don't feel
that we have to carry too high kind of additional risk margins over and above, say, some
of our other similar markets that are in the similar phase of growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Thank you. Andrew?

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. When will you return to growth in Indonesia? And what are
the drivers which will lead that?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Well I mean, the drivers are the ones that we've kind of covered today. Firstly, you need a
positive environment. And Lilian put up in a slide some of the reasons that have caused
the environment to be a little subdued. But the reality is, for all the stats that we set out, it
is an underpenetrated market. And it is -- people are getting wealthier. The demand for
health and protection is just as big as anywhere else. So the flows will come into the
market. So at that point, then how many -- can we secure an appropriate level of those
flows in the same way as we've done before and grow it? Absolutely, we can. You saw all
the examples, all the initiatives that we are taking, be it in segmentation, be it in the
products that we were offering. Yes. We're looking to enter new channels, including
nontraditional, because there are a number of companies now in Indonesia that have
amassed a massive customer base, new economy-type companies. So it's not just about
banks, it's about partnering with some of those. And we're retooling the business. And
you saw in the showcases some of the work that is being done there or, indeed, some of
the work that is being done elsewhere that can be, ultimately, transferred capability-wise

Page 87 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

into Indonesia. But no, I'm not going to call the inflection point, we'll -- you'll see it when
we report it.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

FINAL

Can I have Barrie?

Q - Barrie James Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

This is Barrie Cornes, Panmure Gordon. My question, it flows on from the breakout
sessions where I learned that it takes about five days to recruit, train and license an agent,
which is about the same time I'm in Singapore. Can you just comment on potential
misselling going forward? I know you've always had a robust position going previously. But
could you just reaffirm, please?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Lilian?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

So his -- your question about the Indonesia five days...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. The six days to train a -- I thought it was 6, not 5.

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

So that -- what those six days, is actually training enough for them to get a license. So
after that, there are other trainings for them, one they start selling. There is other training
in terms of sales management and so on. That's purely for onboarding. So that's why,
licensing first and then onboarding. So I think, in Indonesia, because of our scale, we've
been able to hook up with the OJKs that we can do the licensing directly with OJK,
whereas a lot of companies may not be able to do so.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, there will be additional training, of course, that follows. Remember, these are
not sole traders. They will always come in as part of a general agency. They will be
appropriately supervised by a leader. And there is a whole infrastructure within these
general agencies. I'm sure you've been on some of our Singapore trips. And you've
visited some of the larger ones. So there are a lot of support mechanisms, including
buddying. Sometimes the sale will be done alongside an agency leader. So no, the -ultimately, quality of what we write and what we offer our customers is paramount. And
no, we don't just rely on the six days that it takes to get -- to effectively get the card from
the OJK .

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Abid?
Page 88 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

FINAL

It is Abid Hussain from Crdit Suisse. Just one question then in Hong Kong. I was just
wondering, can you share your thoughts on the likelihood of a Big Bay Area opening up to
Hong Kong insurers? In particular, do you think you will be able to service claims locally
across the border for the Mainland Chinese customers? And later on down the line, do
you think you'll be able to actually sell policies to the Mainland customers across the
border?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Do want to have a go, Lilian?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

I think there -- currently, our understanding is there are discussions with -- I'm not sure
(whether) our Hong Kong regulators (are here). I think there is discussion with the Chinese
regulators. I think the concern is whether when a Mainland Chinese customer purchase a
policy in Hong Kong and when it comes to the time of whether surrender or maturities,
that the money actually flow back to China. So the negotiation is whether we can set up
sales -- not sales, servicing offices in a Greater Bay Area is purely to -- actually to service
and to actually pay claims. I think that's where the discussion is. At the moment, I don't
think that we will be allowed to be selling in the Greater Bay Area. That's not the intention.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, look, the ambition, ultimately, to allow free transfer of people, goods,
services and, ultimately capital has been there for some time in the minds of the
authorities in Hong Kong. What is interesting is that Dr. Moses, who you'll get an
opportunity to meet later. And Clement Cheung have now been public in -- or have made
that ambition public. That wasn't something that, that was receiving the amount of airtime
as it has -- as it's doing now. And again, with all these things, they start small and who
knows where it may lead. But they're very clear that their ambition is to make Hong Kong
effectively their financial services and risk management hub of that particular part of South
China, not least to act as a gateway, whether it's through Belt and Road into ASEAN or
indeed into -- in all other regards into Southeast Asia. So the way they're talking about
this, they're using the term insurance connect, I think, Insure Connect?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

They're talking about at least initially allowing the servicing of policies, maybe even
allowing sort of payments be made directly into China or even premium collections. Then
over time, that will spread into more and more openness. No time line on it but the
direction of travel or at least the ambition of the authorities is very clear. And it's 2 ways,
right? It's not just Hong Kong, ultimately, selling into Pearl River Delta, it's also allowing
insurers in that part of China to transact into Hong Kong as well.

Page 89 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Okay. Great. And we've actually got a question in from the web, which is, can you tell us
about your preparations for a new pension company in China?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

FINAL

Well the -- again, it's -- thank you for that Chantal. It is China. It's not instant.

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

Yes. I think we have intention, as -- I think as Nic said. And the board has agreed. So firstly, I
think we need to go to CBRC to actually voice our intention. I mean, what -- the
receptiveness is there. I think if we do that and then actually, we do get a pension license,
we will be the first foreign JV to get a license. So we're still in discussion with the
regulator. So firstly, they have to bless that you can submit for an application. So that's in
discussion at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I mean, we are very active in that debate. Earlier in the year, if I can maybe add 1 or 2
maybe peripheral points to what Lilian said. Earlier in the year, we signed an agreement, a
memorandum of understanding, to work with the Development Research Center Council,
that's the state's, if you like, research arm. So -- and to do a 2-year study on the
preconditions that need to be in place for a pension system to flourish. I mean, I think we
were delighted that they selected us. We've previously done some work jointly on the
role that insurers can play in terms of supporting infrastructure investment as part of their
Belt and Road Initiative. It is no coincidence that they asked us, given the expertise that
we have, given the position understanding that we have China, certainly, reputationally to
work with them on this particular topic. So a number of, if you feel like, official bodies are
increasingly engaging us on that particular topic. And I said, we were delighted to be one
of 2 foreign entities. It was us and Generali. Why Generali? Because they're big in the
group business, that were allowed to participate in that pension pilot in the 3 cities that I
referenced. So it -- yes, there is a process to go through. And we know how to do that,
given everything else that we've approached the CBRC -- or the CIRC in the past.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Okay. Johnny?

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just one question then. I guess, assuming that the
free surplus is a good measure of excess capital, I guess, how fungible is all this capital
given that some of the capital supports business locally? And related to that, do you
centralize your capital and liquidity or do you keep the capital within the subs when you
make -- particularly when you're making big acquisitions like the TMB Asset Management
business?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Page 90 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Do you want to answer aspects of it? Then...

FINAL

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

So I think, look, our philosophy always has been to leave capital within the business units
so that they have enough excess capital, a, to absorb market shocks and, b, our
philosophy is also is that when you leave enough capital in the business, it actually allows
counterintuitively capital to flow freely between the businesses to PCA and then onwards
to group. So therefore, the free surplus construct at a PCA level just gives you a
aggregate position. But that's not really an economic view. I think there are 2 or 3 pieces
missing. One is there is no diversification impact because it's an artificial addition of all the
surpluses within the business units. Clearly, on an economic view, the surpluses will be
much larger, which really gets earned and supports the businesses because of
diversification benefits within the business. So short answer is, we upstream capital,
capital that's required, to service dividends. In terms of capital injections, look, I mean,
where -- if there is capital within the subs because of accounting considerations that is
trapped, then we can, clearly look at efficiently using those for investments and/or smaller
acquisitions. But acquisitions depend on the scale, something like TMBAM clearly will be
funded out of central resources and that might be at a regional level or a group level. But
having said that, I mean, this is mostly an organic growth company. And the capital velocity
of this company is significant.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Blair?

Q - Blair Thomson Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

It's Blair Stewart from BAML. Just on the plc capital position. The group today has a
solvency ratio above 200%. You've said the U.K. will be capitalized at 170%. So I guess,
you could surmise that the plc business has got a Solvency II capital ratio of 250 or
something like that. But of course, Solvency II will not be the capital regime. So can you
give us an idea of how we should think about the capitalization of the plc? Is it adequately
capitalized? Is it overcapitalized? Is it undercapitalized? How do we need to think about it?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Blair, for that question. I'm sure Mark will look forward to answering it
during the Q&A session tomorrow. Can we go to the next session, please?

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

(Brian)? Okay, Andrew?

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Andrew Baker, Citi. Just a question on retention, please. So it's obviously key to the
compounding of your business. And it's been exceptional lately. So what have you done
differently versus your peers to maintain at this level? And do you see it sustainable at the
current levels?

Page 91 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Lilian?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

FINAL

Sorry...

A - Raghunath Hariharan

{BIO 20450777 <GO>}

We didn't hear...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

What are we doing -- maybe he'll repeat the question.

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Sorry. So it's on retention...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Retention.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

So retention's, obviously, key to the compounding of your business that you've laid out.
And it's been exceptional of late. What have you done differently versus your peers to
maintain this exceptional level? And do you see it as sustainable going forward at its
current levels?

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

You mean, just overall? I guess it's because of our focus on regular premium, we've seen
good persistency and retention of our products. And I think something that we've been
doing is, as we explained earlier, I think by doing more value-added services, that actually
drives royalty, drives persistency and that has helped us over the years. So again, I think,
because of our focus on regular premium, customer retention is part and parcel of that.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

I mean, there are many -- there are a number of other factors. I mean, clearly, the quality
of your distribution is a factor. And Derek Yung addressed the question in one of the
showcases, which Sam was leading on, that, ultimately, yes, we put a lot of stall by the
people that we hire, the training that we give them, the tools that we deploy to allow
them to do that. The financial needs analysis that we undertake is, in many cases, higher
than the regulatory minimum. We set those standards centrally. And I think all these things
contribute and the brand, everything pretty much that I've covered earlier. And at the end
Page 92 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

FINAL

of the day, you have to deliver for customers, whether that is investment return, whether
that is effectively fulfilling and paying a claim and all these things, all these are attributes
of our business that we do well. And we've done that pretty much from day 1. That's why
we think that is one of the core capabilities and a strong underpin to the performance that
you've seen us deliver.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Question over there?

Q - Unidentified Participant
With the expansion of asset management-type products and Robo Advisory and those
types of services, can you talk maybe about how you're preventing or guarding against
cannibalization in the channels away from the core insurance products that have
investment-like properties to them?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Go on, Guy.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guy Robert Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Okay. So what we've come across in the Alkanza presentation, are the pilots that we're on
the verge of completing in Taiwan, which is for our direct channel and the pilot that we're
about to embark on for Malaysia, which is, again, through our direct channel, although
there it's slightly different because in Malaysia we engage with some of the agents who
have the capability in licensing to be able to have that level of conversation around a
mutual fund with an end customer. We've obviously, only just started our conversations in
Thailand. And we'll develop a road map by year-end for the engagement there. And
that's 2 factor, that's both with the asset management's direct client base as well as with
the clients that come through Thai Military Bank. Beyond that, with the -- with those pilots
and, hopefully, the successful embedding of those, we will look at other markets. So there
is a purpose in having one in China and one in Southeast Asia in that if Taiwan works to
the way in which we want it, it's portable into markets like Hong Kong and China. And
we're already thinking about how we might use Malaysia, partly in Thailand and also in
markets like in Indonesia, et cetera. We're not restricted with this tool to only thinking
about either doing something in what you might call the wealth ecosystem with the life
agents or with where we have direct customers, which is limited, except for India, to those
3 markets I've mentioned: Thailand, Taiwan. And Malaysia. But we can also explore. And
we have had some discussions with some of the intermediaries, some of the banks,
Indonesia, for example, where a tool like that in partnership with us in a very open
architecture model, is something that's of interest. And we've had some preliminary
discussions in a couple of markets around the intermediated channels as well. So I think
it's got multiple applications. But we want to start walking before we're running.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Thank you, Guy. Look, we're alive to the risks as you can imagine. The proposition in
Taiwan is a very high net worth proposition. So I guess, what I'm saying is that, it does -the robo-advice, particularly with the sort of discretionary asset management piece, it's
Page 93 of 95



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

just a different segment. And it goes through a different share of wallet to maybe -where some of these traditional savings products, that we sell through our life operations.
We think it can be complementary, not least as Guy said, that it can potentially give us
access to channels, banks or indeed kind of maybe nontraditional ones, where we just
haven't had a foothold in the past. And I'll go back to all the structural trends that I opened
the presentation with. Gosh, the levels of penetration across traditional life, wealth,
health, retail asset management are so low. It's a race for building out that penetration. So
the more tools we have, the faster we will sprint.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Thanks. Question over there. That will have to be the last question.

Q - Scott Russell

{BIO 17965886 <GO>}

Scott Russell from Macquarie. Can I ask the question about Malaysia. We haven't really
spoken much about it today, as ever Malaysia's a moving feast. Most recently, the budget
announced an interesting initiative around health care, focused on the bottom 40. There's
some talk that, that will be funded by foreign insurers. To what extent should we expect
Prudential and the foreigners to contribute to a B40 health care initiative, either as an
investment or a levy on profits?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. I mean, look, we're clearly not at liberty to discuss. I mean, we have many
conversations with the authorities, with the local regulator. And we don't typically discuss
these in settings like this or in public. The position in relation to our ownership, which I
think this is what your question is getting to, is at one level unchanged. But it's a little
nuanced. As you know, we, like a number of other of our peers, we've enjoyed 100%
economic benefits from the conventional business, even though the law said that
foreigners are limited to 70%. And we were not -- as I said, we were not alone. Therefore,
our ability to continue on a 100% basis is the subject -- has been actually the subject of
discussion with the local authorities for some time. Laterally though and, certainly, before
the elections, those discussions were on a very narrow path of divestment. With the
change of government, the discussions are now examining broader options -- kind of -then we will update you when those discussions have concluded.

A - Chantal Waight

{BIO 4315288 <GO>}

Thanks. I think that's it. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
Page 94 of 95



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 95 of 95

