Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-02-14

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , CEO & Chairman of the Executive Board

Presentation
Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, everyone. I would like to take you through the key elements of our financial results
for the second half of 2018 and highlight some of our strategic achievements. I would also
explain how we plan to continue growing our business and will introduce our new financial
targets. In terms of results, this was a challenging and complex half year. We experienced
significant declines in our markets. This impacted the return our customers made on their
investment and also our results.
In short, we were confronted with declining net income, lower net deposits and lower new
life sales. However, at the same time, we have shown continued strong capital generation
and strong solvency position, allowing us to increase our full year dividend. If we look
beyond the numbers, I can only conclude that we are taking the right steps to make our
company more efficient. And most importantly, more customer focused. And this puts us
in a strong position to grow our business. We are modernizing and simplifying our
organization and ensuring that our resources are focused on our key markets. Markets
where we have either a leading market position and skill or strong growth opportunities.
2018, this led to both investments and divestments. And the most recent example, being
the completion of the divestment of our operations in Slovakia and the Czech Republic
last January. We found ways to improve efficiency while at the same time enhance
customer experience.
Good example is Transamerica, which is well ahead of the competition, which is a
partnership with TCS. It's a partnership that enables us to provide faster and better
proposition to our customers, while at the same time improving efficiency. In the U.K.,
excelling our partnership with Atos will further improve customer service. Investments in
digital technology and data analytics have helped us acquire a better understanding of
our customers' needs. This helps us offer tailored, more relevant solution and allows us to
communicate with customers in the way they prefer.
Since this is increasingly digital, we are investing in innovative platform solutions. At the
same time, we continue to strengthen the relationships we have with our customers'
advisors.
Today, we have also released our new financial targets, building on the progress, we've
made in the previous three years.
Page 1 of 2



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-02-14

For the period 2019 to 2021, we will be focusing on profitable sales growth and
sustainably growing our capital generation. This will lead to attractive returns to our
shareholders. To be able to seize growth opportunities and take the right decisions, we
continue to review our activities. And we have grouped our businesses into 3 categories:
The first category, manage for value, represents mature SQ operations. Our remaining
closed books of business are also included, for example, our life insurance in the
Netherlands. And we carefully manage the operational and financial risk, we drive
expense savings and accelerate capital generation for value in a sustainable way.
The vast majority of our new investments will be directed to a second category, drive for
growth. It's well-established businesses, with a strong market position and attractive
profitable long-term growth potential. These businesses are mostly digital and platform
based with an emphasis on fee and protection. And finally, our scale up for the future
businesses have meaningful market opportunities. So good example is, Knab, in the
Netherlands. They bring new platforms, new technology or new business models into
Aegon, which can be leveraged across the entire company.

Bloomberg Transcript

I am confident that this approach, combined with a consistent execution of our strategy
will allow us to grow profitably and create value for all our stakeholders. And so we will
fulfill our purpose to help people achieve a lifetime of financial security.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 2 of 2

