Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jason Windsor, Interim Chief Financial Officer
Maurice Tulloch, Chief Executive Officer
Thomas D. Stoddard, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jonathan Hocking, Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver Steel, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and welcome to Aviva's Investor Update. Before
we kick off, I'd just like to go through the customary slide on forward-looking statements.
And now I'd like to invite Maurice Tulloch, our Chief Executive, to commence the
presentation.

Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Some interesting day in history. Now it's not because I got up at
4 AM to watch the end of the Toronto Raptors game. I know no one in this room is likely
interested in the outcome of that game, but I will tell you the outcome of that game. They
actually beat the Golden State Warriors, another name you've never heard of. So they're
now up two-one in the series. If you'd like I could talk about what I thought about Liverpool
and their great victory on the weekend.
But in all seriousness, June 6, and I know you're here for the Aviva Capital Markets Day,
but it does have some pretty important connotations in history. 75 years ago, we had the
D-Day landing. That was comprised of British, US, and Canadian forces, and kind of it was
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

the start of the end of the Second War, and 10,000 allied forces approximately lost their
life on that day. And I think what's important for us here to be whereas we've lost 12
members of the Aviva family, that had taking time away from working for our company to
go serve. And for that, we'll forever ever hold our thanks with those individuals that who
lost their lives.
How time flies. At our results in March, it was day four, day four for me as Aviva's new
Chief Executive. It's now day 94, perhaps this is the perfect first 90 days. And the good
news, I'm just as excited about our future as I was three months ago. Our organization has
proven its resiliency and strength, and there are clear opportunities to drive better
performance. That's what today is all about.
Today, I'm going to set out for you some of the changes I am making to drive a leaner,
better Aviva. I am going to talk about structure, I'm determined to crack Aviva's
complexity, an issue that has held us back on our performance for far too long. I'll cover
efficiency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Reducing Aviva's costs is essential for remaining competitive and that's going to require
some tough but necessary decisions. And I'll talk briefly about financials. We recognize the
importance of income to our shareholders, and I am reiterating our dividend policy and
also our debt reduction target.
Now what I won't be discussing today are the topics on the right-hand side of this slide.
However, I can assure you considerable work is already underway. These topics, strategy,
execution plans and targets will be discussed in detail in November. So why have I
structured this year's timetable and the communications in this way. Well there's three key
reasons. Firstly, to allow the time to do the thorough and necessary job on strategy. I had
a good idea about my strategic priorities on March 4th when I took this job. I developed
my thinking further based on discussions with many of you and travels over the past three
months. I will look at all options. There are no sacred cows. This is a comprehensive piece
of work and we need to take the time to get this right for the long term.
Secondly, I want to spend the initial period meeting our stakeholders, staff, customers and
partners. This is time-consuming, but these groups are the lifeblood of our business and
our relationships are critically important for our success.
Thirdly, I have strong views about some of the changes that we need to make to become
a more effective organization focused on the fundamentals of insurance. Fundamentals
aren't reliant on strategy, and it's important to get these changes underway and this will
be the focus of today's presentation. So before we examine the areas for improvement, I
think it's important for all of us to have some perspective. Taking a step back, and looking
at the big picture here.
Aviva has some pretty solid foundations. We have restored financial strength and
sustainability, the capital position is strong at a 204% Solvency II ratio. We have GBP1.6
billion of center cash and our dividend is well funded. We made great progress on
streamlining and strengthening our footprint. We pruned the businesses, we couldn't
Page 2 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

leverage scale, or frankly, did not have a distinct competitive advantage, and we've seen
some decent broad-based performance here at Aviva. This is reflected in consistent
growth in our operating earnings per share. The point is we are steady and we are strong.
But you know what? For me steady and strong, nice, It's not good enough. We need to be
lean, have strong lines of management accountability and grow the company profitably.
Our franchises have great potential. As I look across our major businesses, we have
fundamental capabilities that give us opportunities to capture long-term organic growth.
Our distribution is probably our most underappreciated strength. During my first 90 days,
I've gone out and met with our top 20 distributors around the world. They are not
dinosaurs, they're not. And they know that Aviva is open for business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So why do I make that comment? Well, over 90% of our revenue comes through
intermediaries around the world and we have great distribution relationships. And this
plays a critical role in serving customers and helping us earn attractive returns. Our
technical skills are some of the best in the industry. We've a proven track record as a
disciplined underwriter and risk manager. Part of the fundamentals that I'm pushing is that
technical skills are not optional. They are essential to how Aviva will operate around the
world. And our people who go above and beyond for our customers when it matters
most, and I've been out with them in Montreal during ice storms in the early '90s, I've sat
with our life customer teams in Sheffield and more recently in France, I've seen farms that
are decimated by hail. And it is times like these when the worst happens and our
customers' lives are turned upside down that our people really come into their own.
So when I think about Aviva, there's so much more potential. For instance, in the UK life,
we are the market leader, with 17% share. We are number one in the workplace and have
developed tools, such as My Pension to capitalize on this channel. The movement of
defined benefit assets off company balance sheets provides a long-term source for
growth. And I personally think that the savings in retirement journey is one of the biggest
challenges facing people today and one of the biggest opportunities for insurers with the
brand, the ingredients, the people and the skill set for Aviva to play and win in that
opportunity. In general insurance, we have a strong underwriting track record. We've
overcome numerous industry challenges to maintain our combined operating ratio at
between 94 and 97 since 2012 and we're exploiting growth opportunities now in a
hardening commercial market.
Europe is a great example of how focusing on the fundamentals drives better results.
Across Europe, we focus on expanding distribution and optimizing. We focus on
underwriting and launching innovative products. We've managed our expenses pretty
tightly as well. This is translated into higher growth in our European businesses.
At Aviva Investors, we are investing to deliver strong investment management
performance, that's critical, enhancing our leading capabilities in real asset origination for
Aviva and for third-party clients and also growing our third-party funds, as evidenced by
some recent large mandate wins in US credit. Our Asian businesses are performing well
and have lots of potential. In Singapore, we have more than replaced the DBS volumes
and developed a strong business in the FA channel.

Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

Now I'm the first to admit, we haven't got everything right. In fact, I don't even think we're
close to reaching our potential. But when you consider the heavy lifting that's already
been done, now is not a bad time to be coming in as the new CEO of Aviva.
So what I think we can do to improve? Well, first of all, let's be clear. Even with that
backdrop, I'm not going to sugarcoat anything. Our TSR has been poor. My job -- my only
job is to deliver on what I believe is the untapped potential in this organization. So what
could we do to improve on these three things that I want to tackle starting today,
complexity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's be honest. It's been an issue for Aviva for a long time, a very long time, and I am
determined to resolve it, starting today. The management structure is not being clear has
not allowed leaders to be held accountable. This may seem small, but this is the essence
of any well-run business, which has strong controls, a great focus on customer service and
clear lines of accountability. This complexity is both added to the cost base, but also not
allowed for speed, pace and delivery of efficient products and services to our customers.
Efficiency; pretty simple, when it complex, it's hard to be efficient. really straightforward.
We operate in extremely competitive markets. If we aren't competitive, customers won't
choose us and we shouldn't be in that market. This is about efficiency but also relates to
CapEx. You know what, it's interesting at Aviva. I thought I knew most parts didn't know
everything. The past 12 months, we've spent around GBP600 million to be precise. But
when I look at the expected benefits from this spend, I think our management of CapEx,
both within business units and at the center could have been better. In all of my years I've
never seen a bad business case. Everyone offers a great ROI, but there needs to be
more commercial rigor, and that includes knowing when to stop or, frankly, just kill a
project.
Financials. It's important to address areas of concern that's been highlighted by investors
and by many of you. Leverage. It's a topic debated by many of you in this room. We've
made progress in taking leverage down, like I think we've paid down GBP1.4 billion in the
last two [ph] years, and this has been recognized by the rating agencies. We are
continuing to take action. Capital generation. This is of critical points. We need to move in
the right direction and make balanced choices about operating profit and OCG. Growth,
this actually comes back again to the fundamentals. Insurance companies with the best
fundamentals have stronger margins, earn more attractive returns and deliver organic
growth.
So what am I going to do to deliver this improvement? Well, let me start first with my
team. I think the first pillar of any successful group is the people that you surround yourself
with. They need to bring the right skills and values to the table. I'm incredibly fortunate to
have so many talented people here within Aviva. Our bench in Aviva is very strong, so
we've been able to promote from within. As an example, you will have seen yesterday's
announcement that Jason Windsor will take over from Tom Stoddard on the 1st of July.
Tom's been my colleague, my friend for last five years, and he's been one of the most
important driving forces behind the balance sheet and cash flow improvements that
you've seen. Thank you, Tom.

Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

He'll be handing over the baton to Jason. He knows this business inside and out, having
led our M&A team, having led capital and most recently as the CFO of our UK business.
I've worked with Jason for almost a decade, and he is a person with incredible
capabilities, knowledge of the capital markets and our businesses, and I look forward to
working with him closely.
Having previously announced management changes, I do want to draw your attention to
some of the additional changes and nuance being announced today on the leadership
team. Angela Darlington, supremely experienced in the UK Life business. With a strong
technical background having previously been the Group's Chief Risk Officer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Colm Holmes, someone I hired six years ago, a 25-year industry veteran who has run our
two largest General Insurance businesses. I've shifted the composition of my senior
leadership team. You will now see representation of people running businesses. This is
intentional. The group center will be closer to the BUs, and we have good role alignment.
The best general insurance people running GI, the best life people running Life, pretty
simple. Makes sense, doesn't it?
The next pillar is structure. The organizational design. When I talk about complexity, this is
an important area to focus on. While we have streamlined our operations, we never
properly adapted the size of the group center. And unfortunately, this has led to
duplication and bureaucracy. We've talked about this for years and years and perhaps
years and it's never happened. Well, guess, what? I'm moving to a lean group center and
I'm announcing that today. This will result in lower cost, which is useful, but it's just -- just as
important, it will empower business unit leaders, encourage them to take accountability,
improve controls, allow them to focus on delivering great customer experience and
strong financial results.
Our European business is a great case study as to what can be achieved. If you go back
10 years ago, Aviva had 250 people in our European regional head office. Five years ago,
we reduced to 50 to 60. Our European business today has five people and a head office
function. Now, I'm clearly not aiming at reducing the group center to five people, that
would be foolish, as it provides a number of important functions relating to capital
allocation, risk management, external stakeholder engagement. But we need to be
ruthless in ensuring that we eradicate duplication, allowing responsibility and accountability
for performance to reside primarily in our business units.
While on the topic of structure, I think it's also important, I'm announcing some changes in
the UK. The Life and General Insurance will be managed under separate leadership and
the UK digital direct business will move into our general insurance business. The obvious
question is why move back to separate leadership given we only recently combined life
and GI under any breaks [ph]. When we put the businesses together, we had two main
ambitions. Firstly, to encourage teams, across different product segments to work closely
together to serve customers more effectively and enable cross-sell. This worked well
particularly with our corporate customers where we've seen some mandate wins across a
number of products from existing customers.

Page 5 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

The second objective is to capture synergies, rationalizing technical and support functions.
As you might expect in a merger, these benefits didn't materialize. The increase in
complexity arguably had the opposite effect around service, around controls, around
focus, around growth, ended up spreading management too thin. Now I appreciate how it
looks reversing moves from two years ago. You know what, it's not really a concern of
mine. It's something needs to be changed for the better, so be it, and you should expect
that from me in my tenure as CEO of Aviva. I want to make Aviva a better business, and
that's why I've made the decision to move back to an independent management
structure. I want clear management focus. I want both our Life and GI businesses to be
ambitious and focused on how they're going to win, be the best, rather and simply being
the largest.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fundamentally, we shouldn't need the businesses to be managed together to cooperate
for our customers. Part of the role of leadership team will be ensuring that we're able to
bring the best of Aviva to our customers across different products. The other major
change is digital. Let me tell you a bit more about that. So first of all, let me say from the
outset, I'm not changing our commitment to digitize Aviva. I'm incredibly proud of what
the digital teams have achieved. We have some phenomenal assets, right? And that still
remains a key priority, but I'm changing the emphasis. It's now time to focus our attention
on harvesting the benefits of those investments. For example, by moving UK digital direct
into our general insurance business, I will have a single P&L owner with end-to-end
accountability.
Similarly, by taking our digital assets and using them in things such as our workplace
business or with intermediaries in our respective businesses, we can improve productivity,
customer experience and spur organic growth. The increased focus on implementation
and industrialization of our digital propositions does not mean that we're not going to
invest in innovation. Of course, we will. But as I said, on March 7th, we have seen the high
watermark for this investment and I am demanding commercial rigor on investment
spending across Aviva. What we will continue to invest in are initiatives that improves the
user experience for customers and distributors and increase the cost-effectiveness across
the value chain.
Now the next slide is quite interesting. In the UK, our digital capabilities are recognized as
the strongest in the market. Now while the payback from digital has been longer than we
expected, that does not detract from the fact that we have assets in propositions that
have great support amongst our customers and this positions us incredibly well for the
future.
My Aviva, over 5 million active registered customers. Aviva Plus, it's only a recent product
launch, but we are getting ahead of the market and offering a differentiated customer
proposition both in terms of loyalty and experience. Our digital business has been
recognized by customers directly and through numerous industry awards. It is and will
continue to be a very important part of our business and I look forward to taking that to all
of our customers.
Let me turn now to expenses and move the slide. Thank you. You will see from our results
over the past three years, the operating expense ratio has actually increased. It's gone
Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

from 50% to 54%. Now some of these expenses and spending were unavoidable, such
as mandatory projects like GDPR and IFRS 17, and we placed those costs -- not placed
those costs below the operating line.
We've matched higher change spends in areas like IT modernization to longevity releases.
This is a choice we made as IT modernization is a high priority that brings long-term
benefits to Aviva. We've also invested in building additional capability in Asia and Aviva
Investors, planting seeds for long-term growth, but this doesn't alter the fact our OpEx
can be managed more tightly. And what am I doing about it? Well, today I'm announcing a
cost reduction of GBP300 million by 2022 net of inflation at a constant FX. This means,
quite simply as you can see on the slide, our GBP4 billion cost base is expected to fall to
GBP3.7 billion by 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

How will this be levered? I'm going hard at operational expenses. The head office is being
streamlined. Consultancy and contractor spend will be reduced. Overheads are being
managed across the group and the BUs will also have to tighten their belt. We're also
making significant savings in project expenditure. Some of this will be rapid completion of
existing products, but I'll also be demanding more commercial rigor with the right
structures in place to measure progress against the planned benefits. My goal is for Aviva
to be leaner and develop a culture that is focused on continual improvement and
efficiency and productivity.
Let's turn to the financials. I'm going to cover this briefly today as it makes more sense for
financials to flow from strategy at our November event, but I do want to outline some
thoughts on a couple of important topics. The two most frequent questions I've had from
investors have been dividend affordability and leverage. And I know there's other debates
like growth perimeter and earnings quality. We have made some commitments here
today, a progressive dividend policy and a target to reduce debt by GBP1.5 billion. We
stand by these commitments. I have gone over our plans and they are affordable. This
slide looks at OCG relative to the dividend. OCG is a good anchor for cash. It's net of
center costs and net of interest costs and you can see that it has provided ample
dividend capacity. We've grown our dividend consistently. All right? We completed GBP2.3
billion of capital returns. And despite a tough investment market backdrop, we've actually
added 24 points to our solvency cover ratio over the past three years. And we expect
OCG to sustain our dividend in the future.
Now whilst you can see underlying OCG has fallen in part because we increased
investment in the business and expanded our appetite in capital intensive product lines,
which will deliver for Aviva in the future, this has continued in the current year, but this
investment should give rise to a stronger run rate of 0CG looking forward with cost
reduction providing additional benefit. So we're focused on OCG moving in the right
direction in the coming years and you should also factor in the continuation of other
capital actions albeit at slightly lower levels than we've seen. So overall, capital generated
is giving us the capacity to pay dividends and invest in the business.
On cash, let me be even more explicit. Over the past three years, we've streamed GBP7.9
billion of cash. This funded center cost, dividends and provided capacity for capital
management. As we look forward over the next three years, our current plans indicate a
Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

comparable level of cash inflows to the group center. But I want you to take away from
this is that our progressive dividend and debt reduction targets are well funded. We
continue to manage cash at the center, ensuring the business has the capital to fund
growth. Our strong central liquidity gives us the flexibility and also provides resiliency to
short-term fluctuations.
Finally, let me update you about trading and this year's results. Overall, the growth trends
that we're seeing in 2018 -- sorry, the growth trends that we saw in 2018 are largely
continuing in 2019, I'm very good, my year is right. Underlying growth is tracking at a similar
level to '18. There is some variability, likely some one-offs, particularly in the first half of '19.
But looking at the businesses, the positive (technical difficulty) trends continue across
most of Europe and Asia and the Canadian recovery is showing solid progress. BPA
volumes year-to-date are below the record (technical difficulty) levels of H1 2018.
However, our pipeline gives us confidence that we will deliver growth for the full year.
Challenges are mostly in UK protection, where competition remains intense and our
savings businesses, including Aviva Investors, where revenues have been held back
marginally by weaker investment markets and where we have continued to make
investments in our business. On longevity, the 2018 CMI tables showed continued slowing
of the longevity improvement. Work is still ongoing on the tables and should be
completed in the second half of the year. That's my comment about H1 versus H2.
In closing, I'm excited about the future. Despite what's been a tough macro backdrop, our
organization has been resilient, and we've a solid baseline financially and operationally.
This gives us optionality. There are clear opportunities for self-improvement, which can
improve competitiveness, helping deliver better growth and better margins. And there's
also strategic optionality. We are looking at all these options, and we will come back to
you in November. Let me finish by giving you a sense of my priorities. We recognize the
importance of our dividend to our shareholders. We are ambitious for the future, but we
understand the importance of generating capital and cash to enable us to provide
investors with an attractive and dependable income.
We're going to open up things now for Q&A, but I'm going to ask Tom Stoddard to come
up and say a few words.

Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. We're going to run Q&A a little bit differently today. Ordinarily, I'd be up side by side
here with Morris doing that. But given yesterday's news, I'm a little bit of yesterday's
news, and today is about the future, so we're going to hear a little bit more from Jason
Windsor today. So -- but I want to be clear about this. I still in the Group, Chief Financial
Officer as of today and through the end of the year, and -- excuse me, through the end of
the month, I'll be on garden leave then for the rest of the year. So if you've got questions
for me directly, feel free to ask those. And if I think these guys need help I reserve the
right to come running back up on stage and amend their answers. So -- but look, Jason is
perfectly positioned to be my successor. He is the CFO currently of our UK insurance
business, which is our biggest business by far and our most complex business. Before that
he's been our Group Chief Capital and Investments Officer and before that, he ran M&A
and Strategy and had Financial Planning and Analysis reporting into him.
Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

So Maurice is right. There's nobody that knows the group better than him. And I think he's
going to do a great job here. So, Jason, let me offer you my personal congratulations and
welcome to the stage.

Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Thanks very much, Tom.

Questions And Answers
Q - Jonathan Hocking
Thanks very much. Okay. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Well, two questions. Maurice,
when you're talking about technical skills, you decoupled the technical skills, the
fundamentals you talked about from the strategy. And I think you characterized the
technical skills because group has been good. Can you talk a little bit about the areas
where you see a sort of gap to lead? Which bits have you looked at and thought actually
there is not quite the edge I'd like to see on that front?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then secondly, on the distribution comments. It was interesting you said that 90% of
the business is intermediated. I guess that criticism to the previous digital strategy was a
focus on the 10% rather than 90%. If you look at the digital strategy going forward, does it
need to be more B2B? Or is it B2B to C? What's the sort of approach with digitizing an
intermediary business. Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Jon. I'll take them -- I'll take the second one first. You could take either one.
Let's say, I think in our digital business we've done some amazing things. I mean, My Aviva
got us into the game. Initially, we were a bit laggards. And I think now with how we sort of
present all of the offerings of Aviva we're actually leaders. The other thing that's
happened in that area is certainly we have a function called Quantum, which is really 600
sort of data scientists. And that starts to move beyond kind of risk and the sort of
behavioral and sentiment analysis.
In a perfect world, I would love all 33 million [ph] customers to deal directly with Aviva.
That's not the reality. I'm a manufacturer. I'm kind of agnostic. Customers decide if they
want to come through a bank, through an IFA, through a broker, through an agent. So for
me, the untapped potential is actually taking what we've built and that's why I use the
term harvesting. So I will definitely slow down the amount of innovation spend, because
actually reskinning something from a D2C to a B2B to C, frankly, isn't GBP100 in GBP 1, it's
significantly less. And actually saying to those other partners, hey we care, we want to
deliver simple solutions that are convenient through different mediums to you. I think it's
perfect. The other thing is we kind of made them feel like they were second class citizens.
That was my kind of dinosaur point. It's 90% today, five years is it going to be 85%. I don't
know, it's still going to be the biggest part of our channel. So that's -- that is the hardest
thing and I think that, the one thing that Aviva is great at in all of our markets is distribution
management. So I'm excited by that. And I know, in talking to Chris, he's excited about
that.
Page 9 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

I think your first question on the technical skills. This is a game of inches insurance, all
right? And those game of inches may go down to a game of millimeter soon, and we've
got competition coming from everywhere from new entrants. And quite frankly, if we're
not finding out the best pricing algorithms if we're not using AI to our advantage, if we're
not understanding our exposure management, if we're not figure out how with customers
we can get faster, efficient claims settlements then we lose. And if I look at all of our
markets or even all of our sales, I can tell you, I know the ones that are green and the
ones that are red. So it's taking those fundamentals and saying you know what binds Aviva
together? What binds Aviva together is we're going to be great in insurance, we're not
going to be embarrassed for that, and we'll also be great at customer experiences. So I
think for that there's an opportunity to increase lifetime value, actually probably lower
lapses, to get growth, to increase margin. And I'm focused on taking that. I mean,
probably our star is probably our UK general insurance business at the fundamentals. But
even just taking that to our health business or taking that out to some of our savings and
protection businesses is incremental. And the world we're in it's a game of inches and
we've got to win. And I think we've got the capabilities to win. So thanks.

Operator
Colm Kelly, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Thanks for taking my questions. I'll focus on financials given the nature of
the content today. In terms of the debt reduction target of GBP1.5 billion, obviously, you've
a lot of confidence in delivering that. Can you just give a little bit more detail on the
funding of that? I think previously, it was special dividends from subsidiaries. I know there
is a capital to cash strategy ongoing to unlock some surplus in subsidiaries, but maybe you
can give more detail on where exactly that's coming from, is that longevity releases or
otherwise?
And secondly, the operational capital generations is being performed as a key metric
here for the dividend, also in terms of generating cash flow for the holding company.
Previously, I think it was growing that was a mix of increasing the return on capital within
business units, but also reallocating capital to the highest returning areas. In terms of the
list provided today, it seems very focused on enhancing returns within the business units is
not implying that capital reallocation across the Group is a lower lever or less impactful
lever within the targets?
And then lastly, on the operational capital generation, you always have a clear
commitment to grow this. What we've seen from companies thus far is those focused on
capital intensive businesses have found it very difficult to simultaneously grow operational
capital generation be it in the short-term or over a longer term. Those that have been
successful in doing so are those that have focused on increasingly shifting towards capitallight business. So, do you believe that you have an ability to both grow OCG and also
invest in capital intensive businesses? Or is this more with a view of capital-light in mind?
Thank you.

Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

All right. Thanks. I'll take the first question. In the nature of that answering that, I'll end up
stumbling a bit into the second question, but I'll say that Jason, you can probably pick up
what I missed in the second and certainly take the last question. So I think the first of all, I
should say take the comments that I made today at kind of face value. So we had GBP7.9
billion of cash over the last three years. I've looked at the plans, and they suggest that it'll
be a similar number. I think it's also worth noting we have a strong liquidity buffer, it was
GBP1.6 billion for the full year. And I believe, that operates as a shock absorber.
OCG last year was about GBP1.5 billion, remember that that's net of center costs and
finance and interest costs. So clearly covers the dividend which is currently at 1.1 [ph]. Your
specific question is why are we confident and what are some of the attributes that says,
we're still going to have specials which ultimately if you like will fund the other capital
actions such as the GBP1.5 billion. And I did say the specials will be lower going forward,
but the next three years we still have the benefit from previous M&A actions. That's about
GBP500 million to come through. We are holding excess capital in our major business
units and we do have flows coming from a business that was previously written.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at the last three years, effectively the specials covered what was GBP2.3 billion
in capital actions. That was GBP900 million in share buyback and GBP1.4 billion in debt.
And the forecast that we've looked at, and looked at, and looked at gives us confidence
to reiterate our commitment on the GBP1.5 billion in debt reduction over the next three,
and I'd given you a couple of those items. Do you want to talk about, I guess, growing
OCG over time? And I guess the another one was sort of the capital intensity of our
products?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. Thanks. So the capital generation and capital management is a key focus for
us as a business. As you look at the growth in OCG, general insurance business and asset
management business pretty much goes straight through. And we're seeking to grow
those. We've got significant existing business, which is contributing significantly to the
OCG and we can improve that with, as you say, with cost reduction and other margin
management.
As it relates to new business, and we really talk about in a couple of areas. We don't
spend an enormous amount on new business compared to sort of 10 years ago. When I
first came in, we've got about GBP200 million [ph] of new business budget, that won't
change dramatically. We continue to grow the bulk annuity business across the period
about 20% last year and we're indicating today will continue to grow at. But we're not
going to be transformative in terms of the volumes in that business or in other lines that
do require a little bit of capital, mainly in Europe. So we're going to continue to manage
within a sensible budget to make sure that the plans that we've set out today are funded.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Three questions. First, can you just update us on the FPI
sale? Second, it looks that the larger part of costs from the, admittedly not the scale

Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

chart, are coming from the operational divisions, as it were. Looking at the way you show
your central -- your group costs, the GBP4 billion, there's quite a lot that is sort of
unexplained either by life or non-life. So can we -- can you talk specifically about the sort
of cost savings you're looking for within the life and the non-life divisions?

FINAL

And then the third question is, just going back to that management slide, is Colm Head of
OGI internationally or just UK and if he's only UK what's happening elsewhere?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks, Oliver. The conversations on FPIL are ongoing and constructive. And
the second, those are nearing completion, we'll certainly advise the markets. I think on
respect to the costs, let me outline the process I went through. We're not giving specific
clarity on functions, major product lines. The first I went through was not -- here is a 12%
allocation and prying a lot about every business and every functional leader around the
world.

Bloomberg Transcript

I looked at it and started from the perspective of our customers. And at end of the day,
those costs have to flow through into how we price our products. And I need to recognize
that to win in a game of inches in a retail consumer world we need it to be competitive. So
that was the basis of the process that we undertook. I think the one saving exception was
I also wanted to tackle a cultural issue, the cultural issue of bureaucracy. So the Lean group
center probably had less to do with a specific target obviously that is an overhead. But for
me that was a cultural barrier to enabling Aviva to flourish and for me to be able to have
leaders that I could hold to account to deliver exceptional customer service and value for
our shareholders .
I've also looked specifically at the use of contractors and consultants. Those levels were
far too high. So there will be -- as I reduce those there will be some people that obviously
that I hire, albeit at a lower rate and people that wear the team yellow shirt every day and
don't come in and take our secrets and take them elsewhere. Clearly I'm looking for
greater rigor around CapEx. I mean, the GBP600 million is a daunting number, right? And
the associated benefits with it we've been more daunting, but I can tell you they haven't
been materialized as the GBP600 million wasn't managed that well.
I'm not against making big investments, but they need to be well governed. I need to see
the benefits come through for our business. And obviously then there's no operational
efficiencies in various businesses around the world. I think what you should expect is
progress. We said, GBP4 billion to GBP3.7 billion. Not planning on missing that. That's kind
of credibility up here when you put those targets out. So we'll be updating on that every
time we see.
And your last question was on the role of Colm Holmes. It's very similar if not almost
identical, to the role that I had when I was running the UK general insurance business.
Colm is our CEO for general insurance business around the world. We will have a new
Canadian CEO, that's actually been determined. I'm not going to announce it today,
because I kind of want my -- Colm's Canadian -- well, I guess mine, too, Canadian
employees to hear about that. So we'll announce that tomorrow morning and give our
Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

chance for our staff to digest that. That individual will report directly into Colm, he will stay
on the Canadian board. I think that's important for the continuity because we've got a
rebound that's building and he will set guidance and principles around the best way to run
a GI business for our European businesses. Obviously, the legal line of authority is that
with Patrick who runs Europe. So that's the way I think about that role.

Operator
James Shuck, please?

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. James Shuck from Citi. Two questions for me please. Firstly, just on around the
cash remittances, the GBP7.9 billion number that you've seen in the last three years, you
also expect of meet over '19 to '21. That's a bigger number than I would have thought of
it. I can understand your reluctance to actually separate out the surplus capital that's being
upstream from the underlying units. But if you could give any indication about the special
elements of that, that would be helpful. But more importantly, I mean, the restriction for
you guys actually doing things with your capital has really been cash flow up to now,
because you're in a surplus capital situation. What is the timeline for decision around
deploying that cash? I know we have an update coming in November, but at that time, will
you be able to look ahead with confidence, because you've taken a step back from M&A
for example, and actually make a decision around whether such share buybacks are
something that you should be executing on now?
Second question was just around the CapEx spend, the GBP600 million. It's obviously a
big number. Could you just clarify for me how that is expensed through the P&L account?
Is it included in its entirety in the GBP4 billion? And if you're able to categorize that into
what that has been spent on so far, at least over the last 12 month period, I'd be
interested to hear, and the sorts of areas that has gone to? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, James. Why don't we start with the first question, cash and the special
remittance elements. Jason, I don't know if you can provide more color?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. So there's no magic between some of the cash flows that we receive. But the
fundamental set up of the group is that we think we've got enough operational capital
generation and cash flow to pay the dividends, to pay the head office costs and interest
costs. So that's the basis, and then I wouldn't hypothecate this directly, but you can think
about it somewhat that the deleveraging can come from specials as we look at that. So
there's a world of optionality around timing that we don't have debt, I think, as you know,
to pay off today. So we'll be facing it around the choices that we have across the board.
But that probably understates it slightly, but there is opportunity around that in terms of
timing when we actually remit the cash up the group.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}
Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

Your second question on the CapEx. I don't have specifics. I'm going to have to give you
some flavor to it. So it doesn't all fall through, some of it certainly sits on the balance
sheet. I mean one side of it is all the use of cash, whether it's gone through as accounting
or not, some of it will go through and be amortized over time. I mean, some of the bigger
items are certainly investments -- necessary investments that we've had to make in IT
modernization. We've had to make investments in certainly cyber, as many companies
have. We've had to make investments to comply with GDPR.
But we've also had an awful lot of investments which are management decisions, such as
product development, such as optimization of contact centers. We've made an awful lot
into propositions. We've made an awful lot and we alluded to it at the half year into digital
and clearly now I'm signaling that's a high watermark and I want to see that harvests.
We've made investments into leadership programs. And on the surface, none of them
were originally bad decisions, I mean, they had great business cases but they amounted
to about 200 different projects. Very tough to be focused on running your business better
when you've got 200 projects. And also if I look at the benefits that they all derived there
was a significant gap from the original business case as to what was derived.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what I'm saying is, it won't be that high going forward. That's probably about -- if I go
back four or five years without giving a specific number -- well, I guess, I'm going to give
you a pretty specific number. It's probably in the range of 70% higher than it used to be.
And I've got a business that really hasn't grown that much in the four years. So the ones
that were mandatory that we had to do fine until to get that. But I can't run a business that
a scarce commodity like cash or capital is used and I don't have the rigor around the
returns so. I don't know if you are say more about the accounting treatment specific.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

That number is a cash number that we spent. So there is some capitalization. We don't do
very much capitalization across the -- we tend to put it through as you would expect. We
can probably give you a bit more color on that in November.

Operator
Ashik, please?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just a couple of questions. First of all, in terms of your
GBP7.9 billion which you're expecting again more or less, does it include any disposals as
well? Now PRA is raising some issues with respect to model drift. So how do you think
about this risk of model drift for UK Life names, especially Aviva, and at the same time,
your expectation about special remittances? Would you do not worry about that risk or
how should we think about that?
Last one is with respect to cost. I mean, it looks like the cost base has gone up mainly in
past two years, it was GBP3.6 billion in 2016, now it's GBP4 billion. So would you say that
the GBP300 million reduction that you're planning is a bit more back end loaded, front
end loaded, because these costs have just come like in past two years. So why would it
Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

take so much time to just get rid of that? I remember that the full year results as well it
was mentioned that the spend that you're doing investment spend is a bit more
discretion as well. So why would it take like 2022 to realize these GBP300 million cost
saving, that would be a bit of help? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you, Ashik. I'll think I'll take question one, question three, and certainly,
model drift.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think I will leave to you Jason. So -- no, in the target for cash, it doesn't include any
planned M&A. What is in there is previous M&A that we've done that still needs to be
realized. So that's that.
On question three, so the GBP300 million is what I've looked at and the target that I've
put forth. It did have a very -- it started -- the work actually started in November. So I
inherited that and on March 4th and looked at that. Well -- we're signaling we'll probably
spend about GBP300 million to realize those savings. We're expecting both the costs that
we incur and the savings that we achieve to be linear. So don't expect a hockey stick, that
this is all coming in 2022. You should not expect the cost base for 2019 to go up. So the
GBP4 billion is we're not going to front-end load all the cost and back-end load all the
benefits. And think of this as a culture that we're starting, I expect efficiency to be a key
part of where we go forward from here.
I can certainly tell you that that's how we ran Europe, that's how I ran Canada previously
and that's how I previously ran UK GI. It's not optional, it's part of being great at insurance
you've got to be efficient. Do you want to talk about model drift?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Sure. So that the first thing I would say is that we fundamentally believe in economic
capital as the way to run the business. The economic capital therefore requires a model
and some degree of subjectivity that goes into it. But, if you do believe in economic
capital, you are going to continue to try and optimize your business. You're trying to make
judgments every day shorter and longer term to improve the economic capital position of
the business, improve your return, you improve your cash flow therefore. So model drift is
the narrow way of thinking, you're sort of tweaking it slowly over time. I think what I would
argue strongly is that we've been trying to optimize the position, we've been taking
logical steps and we rely heavily on our governance processes. We have a very strong
second line process for reviewing the model, we've a very strong governance process for
making sure that that all goes through proper checks and balances. And we, as first line
and the regulator will rely on that. And we think we're in a very good place.

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

(technical difficulty)

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

No not at all. We don't see that right now as a risk that we need to take extra caution of.
We're obviously -- there are regulatory reviews that are ongoing, and some of which are
public, some of which are not, that we are factoring into our plans and that we hope that
actually and we can work those through, but they are actually factored in.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

(inaudible) A little bit here as well. We've seen the regulator has been very active. So last
year there was consultation around equity release mortgages, et cetera. And I think you'll
continue to see that as a trend, but that's again, that's one of the things that we have to
manage in business. So, is regulatory impacts on capital a risk, certainly, but it's one of the
things that we need to manage on a day to day basis.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Three quick ones.
Just come back to the cash target, does that include an assumption for future longevity
releases, you don't need to tell me how much, but does it?
Secondly, what's your view on target liquidity at the center? I think previous messaging
was that there was maybe GBP1 billion or so that was available now and ready to go. Has
that message changed? Has your view on target liquidity changed?
And thirdly, just coming back to the distribution point, I think your acquisition cost number
overall running through the P&L was about as high as your operating costs, so big number
in the billions. What's the view there in terms of efficiencies coming back to digital, selling
direct? Is there a chance to get that number down? Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Blair. I think Jason, you should take question one. We can probably both
take two, but why don't you (multiple speakers)

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Such that they would be, yes, it would take into account any longevity assumption
changes. On the liquidity -- I don't think we're saying anything new today at the group. I
think what we've said before, Tom, correct if I'm wrong is we would like to be between
GBP1 billion and GBP2 billion. GBP2 billion is a little bit high and GBP1 billion is a level, we
could dip below that, but in a normal course we want to be in that range. And that's sort
of the way that we manage the group. And that allows us today sort of ebbs and flows of
dividends coming in, going out and debt reductions across different periods.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}
Page 16 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

And Blair, on distribution, I think it's a great point. We probably have another GBP2 billion,
GBP2 billion plus on acquisition cost, billion, across Aviva. Obviously, the biggest line item
there is it's commissions. But you'd also have marketing expenses and we'd also have
agency expenses. One of the principles when I talk about fundamentals is that of
common pricing. So if someone wants to come buy something direct from Aviva, that
should be absolutely our cheapest price. And if they come through our most expensive
channel, let's say that's a bank insurance channel then the costs of that acquisition actually
have to go into the product price. I mean our expected loss ratio doesn't change based
on the nature and way a customer buys the product. So that acquisition cost should be
fully passed on in our pricing. I suspect when we start going through and really ratcheting
up the fundamentals, we'll find areas that that costs we're not passing on.
I think that's important, because then consumers determine value. They will determine the
value of intermediation in terms of advice, in terms of claims counseling, in terms of a
lifetime journey if you're thinking about savings. But we need to ensure that the
acquisition costs are properly reflected in that price to consumers. So I think it is an
opportunity, but the angle I take is in common pricing not necessarily reduction, albeit
where we pay commissions higher than the market or be it that we shouldn't have to do
that.

Operator
So Greig, and then Andrew, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig Paterson
Good morning. Greig Paterson, KBW. I'll say three questions, which the second one has
got two parts.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

So there is four questions right, isn't it?

Q - Greig Paterson
So just UK domestic motor, which is a sizeable line, three finance Liverpool Victoria about
12 months ago, and has now just ramped up its exposure -- financial exposure to the UK. I
believe in April we started to see them as being aggressive. I just wonder if you can give
us a feeling for what the competitive environment in UK domestic market has been in
May. And how Aviva Plus fits into that paradigm? As I've also heard comments that you've
started being more aggressive as well in your pricing.
The second question is a two part one. I see you've shift the emphasis from IFRS to OCG.
Now IFRS 1, in my view is not fit for purpose and we're going to get completely replaced
by IFRS 17 in a few years' time. So I mean in the sense that shareholders are ultimately
interested in economic value generation, what are you going to use to measure that?
What are you going to link what are the investors in their minds, too? And then the second
part is well then what is management remuneration middle and senior management
going to be linked to? And then the final one is you spoke about tightening up the criteria
Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

for investment in CapEx. I was wondering is that going to be an IRR type paradigm. And
what is the IRR moving from, what was it before your hurdle rates and what is it moving to
now? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks, Greig. I will hand the second question to Jason. I will take parts of the
first. There was definitely a few parts there, and I'll talk a bit about sort of the CapEx. So
let me start with the first. I actually wish in one sense, this was a result stage either full
year interim, because I could follow you referred to you an awful lot of detail numbers, but
this is Investor Day and as such probably can't give you specifics. But let me just give you
some color.

Bloomberg Transcript

The UK motor markets right now is competitive, but actually the positive light is starting to
show some signs of some rate hardening. And we've seen that and certainly you're
seeing interest from others. The advantage that we have in that market is really our route
to market and we play across every single channel. We arguably have the most efficient
point to market with Quote Me Happy, which lives in the aggregate space. We have
strong partnerships and we have strong brokers. And I think the Aviva Plus comment that
was as much about a growth -- potential growth vehicle as it was to tackle the problem of
the sort of new business and centralization which goes kind of contrary to most markets in
the world where actually loyalty matters. It's early days. We're on plan to slightly ahead of
plan currently in take up and it's certainly something that we want to offer to all of our
customers.
So, and then the other point was, what do I think about Allianz, I think, was the third parter
in the first question. It's a competitive market. We're the number one player. If I look at our
top line in UK GI, it's done okay, but it hasn't grown to my satisfaction. And when you have
our brand and our technical skills and our distribution I would be expecting to gain market
share year-on-year. I guess the exception if the market surrenders and margins are
eroding then obviously you put the brakes on, but in most markets I think the capabilities
and data skills and customer skills we have should lead to that.
Do you want to comment on the second questions?

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

As it relates to having measure value, we are -- in the insurance business, we're looking at
return on capital. I was talking earlier about economic capital that makes it somewhat
challenging to cascade that then through all of the businesses, but our fundamental
approach is we call it economic value added and we sit on top of the capital base and we
allocate that to making all our key decisions. So whether that's pricing or projects or
performance management, each one of those we try and allocate an amount of capital
over the lifetime of the product or the projects and we say how much return are we going
to get out of that and when we continue to try and drive that thinking into the business.
And that turns it into capital generation and cash over time. That's.

Q - Greig Paterson
Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

(technical difficulty)

FINAL

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

It's the capital generation adjusted for the amount of capital required for that particular
product or project. And that forms part of your second part of your question, part of the
incentivization, which we've got a balanced approach to that. We have a balanced score
card. We've got financial, we've got custom and we've got risk indicators so we make
sure that we look at the whole and the way that anybody gets rewarded, you have to
balance the way that you achieve that. Of the financial ones, capital generation and cash
remittances are very much on everybody's mind. IFRS is only part of it.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Greig, when we look at project spend. So first of all, it's a scarce resource, right? It's
ultimately the shareholder money. We looked across a number of dimensions. So does it
improve our proposition for customers. And this doesn't simplify our relationship with
customers, which ultimately leads to increased long-term value. Does it enable us to enter
a new segment and grow our business? Does it allow us to increase our margins or is it
mandatory? And some of them are mandatory. So specifically you want to know about IRR.
I'm not going to give you a specific target, but I am going to give you some pretty decent
guidance.
If you look at Aviva over the last few years our return on capital has kind of ranged
between sort of 11% and 13%. So strip out the mandatory projects. Now for me to allocate
capital it's certainly better be a creative to what we're currently looking at in terms of our
cost or previous returns. I think the more important point I was trying to make that kind of
gets you to gate one, gets you into the game, the more important point is then how we
manage it and the rigor around that, because actually what I'm saying is if I look at the
GBP600 million, they're all wonderful business cases but hindsight it's a beautiful thing.
Not nearly enough delivered on those business cases.

Operator
Andrew Crean, please?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. I had two points of clarification and one question. On clarification, you say
year-to-date trading is broadly consistent with 2018. Is that a euphemism for flat. Second
point of clarification. There's a lot of questions around the 2019 to '21 cash remittances
relative to other with you saying that management action is coming down. M&A proceeds
are roughly similar. So could you give us a bit more clarity either now or at another time in
how much you're expecting to come out from France, including the proceeds of Antarius,
and the benefits you're baking in from the longevity releases? And then the question, of
your GBP300 million cost savings. I notice your project spend was GBP80 million last year,
which is GBP50 million above any other year it's been in the last seven. So I just wondering
whether one could describe -- you could describe GBP50 million to GBP300 million cost
savings just to bring that back in line with long term averages.

Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Let me take the first question. I'll hand you the second to you, probably to look at
the detail on the third one. Listen, Andrew -- I mean, thank you for the first one, because
clearly I probably didn't say an adjective that I should have said or I meant to say, if I didn't
say correctly, is growth in 2019 is broadly consistent with growth in 2018. Now we've got
lots of pluses and minuses. Europe is trading well, the Canadian recovery is strengthening,
Asia is trading well, our UK businesses are doing quite well, obviously protection is
challenging market conditions. The other point that I made is the longevity release. So last
year we actually released some in H1. We are not planning on releasing anything in H1 this
year. So there is a bit of a timing difference, but certainly our full year outlook is pretty
consistent in the works underway with the 2018 tables which pointed to continued slowing.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

And was that the EPS or (inaudible)

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yes, yes. EPS. Do you want to tackle the --

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(multiple speaker) Just a comment. I mean, it's -- I don't want anybody to read that too
specifically as saying that EPS this year is going to be exactly the same as what it was last
year in terms of a growth rate. I think what you're trying to give more general guidance
that rates of growth are comparable to what we saw last year. But it's still early in the year.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Correct.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

At the full year we gave guidance that, because of Brexit and other macroeconomic
uncertainty there were risks to earnings this year. We've seen some of that materialize
just in terms of lower investment markets generally. But we've got other things that are
offsetting that. Meanwhile, Brexit has been postponed later in the year, so there still is
uncertainty. So I just wouldn't want anybody to pencil in earnings EPS growth for 2019 to
be identical to what it was last year.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Tom. It's good point.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Yeah. So on the project spend. The number you picked up, I think, Andrew, just had a
glance of that report, is it just in the group not in the -- group-wide. I think you said groupbased and something to mean in the head office, so that's -- that was GBP80 million.
That's right. There is approximately GBP500 million also within the business units. And

Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

that's the GBP600 million in total that we are referring to. And that's obviously going to
contribute to the cost reduction over time.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

FINAL

Remind us again, Andrew on the third one -- France.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

(inaudible).

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. So historically, remind me from -- I'm sorry, it was closed in 2017. I think that was part
of the French business. It didn't actually get remitted to group and was part of the
capitalization. So we haven't highlighted it and unlike the Spanish business which was
owned by group and was sold by group. France has got some excess capital and is taking
steps in the last couple of years to improve its capital position and that's factored in to
the forecast. There's no actual other disposal proceeds or anything further coming out of
France. As I said earlier to Blair, I think, any longevity that we would seek to adjust for is
factored into the cash forecasts that we have.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Gordon Aitken, please?

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. A couple of questions and an observation. First,
we've had the largest ever bulk annuity announced today. Why was that not announced by
you? And be able to talk a bit about case size, price and ability to source the assets. And
second on costs and you see the GBP300 million per annum cost saves, you said the cost
to achieve those would be roughly GBP300 million. Now you've held back GBP1.5 billion of
mortality gains in '17 and '18 cumulative and you said you use that for IT. How are you
going to put to work the residual if we call it GBP1.2 billion, which still sits in your expense
reserve? And the observation through it just on cash. I mean, actually the cash targets are
inclusive of any mortality gains. Just running the numbers on your sensitivities when you
move to the '18 tables and what you do simply this year out of GBP1.5 billion release
certainly that we expect doesn't that meet your cash target altogether easier?

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Gordon. I'll really take the first one. We also are going to talk about the
mortality we've held back and the costs. You may have to remind me on the exact nuance
on the costs of the question unless you've got it Jason.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

(inaudible)

Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Listen, it's tough for us to comment on a (technical difficulty) competitor and a
recent win. I think what we did say on BPAs was quite frankly, the volume was slightly
below our at present the record half year we had last year, but we remain committed to
our full year target and we expect them -- we might see some growth. I think the caveat
there, what we've always said on bulks is we've got pretty specific guardrails. So we'll look
at the financial terms and conditions and take that against the backdrop. If we have
excess capital as we do and we think we can get suitable adequate returns then it makes
sense. But I can't comment specifically on -- I think it was Rolls Royce whether Aviva was in
a process or not. Did you want to take the second question? I think I might have to hear
the nuance around cost again.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

I think, I'm not quite sure the expense reserve point, but as it relates to longevity, I mean,
what we've released we've released. We haven't kept that in any particular reserve.
That's come through both to capital and to profit in 2018. So there's nothing in it
separately reserved. As we look forward and it's CMI '18, I don't think we'll be anything like
the magnitude you've just put down. I won't say what it is. But we've done some
preliminary work. We do expect to release, but it's not at that level. And we will see how
that plays out. We're obviously thoughtful about that around mapping that to our own
book, mapping it to socioeconomic trends, mapping it to sort of future and looking at
experience as well. So that, that work as Maurice said is underway. We go through that
once a year, typically in Q3, and we would update as part of the results next year on that,
and that's an annual process. I think Jason make a comment on the BPA a lot of -- and
we've been very pleased with how our BPA business has developed over the last three
years. We've gone from a very low position I think as you aware many smaller BPAs and
values in the GBP500 million a year type, and we found the team, the asset processes
and the reinsurance to allow us to write bigger deals and that's allowed us to write
GBP2.6 billion last year. But we've long thought that BPA should be part of UK Life
business, but not so that our UK Life business shouldn't be slowly focused on it. So we
manage the volume in that context.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Gordon, was there another question that we may have both missed.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

No, it was just my recollection was from the full-year results earlier this year that you'd
said that mortality gain and as per last year be used for IT?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. It would have been -- we've looked at the longevity that we've seen coming out of
the business and we've been expecting to come out of the business as additional profit
that has effectively allowed us to finance strategic investments in IT modernization. So the
amount of longevity is a larger number, but it's provided us just a little bit more
affordability for some of the modernization spending that we've been doing.

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Hi. Dom O'Mahony from Exane BNP Paribas. It sounds like you're going to be pretty busy
over the next few years. I have a lot of questions, but I thought I might start with a few on
the cost saving, if that's all right.

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony

Bloomberg Transcript

If you have now a fair bit of inflation, your GBP300 million is more like GBP600 million to
GBP700 million order of magnitude in terms of saving. So that's about 15%, so it's a big
target. You're only looking to reduce the roles by about 1,800? So clearly most of that
spend is not personnel cost or own employee personnel costs. If you exclude personnel
costs from the cost base then a sort of 15% cost reduction is much bigger guessing 25%
plus of that non-personnel cost, which is big. And I'm just curious as to understand what
that is and indeed how you are going to do that without having a knock-on effect in terms
of ability to support growth.
Second question. The operating -- expense numbers are all operating numbers which
makes sense. I'm just curious about why cost might land outside of that. So we'll look at
the group amortization for instance over the last few years that has grown. Is there going
to be an amortization surge if for example, there is a digitalization part of the costreduction program? And if that is capitalized, Jason, I realize you -- as you said, you don't
capitalize too much, but if there is capitalization going forward, it would be helpful to
understand the profile.
And third, this major -- expose maintenance on the accounting. But as I understand it,
under both IFRS and solvency, you capitalized a lot of expense for Life in particular. So
given that the GBP4 billion is not quite -- as I understand not quite on the like-for-like
basis. Does that mean that actually some of the cost reduction will have a sort of a oneoff lumpy effect?And is that actually fueling some of the special cash that we're likely to
see. Thank you.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. Let me start with one part of two and then certainly I'll give the number
three and you can add to our accounting policies around amortization. I think here's the
way I look at it. So sometimes history is your best guide. So it's only 3.5 years or 4 years
ago that our cost base was GBP3.4 billion and it's now GBP4 billion. And if you look at our
growth, you'd probably remind me pretty quickly we haven't grown that much. So we
manage to be the quite finally at a number actually less than the target I've set.
I think we've footnoted the inflation assumption 1.8%. So the gross is probably closer to
GBP500 million and we have sort of said at constant effects. So that's just sort of the
math. Then I have to look at my game of inches. My competitive and my winning. So if I
look at my cost income ratio and I look at against my peer groups is actually one of you up

Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

FINAL

there that did the work and have to read your little release about a day after I started. Our
cost information has grown 54%. Our peer group said 47%. So we weren't competitive.
Now, where is it coming from and you're working ahead on the rolls. Well I didn't give you
specifics on how many contractors I have. It's pretty sizable. I think give us specifics and
how much they spend on consultants. It's pretty sizable. If you look at the project spend,
roughly a cash outlay of GBP600 million. And I did actually say that's about 70% higher
than what it was just four years ago and I also said it didn't deliver nearly the value. So
that's a big nut to go after before. And I recognize there's some people tied to that, but
there isn't -- it doesn't have the direct effect.
I think you should also take away from things like me saying I'm going to a lean group
center that if you were to look at roles and see where they come from in the organization,
there will be a biased to management roles, which are obviously more costly and deliver
more benefit. So we've done the work. We're really comfortable. It's the start. We will
deliver. And it's not going to be a hockey stick and probably every time that we see you,
we'll be giving an update an update on it.
Now in terms of the amortization, maybe I won't answer that one.

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

Let me have to go.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

I'm an accountant, but it's been a lot of years. So why don't you jump in?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Okay. So the first part, I'll answer is the last point that you made around life maintenance
expenses. And so what we do, because we've got the contracts on the books. We make
an assumption as to what is the cost of running that contract until it's maturity and that
feeds through in its sort of value of the liabilities. And obviously, if we had lower
expenses, which would be a natural corollary of a cost-reduction exercise, you would
expect that the liability to go down and hence your profit to come up. And you've seen
that at various times when we've moved our expense assumptions and we test those like
all of our assumptions every year. Only a relatively small part of the GBP300 million will be
life maintenance expenses. You've got non-life, as management, head office, projects
and the Life. So it's a part of it, yes, you're absolutely right.
The other part of it is the amortization project spend. Some of that overlaps a little bit
with what I just said. But we're not expecting a big write-off of existing projects or the like.
So we'd expect that to sort of continue but get smaller over time, the cost of that as we
look forward.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Page 24 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Three questions, please. Your cost saving target is over
three years. At what point on the timeline that if things does not go as the way you decide
and you might have to take more radical changes such as dispose certain units of the
business? And my second question is your cost saving GBP300 million per annum and the
GBP300 million to deliver that. How much of that exactly translate to OCG level and cash
remittance. And my third question is your asset management. Could you please share
your plans and in terms of what you would, is any plans to make that contribution more -was about 5% of your operating earnings in 2018, is that our target there. You might want
to increase that proportion.

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Ming Zhu. I'll take the first question. Jason, how it translates into OCG and is
it -- how does it come over time and we can probably both tackle the asset management
and also get you in here. Should we want to say a bit more. And obviously we'll give an
awful lot more detail on the various component parts of Aviva at our interim results. So I
think the first thing is in the cost savings have nothing to do with dividend affordability,
dividend as well covered by our current OCG and Jason talked about how we're looking
to improve the OCG. It's obviously a nice benefit as it flows through. Cost savings have to
be about being competitive. It has to be about being able to win in our chosen markets,
so ultimately the product that we charge our consumers is a factor. A big huge swath of
what we do is retail financial services. Let me comment on this while I'm sort of our
communal Asset Management. You may want to add some color and then you can kind of
go to how does this -- how does this just flow through.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jason Windsor

{BIO 17967688 <GO>}

So sort of a bit of a build on my previous answer. So costs in head office asset
management non-life insurance as they fall through the P&L pretty much get our OCG
and for life new business is pretty much one for one than the life maintenance expenses
is the answer I just gave to Dom that fits through. And then as we spend obviously the
money to achieve those savings which we know -- which will be spread out over the next
2.5 years or so, that will be a a cost certainly to the cash flow. So most of the cash flow
benefits will be post 2021 there'll be some in a building up over '20 and 2021, but as
we're looking at the clean air from 2022 onwards.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Our asset management business is integral to Aviva, manages GBP330 billion of AUM .
They really have sort of three key priorities. One is clearly investment performance for our
policyholder funds and also our shareholder funds. They're also critical to our UK life
business. So what they do in terms of what the skills and the town that we've built and real
asset origination is critical particularly when we're talking about the BPA market. And that's
just not for you. That's also for third parties. And it's also critical that we take those skills
and capabilities and attract more of third party funds. And certainly we started with AIMS
when Ewen came here. But now we have a great US credit business and we've recently
won a couple of large mandates into the billions and we can't comment specific on them
today. We will in terms of the more details when we are able to make public statements.
But it's part of Aviva, certainly I'd like to see it prosper and flourish just like I'd like to see
whole parts of Aviva.
Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2019-06-06

Operator
We'll complete the Q&A there. Maurice, would you like to close the presentation please.

FINAL

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Yeah, I would just like to say to everyone, thank you for taking the time. This is the start of
the journey. I took this job to effectively get Aviva to where I think it should be. After 26
years I've seen basically every single component part of this organization and there is
some tremendous people, some tremendous capabilities and some tremendous
opportunities.

Bloomberg Transcript

What I said to you on March 4th is I'd come to you and talk about a few things. I would talk
about efficiency. I would talk about people and structure, I would talk about bureaucracy. I
would give confidence to things that mattered most to you around dividend and honoring
our previous commitments. I know there's a bit of a long legacy with new CEOs and
changing targets and I didn't want to get off on that foot. But I think also importantly I said
to that I'm going to take the time to come back and look at our strategy and look at our
targets. And I'd hope you'll judge me by what myself and a team have done in the first 94
days. I know there's a little bit of impatience for November, but it'll come soon enough,
and I think you should expect the same sort of kind of clear talk and specifics. I think you'll
also see that what I've set out today between now and the interim and certainly through
now in November I will delivered that process of living will be underway and what we've
said today. So thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

