Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Richardson, Interim Group Chief Executive Officer
Guy Horton, Chief Pricing Officer

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Edina Rozinka, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Nicholas Johnson, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody, and welcome. And, I'm David Richardson, the interim CEO of
Just Group plc, and I'd like to welcome all of you joining us here today, including those on
the webcast. And I'd like to thank our host for this morning, Nomura.
Since my appointment on the 30th of April, I've met and listened to all our major
shareholders. And the clear message from them is that they want us to deliver a
sustainable capital model and optimize our current position, so we can take advantage of
the strategic options available to us. I agree and that is what I plan to do as CEO.
Now I'm delighted Andy Parsons will be joining the team as Group CFO and expect him to
start in January. Andy brings a wealth of experience as Group FD at LV=, together with
previous experience in senior executive finance roles at Lloyds Banking Group, AXA and
Friends Life.
However, you'll be pleased to know I'm not flying solo today, I'm joined by Chris Gibson
Smith, our Group Chairman, and some of my wider management team. In the front row,
we have Guy Horton, he's our Group's Actuarial Executive who, amongst other things,
leads the management of our capital position. So very relevant for today. And also David
Cooper, who is responsible for distribution and marketing. I think well known to you all,
and he also heads up our HUB businesses.

Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

So I may well involve them in the Q&A, and they will also be available for a coffee for any
one-to-one questions you have for them afterwards. So, let's get started. Here's the
agenda for today. There's been a huge amount of change to the business since the last
set of results. And since then, we have established across the group what I would call a
radical focus on reaching organic capital generation by 2022. It's a message that is being
cascaded right down through the whole organization, and the result is already evident
with more to come.
But let me start by reiterating my commitment to hitting that 2022 target. As many of you
will recall, the group has already proven that it can adapt to sudden and significant
regulatory change. Today's presentation will show that we are doing it again in response
to the changing regulatory landscape. You will hear how we have reduced our new
business volumes, reduced our expense, repriced our products and de-risked our
backlog, all of which are contributing to a markedly reduced new business capital strain
and strengthening our capital position.

Bloomberg Transcript

And there's much more that we can and will do on this front. The list of current projects is
long and is intended to afford us increased future capital flexibility, including the
development of a capital-light origination business via a new defined-benefit partnering
model, further reinsurance option for the front and back book to reduce the capital
intensity of the business and a pioneering, no negative equity guarantee risk-transfer
solution that has already been transacted and where we are discussing with the PRA how
it should be treated in Solvency II.
But we are also determined to maintain as much value for our own shareholders. To
highlight the stock of value we've already accumulated in the business, today we are
disclosing our surplus emergence for the first time. More on that later, but we believe that
it confirms the significant value in our existing book of business, which is not currently
reflected in the share price.
And the final item on the agenda item is the financial results. The reported Solvency II
coverage ratio as of 30th of June was 149% and has subsequently increased to 152% on a
pro forma basis taking into account developments since the 30th of June.
First half IFRS operating profit developed in line with our guidance and demonstrated our
capital discipline in action. We were particularly selective on DB business written in the first
half and our patience is being rewarded. We have targeted a lower percentage and a
more capital-efficient mix of mortgages. And as expected, this capital-first approach did
result in a drop in headline profits. It's simply the short-term effect of our transition to a
sustainable business model using our capital bases wisely.
Now dividend. We said in March that we expected to recommence dividend payments for
the 2019 financial year at around one-third of the amount paid in 2017. Given the uncertain
political macro and regulatory environment, the Board felt that it was prudent to defer any
interim dividend until we receive further clarity. We expect an outcome on CP7/19 in the
fourth quarter, and we await developments as the Brexit process unfolds.

Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

This will allow us to revisit our dividend policy with our full year results informed by the
capital position and outlook at that time. So let's turn to the main topic of today, which is
capital. Before we step into numbers themselves, I just want to sum up what we've
achieved so far and what is to come next. On the left, in terms of capital actions
completed, I'd like to think we are building some credibility that we can deliver the
initiatives shown on the right-hand side of the slide, which are in progress or future
actions.
Our focus on cost control continues and we continue to nudge our mortgage exposure
down in the front book through a changing investment mix and in the back book via a
completed NNEG risk transfer that is serving its economic purpose. A range of reinsurance
options remain available.
Now let's step into numbers. This table shows the development in our Solvency II surplus
over the first six months of the year. Just to note that all figures are post notional TMTP
recalculation and they are after tax. Our opening surplus was GBP577 million, a coverage
ratio of 136%. The ratio was reduced by just 2% through organic capital consumption in
the first half. The limited organic capital erosion was more than offset by positive nonoperating items. I'll go through those items in a few moments.

Bloomberg Transcript

This meant that our solvency ratio increased from 136% at the start of the period to 149%
at the balance sheet stage. There are also some actions we have taken since which affect
the surplus figure, and I'll come back to those later too. But first, let's go into further detail
on the organic capital consumption and how we see this developing.
So Slide 6, this GBP36 million of organic capital strain or 2% reduction in coverage ratio
was made up of five principal components shown in the table. We will go into further
detail on in-force surplus, new business capital strain and expense reductions in
subsequent slides. In the dotted box in the right-hand side of this slide, we've broken out
the expenses. We plan to eliminate expense overruns of GBP9 million, and we plan to do
that by 2021.
Just note that the finance cost of GBP25 million post-tax represents Tier 2 and Tier 3
interest cost during the period plus a month of RT1 coupon. We expect a total of around
GBP60 million in this line for the full year 2019. Let's go into some of these items in a bit
more detail.
In-force surplus generation is developing in line with expectations. This represents the
gradual release of the prudent margins required by Solvency II, including risk margins and
Solvency Capital Requirement and allows for amortization of transitionals.
We expect the annual net surplus generation figure to grow by low double-digit rate per
annum over the next few years on an underlying basis. This is the result of the back book
growing at a mid-single digit as we build reserves, with TMTP amortization being flat. The
component parts are in the dotted box in the top right-hand side.

Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

And note, though, that as we complete some of the capital management actions that
we'll talk about later, this may change the shape of future surplus emergence. The growth
of in-force surplus means it will over time outstrip new business capital strain and the
other costs we saw on the previous slide, including financing costs. And this is the key
dynamic propelling us to organic capital generation by 2022 provided we remain
disciplined on new business capital strain. And so let's turn to that on the next slide.
We've reduced new business capital strain by half over the past 12 months. So in pound
terms, that's a fall from GBP95 million to GBP47 million, so a 50% reduction. How have we
done that? We've made multiple price increases to compensate for the additional capital
we're now required to hold and to mitigate the impact of lower risk fee rates. And by the
way, we're already pricing for a 13% volatility and 1% deferment ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've changed our business mix as well as our prices, and are writing shorter-duration
liability business with an increased emphasis on impaired Guaranteed Income for Life or
GIfL lives. We've also reduced our exposure to the most capital-intensive lifetime
mortgages by targeting older borrowers. And to decrease new business capital strain
further, we've reduced the LTM backing ratio and targeted customers who have sufficient
income to service their interest.
All these changes are adding up to make a big difference. This means that even in new
capital regime, we are again delivering our target mid-teen returns on shareholder capital
deployed in new business. So we've acted decisively and quickly. Our markets and our
distribution network remain healthy and under my leadership, we will take advantage of
our expertise in these growing markets by selecting the most capital efficient
opportunities available. We will not focus on top line growth.
So now let's move onto costs. Given our shift to a less capital intensive and lower new
business volume model, we have re-examined the cost base. We expect to achieve
GBP16 million of cost savings in calendar year 2019, equivalent to a 10% reduction in the
expense base compared to last year. Rightsizing the cost base is a key management
focus and we have further initiatives planned for 2020. That GBP9 million of expense
overrun we saw earlier has got to go.
We've already highlighted our decision to close the US Care business in May and that the
income drawdown product will be outsourced during the second half of this year. In
addition, we have consolidated our property footprint in Reigate and will move shortly to
new London premises.
These savings will start to become effective in the second half of this year and should
become visible in our new business, other group companies and development expenses
lines in the IFRS operating profit analysis and also to a degree in the non-operating cost
lines below the line. We are actively managing this and we'll keep you updated as we
make further progress.
Now, after the June balance sheet, we increased the amount of longevity reinsurance
from 70% to 100% for our post-Solvency II DB business. This transaction has reduced the
Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

amount of capital we've had to hold in relation to back book longevity risk, resulting in a
GBP118 million increase in surplus at an attractive implied cost of capital. However, it will
affect other financial metrics. We expect a one-off IFRS charge of GBP10 million pretax,
which will come through the full year P&L in the operating and experience variance line,
and a GBP48 million reduction in embedded value.
We are also increasing the longevity reinsurance on future DB business. From the 1st of
July this year, our treaty has been amended so that 90% of standard underwritten
business and 75% of medically underwritten new business is longevity reinsured. This is
expected to further reduce our new business capital strain and improve internal rates of
return.
It will have, though, a small cost to IFRS new business margin. The transaction
demonstrates that further de-risking and wider reinsurance options on the in-force
business are available. So let's move to Solvency II non-operating items. First, we have six
months of accelerated TMTP amortization, which we talked about previously. We expect a
further GBP21 million in the second half of this year and around GBP25 million for full year
2020, falling to zero thereafter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, you have the economic items. These totaled minus GBP49 million broken down in
the dotted box on the right-hand side. The largest component was a negative property
variance of GBP96 million. This represents a difference between the negative 1.9% house
price deflation across our portfolio in the first half of the year compared to our long-term
assumption of positive 1.9% house price inflation for the half year.
This property variance includes the impact of the effective value test, or the EVT, on our
regulatory surplus when two key variables; house prices and risk-free rates, are moving
against us. Just to be clear, we had no actual NNEG shortfalls and very little change to
expected future NNEG shortfalls, but a large increase in the time value of NNEG which is
magnified by the new Effective Value Test.
Next, interest rates. Recognizing the risk, we proactively took out a number of swaps to
reduce the sensitivity of the Solvency II balance sheet. The result is there was no impact
on surplus from rates down, however, lower rates increases the SCR and own funds by
the same amount, and hence, the SCR coverage ratio is diluted slightly and fell by 3%.
Lastly, there were other economic movements, which totaled to a positive GBP47 million,
offsetting some of the property value movements. The details of this are in the bottom of
the slide.
So look, there's a lot to digest over the last few slides, so I'd like to reiterate the key
messages. First, we've made very good initial operating progress with our focus on
capital efficiency. And secondly, we have an unbending commitment to organic capital
generation by 2022, but we have been negatively impacted by economic effects, which
have been magnified by the new effective value test.
Next, let's move to some of those Solvency II sensitivities. This chart shows the sensitivity
of our capital positions to key risks that the balance sheet is exposed to. And again, as
Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

before, note the figures presented here assume a notional TMTP recalculation. We've
included the pro forma adjustment as part of the analysis, thus the starting point is a
surplus of GBP888 million and an SCR coverage ratio of 152%.
So first of all, interest rates. Although rates down would increase our own fund, it would
increase our SCR by more. The chart on the left shows a rates down 50 basis point
sensitivity with TMTP recalculation as at the balance sheet date. Recognizing the
movement in risk-free rates, we subsequently entered into additional hedging over and
above what we did in the first half to provide downside protection to the regulatory
balance sheet falling rates.
So for your modeling purposes going forward, in a scenario where rates fell by 50 basis
points, you can assume there'll be about a GBP20 million reduction in excess own funds
and a 5 percentage point reduction in coverage ratio, as mentioned in the bullet point on
the right-hand side there.
Our exposure to property risk, as you're all aware, relates primarily to the no-neg
guarantee on lifetime mortgages. The property stress represents a 10% immediate fall in
house prices with no recovery. This stress would have reduced SCR coverage ratio by 20
percentage points, an increase from last year due to the additional sensitivity created by
the Effective Value Test.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as for longevity, the 5% uniform increase in longevity shown here would represent a
surprise, but is a risk we could absorb. The figure reflects the recent DB longevity
reinsurance transaction, and thus this sensitivity has actually fallen since the year-end.
Okay. So back to our actions. And we've just covered the coral squares on the left-hand
side of the page. We've made good progress towards achieving our organic capital
generation target, but we have faced economic headwinds. So my main two priorities are;
first, to continue to make progress on organic or underlying capital generation; and then
secondly, to continue to de-risk our balance sheet to provide some buffers in a potentially
challenging economic and regulatory environment.
The blue boxes on the right-hand side show some of the key initiatives which are in
motion and which can achieve those aims. I've already touched on what we've done on
cost savings and the scope to add to it. This is closely linked to our commitment to
eliminating operating losses in our growing HUB Group businesses, building on the actions
we've taken on other group operating losses, such as U.S. and FPP.
I've also made it clear that although we have made progress on derisking via reinsurance,
we aren't finished yet. We also have work to do on derisking our investment portfolio in
such a way as to reduce capital requirements. So it's too early for us to go into detail on
all of those areas. But there are two of the initiatives on the right-hand side which are
probably worth spending a bit more time on, and that's the development of a capital-light
DB partnering business, which will further reduce new business capital strain, and an
update on NNEG hedging.

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

Let's turn to the first of those, the partnering opportunity. We are using our excellent
standing in the DB market to develop a fee-based business that will further diversify our
source of profit and reduce new business capital strain. We intend to target transactions
above GBP250 million with this transaction, which would not complete with our core target
market which is typically transactions below GBP250 million.
For potential partners, Just offers a relatively quick, low-risk way to enter the DB market
by leveraging our award-winning new business franchise and where direct entry is
challenging and very time-consuming. Initial feedback from employee benefit consultants
and trustees have been encouraging, and we have started to build a pipeline of potential
transactions.
EBCs welcome this additional capacity in what is shaping up to be a record-breaking year
with over GBP30 billion of expected DB buy-in and buy-out activity in 2019. Our
development we're talking about here won't happen overnight, but initial progress is
encouraging.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's talk a little bit more about NNEG and the potential to hedge that risk. So first of all,
I illustrated earlier that the Solvency II property sensitivity is high. And here in this slide, we
contrast this with the expected long-term cost of no-NEG shortfalls.
Now to be absolutely clear, I'm acutely aware that the Solvency II treatment of the no-NEG
very directly impact our business. However, what we're doing here is highlighting the
difference between the regulatory treatment and expected outcomes for two reasons:
First, to illustrate in a very simplified way how most of the Solvency II volatility is expected
to be a timing issue; and secondly, to explain why no-NEG risk transfer makes economic
sense with counterparties who are in a position to focus on the economic view to a
greater extent than us.
So the first number to note on the slide is GBP26 million. This is the present value of the
cost of expected no-NEG shortfalls under our central property growth scenario. On the
chart, you can see how far in the future these no-NEG shortfalls emerge. The expected
NEG [ph] shortfalls peak 30 years from now and overall involve relatively small numbers. If
we assume a sudden one-off 10% hit to house prices and no subsequent recovery, the
cost of the no-NEG shortfalls obviously goes up, but it only goes up by GBP27 million.
The contrast with the impact to the Solvency II excess own funds is stark, a one-off 10% hit
to property prices, as you saw in the previous slide, results in a GBP312 million reduction in
Solvency II surplus. That is more than ten times the expected economic cost.
Now, I do accept this is a simplistic way of presenting the expected long-term cost of
NNEG. In reality, house prices won't develop in a straight line and there will be regional
and individual property variances. However, it demonstrates that most of the Solvency II
volatility relates to time value rather than intrinsic value. The key components driving this
time value, the deferment rate and volatility assumptions, we believe are both set at
conservative levels and that's echoed by the Institute of Actuaries and the Association of
British Insurers.
Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

It turns out that the EVT's assumptions are also conservative compared to hedging costs
on offer in the market. So no-NEG risk transfer makes economic sense with counterparties
who are in a position to focus on the economic view. This means there's a strong incentive
for us to explore no-NEG hedging options. They may come at a modest economic cost,
but provided this is low compared to the amount of capital released, we should explore it.
So what we've done is we've already transacted a pilot GBP200 million no-NEG hedge
with a well-known counterparty. This proof-of-concept transaction forms the basis of
discussions with the PRA regarding its eligibility for appropriate matching adjustment and
SCR treatment in Solvency II.
The pilot is achieving its economic purpose, but its regulatory treatment is subject to the
conclusion of CP7/19, which we expect to be published either at the very end of this
quarter or in the fourth quarter. If successful, applications to PRA would pave the way for
larger hedging transactions in the future. At the moment, we anticipate that we would
focus such hedging on post-Solvency II LTM business. However, it may also be beneficial
to hedge pre-Solvency II business as the TMTP amortization progresses.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's move on next to a focus on value. We've introduced this slide for the first time to
show how the Solvency II cash emerges over time and to help you understand the
dynamics of our existing book of business. It shows the expected Solvency II cash flows of
the existing book of business, i.e., excluding any new business that we wrote from July the
1st onwards. It also excludes a day one surplus of GBP840 million and debt cash flows. But
otherwise, it's similar to the EV cash flows.
You can see the significant levels of cash that the existing book throws off, but also the
drag that TMTP amortization causes until 2032. In the first few years, we need to adjust to
the PS 31/18 regulatory requirements, that's the orange bars. But after that, you can see
that the black line, the surplus generation, settles down to GBP150 million or so per
annum and adds up to GBP1.35 billion over the TMTP amortization period.
This then shoots up to GBP200 million or so per annum after the amortization finishes. In
the first ten years post-TMTP, this amounts to GBP1.8 billion of additional surplus
generation. Now please note that these surpluses have not been adjusted to reflect the
impact of either the new DB longevity reinsurance contract or the impact of CP7/19, both
of which has happened since the June balance sheet date.
And remember that this shows the back book run-off only. The markets, as you know, are
very healthy, particularly DB. This and the strength of our distribution capabilities has
meant that as we have repriced, we've been able to select the most capital efficient and
profitable business -- profitable opportunities available rather than simply focusing on top
line growth.
And by already completing some of the management actions available to us, our
objective is to take advantage of the strategic value of our new business franchise, which
is in addition to the value of the existing business shown in this slide.

Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

Okay. So let's move to the final part of today's presentation, which is the financial results
for the first half of the year. First, solvency. As you've already seen, our solvency ratio
increased from 136% to 149% in the first half of the year. The Solvency II balance sheet
calculation continues to comply with the EVT that forms part of the MA calculation. It was
also good to see Fitch refresh their A+ or strong insurance financial strength rating
recently, and in fact to reaffirm all of their ratings on us.
Now, I want to spend some time on a couple of third quarter developments and what
they mean for our solvency outlook. I've already mentioned the DB longevity reinsurance
transaction that we recently completed. This had an effective date of the 1st of July and
was not included in our reported 149% coverage ratio. If it had been, it would have added
GBP118 million to surplus or 9 percentage points to the ratio.
Second, we have included an adjustment regarding our internal model and the treatment
of LTMs. We expect to increase our SCR by GBP70 million in the second half of the year
for that. So the pro forma Solvency II coverage ratio at the 30th of June would have been
152%, taking both of these items into account.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I want to try and quantify the incremental impact of CP7/19 for lifetime mortgages,
which I know is causing significant uncertainty for many investors. We and the industry
engage constructively with the PRA as part of the consultation process. Since the
consultation period ended in July, our thinking around these regulatory changes has
continued to evolve. The final outcome remains uncertain, but we are planning on the
basis of an increase in our SCR of approximately GBP130 million for existing business by
the end of 2021.
The consultation part of the process, as I mentioned has concluded and the figure could
be higher or lower. We expect to hear the outcome, as I said, probably during the fourth
quarter. And of course, we note here that the cost of CP7/19 which affects the SCR will be
in addition to the cost to our matching adjustment of strengthening the EVT to 13/1, which
we've talked about previously.
As we have shown with the DB longevity reinsurance transaction, there are multiple capital
management actions available to us, which can offset these regulatory changes. Next,
we'll get to the IFRS operating results. Underlying operating profit fell 27% to GBP114
million as a 39% decline in new business profits was partly offset by a 15% increase in inforce operating profit. The new business profit decline reflect the 30% fall in retirement
income volumes and lower margins as flagged in the prelims in March.
Operating variances and assumption changes were not material, but I would flag a GBP10
million pretax cost at the full year stage as a result of the DB longevity transaction. We
haven't updated any of our assumptions, and as usual, we'll do a full review of those at
the year-end.
Next, we expect that other group company losses would start -- should -- excuse me,
should decline as startup losses in our HUB Group businesses are eliminated and
reflecting that US Care is now closed and our income drawdown solution is outsourced.
Page 9 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

Development expenditure will reduce further, not to nil, we do still expect to incur costs
as we adapt our proposition to a changing environment and continue to developing the
pool of customers for our new business franchises.
So let's look at new business and in-force profit in a bit more detail. As previously guided,
our new house price inflation and volatility assumptions resulted in a roughly 1% reduction
in the new business margin compared to 2018. In addition, shorter-duration LTM
mortgages and a marginal reduction in the LTM backing ratio reduced our new business
margin by a further percentage point.
And finally, volumes were lower in the first half compared to the corresponding period in
2018, and so there is an element of negative operating leverage which absorbs some of
the initial benefits of our cost reduction program. However, this was flagged to you at the
prelims in March and overall new business margins have developed as expected.
Going forward, the impact of the additional DB longevity reinsurance is expected to
slightly reduce the H2 new business margin, but offset by operating leverage due to a
greater weighting towards H2 volumes. So we're expecting a similar full year '19 new
business margin of around 9%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In-force operating profit increased by 15%. Opening insurance reserves were 4% higher,
while our surplus assets were higher following the March capital raise. Furthermore, we
increased the yield on these surplus assets a little and expenses reduced. So overall, a
pleasing in-force result.
Next we'll look at some of the items below the line. The fall in the operating profit was
more than offset by gains from non-operating items. This meant the profit before tax
actually rose from GBP46 million in the first half of last year to GBP125 million this year. The
swing was driven by the replacement of a GBP59 million economic and investment loss
last year with a GBP68 million gain this year.
As the analysis on the right hand shows, this was driven by the positive impact from falling
risk-free rates, less the somewhat smaller negative impact of lower property prices. We
just contrasted in the commentary there the difference between some of the IFRS and
Solvency II impacts. So you can see that the IFRS result, we get GBP100 million benefits
from risk-free rates. That's in contrast with the Solvency II picture, which is a zero impact.
And on property, they're both directionally the same, but IFRS shows a negative GBP57
million compared to GBP119 million on a like-for-like pretax basis in the Solvency II
reconciliation, and that again is due to SCR effects and the magnification of the Solvency II
impact by the Effective Value Test.
Finally, a very brief update on the asset portfolio. You can see from this slide that our
bond exposure is conservative from a credit perspective with an average rating of A and
just 0.6% of the total portfolio below investment grade.
On the right-hand side, you can see the asset portfolio by sector. The GBP12 billion
corporate credit portfolio had 521 issuers with an average size of GBP22 million, with the
Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

balance lifetime mortgages and liquidity. Now we just look at how our portfolio is
constructed to match our retirement income liabilities. On the left-hand side, you can see
the proportion of liquid, that's is blue, and illiquid, that's in coral, assets contained in our
total GBP21 billion portfolio.
Private placement and public bonds are predominantly used to match shorter-duration
liabilities, whilst lifetime mortgages provide a strong match against longer-duration
liabilities with infrastructure and commercial mortgages slotting nicely in between. Now by
using shorter-duration bonds, we do have the added benefit of reducing the risk of
ratings migration.
On LTM, we see no deterioration in credit quality with a portfolio LTV of 34% and it
remains well-diversified geographically. The usual disclosures are in the appendix, but just
to highlight that the loan to value on new business was 28.7% with an increasing focus on
older borrowers.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right, we've provided a geographical breakdown for the first time of the GBP11.5
billion corporate credit portfolio. Just 42% of this portfolio is U.K. corporate credit, so the
majority is non-U.K., primarily from Europe and North America which account for 28% and
18%, respectively. 79% of the portfolio is denominated in sterling and any non-sterling
cash flows are swapped back into sterling.
Our investment approach in 2019 reflects the focus on reducing the capital intensity of
new business. We've adapted, as I said, to regulatory changes by tapering the LTM
backing ratio, targeting older borrowers and investing in slightly longer-dated credit
infrastructure and commercial mortgages to compensation.
Now, I'm very conscious I've shared a lot of new technical detail with you this morning, and
that's very deliberate. However, I also think it's important to pause and restate our
Company's purpose and take a moment to remind everyone why we do what we do here
at Just. Our purpose is very clear: We help people achieve a better later life. Every
colleague across the group contributes to this purpose, whether they're serving the
customer or providing the support to someone who is.
At a time when individuals and organizations are faced with much uncertainty, we use our
unique skills to provide certainty. Whether that's to a retail investor who wants a security
of a guaranteed income for life, a pension scheme trustee wanting to transfer risk and
improve the level of security for its members, or a homeowner seeking to improve their
later life or that of their families, and also to our corporate solutions and distribution
businesses in the HUB Group where we deliver regulated advice and guidance to provide
peace of mind to our customers.
Now our group businesses have leadership positions in attractive segments of the
retirement income market. We achieve this leadership by deploying our intellectual
property, which ensures we are able to fulfill our purpose and to do so by providing great
value and outstanding service to our customers. That purpose motivates me and over
1,000 of my colleagues at Just every day.
Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

So my concluding remarks before we move onto Q&A. Hopefully it's very clear that capital
is our number one priority. It's simply the right thing to do for our business given the
changing environment. You've seen how the strategic imperative underlies the whole
presentation today. We are already making strong progress towards organic capital
generation and are taking significant steps to derisk the back book.
The focus on capital efficiency is also improving shareholder returns on a new basis. Our
new business has already been re-engineered to achieve mid-teen IRRs and shareholder
capital. We will strive to improve this further via our DB partnering business and other
initiatives.
You'll know the regulatory environment towards LTMs is challenging and has changed
given the prevailing economic conditions which arose following the unexpected results of
the EU referendum. On CP7/19, we are planning on the basis of an increase in our SCR of
approximately GBP130 million for existing business, which will become fully effective by
the end of 2021. By the way, the figure we have provided has been carefully thought
through and is on a best-endeavor basis.
As we've highlighted today, through the GBP118 million benefit from DB reinsurance, we
have a number of management actions available to us to offset these impacts. And
importantly, we have time to put these in place as the regulatory changes are phased in
by the end of 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first half this year has not been easy for our business or for shareholders as we have
faced economic and regulatory challenges.
However, we have made real operating progress and I take pride in the way the business
is responding. I particularly want to recognize the response of our colleagues across the
group in their agility to respond to the rapidly changing environment. Our focus remains
the maximization of shareholder value with no options excluded.
We are adapting our business model to ensure it is economically attractive in a
challenging regulatory environment and are making good progress towards a sustainable
capital model. However, we are developing other strategic and business options to
enhance shareholder value in parallel. Whilst preserving our strategic options, all our
energies are devoted to this objective.
So with that, we'll move to Q&A. And I'd like to invite Guy and David to join me up at the
front here. Obviously, a lot of new information today, there may well be a few questions.
So if I could try and ask you to limit it to two questions. And the first one goes to Gordon.

Questions And Answers
Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Gordon Aitken from RBC. On the capital-light bulk new model, I mean you set things out,
but I was just wondering when do you think you could do your first deal and if you'll also
Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

indicate what you think the strain would reduce to under this new model?

FINAL

And second question is on the no-NEG hedge. What are your expectations that this gets
approved for capital reduction by the PRA? And really why -- what was your thinking in
showing the capital charge under CP7/19 when you don't know whether or not you're
going to get PRA approval or not, assuming the numbers would change?
And just maybe an observation, you feel happy to set out the expected charge under
CP7/19, but you didn't say -- set out any expected mortality gain. It's quite different to
maybe some of your larger peers who feel they don't need to flag the negative, but are
very happy to flag the positive, and maybe what was the Board's thoughts there?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

I missed the last bit of that question, Gordon. I think it's the microphone. But can you just --

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Well, you're very -- you set out all the negatives, you haven't set out, say, a positive, which
might be a mortality release. But I mean your larger peers really did quite the opposite.
They haven't set out the negatives, but have set out the positives.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. So, and what I'll do is I'll give you a little bit of an answer in each of those, and I'll
invite Guy to come in on the no-NEG hedge as well as to why that does need to kind of
wait for CP7/19.
In terms of the DB partnering, two elements to that question, when do we expect to have
that in place? Well, we're making very good progress. I'm not going to set a self-imposed
deadline because it is subject to commercial negotiations with our partners, but we're
having really good, deep engagement built with our partners. And also as I said, we've
not -- we're not just doing this in a vacuum, we are road-testing this with EBCs. They're
very enthusiastic about what we're doing here.
And if you think about and step back for a second, at a time when we are capital
constrained and where we have to live within our means, using our award-winning new
business franchise and being able to tap into this business where we're having to
constrain our activity just makes absolute sense. And what we can offer our partners is, if
they don't have a presence in the DB market, and they may not be PRA regulated, and
that's a very long, expensive road to get to that point, we provide a very good entry
point. So I think it could be very encouraging.
You asked how much might it reduce the strain, again that's a little bit subject to
commercial negotiations. The idea will be to get it down to negligible levels though. So if
you're predominantly a fee-based business, you would need to set aside some capital for
things like counterparty risk as you pass the risk onto your partner. But that would be the
objective.
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

On the no-NEG hedge, look, first of all, economic is absolutely achieving what it set out to
do. We've transferred the risk over about a 35 to 40-year period. And it covers no-NEG
shortfalls, not immediately in the money, but a little bit out of the money up to a level, and
it really does make absolute sense from a risk transfer perspective.
However, it's not straightforward how that applies in Solvency II rules because you have to
pair a hedge with the restructured notes that you have on lifetime mortgages in a
Solvency II world and how that flows through the matching adjustments and the SCR. So it
isn't straightforward.
Guy, I don't know if you want to add to that.

A - Guy Horton
To add the little bit, I think you asked about why we think it will get appropriate treatment
was one part of your question, Gordon, is that right to say? So it works like a hedge. If
experience goes against us, then it would pay out. So we think that underlies any sort of
treatment of a derivative of the hedge. CP7/19 refers to other assets and SPEs, which is
what this is and doesn't write it out. It doesn't say you can't have such things. What it says
is the treatment needs to be resolved.

Bloomberg Transcript

Really the area of the greatest doubt is the treatment in the MA. The treatment in the
SCR is not really in doubt because in a stress event, it's really clear how it would pay out.
So it's really about how you treat it in the own funds that is the piece that matters greatly.
And everyone's trying to work out how you allow for EVTs in your own funds and then
transfer it through to SCR, which relates to our CP7/19 comment around SCRs. How do
you adjust your internal model for all the changes that happened over the last few years.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

And then your question around why are we giving, as it were, a forward estimate of the
potential impact to CP7/19. And this is something we did debate, because as I said in my
comments, it is our estimate, or more accurately what I'd describe it as it's the outcome
we're planning for.
So all our capital plans and how we're planning to manage our capital position is based on
an assumption that we'll have to increase the SCR by about GBP130 million for that. And
we've done that because it's an uncertainty out there. A lot of the feedback I get when I
talk to shareholders is, look, with the regulatory uncertainty out there, I just don't know
what number to put against that.
So it comes with a little bit of risk as to will it really be that number, but we just think it's
the right thing to do to help investors. Why are we not putting out some -- anticipate a
positive and a number on that to offset it? And it's because specifically on longevity, I'm
not indicating that we've set aside a whole load of kind of margins in our assumptions at
the moment. More generally, what we're trying to emphasize is we've got a full suite of

Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

capital management actions that are -- we anticipate to use in our capital plans and that
can help us to manage the position over the next couple of years.

FINAL

And I hope that by delivering this DB longevity reinsurance of GBP118 million, which more
than offsets the first step towards increasing the SCR, shows that those are credible
actions.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(Technical Difficulty).

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So I'll take those in turn. So I just want to be really clear, we're not saying that if you
put a NNEG hedge in place, the sensitivity on Solvency II will drop from GBP312 million to
GBP27 million. I wouldn't want you to take that away. What we're just trying to emphasize
is that there's a massive gap between the Solvency II sensitivity you're seeing and how
expected claims might move around or shortfalls might move around.
And just to bring out the point that if a counterparty can look at more of the underlying
economics, there's a big gap between that GBP27 million and that GBP312 million, where
you should be able to find a sweet spot where we can release capital and it makes
economic sense for them to provide our cover.
So that's the theme. Absolutely, we don't expect to find a counterparty who can take
GBP7 billion of LTMs. We will focus on the LTMs we've written, as I said in the first place,
since Jan 1, 2016, and the first step towards that is we've just done this relatively small
GBP200 million proof-of-concept transaction.
And once we get, as Guy said, the technicalities agreed on that, we would seek to scale it
up. Not realistically that we'll get to GBP7 billion or anything like that, but you could
generate meaningful capital releases, number one, and number two, reduce the volatility
of the balance sheet. So you get a day one release from these transactions if you get the
right treatment and then also, subsequently, if house prices were to move down, you get
protection on the downside because you just take some of that GBP312 million volatility
away.
And on the projected cash flows, yes, we're obviously very clear that we have not shown
the debt because the intention is not that you repay the debt as it falls due, the intention
is that you refinance that as you go along. And equally, of course, we didn't show an
immediate release of the GBP800 million surplus -- the GBP840 million of surplus in that
cash flow profile either because it's not realistic to assume you could release that
immediately, too. So it is balanced on both sides of the equation. I think you were just first,
Oliver, by a nanosecond.
Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Oliver Steel. Two slightly technical questions. So the first is going back to Slide 18, you've
got GBP50 million of surplus emergence in the second half. I think that compares with the
GBP72 million in the first half. So I'm just trying to work out why the GBP72 million gets
down to GBP50 million. It looks like as if it's larger TMTP.
Second question is, in working out the new business strain, your guidance is mid-singledigit percentages. But when I'm looking at the sort of premiums I apply that to, the
premium shown in the roll forward of the liability is 6 8 7 and the premium shown in the
IFRS accounts is 8 3 3.
And I noticed that second half, there was a similar gap. So why is the premium and the roll
forward of the liability so much lower, because the new business strain on the higher
figure is 5.7% but the new business strain on the lower figure is 6.8%?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Okay. So on the first of those questions, yes [ph], and why is it not exactly the same as in
the table? I can't, off the top of my head, think what might be in that other than maybe it
might be some exceptional items. But that's a detail we can certainly get back to you on,
Oliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the strain should be pretty mechanical. So the 5.7% times the new business
premiums that we report in the RNS should get you to the GBP47 million.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty).

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Premium in the IFRS accounts?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty).

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

So rather than us wait -- so your --

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty)

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. Okay. So again, I think that's a detail we'll take offline. Maybe Guy might be
able to work it out whilst we go onto the next question, but that's quite a detailed

Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

question on the note. It's probably best to submit those offline. Alan?

FINAL

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. Two questions. First of all, on the -- I think you
reiterated your sales guidance for sales to be in the H2 '18 run rate. Will the DB partnering
scheme be additional sales above that or will you be replacing some of the existing DB
sales with more capital-light sales? And then the second question is on your last slide,
you've got a -- your last comment is no options excluded.
Given you're writing business of mid-teens ROE, which is -- or IRR, which is well below your
cost of equity, at what point do you think you'd take more radical actions? Thanks.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah. So in terms of DB volumes and will the partnering as it were, we certainly don't
expect the partnering will cannibalize what we currently write at the moment because it's
in a different target segment of the market. So it's focused on transactions over GBP250
million, whereas we predominantly write transaction sizes below that level.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what it gives us is an option. If we can get that partnering to work, we can get an
option, to your point, Alan, whether we kind of continue to write the same volumes on our
balance sheet and top us up with this maybe neutral or even negative strain partnering
business.
Or we might -- depending on the overall capital position, we might substitute a bit. But it's
very much a choice and an option for us. So we're not updating our guidance on sales or
anything like that at this stage. On the no options excluded, yes, clearly the implied ROE
on our such a depressed share price at the moment is something which is quite a
demanding target.
And one of the reasons we're highlighting the underlying cash flows today is just to show
the gap between just the stock of value that is there today and the underlying share price.
And that for us tells that the -- the share price doesn't represent the value that's in this
business.
And so instead if we look at it more, I would say, objectively and look at the actual money
we're investing in new business, so the GBP47 million plus margin on top of that, that is
earning a mid-teen return as we put that to work.
And we think based on a more normalized cost of equity, that is well, well in excess of
what a normalized cost of capital would be. So we think that makes sense economically to
do so. Have you got the --?

A - Guy Horton
Look, I don't -- I haven't done a calculation to the nearest penny, but do I understand
correctly you're asking why is it that the increase in liabilities to new business sold is not
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

equal to the premium (inaudible)? So there's two points of which you would normally
expect a difference. One is the IFRS margin on new business. So you sell the premium, it's
not all going to go into liabilities, that's how you make a new business profit. And the
second one is new business expenses. I haven't done a check if they would line up
completely, but it feels roughly that it would.

Q - Edina Rozinka

{BIO 16575765 <GO>}

Edina Rozinka, Goldman Sachs. Can we just go back to your debt comment. Obviously,
you mentioned that you are planning to repay and we know that your next call or bond
which is coming up for call is the prime bond 9.5%. So just wondering if you have a
preference, given the Brexit, to get this refinanced sooner or later?
Or you want to show the Q3 results with the progress which you outlined, and then
perhaps come to the market on that?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So yes, we do. We've got a GBP100 million bond, Tier 2 bond, which has a call -- first
call date in March of 2020. And so our mind is turning towards refinancing that. We do
have some options there. So we do have capacity technically to do more Tier 2 if we
wanted to even up to benchmark size.
However, I think we need to balance that against our overall leverage ratio and also
demand in the market and cost in the market. It's not going to be the cheapest time to
refinance with Brexit looming. So we'll take all those factors into the round as we step
towards that stage. But -- and we've stated in our RNS, refinancing that bond is very much
on our mind.

Q - Nicholas Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi. Nick Johnson from Numis. On the reinsurance transactions that you've done, obviously
they more than neutralize the GBP70 million capital charge in the pro forma number
you've given. Could you say whether you see future reinsurance options being potentially
greater or lesser than the GBP130 million that you flagged today? Thanks.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yes. So I don't say that's because some of our reinsurance partners are in the room, but
reinsurance really is a wonderful tool because it can allow you to achieve a number of
different outcomes and it allows you to take advantage of the different risk profiles and
cost of capital that our reinsurance partners have compared to us.
And the reason I mentioned that just as an intro, Nick, is because we could absolutely
could do more longevity reinsurance on some of our existing business and there's a lot of
unreinsured business on our GIfL lines. And so there is definitely some scope there. But
you can also use reinsurance for different tools, which is why I said it's quite a useful tool.

Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

FINAL

And you might look at transactions which involve transferring both longevity and asset risk
to reinsurers who will have less onerous capital requirements on some of those assets, or
at the very least a lower cost of capital. So when we talk about a wide range of
reinsurance options available to us, it's not just more longevity reinsurance, it could be
beyond that. Greig, yes?

Q - Greig Paterson
Two questions, but I just got a request -- two requests first. One is that slide up there,
free cash generation and your EV number, which is a single number, we don't know what
the underlying assumptions are for your real world there. We don't know what your EV
assumptions. And to be very truthful, I just disregard those things because I don't know
what's in the black box at all, and history has taught me that we've had some unreliability
just [ph] with these type of numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

But in terms of -- and that's request one, if we can have some color, please. And the
second thing is in terms of your sensitivities having circa 50% in non-LTM credit, and we've
got very low spreads and I know you've had some upgrades, but there's worry there'll be
some downgrades. So I wonder if you could add a sensitivity that includes the
combination of higher spreads and sort of circa downgrades because to me that's the
next concern re., your stock in the next two years.
And so in terms of -- so those are two requests. In terms of questions, one is you very
kindly gave an estimate of what you think the CP7/19 impact is for your SCR and EVT. How
would it impact the -- because you provided sensitivities, but I'm more concerned at the
end of the year, how is it going to impact the interest rates and the property sensitivity?
Because that's what we're going to use for the full year forecast. So if you can give us
some color on how the sensitivity churns.
And the second thing is in terms of the embedded value, your post balance sheet
adjustments for the DB reinsurance and the CP, I think it was a CP13/18 adjustment on the
matching account. Could you just tell us what -- you've given us the IFRS headwind, could
you give us what, in terms of EV per share, what the headwind is going to be for these
post balance sheet things?

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

So on the requests note, we'll take those back. And I hope what you've seen today is a lot
of additional disclosure and the focus of that has been very much on capital. And so
hopefully that helps you understand what's going on in the business and with our number
one priority. So that was really the priority for today, but we'll take those additional
requests on board.
The impact of CP7/19 on our sensitivities is -- I'll ask Guy to chime in on this as well. But I -just worth bearing in mind and that the requirements of that will not become effective
until 2021. So we have time to manage to wherever that lands, both in terms of impact on
the balance sheet and any impact or otherwise it has on sensitivity.

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

I'm not sure, is there much else based in it, just in the combination to add to that at this
(Multiple Speakers)

A - Guy Horton

FINAL

Let me just check. You're talking about the GBP130 million SCR icing that we're talking
about?

Q - Greig Paterson
Yeah, in October, when (Technical Difficulty).

A - Guy Horton
It doesn't -- I wouldn't presume that it necessarily does exacerbate the property interest
rate sensitivity. It depends what the parameters look like and how the PRA would indicate
that it might modify them in terms of stress.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the PRA has removed or CP7/19 removed the 13% and the 1% as the long-term
numbers and says it'll publish in September. But it also says it'll publish volatility every year
thereafter and it'll publish deferment twice in a year thereafter.
And it has indicated that looking at those, by the time you get to 2021, you will have an
idea of how they might be thinking about changing their parameters over time. That
would be useful. If they publish any methodologies, that's useful. But it depends whether
they -- if they've also talked in CP7/19 about wishing to remove some of the, for example,
interest rate sensitivity that's produced by it. And so seeing how deferment rate changes
will be informative there.
The zero percent floor, of course from SS3/17 remains. So if interest rates go down to a
significant degree, then it feels like there won't be a lot of flexibility unless the PRA
changes, although you never know what will happen with volatility. So those are the two
parameters that matter. How they apply in stress matters. I'm not sure we'll have the end
of the story in September or October when they publish. I think we'll have a great insight,
but I don't think we'll have the end of the insight.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Thank you, Guy. And then your question I think, Greig, was along the lines of the DB
reinsurance, how might it affect future metrics.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Technical Difficulty)

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

GBP48 million. GBP48 million. That's right. I think we've got time for one more. Andrew?

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

FINAL

It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. And just could I echo what Greig's saying. I've been
asking for credit migration sensitivity every single time and you've promised to take it
away every single time, and it's never come back again. So please could we actually do
that, because it is important.
Questions. You're talking about a target cost base of GBP145 million. How much lower
should we anticipate that going in 2020? Secondly, could you give us the impact on your
Solvency II coverage of market moves since June? I know you gave some indication on
interest rates but there's obviously property market moves.
And then finally, you promised to review all options. One of those options would be to
close the new business. Could you give us the cost? If you did decide to take that route,
what would be the redundancy and rationalization cost to take out the front end?

A - Guy Horton

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So -- and the question on expense base moving forward, we're not going to give a
pound amount forecast on that. But I think the relevant thing that I wanted to draw your
attention to in forecasting is that will eliminate the expense overrun by 2021. So I think
that's hopefully helpful for you.
In terms of market moves since the 30th of June, I don't think we want to get into the
habit of kind of giving updates, but the idea is with the sensitivity that you can work it out
yourself. The interest rate, one of the things that's obviously moved around most since
30th of June with significant falls, and we flagged in there that given the hedging we've
put in place, 50 basis points reduction in rates would be a 5% impact on the ratio.
In terms of, yes, no options excluded. And look we don't see it binary that, that statement
involves doing what we're doing, closing some new business. There's actually a whole
range of options to us. So I think the important thing from a value perspective, as you can
see that the stock of the existing value whether you discount those cash flows, whether
you look at our TNAV of 162 pence per share, there's no representation to the share price
at the moment.
And -- So look, thank you all very much for your time today. I take it from your lack of
questions that you're all very happy with our HUBs coming along and our underlying
markets. But thank you, David, for joining us. And we're obviously available for any one-toone questions afterwards. But thank you for your time and support.

A - David Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 21 of 22



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2019-09-04

Page 22 of 22

