Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Penny James, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and CEO-Designate

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Fahad Changazi, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Iain Pearce, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jonathan Denham, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Sami Taipalus, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation
Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right. Good morning, everybody. Everyone can take a seat. Thank you. Welcome to our
2018 results presentation. Three new things today. Firstly, we're in a new home, this rather
splendid home, so thanks to Goldmans for that. Secondly, we are webcasting for the ﬁrst
time, so hi to everybody online. And ﬁnally, this is obviously my last prelim and I'm
handing over to my successor, Penny James, and it's great to be bowing out on another
strong set of results, demonstrating the beneﬁts of our resilient business model in what
have been highly competitive markets in 2018.
We made signiﬁcant operational progress last year, setting us up well for a pivotal year
this year in terms of delivery, designed to enable us to continue to grow our current year
proﬁts. And we've been disciplined on expenses, and looking ahead, we are determined
to deliver signiﬁcant improvement in eﬃciency through our business transformation,
which Penny will set out later. We also continue to make good progress towards a more
eﬃcient capital model to support strong returns, and we are announcing today dividends

Page 1 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

of GBP0.223, which still leaves us with a strong solvency position, reﬂecting prudence in
these uncertain times.
With that Penny, over to you to take us through the 2018 results.

FINAL

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. It's a real privilege to be taking over the leadership of Direct
Line. It's a business with many strengths, its talented people, customer-focused culture,
powerful brands, and it's unique in this sector due to its multi-channel and multi-product
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

To begin with, I'll give you an overview of our ﬁnancial results for 2018. These are strong
results in highly competitive markets. As you know, 2017 was a supercharged year with
low weather losses and extraordinary pricing conditions due to Ogden. By comparison
last year, the weather losses returned to more normal levels and the Ogden eﬀect had
worked through. We were pleased to grow own brand premiums by 1.8%, although as you
know, this is more than oﬀset by the exit from our Nationwide partnership in Home in
2017, which is now complete.
We delivered GBP602 million of operating proﬁt, a strong result. It was GBP41 million
lower than last year due to prior year releases being lower and the lower investment
return. The combined ratio of 91.7% is also a strong result, considering the competitive
market backdrop. Even adjusted for weather, the core was about 92%. As a result, the
RoTE was 21.5%. Weather overall was in line with expectations at GBP75 million, and we've
included a table on the bottom right here to highlight the main large movements in the
results, which were again largely favorable. You will see we are now assuming an Ogden
discount rate of 0%, which resulted in a GBP55 million beneﬁt, in line with our previously
disclosed sensitivities.
Turning to Slide 7. The chart on the left here shows the steady growth we've achieved in
our direct own brand policies over the past four years. These are the policies that we have
most inﬂuence over and which have provided the core sustainable value for shareholders.
That's why we're delighted that we've achieved consistent year-on-year growth across the
portfolio, thus demonstrating the long-term underlying growth potential of the Group.
That growth continued last year, up 3.2%.
Motor own brands are just under 4 million policies, grew by 2.7%, and Home was stable at
1.8 million, which is a great result in such a competitive market. This was achieved through
strong retention levels with Motor in particular able to keep more of its customers from
the good growth we saw in 2017. Our disruptive brands, Green Flag and Direct Line for
Business, were up 11% and 7% respectively, continuing their steady and proﬁtable growth.
The table on the right here highlights the movements in the Group's policy count.
Oﬀsetting the strong direct own brands growth is a 35% reduction in Motor and Home
Partners because of the partner exits. The majority of this impact is now behind us. The
partnership team has made good progress with RBS, following new propositions and
Page 2 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

digital journeys in Home. Policy counts in the remaining part of Rescue reduced due to a
partner exit and the removal of a free rescue promotion for our Motor customers. And
then the broker channel, NIG, did well to grow its policy count, whilst it continued to take
pricing action aimed at improving margins.
Now, let me turn to operating proﬁt on Slide 8 at a category level, which was good in each
of our segments, once again demonstrating the beneﬁts of our diversiﬁed multi-channel,
multi-product business. Motor delivered an excellent performance in 2018, growing proﬁt
to GBP415 million. The Home team did a tremendous job, delivering GBP83 million of
proﬁt, despite both the weather and the headwinds from the Nationwide exit. Rescue and
other personal lines contributed GBP43 million to the Group results, which was broadly
ﬂat despite the weather. The Commercial proﬁt of GBP60 million was GBP14 million lower,
largely due to weather, and we're pleased with the progress in both DL4B and NIG. So
overall, a strong trading result in a highly competitive market environment.
So let's look at the individual segment proﬁts. Starting with Motor, which delivered an
excellent performance despite deﬂationary market. Against this backdrop, we held our
discipline and priced ahead of the market to achieve our target loss ratios. Our growth
was in part because we took some self-help actions on fraud prevention and made
changes to the Churchill proposition, which helped us grow through the price
comparison channel at our target loss ratios, albeit it also drove us to lower risk mix and
lower average premiums. Claims inﬂation was as expected, following a very benign 2017.
Frequency in 2018 ended up normal, having seen some spikes in the year, and our overall
long-term view of claims inﬂation remains unchanged at 3% to 5%. I'm particularly
pleased with how our own repair centers dealt with the peaks, adding shifts to help our
customers back on the road. This is the kind of claims fulﬁllment capability that few other
insurers have and gives us a real edge in both meeting our customer needs and
managing our claims costs. Last year, we added our 20th repair center.
Moving to the Motor ﬁnancial results, which was up GBP18 million. This increase was a
function of the GBP57 million impairment we took in the previous year, oﬀset by lower
prior year reserve releases. Excluding these, current year proﬁtability improved slightly,
which I'm pleased with, given the strong comparative. Prior year releases in Motor
continued to steadily reduce, consistent with the greater levels of reinsurance purchased
in recent years. And as I mentioned, we now reserve assuming an Ogden discount rate of
0%. Finally, we renewed our reinsurance at the start of the year, maintaining our cover to a
GBP1 million retention level, but at more favorable rates. Overall, an excellent result in a
competitive market.
Now, Slide 10 shows the updated ABI Motor premium data indexed to the start of 2004,
which we last showed you at half year. Since the half year, prices appear to have
stabilized. Prices were up in Q4, which, as you can see, is the trend for fourth quarters in
general, but still down year-on-year. In early 2019, the market remained very competitive,
and we're disappointed that the market appears not to have begun pricing claims
inﬂation. We remain focused on maintaining our pricing discipline and we'll continue to
prioritize target loss ratios over volume. However, while we can't be immune from the
market pricing pressures, we remain committed to investing in the business with the aim

Page 3 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

of delivering beneﬁts on cost and underwriting that mean we can, to some extent, carve
our own path.
In regard to regulatory issues impacting Motor, we're waiting on the ﬁnal Ogden decision
but believe that the market has broadly adjusted for a rate between 0% to 1%, and we
have the whiplash reforms expected next year too. So we welcome the passing of Civil
Liabilities Act and we also welcome the FCA pricing review. As you know, the FCA focus
on pricing is an area where we've been proactive, capping or reducing prices for many
long-standing customers, as well as championing industry initiatives. We think the FCA is
taking a considered approach, and if the industry pricing model changed, we believe that
with a level playing ﬁeld, our leading brands and capabilities should still be an advantage.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think that leads us nicely on to Home on Slide 11. The Home market was very competitive
last year, and we saw less shopping in the direct channel. In that context, I'm really
pleased with how we traded. As we held our own brand IFPs and increased average
premiums by 0.4%, we were able to protect the value in our own brands through pricing
for claims inﬂation, although this was largely oﬀset by the shift towards lower average
premiums in the price comparison channel. Our focus on price comparison capability
helped us in Home as well as in Motor as we took some targeted action on retention to
improve value. In terms of claims inﬂation, there's no change to our long-term view of 3%
to 5% per annum.
Moving to operating proﬁt, I'm really pleased with the team here, delivering GBP83
million of proﬁt, despite the partner loss and the higher weather costs. If you normalize
the Home results for weather, you will see we actually grew proﬁts by GBP4 million, which
is really impressive given all the headwinds. At an underwriting level, you will see in a few
slides' time a switch between the loss ratio and the commission ratio as the business mix
has changed. The exiting partners had an impact on the shape of the Home result in 2018,
but from here on, we expect much less noise.
Now to our two other businesses. Commercial delivered a solid GBP60 million operating
proﬁt despite higher weather costs in 2018. The headline decline on our operating proﬁt
hides a good underlying performance, as improved current year proﬁtability oﬀset lower
prior year releases. The improvement in current year proﬁtability has been supported by
the investments we've made in improving technical pricing capability in the Group's
broker business, NIG, and by the continued growth in the more proﬁtable DL4B. Weather
costs were GBP10 million higher than 2017, but remained below our annual expectation of
GBP20 million. Finally, in Rescue and other personal lines, proﬁt was broadly ﬂat with a
combined proﬁt of GBP4 million -- GBP43 million, sorry. This was largely driven by
Rescue, which delivered GBP40 million in 2018, GBP4 million lower than the prior year
due to a combination of higher weather-related costs and tighter partner terms.
Now, we've been through the categories, but what does the picture look like at a Group
level. As you know, we're focused on growing current year proﬁtability, oﬀsetting the
gradual decline in our prior year reserve releases. We have three key levers: grow our
business, improve our technical margins and improve our eﬃciency. We've already shown
you the steady underlying growth we've been achieving over the past few years. So here,
I want to focus on the technical margins. We've combined the current year attritional loss
Page 4 of 23



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

ratio and the commission ratio to try and help steer through the noise from the business
mix shift last year. As you can see, over the past ﬁve years, we've steadily reduced our
combined loss and commission ratios. This year, you can see the attritional ratio ticked up
and the commission ratio went the other way. This is largely driven by the partner exits,
although as we described earlier, the increase in the Motor loss ratio contributes as well.
While the recognition patterns of commissions make this an imperfect analysis in any one
year, it does demonstrate the general trend we've been trying and continue to work
towards. Looking forward, on commission ratio, we can expect some modest reduction
again in 2019, and thereafter, its shape will depend on the future partnership activity.
The other major lever we have is to improve -- to improve our current year proﬁtability is
expenses, shown here on Slide 14. Improving the expense ratio is key to sustaining our
competitiveness. At this time last year, I spoke about the real opportunity to reduce this.
We've made some progress last year, absorbing cost inﬂation, the exit from Nationwide
Home and managing the signiﬁcant change in the business, all while trading successfully
in competitive markets. This helped us reduce our expense ratio by 50 basis points.

Bloomberg Transcript

2019 is a pivotal year for the delivery of our ambitious IT program. This provides a
springboard for us to deliver greater eﬃciency through self-service and digitalization, and
we expect it to help us further lower the expense ratio over time. While this program is
due to really start making a diﬀerence from 2020, we also aim to continue making
progress on costs. This year, we are targeting to reduce operating expenses to below
GBP700 million, cutting costs in absolute terms, while continuing to invest for the future.
Now, to the prior year, which you can see is trending as expected and in line with what
we've been guiding for so many years now. Our reserving philosophy always has been
and remains to strike our initial reserves at the prudent end of the best estimate range.
This has resulted in proﬁts in the form of favorable prior year development. The level of
release is reducing steadily over time, as our larger bodily injury claims are backed by
reinsurance rather than by our own capital. At the top, you can see the impact on the
combined ratio and how our assumed Ogden discount rate has developed over the past
ﬁve years. There's been some noise with the changes to the Ogden discount rate, but
excluding that, the broad trend reﬂects the reducing reserve risk on the balance sheet.
Moving to the investment results on Slide 16, which was slightly ahead of our GBP150
million guidance at GBP155 million. Lower assets under management, higher hedging
costs and lower gains led to a GBP21 million reduction in the headline results. As you can
see, net investment income after hedging delivered a yield of 2%, resulting in a decline of
8.3%, broadly mirroring the decline in assets under management. In the current interest
rates and credit environment, we expect the net income yield to remain around 2% this
year. Whilst this may not seem very exciting guidance, you can see from the chart on the
left here, it's the ﬁrst time in some years that net investment income yield is not expected
to be a headwind for the Group's earnings. This trend does, however, have an
unfavorable impact on the optical beneﬁts of gains. We recognized GBP26 million last
year, GBP9 million less than for 2017. Just under half was from property revaluations.
Importantly, the available for sale reserve had reversed from a gain of GBP80 million at
the end of 2017 to unrealized loss of GBP37 million at the end of last year. Although we

Page 5 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

have seen some reversal of the unrealized loss position so far this year, the opportunity to
realize gains is signiﬁcantly lower in 2019 than it was in 2018.
Now, before we get to the capital slide, a reminder of how our balance sheet risk proﬁle
has developed on Slide 17. On the left, you can see how the net claims liabilities have
declined as a result of the increased reinsurance protection over the years, particularly
from 2014. As you'd expect, assets under management have followed suit. And as you will
see in our solvency slide shortly, the capital required to back assets and liabilities has also
reduced. Over the planning period, we expect the balance sheet sides to begin to
stabilize and then grow as the riskier back book runs oﬀ.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the pie chart on the right, you can see our investment holdings, which form a diverse
ﬁxed income portfolio, split predominantly across the UK and the US. As you'll recall from
previous disclosures that we hold non-UK assets to increase our credit diversiﬁcation,
while hedging non-UK interest rate and currency exposure. For several months now,
we've not been reinvesting maturing assets in order to reduce our credit exposure
through the current political uncertainty. Although not a huge reduction in exposure, it
means we're slightly underinvested and overweight cash compared to our target
benchmark.
Now, to the Group's capital generation, which has supported both attractive dividends to
shareholders and a high level of investment back into the business. This year has seen a
GBP130 million reduction in the SCR. Approximately half of this is a direct response to the
reduced risk on the balance sheet. As I said earlier, we expect the balance sheet to
continue to shrink, albeit more slowly, and stabilizing in the coming years. This supply [ph]
provides support for the CapEx we're investing with a view to strengthening the Group's
capabilities. The widening of credit spreads last year contributed to reduction in the value
of our investments by GBP60 million. Some of this has reversed in the ﬁrst couple of
months of the year.
Capital generation you see here is broadly consistent with the earnings of the business.
CapEx was GBP150 million, above the average annual guidance previously given, as we
seek to accelerate some of the beneﬁts we are targeting. While our estimates on costs
and timing of implementing our policy and pricing software remain broadly unchanged,
we've expanded our investment program to accelerate improvements in our IT
infrastructure and environment. We've also initiated a ﬁnance transformation program to
improve operations, technology and to meet IFRS 17 requirements. So as I look at our
investment plans, I expect to invest approximately GBP175 million this year, which should
represent the peak of our investing, falling below -- to below GBP150 million in 2020 and
reducing thereafter. Finally, the strong ﬁnancial performance and capital position enabled
the Group to grow the ﬁnal regular dividend 3% to GBP0.14 and recommend a special
dividend of GBP0.083.
Finally, turning to our solvency ratio on Slide 19, which is at a very strong 170% after
proposed dividends. Under normal conditions, the Board expects to operate at a ratio
around the middle of the risk appetite range of 140% to 180%. The current political and
economic uncertainty, including Brexit, feels anything but normal. We've therefore chosen
to err on the side of caution for the time being and maintain a more prudent solvency
Page 6 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

buﬀer. For context, this buﬀer above 160% is approximately equal to the Group's
sensitivity to 100 bp credit spread widening. We will keep this position under review while
we monitor the political and economic environment. In the future, we'll also consider the
most appropriate mechanism for returning surplus capital, including buybacks as well as
special dividends.
In summary, we've delivered another strong year of capital generation with reducing
capital requirements, which has supported signiﬁcant investment into the future of the
business. We've distributed GBP0.293 pence to shareholders and maintained a strong
solvency ratio, which should provide a degree of stability through uncertain political
times.
So brieﬂy to our ﬁnancial targets in 2019 before we move on to our strategic progress and
outlook. Once again, we aim to achieve a combined ratio of 93% to 95%, normalized for
weather. We're targeting reducing our operating expenses to below GBP700 million this
year. We expect our net investment income yield after hedging costs to be stable at 2%
and for signiﬁcantly lower gains than last year. And we expect to invest approximately
GBP175 million in CapEx this year, representing the peak of our investments.
Now, I'll hand over to Paul for a few words on the Group's strategic progress so far. Paul?

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you. Penny. As I approach the end of my time as CEO, I'd like to highlight some of
the many things I think this business can be really proud of. Starting with our ﬁnancial
performance, and over the past ﬁve years, we have met every single one of our targets,
apart from when we had the Ogden hit in 2016. Whilst policy numbers are not directly an
objective, they are a lens on the competitiveness of the business, and that's why it's
gratifying to see that the growth in all four of our businesses, helped by the reboot of
Direct Line in 2014. Our core and RoTE performances have, apart from the Ogden blip,
been strong, and we have rewarded shareholders with strong dividends. Now, these
results haven't happened by accident. I've got over 10,000 people to thank for a lot of
hard work.
On Slide 22, you can see on the top left that we've nearly doubled the number of highly
engaged people, and it was fantastic recently to be recognized as one of the Top 3 Big
Businesses to Work For on the prestigious Sunday Times list. Now, having a diverse and
energized workforce, who go the extra mile for customers every day, has driven an
increase in our net promoter scores, which you can see here on the right, and in turn,
that's helped us to attract and retain more customers, contributing to the 1 million new
Direct Line brand policies we've added in the past ﬁve years. And all this has helped drive
shareholder value with a total shareholder return since listing of 223%.
But there is still much to do, and I'm delighted to be handing over shortly to Penny who
has helped shape the multi-brand, multi-channel strategy that we articulated last year. In
Direct, I'm really proud of the Direct Line brands that we returned to growth following the
reboot in 2014, and we've continued to make it better. We now have nine propositions not

Page 7 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

oﬀered by any other insurer. Our latest marketing campaign broke this weekend. I'm sure
you've all seen it on TV, and we're going to keep refreshing and improving this precious
and valuable brand.
Onto two other signiﬁcant medium-term Direct opportunities: Direct Line for Business has
just passed 0.5 million policies, is on track to continue its growth as it beneﬁts from its
agile new platform; and Green Flag Rescue, under focused management and now with a
multi-skilled center of excellence and leads. We've continued to grow premiums, improve
our digital oﬀer and dealt really well with over 600,000 breakdowns last year despite the
weather challenges.
Now, it's the PCW channel where Penny rightly challenged us to get to best-in-class
capabilities, so we can now grow proﬁtably in the market's biggest channel. Last year,
new anti-fraud initiatives and an improved Churchill proposition helped us grow new
business in PCWs by 18%, and we see much more potential here, with some exciting news
Penny will share in a moment. And let's not forget NIG. The progress we've made in the
commercial business over the past few years is worth highlighting. It's proven a proﬁtable,
more predictable and growing business, and has come to be a real asset for the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, onto partnerships, where we're leveraging our digital manufacturing and servicing
capabilities. I'm proud we're up and running with Volkswagen and leveraging our API
capabilities with NatWest and RBS. We believe our capabilities are increasingly market
leading and we're out there talking to potential new partners as we speak. Whilst these
partnerships take time to land, we expect over the next couple of years to be announcing
wins in the partnership channel.
So we have a robust strategy that's already delivering, but we are on the verge of starting
to roll out new systems that we expect to step change our capability and unlock
signiﬁcant eﬃciency and capability improvements. It feels like the right time to hand over
to Penny to talk about the future.

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks Paul. This is a great business that's achieved great things but has many more
opportunities to grow proﬁtably. As I said earlier, I inherit a business with many strengths,
powerful brands that customers trust, a highly engaged workforce that really cares about
its customers, a multi-channel multi-product multi-brand approach that gives us real
diversiﬁcation, a best-in-class service and claims capability. All these strengths are
underpinned by a very strong balance sheet. We're in the process of transforming almost
every part of this business, equipping it with better tools and simplifying processes. These
new systems give us the opportunity to evolve the way we work, creating opportunity for
us to be much more eﬃcient and agile as a business.
To Slide 24, we're entering a highly ambitious two-year period for the Group as we
implement the technology to unlock new capabilities and improve our eﬃciency. When
executed, this should create a springboard from which we can grow the business'
proﬁtability. Those of you who joined us at Bristol will recall the system challenges that our

Page 8 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

people face. We are just weeks away now from the start of the roll-out process of our new
IT platform. As we take these ﬁrst steps, I want to take a moment to give a ﬂavor of some
of the capabilities that we're working towards. We'll write our ﬁrst life policies in the
coming weeks initially with the new business from Privilege Motor customers before
following with other brands and channels. Although the roll-out starts small, we will add
further functionality over the next two years, and on the slide here, you can see some of
the expected beneﬁts.
For customers, they will be able to move seamlessly between channels, access greater
self-service through their own customer portal and beneﬁt from greater product choice,
to name just a few of the beneﬁts. And behind the scenes, our people have better
customer information, which will help us innovate and serve our customers even better
than we do today. From a pure eﬃciency perspective, we're designing for greater
automation of routine tasks like payment reminders and deferred policy cancellations, all
of which require signiﬁcant manual intervention today. And for pricing, we see a step
change in the speed and accuracy of our pricing changes, supported by greater thirdparty data and data validation helping us to sharpen our pricing accuracy, fraud
prevention and competitiveness. Overtime, we will also build multi-product oﬀerings,
increase our cross-sell abilities and make even greater use of data sources available to us.
Also in a pretty busy half for us, our new travel system is in technical go-live phase and is
expected to be live for customers by half year.
Now I mentioned earlier further investments into IT architecture. So what is this? Well, in
addition to upgrading our software applications, we're also upgrading our hosting
services and mainframe to transition to modern on-premise infrastructure and cloud
platforms. This is all designed to support a more ﬂexible, more reliable, and cheaper
solution to improve our performance of both our applications and our people. We believe
this investment will support growth in the current-year proﬁt contribution of the business
as we leverage the Group's competitive advantages that I laid out earlier.
But we also invest in a number of growth opportunities over the medium term. Direct Line
for Business was launched in 2007 and has grown every year since. During the past ﬁve
years alone, it has grown at CAGR of over 7% and we've written our 500,000th policy.
That's been achieved primarily with two products, Van and Landlord insurance. But as you
know, we are also striving to create and capture the direct SME market. So we built a new
platform and last year launched insurance cover to 500 new trades. We estimate the
direct SME market could be a GBP3 billion market. Although the numbers are small today,
we're excited about the progress we're making, and we believe over the medium term, it
has the potential to drive value. This year, we'll be migrating Van and Tradesman cover to
our new system as we continue to press Home our earlier mover advantage. Green Flag
has also grown at a tremendous pace over the past ﬁve years at over 9% CAGR, and we're
getting close to the 1 million policy milestone. As you know, Rescue's new management
has a ﬁve-year transformation plan to invest in the business to realize growth opportunity,
and I'm excited by the prospects.
And ﬁnally, I'm really excited today to announce that we're shortly launching a new brand,
Darwin, our ﬁrst in 25 years. It's a new brand in the price comparison space with clear,
straightforward products, full customer self-service and new pricing models using more
Page 9 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

sophisticated math techniques and machine learning. It's backed by the skill and scale of
the Group's claims fulﬁllment capability. Darwin is built on cloud-based architecture. We
believe it will enable us to deepen our competitive footprint with more granular and
ﬂexible pricing capabilities. We're in the ﬁnal stages of testing and are aiming to launch
next quarter to our Motor customers. While we're not expecting any great immediate
impacts, we believe this gives us another uncorrelated avenue into the Motor market and
is also testing new techniques that we could over time transfer into our core oﬀerings.
Finally, back to the key messages on Slide 26 that Paul spoke to earlier. I'd like to give my
perspective as an incoming CEO. This is a great business and a really exciting time to be
taking over, given the level of transformation. We are an ambitious company that has an
absolute determination to serve its customers. Since joining 18 months ago, one of the
things that struck me about the Group is what I can only describe as a cultural drive to aim
higher, whether it's our unique brand propositions, which give customers the reasons to
come to direct; or accident repair centers turning around seven-day repairs, making our
customer lives easier and enabling us to control our claims costs; or Darwin, which shows
that innovation and disruption are still ﬁrmly in our DNA. And crucially, there is potential
to improve and grow this business. Once again, the Group has delivered a strong set of
results despite the market competitiveness, and we will continue to use our expertise,
experience and discipline to manage through what is becoming a challenging market.
Over the next two years, as we move through our transformation, instead of being
inhibited by our technology, we should become advantaged by it. But to be competitive
in the future, we must also be more eﬃcient. If we intend to make -- we intend to make
further progress on costs this year, but I expect the real win to come as the beneﬁts of our
multi-year investment program crystallize. That's why I'm focused on execution so that we
can continue to grow our current year proﬁtability. We're doing all of this with a strong,
ﬂexible and increasingly eﬃcient balance sheet that puts us in a strong position to
support shareholder returns through our transformation period. The future is very
exciting, and I look forward to sharing more detail with you later this year.
And with that, Paul and I look forward to taking your questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. Thank you. So we have some technology here. So you have a button to press
and to speak, red light goes on, and then at the end, you can put oﬀ. Right, let's start, why
don't we -- we'll sweep this way.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. It's James Shuck from Citi. So I have three questions if I could. Just on Slide
36, in the operating expenses outlook because you are targeting an absolute reduction in
the level of operating expenses. Just hoping you can give us some guidance in terms of
the diﬀerent buckets so that's expected to come from, please, and also interested in the

Page 10 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

timeline for the amortization of the infrastructure that you've actually invested in so far.
That's ﬁrst question.
Secondly, in terms of direct players, we're seeing direct players growing over the past few
years at the expense of other players who have been less successful, particularly through
the broker channel. Now at some stage, that market share gain and that channel shift is
going to settle down. And I'm interested to know in terms of that proﬁle, to what extent
you're actually gaining from channel shift and to what extent will that continue to go
before you actually have to start taking market share against incumbents on the direct
side, please.
And then ﬁnally, just in terms of the new systems and the roll-out, so very interesting stuﬀ
and you've taken us through Bristol and exciting things in store. Just interested to know
what some of the key risks are in terms of that new system roll-outs. So 12 months' time -- I
know you've been testing and learning for many years now, but what could go wrong?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Great. Let me do the two and three and return to Penny on one. I think the share of direct
versus PCWs is actually partly driven by whether the direct players do innovative stuﬀ and
give people reasons to come to direct, it seems inevitability. So I'm going to do a few
questions, giving a nine or 10-year view here. So forgive me it's my last time. It was almost
a tenet of faith that obviously the market will go to PCWs and the direct players were kind
of making -- self-fulﬁlling that because there was nothing better about the direct players.
And I think actually all the stuﬀ that we've done in Direct Line and fair credit to what
Admiral is doing on multi-car and what Aviva is doing, we've given people reasons to
come direct. So I don't think that this is an outcome of the things which we do to give
people a reason to come direct rather than inevitability of trends, right? And we continue
to do things for direct. That said, I think what we've got in having a proper PCW strategy
with Darwin and actually many of the beneﬁts coming through on the new personal line
systems is directed to our competitiveness in PCWs. We want to be a very proﬁtable, very
successful PCW player. So actually, versus -- when I came into the Group, when we were
kind of very defensive about PCW, our intention is to be not agnostic because we always
had a special place in the hearts for -- but much, much, much less critically dependent on
the success of the direct channel versus PCW channel if that make sense.
The new systems, you might have spotted, we've taken our time to get to where we are
here and we've taken our time to make sure that we didn't go down the blind alleys. As
you know, we rebuilt our data architecture for performance. We've gone to make sure that
we have high conformity with the standards of the products that we're buying, so we'll
beneﬁt from their upgrade path. So I think we've reduced a lot of risks there. And the
approach we'll take will be throttling up gradually and switching things on as they were.
We'll be checking the prices we write business at, how they are compared with the prices
we would have written on in the old systems. So we've got plenty of brakes and
accelerations, and we're not going to be driven by speed. And so I kind of -- I don't want
to tempt fate at all, but we're taking a low risk approach to rolling it out. I've seen it
working, and it's a complete antidote to everything you saw in Bristol. But it's working and
it's up and running.

Page 11 of 23



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

I think the other thing to say -- I'm sorry to indulge me again on this one. The people who
have helped us build it build a lot of these systems with players around the world. I think
one of the fears is because we started some time ago is the thing we'll kind of limp out to
the gate, some sort of old generation not very good version of all these systems. Actually
people are choosing to work on our project versus others around the world because it's
the latest version of all the Guidewire systems that's integrated into Radar Live. It's the ﬁrst
time that's done, which we think is the best pricing system. It's all on the cloud -- or a lot
of it is on the cloud, more than other players, and it's all hung together with APIs, which
makes it hugely adaptable. So the thing which we will launch will I think be the best set of
insurance systems in the current generation, and then of course, we've got Darwin as well.
Long answer, sorry. Penny, expenses.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Actually a shorter answer. Savings actually coming from a variety of lines, some marketing
eﬃciency, IT run costs, some supplier cost reductions and some people reduction, so a
real mixture across the board. And in terms of the amortization timelines, as the systems
go live, we start amortizing. So EVO [ph] in the Direct Line -- DL4B space will already be
amortizing, and the Guidewire systems, et cetera, as they come on stream, we'll start
amortizing.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible).

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Up to 10, from memory, up to 10. So...

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It seems quite a long amortization time frame.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Pretty standard, I think.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

We have been on the last system since 1985, so -- yes?

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Thank you. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions from me. One on Motor
pricing. So I think about six months ago, we were expecting that pricing wouldn't catch up
with claims because we had a bump year in '17 and some of that earned through. If I look
Page 12 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

at the numbers you gave us for the H2 '18 attritional in Motor, it looks to me a little bit like
actually it's been more disappointing. Would it be fair to say that the market is more
competitive than say six months or 12 months ago?
The second question is on the investment portfolio, and more broadly, the dynamic of
reserves coming down -- assets under management coming down and capital
requirement coming out as a result because of the reinsurance that's changed. You said
that you expect that to ﬂatten at some point. Is that sort of next year? Is that a three-year
view? Could you give us some sense of the timing around that dynamic?
And then thirdly on Darwin, very exciting. Is it going to target any particular
demographics, any particular segments that -- or sort of areas where you have
competitive advantage where you can deploy that? Or indeed, is it too early to say?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So I will take one. Do you mind me taking three or two?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

(multiple speakers) all three.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

(multiple speakers) Listen, Motor pricing, we use the word disappointing as the market
isn't pricing claims inﬂation, which is I think acknowledged to be 3% to 5%. I think actually
probably our claims inﬂation may be a little bit better in 2018 than the market because
during that surge, having our own garage has probably helped us a bit. So prices aren't
going up for that, right? Our prices were up a little bit, 0.6. We've obviously also done
some self-help. We're getting some clues there on things like anti-fraud. So we kind of
made our own (inaudible) loss ratio a bit. I think as we sit here today, we are just really
clear going into '19 that we will go for our loss ratios ﬁrst and take the volume
consequences that follow. We're not neutral to volume. We like volume. It makes
everything easier. But we are very much loss ratio ﬁrst, and then we'll do as much of our
self-help to get the most volume that we can.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I'll just sort of supplement that on the loss ratio. I think if you'll half and half, you get a bit
of noise, just the timing of reserving reviews and so and so forth. So I think we've really
come out of the year running at about the annual 2017 rate rather than I think the second
half is a bit unﬂattering. So that's not to say that we're still in the competitive market that
Paul described, but I think that's probably a better indicator.
In terms of capital and reserves, I think we are not there yet. So I think towards the end of
the plan period, not the beginning. And Darwin, not targeting particular demographics.
What it's doing is using the data from our own -- our own historic data and using diﬀerent
pricing models on them and diﬀerent modeling techniques. So it's actually going deeper
into the segments we already write, but picking diﬀerent customers. And what's
Page 13 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

interesting about the testing is it's showing that there's a limited but relatively limited
overlap between them and the loss ratios look okay. Now that's testing, not live. So we'll
roll out cautiously and slowly, but it's certainly interesting and certainly an interesting test
and learn, if you like.

FINAL

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right. I think we'll go to Greig (inaudible). Press the button even you --

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. Sorry. I had a number of questions, but just in terms of Motor and
Home, could you just tell us what your overall inﬂation turned out to be in those two lines
relative to 3% to 5% range, because I can't see any reference to it in the presentation?
Second point is I noticed the loss triangles, the booked versus best estimates are no
longer in the presentation. In terms of the margin over best estimate, margin over
ultimate that you book in Motor --

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yeah.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig Paterson
For 2018, did you book that margin in 2018 accident year or did you recycle it into the
2017 accident year? And then ﬁnally, in terms of the market in Motor currently, since we
had issuer [ph] blowup a few weeks back, have you seen an easing/hardening of the
cycle?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

On the last one, your words, blowup, not mine. And I just know that the (inaudible)
changed in the last few weeks. Let me do Motor claims inﬂation, because I've got a great
answer, I'm going to tell you about it.

Q - Greig Paterson
We haven't seen any changes?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes, there's nothing suddenly [ph] happened in last few weeks. I think pretty ﬂat, but no
pricing claims inﬂation. So Motor, 3% to 5% -- kind of in the middle-ish of 3% to 5%,
comprised of two bits, kind of BI which is about 40% of the cost, which is below the 3% to
5%, quite a long way below, and the non-BI which is 60% of the cost, the other perils
running above the top of 3% to 5%, and netting down to 3% to 5%. And so -- and then
we've got -- obviously got frequency then -- frequency is slightly harder to call, so
frequency was like really good in 2017, which we treated, as you remember, as a blip.
2018, we then had started oﬀ with some kind of high frequency, which was largely we
think due to weather, and it came back such that the total of 2018 was kind of a neutral
year. You could, if you -- if you wanted to try and be optimistic about it, you can actually
Page 14 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

say, well, if you took away the blip of the start of 2018, there is an underlying downward
trend on frequency, which it has been for many years and might be the ﬂip side of all
these bumpers and sensors. We are not banking that as a positive yet. We're being a bit
cautious on that. So we're just assuming frequency is ﬂat in the short term, which could be
a conservative assumption.

FINAL

Home, Penny?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Home, shorter answer, yeah, we're now 3% to 5%, approaching that level. Subs was -that's weather -- excluding all the weather events. The subs was immaterially up over
normal expectations, but overall, 3% to 5%.

Q - Greig Paterson
5% or in the middle?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Somewhere in the middle of the range.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And triangles?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Oh, sorry. Triangles, I'm not sure I fully follow your question, but I think if I express it like
this, we haven't fundamentally changed our reserving strength philosophies. So we are -you would expect to see strength going in a bit at the beginning and then come out as
prior year development over time. I am not quite sure whether that was the question or
not, but that's the approach we're taking.

Q - Greig Paterson
I have to say previously, you actually showed a slide where you showed your booked loss
triangles versus your best estimate, and there was a change in 2015 where you moved the
margin from the initial pick to you recycling the duration to -- and something funny went
on at end of 2017 which I haven't quite put my ﬁnger on it, but I suspect you put the
margin possibly back into the initial picks. I just want to know where we are with this
reserving approach in the way it comes through in terms of IFRS.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I suggest we follow up on the detail, but there is no interesting story other than we are
following the same philosophy and so on and so forth. So if there are speciﬁc numbers
that we need to pick up, we can do that.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}
Page 15 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Great. Thank you. Right. We're moving to the middle section. You can turn your -- press
the button again correctly.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three from me, if that's okay. So ﬁrstly,
just wondered in the expense guidance that you've given for 2019, is there anything
speciﬁcally for the Darwin ramp-up or there will be ramping up the brand or anything like
that, and how you expect expenses to be for Darwin going forward?
Secondly, just for uses of capital, you mentioned a few. How does M&A ﬁt into the picture
and can you remind us on your criteria for that?
And thirdly, just on solvency, I think maybe your deferred tax asset increased a little bit.
Just how you think about DTA in your solvency picture? Thanks.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Expense guidance ﬁrst. No big marketing costs in Darwin. Price comparison-only brand,
so we wouldn't expect to see a big marketing budget, in fact negligible marketing budget
behind it. So you should see it just come through as normal expenses, and it's within the
guidance that's been given. M&A, do you want to --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. Listen, I think we are building amazing sort of capabilities here, brands, channels,
technology, routes to market, diﬀerent pricing model. So we don't need M&A to execute
the strategy. It's not in itself the plan. Some more partnerships is something which we
think should inevitably happen as a result of our capabilities being there. And obviously,
you'd expect us to run (inaudible) over things that come up and see whether it would be
accretive or accelerate our strategy. We've obviously got quite a high -- and I think Penny
will retain -- quite a high hurdle for -- if were to do some big M&A, it'd need to be a very
clearly accretive deal and it would need to be not distracting from the main task, which is
delivering this plan, which has got a lot to execute. I think we share our philosophy on
M&A.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely. Deferred tax asset, again, don't think we've got any dramatic news on
deferred tax asset in there, and so we hold it right at what we think is a relatively prudent
position in there.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Pearce, moving over? Yes.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi, Iain Pearce from Berenberg. Just the one question from me. On Motor new business
volumes, so you had Motor new business volume up 18% year-on-year on PCWs, but
Page 16 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

down overall for the Group. So I'm just trying to understand what's happened in the direct
channel, if you're seeing any trends there and what caused that to be down year-on-year.

FINAL

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. So I mean the direct channel works actually well for us in a high shopping market.
So with prices going up, people tend to shop and direct does well, so we have a very
good proposition. So it's slightly a myth. It's the other way around. And so the beneﬁt of
having the diversiﬁcation of the channels is that we can pick up a kind of busy year on
PCW if you have a slightly less busy year direct. Direct is still very good. And if you think
about -- we said -- we started to grow direct, I said one of the concerns would be, are they
the same quality of customers that you are recruiting that you had, is it the proposition?
And it looks very much that way as it's performing as we expected. The extra customers
we picked up in '17, as Penny said, we've been pleased with how we have retained those
customers into '18. So it's a beneﬁt from our channel strategy. Yes?

Q - Paul De'Ath

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, Paul De'Ath from Shore Capital. I just wanted to expand on the whole Darwin aspect.
And you've talked before about how you potentially over-service some of your customers
because you -- every one is serviced essentially by the Direct Line staﬀ, even though they
are paying less. How does Darwin come into that mix? Does it add an extra diﬃculty
within that or can you kind of -- I know you talked about self-service, can you expand the
self-service into some of the other brands once you've rolled out Darwin? It will be
interesting.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

So that's an interesting question. We have set it up a bit like a start-up business, Darwin,
on its own systems so that it's not kind of caught up behind the broader development
queue, if you like. And in doing so, it's full customer self-service, so it's very much not in
the over-served category. But we're still leveraging the scale beneﬁts through the -- as
and when should it grow, we will be leveraging the scale beneﬁts and the customers are
going to beneﬁt from being in the broader back of its claims fulﬁllment side. So actually,
it's very simple, very basic product, very clear to the customer and all self-service. So for
us, quite an interesting experiment in that sense.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. Andrew?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Can I ask a couple of questions. It's Andrew Crean of Autonomous. Firstly, can you give us
a bit more ﬂavor, or numbers even, to the balance between lower costs and lower reserve
releases? I know you have given a GBP700 million -- or below GBP700 million of costs in
2019, but I think you have said that 2020 is the big change here, so if we have a little bit
more on that and have that balances on reserve. And I actually haven't looked through
the slides because I also had another company, but can you give us the -- if you haven't
given us -- the policy count growth in PCW versus direct for Motor and Home? Because
that's the sort of key thing which we're looking at.
Page 17 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Do you want to add? So (inaudible) lower costs prior -- look, you know what we're trying
to do. With the prior comes down, we're trying to make sure that the current year is
improving at a similar sort of rate, and that's what keeps us in the 93% to 95%. It will come
in the form of, as system developments come in, loss ratio beneﬁts from both fraud
prevention and pricing beneﬁts, as well as expenses. What we're trying to do by putting a
bit of guidance out for next year is: A, give you a bit of steer; and B, demonstrate that
we're actually committed to moving the cost base in the right direction. But overall, we're
trying to balance those factors out, and by giving you some trend graphs on what prior
year has done, we hope to give you a steer on that as well. In terms of policy count
growth, so, yeah, 18% on for Motor on price comparison --

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

On new business.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

On new business.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

So that's new business. That's not --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Overall policy counts, in-force policies, Motor owned brands, up 2.7%. Price comparisons,
Paul, how much have we got there?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah. Let me just check whether it needs disclosure because I think if we haven't
disclosed it yet, I don't want to make a disclosure on the ﬂy here. We'll take that away
Andrew. No, it's just one of these things on the edge of commercial sensitivity. I don't
think -- we won't make a disclosure choice just on the ﬂy here. If we're going to make it,
we will give it to everybody. So we'll take away the request, Andrew, and I will think about
it. Good. Yes?

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Yes. Sami Taipalus from Goldman Sachs. Just the ﬁrst question on your Home book and
the combined ratio development, there you managed on normalized combined ratio
improvement in 2018 over '17. How much of that was mix and how much was other factors
like market factors, and what's the outlook for 2019?
And then the second question is on your investment portfolio. What -- so you mentioned
that you're slightly reducing your reinvestment in credit instruments at the moment.
What's the comfort level with these in the medium term, I guess, both on the credit and
the commercial property side? Is this a temporary shift or is it something that's going to
be a bit more permanent? Thank you.
Page 18 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. Movement in the Home ratio is primarily mix driven, so not driven by some reaction
to a regulatory measure. So it's all about the partnership mix, and just a little bit -- we
talked about subs -- a little bit due to subs and so on and so forth, but primarily mix. The
investments, yeah, we've held back a little bit from reinvesting just because of the
uncertainty. Deﬁnitely a temporary measure, not a permanent one. We're actually very
comfortable with the diversiﬁcation in the book. You know we invest in both the US and
the UK to get individual issuer diversiﬁcation. We monitor those investments closely. We
have an in-house team as well as external managers, and actually, we're very comfortable
with how that credit portfolio is positioned. But as you know, Solvency II doesn't look at
overall credit defaults as an issue. It just takes credit spreads. Markets have a habit of
shock responding to dislocations. And what we're really doing is saying, if there were a
short-term dislocation in the market, then make it sure we've got some cover for that. So
it's more about how the solvency metric responds than it's about whether we're -concerns on the underlying portfolio.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Yeah. So I'll (inaudible).

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Just two questions actually. Firstly, could you talk
about pricing on the commercial line side, how that's developed? And also could you
give what is the combined ratio of the NIG business last year?
Secondly, there is a fair amount of investments going on to the business and you're
talking about transmission, et cetera. When can we actually expect these to go into
combined ratio in the sense that you actually change your target as it gets revised down
or is the understanding that lot of these investments are more to keep the combined ratio
target at this 93%, 95% level?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. So pricing in NIG, so we priced ahead of claims inﬂation in all lines in NIG. So
they've had a very strong year in terms of both pricing and improving margins, as well as
getting some growth through, so good results. And we don't separately give the core.
And investments, the investments we're making, the short answer is, it's all part of
maintaining the 93% to 95% and giving yourself growth opportunities from here. The
slightly longer answer is, I think you'll start to see -- you should start to see the shape shift
in 2020 and then the beneﬁts come through beyond, obviously considerably beyond
that.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

On NIG, the thing we have said was -- we didn't disclose is (inaudible) is a more proﬁtable
and has a better core than NIG, and in aggregate, not quite the Group's core target. But
as Penny said, the actions that we're taking directly ahead of claims inﬂation is starting -we will close that gap. Good, right. Yes, let's go. Yes.

Page 19 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

FINAL

Fahad Changazi from Mediobanca. Can I just ask, could you give some guidance on the
trajectory of the SCR? Half of that, GBP130 million is related to a smaller balance sheet.
Could we expect the same next year, next two years? And secondly just on this Brexit
uncertainty, is getting an extension to Article 50 somewhat more certain when you
reassess and also will you take the capital return decision at full year results or will you
look to perhaps take it at H1?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. SCR, I think I've answered a similar sort of question. I'm not going to predict exactly
what the SCR is going to be next year, but the trends on the balance sheet shape, I would
say, it's got a couple of years yet to run through, but there are lots and lots of factors that
go into SCR as well as that, but that's the main trend.
Brexit, look, I'm not in the business of second guessing, what will or won't happen and
whether or not a deferral has anyone -- it's just -- that's for the politicians to worry about.
From our perspective, there is lots of uncertainty, actually not just from Brexit, from
broader credit issues linked to the US as well. And it just seems like a very volatile period.
As a Board, we've agreed that we'll keep under active review and we'll deﬁnitely update
at half year. So we haven't precluded the possibility of paying outside the normal cycle,
given that it's a (inaudible) aﬀairs.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Yes?

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

It's Nick Johnson from Numis. Just a question on the guidance you're giving around
invested assets continuing to fall. Does that take into account potential reduction in claims
and premiums from whiplash reforms end of this year into '20? Could you give your
thoughts around that, please?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I think the real driver on the balance sheet shape and the assets falling is the back book
run-oﬀ, if we call it that, sort of the old BI claims running down and new ones being on
reinsurance. So I think anything that's happening on new business around whiplash I think
is going to have a much lesser eﬀect than that drift.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Great. Yes. Last few. Yeah?

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks, Ed Morris from JPMorgan. Two questions. First of all, can you just comment a little
more on the FCA market study, which I think you said you're welcoming. I just wonder
one of the things you suggested is that there could be a change in the way the market
Page 20 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

essentially structures the insurance product. Is there any contingency in your CapEx
numbers and things like that for a slightly more structural change if that was to come
about? And just some comments there would be helpful
And the second question is on the balance sheet. I noticed your comment sort of
progress towards a more capital-eﬃcient balance sheet. Does that suggest you view the
balance sheet as slightly ineﬃcient currently and could you do anything more aggressive
to improve that? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good. Let me take the FCA one. So I believe the market generally works well, but it works
less well in certain kind of quarters, and obviously that's where we've taken some
proactive actions and the industry has taken some actions, but a further change would
require some central coordination to avoid ﬁrst-move disadvantage and it would take
some change to the structure of the market in terms of pricing. Now, there's lots of ﬂavors
of how that could be. So we haven't even yet -- on the problems deﬁnition, let alone the
potential remedies, let alone the market reaction, let alone how we play into that. So it's a
bit early to kind of do so well. So I guess what we've said is, we have an agile ship [ph]
with lots of advantage. In a diﬀerent market structure, we then work out how we would
deploy those assets and resources, our brands -- our diﬀerent brands, our diﬀerent
channels, our data, our supply chain advantages we think should also be advantages in a
diﬀerent world, and it's very, very hard to kind of exactly predict and play it all out.
In aggregate, I think that the feeling is, in aggregate, the market makes too much money.
The question is, is it working well for each of the diﬀerent parts of the market? So I think in
a slightly diﬀerent structured market, the market would adapt, we'd adapt, but it's very
early to kind of pin it down on any of the potential scenarios because there were lots of
things -- lots of models from around the world that you could deploy. I guess what we're
encouraged by is I think the FCA has taken a thoughtful approach to not suddenly go,
well, hit this market model and then schedule a completely diﬀerent market model,
because there are some very attractive features the way the market works. It's very
competitive. Lots of people shop. As we now switch on the TV, there's a lot of
competition, low barriers to entry for new brands being formed. So we are encouraged
taking a thoughtful approach, which hopefully will look up the good bits in the market.
And other markets around the world work diﬀerently but not necessarily better.
Long answer. Penny?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I'll go for shorter. So SCR and are we -- I forgot whether it was getting more aggressive,
something like that. I think most of the capital eﬃciency point is driven by the reinsurance
still winding through. So that's the biggest driver on making the balance sheet. The
reason we have that reinsurance structure is because we believe it is a more eﬃcient way
of doing it. So that is yet to roll all the way through. If you look at the movement in the
SCR, about half of it is that -- or maybe half to two-thirds of it's that. The rest is ﬁne-tuning
our model adjustments and so on where I think we've made some tightening, but only at

Page 21 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

a very ﬁne-tuning level. There were a couple of other things in that space we're looking at
as well, but it's at the edges compared to the reinsurance proﬁle.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

I think ﬁnal one in the room, and will just go to the (inaudible).

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Hi. Jon Denham, Morgan Stanley. Just one left from me. Yeah, the cost of hedging is
currently quite burdensome. I think it's about GBP30 million last year. Is there any
appetite to reduce this and take a little bit more FX risk maybe on the hedging of optionsbased strategies?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I think no to the FX risk, but we look at the balance. You're right, it's certainly giving us
less advantage than it was a couple of years ago. So we are tweaking down, but only
tactically. We hedge some of the US exposure. Primarily, the most important thing for us is
that it gives us credit diversiﬁcation across just a much, much deeper pool of the
individual issuer levels. So philosophically, we remain allied to that. But you're right, we
are tactically reducing that level because if you pick up the net of hedging, it is more
painful than it was.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Great. I'm going to check if you've got -- I'm not sure how the technology works. Anyone
(inaudible) anyone on the line? Of course you can, if it's good one to end.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Actually it's not a question, rather unexpectedly, it's fallen to me to give what's known as
the old git [ph] speech. But Paul, it's been a long time. It's been a great joy among -- for
us analysts to cover the stock. I love the fact that you ﬁnished the year beating consensus
estimates again, something that you did regularly every year, but congratulations on that.
For me, I will remember a comment you made once, you said, I'm not one of these Chief
Executives who sucks up all the oxygen in the room. And that's been a litmus test, which I
have applied to all Chief Executives, but they don't always pass it. But here, I think it's a
great tribute to the team that you brought on -- bring around you that you have been able
to do that. And I wish you all the luck in the future on behalf of all of these analysts,
whether it's a John Lewis or wherever you're going?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

No comment.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Have a great time. And thank you for reminding us that insurance is not in fact a sausage
machine where you put numbers in one end and they come out the other. It is in fact a

Page 22 of 23



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

business which needs marketing, it needs people and it need skill. And thank you for
demonstrating that.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much indeed.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Andrew has been far more eloquent than I could have been, but it's left me to speak on
behalf of the team, and I won't point out all the numerical beneﬁts of his --

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We're going to -- I think we are going to say good-bye to the webcast. So very good.
Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 23 of 23

