Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-14

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

E. Friese, Chairman of Executive Board & CEO

Presentation
E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Hello, everybody. 2018 was a good year for our company. We further strengthened our
market position and reached a number of important milestones in the integration process
of our NN and Delta Lloyd businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our operating result this year is up, driven by improved performance at the Dutch Life
and Non-life businesses and Insurance Europe. While at the same time, Japan Life, our
asset manager and the reinsurance business faced some headwinds.
We maintained a strong balance sheet and Solvency 2 ratio in the Fourth Quarter. We
proposed a ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.24 for ordinary share, bringing the full year 2018
dividend to EUR 1.90 per ordinary share. And that is an increase of more than 14%
compared with 2017. And we have announced a EUR 500 million share buyback program
for the coming 12 months, in line with our commitments to return excess capital to
shareholders.
New products were introduced in our Dutch, Japanese, Spanish and Turkish businesses
the last quarter of 2018. NN Bank, for example, expanded its mortgage product range
with the Buy-to-Let mortgage, speciﬁcally designed for ﬁnancing residential property for
private letting.
To further strengthen the business, NN Investment Partners in Poland reinforced its
partnership with ING Bank Slaski. And we completed the acquisition of Aegon's Life
insurance business in the Czech Republic and its life insurance and pension businesses in
Slovakia.
The regulator approved the use of our Partial Internal Model for the Dutch Delta Lloyd Life
and Non-life entities, which was an important milestone in 2018. And we subsequently
merged those entities into NN Life and Non-life. Also, the rebranding of Delta Lloyd's
products and services to Nationale-Nederlanden is now virtually complete.
Our 2018 achievements would not have been possible without the ongoing dedication
and eﬀorts of all of our colleagues and our business partners. We remain strongly
committed to serving our customers and to capture growth opportunities in the market. I
feel conﬁdent our company is well positioned to deliver on these priorities going forward.

Page 1 of 2



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-14

Page 2 of 2

