Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

Q4 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Gary Duggan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Saga Services
James Quin, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Lance Henry Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Robin Shaw, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Saga Travel
Stuart Beamish, Group Chief Customer Oﬃce

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Joanna Parsons, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ruchi Gupta, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Good morning everybody. Thank you very much for joining us. As I think you all know, I'm
Lance Batchelor. I'm the Group CEO of Saga. I'm joined today by our new CFO, James
Quin; by our Chief Customer Oﬃcer, Stuart Beamish; and by the CEOs of our Insurance
and Travel Divisions, Robin Shaw and Gary Duggan. Our Chairman, Patrick O'Sullivan, is
also with us this morning.
Today, we're going to cover our prelim results from last year, as well as an update on our
strategy for the business. So, we're going to take a little longer than we usually do,
allowing time for questions. We expect to be ﬁnished at about 11:00 this morning.
Let's put today's announcement into context. This is a critically important day for Saga. We
are making a fundamental change to our strategy. It takes us back to our heritage. It
addresses the increasing challenges that we have been seeing in parts of our business,
most notably Insurance Broking. By the way, the slides are not going to change for a while
while I open up.
We've also announced lower projected proﬁts, a signiﬁcant reduction in dividends, and a
goodwill write-down. Now, I am, of course, aware that this morning's news will come as a
disappointment to our shareholders and to the stock market. But it's both necessary and
Page 1 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

it's the right thing to do. We're going to explain the reasons for those changes, what they
mean in practice, and how they set Saga up for growth albeit from a lower level.
Now, over recent years, Saga has made some good progress. And if I may, I'd like to
highlight ﬁve things in particular. We've cut our debt by over £300 million since IPO.
We've replaced the huge majority of our IT platforms. We've designed and built a new
ship, with another one coming. And even before the ﬁrst ship arrives, our Travel division
has grown from £5 million in proﬁt per annum to over £20 million. And ﬁnally, we've
launched a membership program, Possibilities, which has attracted over 1 million
members.
But – and here's the big but – I need to be equally explicit about what we've not achieved
since IPO. We have not grown customer numbers. And today is an acknowledgement that
to do so needs a very, very diﬀerent approach across the whole of the Saga business and,
in particular, in how we sell insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

When I look right back to the early days of Saga in the 1950s, what made the company so
successful was its single-minded focus on giving customers what they wanted, products
designed speciﬁcally for our unique demographic. In the early days, of course, that was
holidays tailored for the retired. And then, about 20 years ago, we added insurance
products speciﬁcally designed for the older age group. Both sets of products were crafted
to meet customer needs. They were competitively priced. They had extraordinary levels of
service, strong advertising support, and importantly, they attracted deep brand loyalty.
At some point along the way, Saga has shifted its focus from being primarily about
delighting the customer and became overly focused on short-term proﬁtability. And
meanwhile, as you know, the world's been changing. In insurance and travel, people can
nowadays easily access low-cost rather generic products online. There's been a
commoditization of the mass market. And there's digitization. And there's GDPR. And
there's regulatory intervention. Customers are quite understandably and I think rightly
willing to move brands in order to chase a better deal. And all of this has been brought
into sharper relief for us recently.
In Insurance, and I think to some extent in Travel as well, Saga has been caught between
two worlds. We're not a stripped-out low-cost player. That's not what our customers want
from us, and it's not what we want to be. But nor do we oﬀer the kind of bespoke and
customized products and services that an Audley Travel or a Hiscox Insurance oﬀers.
One place we do get it really right is in Cruise, where we attract passionate loyalty and we
command a healthy premium because our product is diﬀerent and better. Now, the result
of this being caught between two diﬀerent pricing models is that, over a decade or more,
Saga has gradually lost market share in both Insurance and Travel. And we aim to change
that. We're making a bold and fundamental change in our strategy. It's going to take us
back to our heritage. Saga is rediscovering itself as an organization that exists primarily for
its customers, an organization that's going to oﬀer distinctive products to a distinct part of
the market. And as our customers increasingly embrace membership, we're going to give
them very clear reasons to choose Saga and to stay with Saga.

Page 2 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

There are signiﬁcant consequences to all of this. And we'd had to make some diﬃcult
decisions. Earnings will reduce by over a third to between £105 million and £120 million.
This is driven by lower margins in Insurance, a fundamental change in renewal pricing,
lower reserve releases, and by the investment in new products. We'll then be able to grow
from a stronger and more sustainable base. And James is going to cover all of this in
more detail in a few minutes' time.
Now, we're not starting from scratch. Our debt levels are much reduced. For the ﬁrst few
years as a Plc, that was a real imperative for us. We've replaced most of the group's key IT
platforms, which makes us much more ﬂexible and more eﬃcient. Many of the changes
that we're announcing today would not have been possible on our old IT platforms. I have
a very dedicated and focused team who've been involved in every step of shaping this
new strategy.
The launch of membership in late 2017 really brought home to us what we stand for and
why Saga exists. We now have well over 1 million members, that's the majority of our
customer base. Listening to them has helped shape the future of Saga. And it's changing
our relationship with them. You're going to hear more about Stuart shortly about the
membership opportunity, and how developing that proposition is supporting retention
and will grow value.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other side of this chart, the ﬁrst new cruise ship is on track, on time, on budget for
delivery in June, going to sea with paying passengers in July. Presales for the ship are
very strong. And the build of the second ship has now started, and she will be delivered
next summer, in summer 2020. Robin will tell you more about that shortly.
Let's talk about the reasons for change. We have to make a fundamental step change
because incremental change has proved to be insuﬃcient. Against the backdrop of a
growing demographic, Saga has seen a slow but steady decline in customer numbers. As
we said over a year ago, this cannot be sustainable. Not only are we missing out on an
extraordinary opportunity, but we won't have a business in ﬁve years' time if we allow this
to continue.
On the right, you can see our underlying proﬁt over the last few years, which we've held
more or less ﬂat. The pressures on our Broking business have been largely hidden by a
period of extraordinarily strong reserve releases. But we've also been extracting ever
more margin from a declining base. That's unsustainable. If our recent results tell us one
thing, it's that we cannot keep delivering these levels of proﬁtability, let alone grow,
unless we make a major change to our customer proposition and accept that we have to
reduce our margins to do so.
Let's have a look at the brand. Saga has brand awareness that most brands would die for.
And our loyal customers love the brand. But as you can see, there's an opportunity gap
here between the awareness and the consideration. Everyone's heard of us, but not
everyone will consider buying from us. Now, this is not particularly surprising given that
we haven't advertised for years, that we've pursued a very strong direct model but to a
slowly decreasing number of people as our marketing database becomes smaller and our

Page 3 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

insurance product hasn't meaningfully changed in many years. This is an area we need to
address, and we've already seen a positive impact from our ﬁrst TV advertising campaign
in over ﬁve years.
In Broking, we have a proﬁtable business with good customer service and many loyal
customers. But what you can clearly see here is declining policy count and declining
retention rates. On the right, you can see that when we grew business last year – our new
business last year, we weren't able to increase the number of customers who came to us
direct. This increased our exposure to price comparison websites. And whilst those do
have a positive lifetime value, the business has considerably lower margin than we want.
And it will reduce our proﬁtability this year and for the next year as well.
The conclusion is clear. If Saga is to have a future, we have to grow customers. And if
we're to grow customers, we have to grow using the direct channel. It's also vital to
understand why we couldn't grow direct in the recent past. This is where our long-term
underinvestment in the customer proposition has come home to roost. We simply haven't
had a suﬃciently diﬀerentiated product or strong enough brand consideration to grow
our direct customers. This is the challenge that has arguably been a long time coming,
but it's one that we have to crack now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to Travel, our Cruise division represents Saga – what Saga needs to be, Saga at its
best. We provide a fantastic tailored experience for loyal members who'd come back
again and again. No one else can do what we do. We earn a good return whilst delivering
exceptional levels of customer satisfaction. Robin will explain that we're now working hard
to migrate the rest of the Travel division in a similar direction and at a faster pace.
So, as I said, today is a very important day for Saga. We have some major challenges to
address, particularly in Insurance. We know that, for Saga as a whole, the answer is to
oﬀer diﬀerent and better products at the right price, backed by strong branded
advertising. In Insurance Broking in particular, we need to shift the balance between
customer satisfaction and proﬁt, more towards customer satisfaction. A better customer
proposition at a price that reﬂects that. Lower margins, but more customers who want to
use Saga and then see their loyalty rewarded. More customers who want to buy more
from saga.
So, today, we are, ﬁrstly, relaunching Saga's Insurance proposition to the customer with an
innovative ﬁxed price oﬀer as the leading element, clearly evidencing our change in
approach. This will be sold only through direct channels. And it will receive signiﬁcant
advertising support. Second, we're cutting the margins that we charge to renewing
customers as we seek to reward loyalty. Third, we're accelerating the move of Saga Travel
to a more specialized value-added sector, such as rivers and escorted tours and long
haul. Fourth, we're building out our membership oﬀering to establish it as a main route to
the customer, and to give customers another reason to choose us and to stay with us.
Finally, we're focusing on execution with tight delivery and rollout of current programs.
So, for example, the new ships, our new IT platforms, and very ﬁrm cost control to keep
our costs ﬂat as we grow.

Page 4 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

A little bit on membership. Most of Saga's customers are now members. All of our
products and services will be viewed through this prism. We will innovate hard and fast to
ensure that what we sell meets the needs of our members, that everything we do is
diﬀerent and better. We will actively seek to grow member numbers, mainly through
customer acquisition but also by opening the program up to others in our target market.
Within the membership base, we'll stimulate active engagement from as many members
as possible.
As Stuart is going to tell you, we've seen improved engagement as we strengthen the
membership oﬀering. We have clear detailed plans to do that, accepting that it remains
early days for membership. As engagement has increased, we've started to see real
commercial beneﬁts, new customers coming to Travel, potential multi-product beneﬁts,
early signs of retention beneﬁts, too. It's very small, but it is a start.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the impact of all these changes will be a reduction of earnings, mostly driven by
lower Insurance margins as well as the declining reserve releases. I know these decisions
will be diﬃcult for shareholders. I recognize that. But it's the right thing for the business.
It's essential that we make these changes to our business, and that we have the right
degree of prudence in our balance sheet to allow us to execute them.
Our new strategy will deliver growth, more customers, more loyal customers, and more
cash ﬂow. From the lower level of proﬁtability, we will grow proﬁts. The team are going to
take you through each of these targets. But over the next three to ﬁve years, we intend to
grow our Retail proﬁt by at least £20 million from the rebased level. We're going to target
a COR of 97% in Underwriting. And we're going to achieve the target that we set out back
in 2017, which is to grow our Travel business to between £60 million and £75 million of
proﬁt by 2021/2022. So, that's what today is all about, setting Saga up to win not just yearby-year but for the long-term.
I'm going to hand over now to James. He's going to take you through this plan in more
detail.

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you, Lance, and good morning.
As you know this is my ﬁrst set of results since taking over as Group CFO on the January 1.
It is nice to see some familiar faces here. For those of you who don't know me, my
background is very much in insurance. I joined from Zurich, where I was most recently the
UK CFO. And in total, I spent about 28 years in the insurance industry with Zurich, a
number of investment banks, and with PWC.
But before I give you a summary of the results, I thought I would highlight some initial and
very brief thoughts on Saga. I'd just start by saying that underneath the gravity of what
we're announcing today, there is a strong business. Even at the level of our rebased
earnings, Saga's Insurance operations are proﬁtable and well-positioned, with a large

Page 5 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

number of loyal customers who mainly come to us on a direct basis. And we, of course,
also have a strong oﬀering in Travel.

FINAL

However, the company has labored to deliver a level of proﬁtability that met expectations
set some time ago, but that they're not sustainable. I'm now focused on working with
Lance and the team to help us grasp the nettle and making the changes that will start to
address our challenges.
Now, I'll be talking to you twice today. First, I'm going to talk about the 2018/2019 results.
I'm not going to go into the details here. But what the aim is to give you some information
on the key trends in our numbers, and to help you understand the context for our starting
point. Later, I will come back and explain the ﬁnancial impacts of the new strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, turning to results, and there are really two key moving parts. First, Retail Broking
proﬁtability reduced sharply compared to the previous year. This was partly because we
started the year with a smaller book of renewal customers. But the bigger challenge,
particularly in the last six months, has been a signiﬁcant decline in new business margins.
For reasons that I will come back to shortly, we expect a further decline in Broking proﬁt
before tax in the next two years. This decline in the level of earnings expectations for
Retail Broking has required us to impair the value of Insurance goodwill, which has in turn
led to us reporting a net loss for the 2018/2019 ﬁnancial year.
The second main feature of our results is a very high level of reserve releases from our
underwriter. While this has been a big and recurring positive in recent years, for reasons I
will explain, we expect the contribution from AICL to signiﬁcantly reduce in the next few
years.
Travel had a solid year, and we continue to make very good progress in Cruise.
The start of this year has been somewhat challenging in Tour Ops as it has been for the
whole industry. And our Tour revenues are down around 3% compared to the prior
period.
Now, in a year of challenge, there are two key positives in our results. First, we achieved
the cost saving targets we set out a year ago. And second, we remain very proﬁtable, and
the conversion of earnings to cash has continued to be very good.
Let me now go into some more details. Overall, underlying proﬁt before tax is in line with
the guidance we gave the market 12 months ago. But of course, the mix of proﬁts is very
diﬀerent to what was expected. Underwriting outperformed, but not in a way that is likely
to be sustainable. Oﬀsetting this, Retail Broking have a tough year, and we do expect a
further decline in Broking earnings in 2019/2020.
This reduction has two important consequences. Most importantly, it has been a
signiﬁcant factor in the Board's decision to reduce the full-year dividend from £0.09 per

Page 6 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

share to £0.04. Second, it has also led us to impair goodwill relating to the Insurance
business by £310 million.
Turning now to the divisional results. As you can see on this slide, the biggest change in
our results has been in Retail Broking, where proﬁt before tax reduced by £25 million. This
was partially oﬀset by higher Underwriting earnings and an improvement in Emerging
Businesses and Central Costs. Most of the change in this latter category is explained by
one-oﬀ charges in the 2017/2018 results, and one-oﬀ gain in the 2018/2019 numbers.
Now, to provide more explanation of the performance of Broking, I included some
additional information on the next slide that shows a walk from 2017/2018 results to
2018/2019 proﬁt before tax. And what you can see here is that overall Broking proﬁt
before tax reduced by £17 million on a written basis. That is excluding the impact of the
written to earned adjustments.

Bloomberg Transcript

And there are four main items here. The biggest is an £11 million decline in the
contribution from home and motor new business. There are a number of reasons why this
has happened. First, the group set a priority to stabilize the home and motor policy count,
with a conscious decision to win – to reduce pricing to win more new business. Second, a
lot more new business was sourced from price comparison websites. This business
typically has lower margins and higher acquisition costs than the business Saga has
traditionally written on a direct basis. Third, external factors, such as GDPR, have had an
adverse impact on volumes and acquisition costs. And last, as other insurers have noted,
the market was competitive through much of last year.
The second main item impacting last year is a reduction in renewal earnings particularly
on the home book. This is a product of a smaller renewal book due to lower new business
in the 2017/2018 year, and higher net rates from panel insurers. It was, however, for the
most part expected.
The third item is a loss of £5 million relating to the impact of adverse claims experienced
on proﬁt share arrangements for the PMI product. This charge is expected to be one-oﬀ.
Indeed, we are now starting to see the beneﬁt on changes in policy terms coming
through in improved claims experience, with this also starting to be recognized in the net
rates charged by our insurer. We have a very good PMI proposition for customers. And
this is a signiﬁcant contributor to the earnings from other products.
And fourth, going the other way, we reduced Retail Broking operating expenses by £7.7
million, which was ahead of target.
Now, as I mentioned, the challenges we've faced in the last 12 months are likely to be
ongoing. And as I explain on the next slide, we expect a further decline in proﬁtability in
Broking in the current year. There are two main reasons why we think this will happen, and
each has a broadly similar impact.
First, the reduced level of margin in last year's new business will lead to reduction in
renewal business proﬁtability in the next few years. Second, as Lance has explained, we
Page 7 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

anticipate changing our approach to renewal pricing. While there is a £5 million positive
expected in PMI, given the one-oﬀ loss in last year's results, these pressures mean that run
rate earnings for the Broking business are expected to be between £15 million and £25
million lower in the current year, and with an additional £10 million impact expected on
earnings for the year after.
This reduction in future earnings expectations is what is behind our decision to reassess
the carrying value of Insurance goodwill, and to impair this by £310 million. As required by
accounting standards, we have taken a fairly prudent valuation approach here. And we
have not included the beneﬁts of the strategic relaunch that Gary will shortly talk about.
But of course, there is no getting around the fact that this is a disappointing outcome.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will talk to the performance of the Underwriting business. As you can see on this
slide, both of the last two years have seen a very high level of reserve releases, and a level
that is signiﬁcantly above future expectations. There are two main reasons why this has
happened. First, our actuaries have put greater weight on positive recent claims trends
within best estimate reserving. This leads to one-oﬀ reserve beneﬁts of £32 million in the
most recent year, and around £20 million in the year before. Second, a historically very
prudent approach to initial loss picks has supported ongoing very high levels of reserve
releases, further helped by benign large loss experience in the last 12 months. I show this
in more detail in the next slide, where I set out the more recent accident year loss ratios.
What I show here on the left hand chart is the initial booked loss ratio and the current
booked loss ratio for the Saga motor book. The diﬀerence between the two is the reserve
releases in the most recent and prior years. This shows that Saga took a very prudent view
of the initial loss picks from 2010 to 2013, with booked loss ratios in the mid-90s. Another
key factor has been the beneﬁt from a signiﬁcant improvement in claims experience
relative to expectations. There are multiple reasons for this. But one of them has been the
implementation of the LASPO reforms in 2013. This has helped to support benign
underlying claims trends for pretty much the whole motor insurance industry, and has
been a key reason why reserve releases have been so positive.
In recent years, however, and in line with AICL's role within the group, the beneﬁts of
benign claims experience has been increasingly reﬂected in both pricing and reserving.
This means that, while we still hold the same level of explicit margin and there may well
be prudence in large loss reserves for recent accident years, we don't expect these to
develop to anything like the levels seen in some of the previous years. In terms of current
claims inﬂation, this is generally running in line with expectations. So, to cut to the chase,
we do expect a couple more years of high reserve releases, but we expect our reported
combined ratio to trend to around 97% in the next three years.
Let me now turn to other aspects of our results. Our Travel business had an overall solid
year. As we've reported previously, within Tour Ops, there are considerable pressures at
the more commoditized end of the market, which is our stays and where we saw
passenger numbers decline by 7%. Equally, we are seeing a much more resilient
performance from our diﬀerentiated holidays propositions, including tours, river cruise
and third-party cruise. This shift in mix has supported the improvement in gross proﬁt per
passenger, and has enabled us to hold Tour Ops proﬁts ﬂat on the prior year.
Page 8 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

In Cruise, we had a good year. Growth in revenues was partly down to lower days in dock.
But it was also down to strong demand for the ﬁnal season of the Pearl II ship. In terms of
forward bookings, we are not immune to the same pressures as other travel companies.
In terms of forward bookings, we are not immune to the same pressures as other travel
companies with Tour Ops revenues around 3%, down for current departures in
comparison to last year. It is a headwind, but I wouldn't say it is a big issue for us. And
more importantly, we continue to make very good progress on forward bookings for the
new cruise ships, where we remain on track with the business plan assumptions.
As I set out on the next slide, we also made good progress in reducing our cost base.
Here, I shall walk from 2017/18 expenses to 2018/19. The main point to highlight is that the
target set at the beginning of the year, that is to reduce in-year admin costs by £10 million,
was achieved.
As was signaled back at the time, some of these savings were reinvested in marketing
costs, which increased by £6 million. This included additional marketing for the new cruise
ships plus higher acquisition costs within the Insurance business. We will continue to put a
high priority in improving eﬃciency and absorbing inﬂationary pressures over the next
ﬁve-year period.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next slide, I show Saga's operating cash generation, which has been one of the
group's real strengths.
As you can see from this walk, we generated operating free cash ﬂow of around £181
million in the year, a small increase in comparison to the year before. On this basis, we
converted roughly 80% of EBITDA to cash during the year, which enabled us to reduce
net debt by around £40 million.
There were a few moving parts here. And naturally, future cash generation will be
impacted by lower Insurance earnings. But the point remains that the group has a good
track record of turning proﬁts into cash, and using this to reduce leverage.
I realized this has been a relatively quick (00:31:32) through quite a lot of moving parts in
our results. My main focus here has been to give you a view on the ﬁnancial context for
today's announcements, particularly as it relates to Insurance.
And with that, I'll now hand over to Gary, who will take you through our strategy for Retail
Broking. Thank you.

Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and thanks, James, for the introduction. I'll be taking you
through the new Saga insurance broking strategy, the rationale for the changes, and why I
think we're in a strong position to respond to some of the challenges ahead.

Page 9 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

The UK insurance market is undergoing a substantial period of change, with the industry's
pricing practices front and center of the debate. We are taking the opportunities to
embrace those changes and I believe that Saga can help lead the way to creating a
healthier, more sustainable insurance market in the future.
As Lance mentioned earlier on, Saga has been very much focused on short-term proﬁt,
relying on our in-force book of customers, traditional direct marketing channels, and
oﬀering undiﬀerentiated products. And this has contributed to a decline in policy
volumes, margins and retention levels.
Whilst we have a proﬁtable Insurance business with a solid foundation, it's become
increasingly clear to me over the last 12 months or so since I've been in the role that the
insurance broking business needs a fundamental change in strategy.
The new strategy focuses on growing our direct channels, rewarding loyalty, and
becoming more eﬃcient. But ﬁrst, let me provide you with some market context. We
operate in a growing demographic within the 50s market, but the market is changing
rapidly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Whilst there are an increasing number of customers who are shopping around on PCWs,
the growth in direct players with product live messaging, in addition to our recent
research, shows that there is evidence that customers are now looking for not just the
cheapest products, but also a high-quality product with a right level of cover. In short,
using technology to drive down our servicing costs.
And ﬁnally, the regulatory intervention has increased signiﬁcantly recently, with a speciﬁc
focus on the industry standard practice of discounting the new business and increasing
premiums on renewals.
As James pointed out earlier on, there are a number of internal and external market
factors that have led to a decline in policies and proﬁtability, which highlight the need for
change. Saga's brand consideration has decreased and our market share is in decline.
The marketing database is reduced, and the short-term proﬁt focus has led to a very
narrow communications approach. We have not innovated or adapted to the changes in
customers' requirements, oﬀering the same price-led products in both PCWs and through
our direct channels.
And as a consequence, this has led to a decrease in our direct volumes. We've become
increasingly reliant on lower value PCW business in order to drive policy growth in what is
a highly competitive market.
Despite all of this, as I've said, I believe we have a solid foundation for growth. We have a
loyal customer base and we deliver excellent service to our customers. We've got a
proven track record in direct marketing and a well-known brand. We've invested in
Guidewire, which will help to accelerate our innovation agenda. And we have the
Page 10 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

emerging opportunities arising from the Membership program that Lance mentioned
earlier on.

FINAL

So whilst we have a solid foundation, our response to the market challenges required a
fundamental change in strategy. We're driving growth through our direct channels by
developing distinctive, highly targeted propositions, creating standouts in a competitive
direct marketplace.
The UK Insurance Act is not exactly known for product innovation, but I'm convinced that
we are ideally positioned to launch positive, customer-driven, innovative solutions into a
market that needs to change. We're investing in our brand salience and reducing the
number of people who reject the brand. And Stuart will talk more about that later on.
We will improve our direct marketing economics, converting more of our quotes into
sales, widening the footprints and shifting the product mix to higher value feature-rich
products. But in order to win in direct channels, we have to change the operating model.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've moved the customer conversation away from a price-led discussion with our
customers into building longer term relationships with our customers by delivering highvalue diﬀerentiated propositions, including Membership. And these new high quality
premium products, including the ﬁxed price feature, that have been developed with a
speciﬁc focus on the needs of our customers.
We will promote these products through a broad range of media channels from May, and
they will only be available by coming direct to Saga.
We will still oﬀer our essentials range of products through the PCWs where some of our
customers segments are initially attracted to a lower price, level cover products. But we
will also then have the opportunity to oﬀer those customers our direct products at
renewal.
But, ﬁrst, let me talk to you in a little bit more detail about the three-year ﬁxed product
that Lance mentioned earlier on.
So we've been testing this product now since October. We've sold over 6,000 policies to
customers who've asked for quote. And customers can buy the product and acknowledge
that if their circumstances don't change, they don't make a claim or IPT doesn't increase,
then their premium will not go up for three years.
And over 60% of customers who were oﬀered the product chose the ﬁxed price product
instead of our standard variable price product that's traditional in the industry.
The trust pile (00:38:02) of feedback from customers has been absolutely
overwhelmingly positive as you can see. You are ﬁnally respecting loyalty rather than
favoring new customers. This is unique. The price guarantee was a deciding factor.

Page 11 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

There are some tremendous comments there from customers. And supported by the
research ﬁndings that we have really does mean that this product feature will appeal to
our customers. And by the way, really importantly, the contact center staﬀ absolutely love
it as well.
We launched the new home product last week with the majority of customers selecting
the three-year ﬁxed above the standard product. And we've sold over 1,000 policies in a
week. And we've done that without any direct marketing activity, which is clear evidence
that our customers, when given the choice, are propelled to pay for a higher quality
product with a price promise.
Our new motor three-year ﬁxed price product went live today. So the three-year ﬁxed is a
tremendous feature for us and totally unique in the UK motor insurance market. But I think
it's also important to say that our new products have all the exciting features and beneﬁts
as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

For example, we have private healthcare beneﬁt in the event of injuries for customers
arising from a crash. So we now have two high-quality home and motor products, with
some exciting and unique beneﬁts that will make us really stand out in a crowded
marketplace.
The developments of these products have been absolutely critical to enable our customer
service agents to conﬁdently lead conversations with customers about some of the
fantastic beneﬁts that our products have rather than just focusing on price. I genuinely
believe that this will have a profound impact on the culture of the insurance broking
business. We will, of course, continue to oﬀer the price-led products from our essentials
range available to more price-led customers through the PCWs.
So now that we can give customers a broader choice of products, and these products are
a complementary addition to the high-quality Travel and PMI products that we already
have. And these new products are the ﬁrst new products in our steps of delivering against
our innovation agenda. We have a pipeline of new ideas and propositions in our
innovation lab that are currently being worked on and developed to follow up on these
new products.
So we now believe we have something to really shout about in the market. We have highquality diﬀerentiated products, and we are injecting some signiﬁcant market investment
now to launch these products.
But in order to be successful, we need to give more customers more reasons to quote
Saga through our direct channels with a very clear call to action. And we will make the
most of this opportunity by seizing ﬁrst-mover advantage and demonstrating the value of
our new products to both new and existing customers. And we will achieve this by highly
visible, impactful promotional campaigns to maximize the opportunity at launch.
And we will focus the marketing messages on some of the compelling new features and
unique features that our products have, including the three-year ﬁxed. And we will do
Page 12 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

what we do best, which is to follow up the marketing with delivering excellent customer
service.

FINAL

In the past, our marketing have been very focused on leveraging our existing database of
customers. But going forward, we'll be expanding our marketing campaigns, investing in
a broader range of media channels. We know, for example, that our customers overindexed in the traditional media channels of newspapers, TV, and digital.
So that is where the majority of the media spend will be focused as it will provide us with
the broadest and the most eﬃcient reach. In addition to which, TV and digital channels
were also very well suited to delivering emotive campaigns, which we believe will really
resonate strongly with our demographic.
So we're now in a much stronger position to leverage these media channels because we
have something exciting to talk about. And once we've built awareness of the new
products, we will then optimize the marketing spend for the remainder of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in order to maximize the value of the market investments, we have now adopted a far
more progressive approach to customer loyalty. So in the past, our focus has been very
much limited to retaining customers via pricing and discounts. We've changed our
approach now. And we will utilize a broader range of solutions to retain our customers.
We will oﬀer ﬁxed price product. We will oﬀer our customers a ﬂatter renewal pricing. We
will deliver enhanced product beneﬁts, and we will make our claims commitment. All of
which will help to keep more of our customers for longer.
And, of course, we have something that other insurers don't have. We have a wide range
of membership program that deliver some fantastic oﬀers and experiences, which Stuart
will take you through later on.
We committed to expanding the footprint, and we've increased our third-party panel
share of motor new business to 30%, a signiﬁcant increase. Our overall motor new
business volumes increased by 11% last year, and the majority of the growth came through
younger age of our demographic with newer, more expensive vehicles.
And whilst our data models are very well established now, we are driving further
eﬃciencies. By expanding quotability and becoming more competitive for more
customers, we will convert more of our quotes into sales.
We have over 30 footprint expansion initiatives lined up, some new highly predictive data
models and some new insurers products. They're all lined up to deliver further eﬃciencies
this year.
And in addition to expanding our footprint, we've reduced our operating cost by over £7
million last year by eliminating some of the complexities and some of the processes, by
reducing the number of repeat calls from customers, and by the implementation of
Page 13 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

Guidewire. And I believe there are further opportunities to improve our eﬃciencies as we
roll up Guidewire into our home insurance products by the end of this year.

FINAL

We've trialed and we're now in the process of rolling out automated robotic processes,
expanding our Webchat function, and improving our digital servicing capabilities, which
will all help to eliminate some of the customer friction points in our journeys and also
reduce our costs further.
So, to sum up, we are launching the new strategy for insurance broking business and it
will transform this business. And James will talk through the ﬁnancial implications later on.
But meanwhile, I'll just summarize, I think, some of the things that I believe the
transformational strategy will take us to over the next ﬁve years.
It will have (00:45:28) increased customer advocacy and drive up improvements in our
NPS scores. We will increase the percentage of customers that come through our direct
channels and buy our new high-quality premier-level products.
There'll be an improvement in our operational eﬃciency, reducing our cost to serve and
improving our retention levels. And this will add around £20 million proﬁt to the rebased
proﬁt numbers and deliver about a 5% increase in Saga-branded policy numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've embraced the need for change, and I'm conﬁdent that this is the right strategy
for the insurance broking business.
So now, I would just like to hand you over to Robin, who's the CEO of our Travel business.
Thank you.

Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Thank you, Gary. Good morning, everyone. Travel has always been at the heart of Saga.
And today, I want to give you some clear guidance on our future strategic direction.
So let me begin with my key messages. Firstly, our signiﬁcant investment in the new
Cruise ships is fully on track, and I will give a lot more detail in due course.
Our tour operating businesses remain proﬁtable, but we need to accelerate the changes
that we've already started by focusing on holiday segments where we can win and
ultimately we can earn more margin. We started these changes; we need to continue in
earnest.
In conjunction, there is a clear opportunity to improve our commercial performance.
Speciﬁcally, this is around purchasing, revenue management, and full utilization of our
commitments.

Page 14 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

As we do this, we must not lose sight of the importance of the customer. This has been a
bedrock for the Travel business over recent years. Importantly, we intend to deliver on our
commitment made in early 2017 to increase our 2016/17 PBT by 4 to 5 times. This equates
to a Travel PBT in 2021/22 of between £60 million and £75 million.
As James mentioned earlier, 2018/19 has been a solid year for Travel. In Tour Operations,
PBT has been ﬂat as overall passenger declines have been oﬀset by higher revenues and
margins per passenger. And this has resulted from a steady move from commoditized
short-haul into higher margin segments such as rivers, special interests, and escorted
tours.
Cruise proﬁtability is again broadly ﬂat in 2018/19 versus prior year, but we've been able
to absorb fuel rate increases of around £2 million and additional marketing of £1.7 million,
largely in support of driving 2019/20 revenues. We also continue to drive overhead cost
eﬃciencies with total Travel overheads reducing from 10.3% of revenue to 9.5% of revenue
in 2018/19.
Given the signiﬁcant investments in new Cruise ships, I would now like to provide more
detail of progress.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have been talking about this for a long time, and the journey started some three-anda-half years ago when we signed our contract with Meyer Werft shipbuilders in Germany.
Since then, we have designed a completely new ship, led by customer insights, and we
are now on track to deliver Spirit of Discovery in June of this year, ready for her ﬁrst
revenue cruise on the 10th of July.
The second new ship, Spirit of Adventure, will use the same platform, a sister ship
eﬀectively and therefore, reduce overall build and design times. The second ship will be
delivered in August 2020, just 14 months after the ﬁrst ship. These new vessels will replace
both of our existing vessels and indeed, I'm pleased to say that we've agreed the sale of
Saga Pearl II, which will leave us in mid-April.
Cruise is not a new business for Saga, and we have built considerable loyalty and
expertise since our ﬁrst cruise operations in 1997. A cruise operation epitomizes our focus
on the customer. The graph on this chart shows how we have consistently increased our
revenues per passenger day yet, at the same time, we have consistently achieved 98% of
our customers rating us excellent or good for value for money. We have delivered this by
investing back into the product, improving the service, improving the quality, and for
example, by moving to a much more fully inclusive product.
Indeed, Saga Cruises, as Lance mentioned, is an excellent example of where Saga wants
to be in all of its markets, providing high-quality, diﬀerentiated products and services
which appeal to our customers and deliver strong margins.
Outside of Cruise within Tour Operations, we continue to receive high praise through
independent travel awards.

Page 15 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

Transformation is probably an overused word in business, but our new Cruise ships
genuinely ﬁt that description. Clearly, the most obvious factor over the two years where
we replace our ships is that our capacity will increase by some 74%. But we should not
underestimate the step change in the customer proposition.
These small, new all-balcony ships will provide unrivaled levels of quality and service of
ships operating out of the UK. They will be characterized by bespoke design, high-quality,
and genuinely personalized service. It's, therefore, no coincidence that we're describing
ourselves as boutique cruising.
On the regulatory front, our new ships also address the maritime industry's continuous
drive for higher standards around sustainability, which, in turn, allows our ships to operate
in previous destinations otherwise oﬀ-limits. I can safely say that by August 2020, we will
have the newest and most environmentally friendly ﬂeet in the industry.
In summary, the new Cruise ships will enhance our already highly diﬀerentiated
proposition and ultimately provide some, if not the highest, levels of service and quality in
the UK cruise market.

Bloomberg Transcript

The positive business case for the new ships was primarily driven by combination of lower
noncustomer-facing costs such as fuel and lower repairs and maintenance costs in the
early years, and also a natural economy of scale beneﬁting from a slightly larger ship,
albeit a small ship still by today's standards.
The waterfall chart here gives an indication of the high level of EBITDA per capacity day
for the new ships. With the new ship cost veriﬁed now, the key variable, and they all did
hit (00:53:37) our business case, is the revenue per capacity day of £235.
Today, we are fully on track to achieve this, with book per diems of £275 and load factors
on target for 85%. As a result, we are conﬁdent that each ship can and will deliver the
previously communicated £40 million of EBITDA per ship.
So again in summary, importantly, all elements of the Cruise transformation are on track.
The ship will be delivered on time. We've already started to cut the steel for the second
ship, Spirit of Adventure. The capital investment is on budget, the original business case.
And as I mentioned critically, demand generation is in a very positive place. And we have
booked 78% of all of Spirit of Discovery's revenue for its ﬁrst cruises between July 2019
and January 2020. In summary, we're almost exactly where we planned to be at this point
in time.
And here, the latest pictures of Spirit of Discovery taken last week. For the Cruise team,
me personally, this is not only a critical investment that must generate the required return;
it's also hugely emotional. The passion, the pride, the sheer hard work to make this
happen I've rarely seen before. It would be a very proud moment for Saga when she
launches.

Page 16 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

Emotions aside, she will exit this dry dock at the end of May and then start her passage up
to the North Sea for sea trials prior to delivery to us on the 20th of June.

FINAL

Now, turning to Tour Operations. Since January 2018, I've added Tour Operations to my
responsibilities. Whilst we have started to change program, this does need to accelerate
to create a more proﬁtable and a more sustainable tour operating business.
This chart here introduces a very simple segmentation of margins versus level of
specialism. The top left segment doesn't really exist, high margin commodity products.
And bottom left is increasingly dominated by the large volume tour operators such as
Thomas Cook, Jet2, and TUI, and indeed the online travel aggregators.
This ﬂy-and-ﬂop largely short-haul market is not the future for Saga Travel. Therefore, over
time, Saga Holidays will increase its activities on the higher margin, more diﬀerentiated
segments, such as rivers, escorted tours, and special interest holidays.
Titan is diﬀerent. This business is already focused on higher margin escorted tours. But it
as a signiﬁcant player in the specialized segments, it needs to focus on improving its
commercial model.

Bloomberg Transcript

The top right and most attractive segment for Saga provides a sense of direction in order
for us to achieve our transformation and proﬁt goals.
So what will this mean for each of our businesses? Saga Holidays, over time, will have a
reducing share from short-haul commodity into more specialized segments. The top left
bar chart illustrates that this has already happened to a certain extent. But this strategy will
continue and will result in stable revenues but increasing PBT margins over the next few
years.
Titan does have a strong number two position in this marketplace of escorted tours, but is
now in a position to grow moderately in the low-single-digits, but also a signiﬁcant
opportunity to again increase its PBT margins through improved revenue management,
inventory management, and purchasing.
In summary, we now have strong and credible plans for Tour Operations businesses and
it's now about execution.
Possibilities is an exciting initiative at Saga and Stuart Beamish, our Chief Customer
Oﬃcer, will talk in more detail later. Encouragingly, we are already seeing signs within
Travel of increased levels of engagements and hard sales.
Since July, we can attribute over 1,600 passengers who have booked through Possibilities,
of which nearly 40% are ﬁrst-time Travel buyers. Importantly, this also represents a low
sales acquisition cost. And this coming year, we are targeting to achieve over 4,000
booked passengers through Travel Possibilities. Possibilities is in its early stages, but the
Travel team are particularly excited about its potential.
Page 17 of 39



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

So hopefully, this has added some understanding to the Saga Travel business. But against
each of our messages, what are we committing to? Firstly, as I've explained, we're on track
to deliver the business case for the new ships and £40 million EBITDA per vessel. Within
Tour Operations, we will continue to focus on higher margin, more diﬀerentiated
segments. And this will deliver broadly ﬂat revenues, but PBT margins increase in the 2 to
3 percentage points range by 2021/2022. Our focus on the customer will continue, and
we'll use NPS as our overarching benchmark. Lastly and signiﬁcantly, our commitment to
deliver the 4 to 5 times 2016/2017 PBT by 2021/2022 remains intact, i.e., the £60 million to
£75 million PBT.
So, in summary, in Travel, our focus on the customer will always be at the bedrock of our
business. We have clear plans. We are going to focus on diﬀerentiated holidays, whether
Cruise or Tour Operations. And this, combined with more robust commercial
management, will ensure that Saga Travel is successful in the years to come.
I will now hand over to Stuart Beamish. Thank you.

Stuart Beamish

{BIO 20609682 <GO>}

Thank you, Robin. Good morning, everyone.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just by way of introduction, I joined Saga just over two years ago, and have been in my
current role just over a year. I joined from Barclaycard. And prior to that, had marketing
roles in British Airways, bmi and Virgin. So, from my perspective, it's been great to join
another great British brand.
And brand and membership is what I'm going to talk about today, both in terms of
current performance and also our plans, because both are key enablers to the group's
strategy. We will see, over the coming slides, how ﬁrstly the customer satisfaction and
brand awareness are both strong points for the group. But the brand is not top-of-mind
enough for consumers. And we're going to address this with a customer-focused strategy
focused on new products, advertising and membership.
18 months since launch, over 1 million customers have signed up to Possibilities, our
membership program. Engagement in the program is growing, and we're starting to see
a clear link between engagement and commercial value. And therefore, in the coming
year, we could go into adding new beneﬁts to monetize the program.
So, turning ﬁrst to customer satisfaction. Last year, we introduced Brand Net Promoter
Score across Saga. As you'll be aware, this is an established industry measure for
customer advocacy. Unlike transactional NPS, it focuses on the entire customer
experience. So, we feel this gives us the most robust measure we can have for customer
satisfaction.
We were very pleased with the initial results. As you can see from the chart on the screen,
we have positive scores across the business. Cruise is the standout. But I'd like to talk for a
moment about Insurance. When you look across the insurance sector, it tends to score
Page 18 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

much lower than others when it comes to NPS. So, we think that our Insurance score
currently actually screens very well against the rest of the market. When you consider that
in both Travel and Insurance we're launching new products this year, we're conﬁdent
these scores will grow.
So, in summary, when customers try Saga, they have a positive experience. But how
eﬀective is our brand at attracting new customers in the ﬁrst place? Well, this is more of a
mixed bag. Firstly, as you've heard already from Lance, brand awareness for Saga is
exceptionally high. As you can see from the chart on the left, we now ask this question in
relation to each of the sectors in which we operate and is high across the board. However,
when we look at brand consideration, the drop-oﬀ from awareness is larger than we
would like. This chart on the right shows Saga's prompted brand consideration compared
to the average of our key competitors in each of the sectors in which we operate.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we've now embarked on a major program to improve brand consideration through a
combination of new products, marketing and membership. You've already heard from
Gary and Robin about new products. So, I'm going to talk about advertising, and then
move on to membership.
In terms of our advertising, it's fair to say that our marketing approach at Saga had
become a little tired. We've had a narrow focus on direct marketing on one or two daily
newspapers. But also, the way we've presented the brand had led people to perceive us
as old-fashioned. So, at the start of this year, we introduced a new communications
strategy across the group, starting with Travel. As you can see from the example on the
slide and the TV ads that hopefully you saw as you came in today, we've made a big
change to the style of our communications. At the same time, we've also made the brand
more visible using more digital media on both digital and broadcast TV. It's early days,
but so far the results have been very encouraging.
The chart on the right shows that, already after just one campaign, we're starting to tackle
that old-fashioned perception with quite a signiﬁcant drop. And that's just, as I said, from
the ﬁrst campaign. Also, the audience comments that we've received are extremely
positive. I've included some as an example on the slide. I particularly like the ﬁrst and last
comments, because they point to this being unexpected from Saga. That's great evidence
of starting to drive a change in perception, and that's going to help us push up those allimportant consideration scores. So, based on these results, we're going to be rolling out
this approach across our three-year ﬁxed price Insurance campaign, so that all of our
activity across the group will work together to improve brand perception.
I'd now like to turn to membership. Possibilities was launched 18 months ago. We started
oﬀ with some oﬀers with some key brand partners, Apple, Majestic Wine and others; and
some free gifts which we used to encourage members or customers to sign up.
We then added Dining Possibilities in October. This is our own Saga dining program that
gives customers discounts and oﬀers at over 1,100 UK branded restaurants. It's already
one of the largest dining programs in the UK. And by creating our own scheme, we can

Page 19 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

tailor the proposition to our members, and also collect usage data which is very important
for us for marketing.

FINAL

Last summer, we launched Travel Possibilities, giving members access to deals with Saga
Holidays, Titan and Saga Cruises. And this also gives us an excellent distribution channel
for late availability.
And last week, we launched Entertainment Possibilities in partnership with Ambassador
Theatre Group, giving members exclusive oﬀers on theatres and shows. Since launch,
we've also sourced over 300 events and balloted tickets for members to attend. These
have included the likes of private gigs with Mica Paris, Lulu, Days at the Races, audience
with the style events (01:06:14-01:06:19) and others. We've had over 400,000 ballot
entries for members to attend those since launch. It's been one of the most popular
aspects of the program.
So, I'm now going to take three slides to talk through the results of memberships since
launch. So far, over a million customers have signed up. That's 84% on average of those
asked. Now, that's a high sign-up rate for any large program, but also encouraging when
you consider our objective to build brand aﬃnity to Saga.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over 90% of members have given positive consent to marketing. That compares to 73%
for nonmembers at Saga. We've got over 200,000 additional marketing contacts for
direct marketing through membership communications that who, otherwise, we wouldn't
have access to.
But the number of members only really tells part of the story. Because as with all loyalty
programs, the commercial value is driven by members who engage with the beneﬁts of
the program. So, having successfully signed up many customers to membership, we're
now keen to grow member engagement.
The summary here is that, as we are adding new beneﬁts, we're seeing membership
grow. First, as you can see from the chart on the left, membership is helping to lift Saga's
overall marketing response rates, with e-mail open rates far higher than industry
standards and also Saga averages. These really are exceptional e-mail engagement rates.
We've also been tracking member usage of the program, and we've seen that grow as
we've added new beneﬁts, particularly since Dining Possibilities in October.
We've clearly got some way to go in terms of engagement, but this is evidence that we
have been adding the right beneﬁts for our members. We're also getting faster adding
new features. As I said, we've just launched Entertainment Possibilities last week, and a
new global Accor Hotels partnership is about to launch. And these should drive a further
boost in engagement.
As we grow membership numbers and usage of the program increases, we're keen to
establish the link between Possibilities and commercial value. What we can see already is
that members engaging most in Possibilities are slightly younger, have more product
holdings with Saga, provide more contribution, and are more likely to give marketing
Page 20 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

consent. So, membership is already providing a stronger root to access our key Saga
customers.

FINAL

In terms of multi-product holdings, the numbers were looking at here refer to our core
products only. That's insurance policies, holidays and cruises. The group average for core
products is 1.4 products per customers. That's 1.2 from nonmembers and 1.7 from
engaged members.
As usage grows, we recognize there's a need to better establish cause and eﬀect between
membership and these numbers. But we expect increasing engagement in the program
to lead to increase in commercial value.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the formula we are following for generating value for membership is this: ﬁrstly,
signing up members. We're still doing so at the rate of 10,000 a week. Secondly, creating
beneﬁts which drive engagement. Thirdly, monetizing both in terms of direct sales from
products like Travel Possibilities, and also indirectly leveraging the higher marketing
engagements to inﬂuence purchase. In terms of the program itself, we will continue to
develop the proposition to add new beneﬁts to provide value for our members, and in
turn drive retention, multi-product holdings and Travel contribution. We also believe that
in the future, membership can play an important role in driving new customer acquisition.
In terms of what we're going to build, well, 18 months on, we've got some clear insights in
terms of what our members want from Saga. And this is going to be used to reﬁne and
strengthen the program. Firstly, we're going to scale access to experiences by testing
paid-for events, and that will enable us to open access to more members. Secondly, by
creating online communities for our members to connect with each other, which
members are already telling us is something they're very interested in. And thirdly, to
expand the level of incentives and customer recognition through Possibilities to support
our commercial objectives, for example, to acknowledge a forthcoming renewal or
incentivize additional product holdings. All of this will be continued to be supported by
third-party oﬀers from well-known, high-quality brands in dining, retail, travel and
entertainment.
In terms of execution, there's a lot of detail on here, and I don't propose to talk to all of it.
But we have a clear product roadmap for Possibilities over the coming 12-18 months. I
don't propose to go in detail, but just to highlight a few things: scaling events, expanding
retention and cross-sell incentives, and developing communities into a beta launch this
year.
One other aspect to highlight is digital. Two-thirds of the unique visits to Possibilities are
from tablets and phones. That's higher digital usage than we've seen from our customers
previously. So, we'll be investing to develop the digital experience to make it easier for
members to get value from the program. That will include a digital version of Saga
Magazine and a new member app this year.
Finally, in keeping with the executional focus, these are the core 12-month goals we've set
for brand and membership. We're aiming to deliver growth back into the brand
Page 21 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

consideration, double member engagement, grow the number of customers with multiproduct holdings, and contribute to the goals already outlined for Travel proﬁtability and
Insurance retention, all of which we hope to update you on going forward.

FINAL

Thank you. I'll now hand back to James.

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you, Stuart. And hello again.
I'm now going to spend a few minutes taking you through the implications of our strategy
for our ﬁnances. First, as you've heard from Lance, we're expecting underlying proﬁt
before tax for the current year to be in the range of £105 million to £120 million. And I will
shortly explain the reasons for this in more detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, while the rebasing of earnings is, of course, very disappointing, we believe this
will establish a level from which we can grow proﬁts. We expect the strategy outlined by
Gary to enable us to grow new business volumes and improve customer retentions. This
would add at least £20 million from the lower earnings base from Broking. In addition,
with two new cruise ships and a strategy to transform Tour Ops' proﬁtability, we think we
can more than quadruple Travel earnings compared to the level of 2016/2017.
Third, I'm sure you will have a number of questions about the new three-year product in
terms of accounting and risk. And I will look to answer some of those today. I think the key
point I want to leave you with is we have spent a lot of time on this area ahead of the golive decision. And our ﬁnancial plans and our accounting both contain elements of
prudence.
Fourth, while our absolute levels of debt are in line with expectations, lower earnings will
lead to a higher ratio of debt to EBITDA than previously anticipated. However, we expect
this to reduce quickly and back to an overall group leverage ratio of around 2 times over
the next four to ﬁve years. And an ex-cruise leverage ratio of below 1.5 times.
And last, we have the level of ﬁnancial ﬂexibility we need to support our strategy. Our
business model remains highly cash generative. We've agreed amendments to the
covenants in our short-term debt, and we have credit facilities in place until May 2023.
These factors support our new target payout ratio of 50%, which balances the priority of
reducing our debt with sustainable cash returns to our investors.
So, let me know turn to the details, starting with our earnings expectations for the current
year. Now, on this slide, I show a walk from actual 2018/2019 earnings to the new
guidance that we published today. As you can see, there are two main moving parts here.
First and the biggest, is the reduction in expected reserve releases. Now, as you know,
this is not a precise science. And there is an element of volatility to claims experience that
could lead to releases being either higher or lower than this amount. However, based on
Page 22 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

what we can see today – and this is an area which I have spent a lot of time in the last few
months – we would expect our reserve releases to be between £30 million and £40
million for the full-year. Now, this is a big decline compared to the levels of last year. But I
should emphasize that it is more or less what we had previously anticipated for the
2019/2020 year.
Second, there are a number of moving parts in our Retail Broking business earnings. As I
mentioned earlier, the lower margins in new business that we wrote last year will lead to
lower renewal proﬁtability in future years. And we also anticipate making changes to our
renewal pricing on a proactive basis. Netting oﬀ the expected £5 million improvement in
PMI, these factors are expected to reduce earnings by between £15 million and £25
million. There are then two other factors within the Broking result which more or less
cancel each other out. On the positive, reductions in AICL pricing should provide an
immediate beneﬁt of around £5 million. Going the other way, the relaunch of the
Insurance strategy is expected to have a net P&L cost of around £5 million in the ﬁrst year.
And I'll come back to this shortly.
Turning to other parts of the group, we expect Travel earnings to be higher than last year,
mainly in Cruise, albeit with increased cash ﬂows from the Spirit of Discovery, partially
oﬀset by the fact that for three months of the year, we'll only have one ship in operation.

Bloomberg Transcript

We then do have a small increase in Central Costs. It is roughly 50% due to a one-oﬀ gain
in last year's results and 50% due to additional costs to support membership and other
investments in data and other capabilities to support the new product propositions. We
expect to hold underlying costs ﬂat.
Let me now spend a bit of time explaining the ﬁnancial drivers and risks of the new
Insurance strategy, and speciﬁcally, the new three-year ﬁxed product. As Gary explained,
we will focus on our direct heritage and capabilities with a truly diﬀerentiated product in
the form of three-year ﬁxed. More speciﬁcally, we are aiming to grow new business and to
improve retention, in combination enabling us to grow our policy count at around 5% a
year. We are helped by the fact that our core demographic, the over 65s, are growing in
number at a compound rate of around about 2% a year. And we also think that we can
recover some of the market share lost in recent years.
In terms of proﬁtability, we are planning on an assumption that the three-year ﬁxed
product is broadly neutral to margins per policy. This balances two diﬀerent factors. On
the positive, we will be paid for the risk we are taking in guaranteeing the price for three
years. And that will include a reasonable margin for volatility and risk. We should also see
an increase in revenues per policy from the added policy features in the premium
product.
In terms of costs, we need to invest to support this new strategy. And as Gary explained,
we are ready to go with our new advertising campaign. While we see this as a costeﬀective way of winning new business, it is a lot more expensive than the old direct
channels upon which Saga has relied in the past, particularly direct mail. In the short-term,

Page 23 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

we'll have a small increase in admin costs, although this will over time be more than
compensated for by improved eﬃciency.
The other cost we allow for relates to how we will account for the ﬁxed element of the
products and the assumptions we make for inﬂation. I'll explain this in more detail shortly.
But the key point here is that we believe that our assumptions are prudent. So, the
message I want to leave you with is that the new strategy is a way of driving real growth in
the business based on a realistic and sustainable view of margins.
On this slide, I'll look to explain three things: ﬁrst, the accounting for three-year ﬁxed;
second, how we've modeled this in our planning; and third, the risk considerations
relating to the three-year ﬁxed product.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll start with the accounting. Our price to three-year ﬁxed is expected to be based around
the deferral of part of the premium paid by our customers. The deferral reﬂects our
estimate of the cost of providing a price guarantee. As such, it will be calculated as a
percentage of the net rate of the product based on expected future inﬂation and other
factors which inﬂuence risk. It'll also include a margin for volatility. We've modeled this
using analysis from AICL for home and motor and based on prudent assumptions. We
would then release the deferred income in year two and year three of the policy, in other
words, over the life of the price guarantee.
In terms of our planning assumptions, the deferral of part of the income is, of course, fully
allowed for. In addition, we've made prudent assumptions for inﬂation. Now, we don't see
a reason why inﬂation would be higher for price promised customers compared to our
standard customers. And indeed, there's actually a good reason as to why it may well be
lower. But of course, we can reprice standard customers if inﬂation is higher than
expected. But that would not be the case in the short-term for those on three-year ﬁxed.
From my perspective, there are two ways of thinking about this. First, if we decide to keep
the risk on balance sheet, then we have an inﬂation contingency to protect us. Second, if
we decide to lay oﬀ the risk to insurers, then we've eﬀectively built the cost of doing so
into our plan projections.
In terms of ﬁnancial risk, we believe that the pricing and the planning assumptions we are
making protect us against claims inﬂation persistently running at high-single-digit levels.
The other risk is a onetime increase in claims inﬂation above this level. Now, this is not
likely to be a major risk in the short-term as volumes of three-year ﬁxed customers grow
from what will obviously be a very low starting point. In addition, a simultaneous shock
around inﬂation for both motor and home is very unlikely. And the accounting deferral
approach would over time build up signiﬁcant buﬀers that would help us to withstand this
type of scenario. Nonetheless, while we've been prudent in our planning, internal risk
modeling does highlight a level of exposure in certain adverse scenarios but extreme
ones.
As we roll out the new proposition, we will, of course, be in test and learn mode. But I'm
talking here about a possible one in 50 exposure of less than 10% of our Broking earnings
Page 24 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

not about risks to capital. In addition, we will look to reduce this risk through insurance or
reinsurance options before three-year ﬁxed becomes a signiﬁcant part of the portfolio.

FINAL

On the next slide, I will look to wrap all this together in setting expectations for the
Broking business over the next few years. On this slide, I've tried to simplify the key
economics of the Broking business. It's basically policy count times gross margin less
overheads.
Starting with the top line, we expect this year will be a transitional period of test and learn.
We expect to write more business directly and less on PCWs. Overall, policy count is
expected to be around roughly ﬂat.
As mentioned before, 0though, our focus here is on sustainable growth. We're targeting a
5% annual increase in policy count, resulting more or less equally from better retentions
and higher new business. These aren't easy targets and neither do we see them as
unrealistic.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of margins, last year, the gross margin per policy across home and motor was
around £80. This is gross revenue less marketing costs. For the reasons already explained,
we expect this to decline this year to between £71 and £74 a policy. We then expect the
decline next year to be between £67 and £70 per policy. After which, we expect margins
to be more stable. This is the impact of the ongoing margin pressures that I referred to
earlier and which, of course, represents a signiﬁcant headwind to the business.
But the point here is that, even allowing for these headwinds, what I'm trying to show you
here are the building blocks for how successful execution of the strategy would add at
least £20 million to earnings compared to the rebased level of the current year. But I want
to stress that, at this point, these margins are intended to be indicative. Changes and mix
can, of course, lead to higher or lower numbers. And of course, we live in a competitive
and dynamic market.
Within this indicative view, we assume no real change in the current pricing environment.
And we've also made prudent assumptions around inﬂation and assume no increase in
retention rates from reducing renewal pricing for long-tenured customers. So, I'd hope
that these assumptions prove to be somewhat prudent, but we are not relying on that
being the case in our planning.
Before I move away from Insurance, let me make a couple of points about AICL. As you
know, the role of AICL is to price risk for our target customers based on advanced risk
insights and supporting our aspiration to grow. In recent years, AICL has shrunk. There are
various reasons for this, but one of them is an overly prudent approach to pricing.
Following recent actions, pricing is now better aligned to the target return. And while this
will mean lower Underwriting earnings, it will help Retail Broking grow policy count and
earnings over time.
The priority now for AICL is to further improve pricing and claim sophistication, and the
team have a number of important initiatives underway. It may not be the biggest needle
Page 25 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

mover in terms of group earnings based purely on what we see in AICL's results, but the
point here is that this will be a critical enabler of the group's Insurance strategy in the next
few years.
So, let me now wrap up on how we see the next few years in terms of earnings and cash.
You've heard from both Gary and I on what we plan for Insurance. And you've heard from
Robin about our ﬁnancial targets for the Travel business. If we combine those with an
increasing contribution from Personal Finance and by holding overhead costs ﬂat, we see
potential to grow earnings from the rebased 2019/2020 level. We also expect this to
support an ongoing level of high level of cash conversion.
For Insurance, we will naturally see much lower dividends from AICL in the next few years,
in line with expected lower earnings. This is expected to be partially oﬀset by the cash
ﬂow positives of the three-year ﬁxed product. While we booked a prudent provision to
recognize the inﬂation risk in three-year ﬁxed, by ﬂattening out the price paid by the
customer, we would receive higher levels of cash at the start. It's not a reason why we will
do this, it's not a reason why we write a product, but it is relevant to overall product
economics.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of Travel, we've recently injected £25 million of cash into the Travel holding
company to support the installment payments on the two new ships. I do not expect that
to be a recurring feature of our ﬁnancing, and indeed expect the Travel business to start
repatriating cash from the end of next year.
And last, we see this year as the peak for capital expenditure on IT with a signiﬁcant
improvement next year as the major heavy lifting projects move towards completion.
In summary, we will see a lower level of cash conversion for the 2019-2020 ﬁnancial year
for some of the reasons I've just mentioned. However for the years beyond this, we will
expect to convert at least 85% of our EBITDA into operating cash, including the debt
service commitments paid directly by the Cruise business.
So let me now move to what this means for our leverage and our debt. As already
mentioned while the absolute levels of debt are in-line with expectations, lower earnings
will put pressure on our leverage ratio. And this is happening at the same time as we will,
over the next 18 months, add another £500 million of debt relating to the two new ships.
One of my priorities for the last few weeks has been to ensure that we have the ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility to execute on our new strategy. This has meant taking the diﬃcult decision to
reduce our ﬁnal dividend to £0.01 per share, a step which will save us £50 million in cash.
It is also meant discussing with our banking partners, amendments to the covenants in
our term loan and revolving credit facility.
In this respect, I'm very pleased that we've been able to agree new covenants based on a
new deﬁnition which excludes the Cruise debt, and of course, the Cruise earnings. While
the Cruise debt is not legally ring-fenced from the core group, we do view it as
economically ring-fenced and that the Cruise cash ﬂows should be more than suﬃcient to
meet the Cruise debt commitments, both in terms of interest and loan repayments. Our
Page 26 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

intention here is to hold at least half return of headroom at peak debt levels, including
allowance for certain adverse trading scenarios and for us to then see a rapid reduction in
leverage in the next few years. I see a number of the bank teams in the audience today
and I would like to thank them for their support.
Let me now put this in the context of the dividend. While I recognize that our leverage
ratio in the short-term is going to higher than anticipated, we have a number of real credit
positives. First, as already mentioned we have a good track record of reducing debt and
expect an ongoing cash conversion rate of more than 85% of EBITDA. Second, we don't
anticipate any ﬁnancing needs in the next few years. And by the time the credit facility
matures, my expectation is that we will not need to renew it. Third, we have headroom to
our new covenants including in reasonable stress scenarios. And fourth, we expect the
ship debt to reduce quickly from peak levels.
In establishing the right balance between reducing leverage and cash returns for
investors, we have therefore set a target payout ratio of 50%. This should enable us to
reduce the ex-ship's leverage ratio to below 1.5 times and to reduce the overall group
leverage ratio to around 2 times over the next few years.
That wraps up my presentation. And with that, I'll now hand back to Lance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thank you, James, and thank you the rest of the team as well. Look, we've not shied away
from making some tough decisions today. But I hope you can see and you will appreciate
why it's important for us to make the changes that we've announced today, to get Saga
onto a sustainable long-term growth trajectory. The whole team has embraced the need
for change and they've worked very hard to get us to a point where we can now execute.
We're also conﬁdent that our people and our customers are excited about the new
approach and the new products. That's going to be the true catalyst that returns Saga to
its rightful place as an organization that leads the way in the over 50s market and that
grows proﬁts and that allows it to deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
That is what I and the board and my management team are now determined to achieve.
So that completes our formal presentation. We will now take questions. I'd really
appreciate it if you could wait for the mic to clearly state who you are. Address your
questions to me and I will pass them around the rest of the team. We may also get some
questions coming in over the phone. Thank you.

Q&A
Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you. Jonny Urwin, UBS. Lance, I'm sorry to ask this question and it's a diﬃcult one,
but I guess how would you reassure your shareholders over the coming days and today
Page 27 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

that this is the right management team to execute on this reinvigorated strategy?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yeah.

FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Secondly, just thinking about to the 2017 proﬁt warning. You guys were the ﬁrst ones to
come out and really acknowledge that the market was under a lot of pressure, and I just
wondered today that the change to renewal practices and the three-year ﬁxed. I mean is
this the same thing and this is an indicator that the market is in real trouble here given the
FCA pricing investigation and do you think there's a signiﬁcant change to come? Thank
you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Jonny. Well, look. I think that ﬁrst question is absolutely a fair question to ask and
I'm glad you have asked it. So look, ﬁrstly, we're on a journey here. We inherited a
business ﬁve years ago at IPO that needed substantial change and we've been on that
journey. We've reduced the leverage signiﬁcantly. We've replaced the IT. We've ordered
and built the ﬁrst of the new ships. We've launched membership. We're now turning our
attention to the big one, which is Insurance. And as you all know, that's the largest part of
the business.
I'm absolutely delighted that I've got a board and a Chairman, a CFO, and in Gary, a head
of division, who are all real subject matter experts on UK insurance. And then what people
like myself and Robin and Stuart can bring to the party is a deep understanding of the
consumer need of what Saga customers really want, and we've married those two to
create what I think today is a really breakthrough announcement in UK insurance.
Time will tell whether we have the right strategy. I completely understand the frustration
and the disappointment of an investor base who have been waiting to see what Saga is
capable of, but I believe that the moves that we're taking, the strategy that we've
announced today is absolutely the right one and I think we've got the right team to
deliver.
To your second question around December 2017 – I think December 2017, for those of you
who remember we announced a modest proﬁt warning at that point and some concerns
about the progress of our Broking business. I think that was the ﬁrst real warning signal to
us that we had a problem and that we needed to drive some change. And we spent 2018
stabilizing our volumes which have been declining for some time and I think we learned
some very painful and interesting lessons in 2018. We discovered once and for all that
Saga is not a commoditized volume price comparison website player.
And we've spent a lot of time with our customers and with our new membership base
understanding from them what is it they really want from Saga, what is our place in the
market, and do we have a right to play in the market? And the answer was an absolutely

Page 28 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

clear yes; and the 18 months or so that we have spent designing, building and testing the
new products that are launched today is the output of that.

FINAL

I don't think it necessarily indicates broad distress in the UK market. I don't see the
evidence of that. I'll let others in the market comment on that for themselves but I do think
that the market is changing.
I think that the commoditization, the digitization, I think that UK consumers are
increasingly savvy about how pricing works and we know from our interaction with
members and from the 6,000 policies that we've already sold that our customers are
absolutely delighted with the idea of ﬂat pricing over the next three years. It will be
interesting to see whether other players in the UK market mimic this over time.
Andreas?

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Good morning. Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Just two questions also
around pricing. It seems to me just reading between the lines across your presentation
that you've been mispricing the Insurance product over a number of years for a product
that you feel didn't have enough quality for your membership base and that's the reason
you didn't grow. So, you now think that by correcting that pricing mismatch that that's
going to lead to growth?
And I just wanted to sort of challenge that. In terms of the pricing mix between the
renewal pricing and the new business, how big was that gap and do you really think that
this new pricing mechanism is going to close that and generate proﬁtability?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So, I'm going to...

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

And the second question is...

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I thought that was two questions, Andreas. Go ahead.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Sorry. The second question is what will that do to your average premiums over time? Will
they be declining over time or not?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So, I'm going to suggest that the ﬁrst part of your question is taken by Gary who talked a
little bit about the historical learnings over pricing. Have we been pricing wrong? And
Page 29 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

then afterwards, we'll take that as a ﬁnancial question and James will take the second part
of your question. Gary?

FINAL

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm won't as far as (01:38:28) to say we were pricing wrong. I think we're pricing inline, to a large extent, with the rest of the industry. I think it's been pretty clear from all the
conversations and the research we've done with our customers in particular with our
demographic that they would appreciate a diﬀerent approach to it and kind of going
through the hassle of kind of shopping around every year and getting various quotes is
diﬃcult for our customers and it's not something that they particularly enjoy doing. So, I
think by coming up with a three-year price promise, it enables us to kind of give a much
better quality product and service to customers that will avoid them having to do that.
So I don't think necessarily we've been approaching it in any diﬀerent way than anybody
else in the industry in terms of how we price new business and renewals. But I think the
industry needs to change as I've said. The FCA have said the industry needs to change.
This is our response to the change and I think it's a very positive response to the change
because it's about rewarding loyalty moving forward, which I think will create more
sustainable future for not just our business but for the industry if they approach it in the
way that we have.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I mean I think in terms of the ﬁnancials, I mean, like as I mentioned in the presentation, the
point of three-year ﬁxed is not for us to extract more margin from our customer base, it is
to get people to come to us direct because in terms of what we're expecting with threeyear ﬁxed, essentially the expectation here is that we grow the topline but, on average,
the same average margin per policy.
In terms of what it will do for average premiums, I mean there's two parts to that. I mean,
ﬁrst, we're selling a premium product so there's obviously an uplift between the standard
and the premium product. And then there's a further uplift which would be the ﬁxed price
element. Now, I don't think at this stage we'll probably go into what that ﬁxed price is.
We're not talking enormous amounts of money. But, of course, for that, then we're giving
something to the customers that is incredibly tangible which is when you come back next
year, your renewal letter will just have the same price unless you've had a claim, or IPTs
gone up. So, I think the point here is it's a draw for people to come to us on a direct basis.
It's a reason why people pick up the phone to us. And essentially today if they do that,
then it's very much more a price-led proposition. So, what we're trying to do is get people
to come to us direct rather than go on to the aggregators.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Ben?

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi there. It's Ben Cohen at Investec. I had two questions. The ﬁrst I supposed
looking more at home and others, speciﬁcally health, I just wonder your conﬁdence level
Page 30 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

in the margin, the gross sort of margin as a proportion of written premium that you're
taking in those lines, particularly in health in the context of one product provider, very
long-term customers there, very high commission levels. How sure are you that this is
sustainable in the New World?
And the second, just a point of clariﬁcation on the dividend, so you're looking to get to a
50% payout ratio in the medium-term. Does that suggest that sort of for this coming year,
wherever the earnings are, you will be looking to make a 50% payout or do you need to
actually see that some of these initiatives are bearing fruit before you commit to that?
Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Ben. I'll ask James to ﬁll both of those.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So, I mean, I think it seems like and I think within the ﬁrst one, this is like there's two
questions which is, one, are margins sustainable and there's probably a particular point
on PMIs. So, I think in terms of why the margin is overall sustainable from the reduced
base that we expect to get to in the 2020-2021 year, I think there's three things: So, the
ﬁrst one is when we've essentially rolled forward the experience of last year, we are
assuming that our new business margins will reﬂect that experience. So we are not – there
is no sort of hockey stick improvement in new business proﬁtability. We are essentially
rolling forward based on the average of what we encountered last year, for this year and
the year after. So, essentially that's the ﬁrst piece of it.
The second piece is I mean as you can see we are proactively taking action on renewal
pricing for long-tenured customers. We think that is us leaning into the challenge. We
think we are making what is a very sensible provision for that and what we're going to do.
I think we feel – as I say, we're getting ahead of the challenge. Could the FCA go much
further? Could the industry go much further? Possibly but we think we're doing what we
need to do there.
So I think those are the two main reasons why we see margins are sustainable. The third
element though is the fact that what we're certainly not assuming is that there's any sort of
hard market or anything like that. So we are assuming that everyday inﬂation more or less
keeps track in terms of growth rate and net rate. So the market environment is assumed to
be a very consistent one essentially.
I think in terms of the PMI products speciﬁcally, so we have a very good PMI product. It's
got some really diﬀerentiated features in it. Within the renewed pricing actions, there is a
component of that which does relate to PMI. It's not the biggest part of that by any means.
So we think again, going back I guess to the same answers I gave before which is we think
we're taking the actions of the right actions. We think that we are doing what we need to
do and frankly that will position us quite well.

Page 31 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

In terms of dividend, I think that if you take the guidance that we've given the £105 million
to £120 million that averages us out about £0.08. So, take half of £0.08, it gets you to
£0.04. So I think you can see that we've looked to – while we've reduced the dividend for
last year into a level that is consistent with where we would be with the £105 million to
£120 million range.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thank you. Ed Morris, JPMorgan. First question, could you just help us step through the
proﬁt outlook for the sort of year after the current one? You're talking about a £20 million
improvement in Broking proﬁtability. Can you just conﬁrm is that on a three- to ﬁve-year
view and I think earlier in the presentation, you mentioned a further £10 million headwind
in Broking. So if we sort of set the Cruise ships aside; underlying, are we expecting proﬁt
to increase from the new level that you've outlined in 2019-2020?
And the second question is just relating to the three-year ﬁxed. Can you just clarify is this
something that will exclusively be an AICL provided products or will your panel members
eﬀectively be able to stand behind some of these policies and I may have a follow-up
question depending on the answer.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Ed. I'll take the second one and then hand over to James for your ﬁrst.
So the answer is our panel has the ability to underwrite against these policies that allows
us to cover as much of the market as possible. And from that perspective, it's no diﬀerent
to underwriting any other policy. They are underwriting for one year and at renewal, we
go back to the panel as we usually do to look at who would write for the second year and
then for the third.
And then James, on the ﬁrst part?

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean I think just to add on, on that second one as well. So when we've been
looking at the sort of the accounting approach, we have a quote from AICL as to what it
would cost, what they would charge in terms of the net rate for both home and for motor.
When we come to sort of work out the cost, we have taken that and we've added a bit of a
margin on and that will then determine how we defer income. So, again, we're looking to
be somewhat prudent. But at the moment, the risk would sit on the Broking balance
sheet.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

I see. I'm sorry, just a very quick follow-up, if I may then on that. If the Broking business is
then not riskless in the sense that there is a possibility that you could make more or less
money than you expect, is there any likelihood that that could change your capital
requirements? For example, Broking at the moment is not regulated and the solvency
doesn't become an insurance business. Thank you.
Page 32 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah, that's a good question and one we thought about. So, I mean, we don't think that it
does change the capital requirements. I think it probably means we may hold a bit more
cash in that business than we do today. So, I think there's probably a small element of a
cash piece that we will need to keep back. I mean, I think one thing to emphasize here is
and I think going back to what I mentioned before is so we've run various stress scenarios
based on inﬂation outcomes, based on history. We've selected, I mean, obviously 1 in 50 –
I mean, there isn't that many data points to judge, but I think we've taken what we think is
a very prudent point. I'm saying, around sort of 20% one-time step change instantaneous
increases in inﬂation for either motor or home. And I think what we – the way we've
modeled that risk then is that that would have less than a 10% impact on in-year broking
earnings. So, yes, you could get a slightly less – lower dividend out of the services
business then you would do, but it's not – we're not running a capital risk in that sense.

Bloomberg Transcript

And, I mean, I think and perhaps the other point to mention is, I mean though we've
written 6,000 policies, I don't think that exposes us to any meaningful risk. As that
business grows, I mean, we will look to either insure it or reinsure it. Whether we do that
directly under the Broking business or via AICL that remains to be seen. But I think the
point there though is that what we've done in the planning, and so the margin guidance
I've given you is looking to incorporate how much that will cost. And on – yeah, a
reasonably-prudent basis.
So when we're saying that we can hold margins ﬂat, that is assuming that we would
essentially pass on this risk to insurers or reinsurers and whether that's AICL or a
combination of outside parties, that remains to be seen. AICL is the obvious choice
obviously for the (01:48:54).
So you do have your other questions answered?

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

(01:48:56)

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So, maybe I should have included a walk for 2020-2021 as well. But the – so, you're right. I
think that there is a sort of roll-forward eﬀect from 2019-2020 into 2020-2021, and that is
captured in the margin that we've talked about. So we're saying that the margin goes
from £80 to – so between £72 and £75 this year, and then between £67 and £70 next year.
And you can do the math there. We're at 1.9 million policyholders or 1.9 million policies 5
times £5 equals £10 million. So that is covered within the guidance that we've given you.
In terms of what we would expect between 2019-2020 and then 2020-2021, yes, there is
that step-down that comes through with margin, but also that's where we expect to start
the policy count growing as well.
And if you then look at 5% policy count, if we then hold overheads ﬂat, we've got a 50%
cost income ratio, you get about a 10% growth in that. So I would see the next couple of
Page 33 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

years as more about stabilization in terms of Broking. But absolutely when we gave you
the £20 million – that was £20 million from this year; not some other lower number.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks. Let me come to Nick next.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Just one high-level question ﬁrst of all. Could
you just say how important the three-year ﬁxed product is to stabilizing Broking margins
just for the context around that given it's a non-proven product? If you could just give us a
feel for how much of a stabilization project is based on that?
And second in terms of detail, the three-year ﬁxed product, can you just explain a
scenario where a customer gets about a quote or shops around after the two to three
years and gets a better quote. Are they able to exit? What are the penalties? Could you
just explain that side of the model? Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I'll take the ﬁrst part and then ask Gary to take the second.
So, the answer to your ﬁrst question, Nick, around how important is it is it's one of a
number of ingredients to the strategic restructuring that we're announcing today. It is not
by any means the only part of it. We know that it's exciting to our customers. We know
that the long-term economics on it look very solid. We know that it truly diﬀerentiates us in
the market. But actually, a critical part of that is us going back to the direct channel rather
than focusing overly on the PCW channel.
I think we learned some lessons last year where we dialed up the volume we went after in
PCWs. We don't have to do that. Even last year, about half of all the new customers who
came to Saga still came direct and that was without us advertising, without us selling a
diﬀerentiated product. And so, the shift back gently towards a direct channel, we don't
require a massive shift but a gentle shift back in that direction backed by diﬀerentiated
products of which the three-year is just the ﬁrst. There's more to come. It's very important
to us as well.
And then, Gary?

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Lance. So, what we call a three-year ﬁxed policy, it's still is annually
renewable for the customers so the customer still has the opportunity to shop around and
move somewhere else if they choose to do so. So they're not kind of locked-in and the
good news from the customers' perspective is they buy the products at the same
premium in year one. A conﬁdent knowledge that if you shop around, the worst case
scenario they can just keep the policy that they've got now and their premiums are not
going to go up. So it gives them that kind of conﬁdence factor about the maximum they
Page 34 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

will have to pay in years two and three based on what they paid in year one. I think that's
what makes it attractive to a lot of customers and certainly why it's resurged really, really
well with our customers.

FINAL

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Thank you. Joanna Parsons from Canaccord. Two questions, please. You talked about the
growth in the demographic or your demographic. Can you give us a feel of what your
market share of that demographic is today versus what it was ﬁve years ago and then what
your target is for that?
And secondly, in terms of the fact that I think it was from 50 years onwards in terms of
what you considered...

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

...to be your demographic, given the way that 50-year-old's feel today, do you think that
you would ever need to or you should consider a diﬀerent brand name for that part of the
demographic? Do you think the Saga brand name you talked about old-fashioned and
whatever, although trying to change that, do you think that actually you would beneﬁt
from having a product within your suite which had a diﬀerent name?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Sure. I'll take both of those. So, on the market share question we've got market share data
from the insurance industry but it's small sample and it's quite volatile and I don't entirely
trust it. But what it tells us is that if you go back 10 years, we had a market share in the over
50s of motor, high-single-digit or thereabouts and we're now down at 5% or thereabouts.
So, we have lost market share, as I said in my introduction, steadily over a decade,
bearing in mind of course that the demographic is growing all the time. So, even if you
just held steady, you would lose market share. But we've done worse than that, and that is
what's prompted the radical change of direction today.
And then to your question around age and demographic, it's important, I think, to
remember the history of Saga. Saga was founded as a company for the retired. And that
meant for 65 years old. And for most of its history, it was a business for the 65 pluses, and
it was only when the brand entered the Insurance sector about 20 years ago, that the
cutoﬀ was moved to 50 in order to make it possible for people in their 50s to buy a home
and motor insurance and to widen the scope. The truth is when you talk to consumers in
the UK, and I think we in the room, we all recognize this, it's a brand for 65-year-olds.
Now, we do attract people in their 50s, and we're delighted when that happens because
we build a relationship with them. We can show them the amazing service that we have.
And by the time they're in their 60s, we hope that they'll migrate across to travel products
as well and to the other products in our suite. But we're not trying to turn this into a brand
Page 35 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

for 50-year-olds. We recognize that the sweet spot for Saga is generally mid-60s. The
average age of a new Saga customer is 61, and that number hasn't changed over many
years.
And we don't believe a secondary brand is the right answer for us. What we believe is
right is to oﬀer diﬀerent, better products under the Saga brand name at competitive
prices wrapped in fantastic service. And if we do that, we know that there are lots of
people in their 50s who would love to own home and motor from us, and then come on
holiday with us when they're a little bit older.
Lady at the back?

Q - Ruchi Gupta

{BIO 5316030 <GO>}

Thank you. My name is Ruchi Gupta from Western Asset Management. My question is
about peak leverage including the shipping debt, when do you expect the peak
leverage? Which time, which yea and if you could just give me the development of the
leverage for next two years?
And secondly, have you spoken to rating agencies about your new strategy and the new
proﬁt outlook? Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. James?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes, so let me take the ﬁrst one. Yes, we have spoken to the rating agencies. And I think
they are due to issue something fairly imminently. So obviously that will come out, I'm
guessing from today or tomorrow or something. So, yes, that is all. We've had a number
of discussions with them. We shared our plans with them. So, absolutely...
In terms of peak leverages, so it depends on when you're talking group peak leverage or
the ex-ship debt leverage. So including the ships, I mean obviously the peak leverage is
after the second ship comes on stream in August 2020. So in terms of reporting day, the
peak leverage at a group level would be January 2021.
And I think the message I would give you there is if we include Cruise earnings on a pro
forma basis, we will be looking to try – or not try, we were looking to hold that peak
number below 4 times. So that's all-in, including the ships, including everything else.
And as I said, in terms of the inclusion all of the pro forma Cruise earnings, I don't think it
will make a lot of sense to judge six months of Cruise earnings against a whole – all of the
Cruise debt. So I mean I think that's why we would do that and of course, we've got a high
level of visibility on the forward bookings as well.

Page 36 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

In terms of the ex-ships picture, the peak is going to be sooner than that. It will probably
be at the end of this year, so January 2020, and that is where we would look to hold the
peak leverage below three times on an ex-Cruise basis, so with a half return of headroom
to the covenant.

FINAL

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Time for one more question and I think from anyone who hasn't asked? I think we've got
another. And then just to be fair, Ben, I'll give you one after that. Yeah?
Thank you. Just a quick one on the three-year ﬁxed, so just think about how you're pricing
now so you discount year one, then your price woke up year two, year three to sort of get
to where you need to be. Implicitly, you're saying that this is margin-neutral. So from that
commissioning that the new business pricing goes up by enough to oﬀset the reduction
from the renewal pricing that you would have got? First question.
And then secondly, just thinking about doesn't just this make you more cyclical because if
I'm an equity investor, I want to own you guys basically when claims inﬂation is coming
down, pricing is coming down because you are locked-in. And then I want to sell you
when that's switching.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So I think, I guess on the second part of that. I mean it will induce a new element of
uncertainty up to a point but I think within relatively narrow conﬁnes. And of course if we
then lay that risk oﬀ to the insurers and the reinsurers and we built the cost of doing that
into the plan, then actually that risk is beyond risk anyway.

Q - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

And you built the cost of that into the premium as well that you're charging initially?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah. That's exactly right. So we've built what we think it will cost us to basically insure or
reinsure that risk. So that is built into the cost of the product. And it's also built into how
we've thought about the planning as well. So I think that's a really important point
because, yes, right now that risk sits on our balance sheet, but we've given ourselves the
ﬁnancial – yeah, sort of the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility in our planning that should we choose to,
we can either insure all or part or some of the peak risks. I mean, there's a number of
diﬀerent ways you could look at it. And absolutely, do I expect that we would buy no
insurance for this? Deﬁnitely not. So, we will deﬁnitely look to pass some of that risk on.
It's just – it then becomes a choice.
In terms of the cyclicality element, actually there are some dampening features as well
because if obviously a customer comes in, yeah, they buy the three-year ﬁxed product,
prices then soften a bit so they'd actually decide to lapse the policy and buy another
policy. Then, of course, we get an extra piece of premium in the ﬁrst year that would give
us a cushion against it. So, there are some inherent dampening eﬀects there. And I can
Page 37 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

FINAL

tell you that, I mean, although we are planning for this to be margin-neutral, if inﬂation is
in-line with our expectations, it is margin-positive – very clearly margin-positive as well.
So, I think that the overall element is the risks are being well-controlled and that's before
we've looked to lay the risk oﬀ, which again I think we were doing. But I think more sort of
philosophically, the reason that we're doing it is actually to give people such a strong
reason to come to us direct; whether it's either by the phone or on the website that they
would do that rather than going on the aggregators. And that's one reason why the
economics look so much diﬀerent.
And in terms of the overall economics, as I say, there are moving pieces. On the one
hand, we get paid for the inﬂation piece. We also get a – we're selling a better product as
well. On the other hand, it will require us to spend more money on advertising than we do
today on direct mail. So, there are some natural balances. But I'd say really the message is
we think it is margin-neutral on cautious inﬂation assumption but it's giving people
reasons to come to us direct.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, we've blown through our time here. I'll going to let Ben ask his question. We're then
going to take a ﬁve-minute break because you've all been in the room two hours. We'll
stop the oﬃcial presentation but we're staying and we're happy to answer any questions
that any of you have got. So (02:02:20) stand here in 5-minutes' time. But ﬁrst Ben, your
last question?

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks. I just want to ask on the strategy. When you did the review, did you
consider divesting diﬀerent parts of the business? And maybe you could talk about why
you think still the structure with two Cruise ships and Insurance Broking business, all of the
debt that you're carrying, why that is the right structure when it's not clear it's been the
right structure over the last ﬁve years? Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So the board has had a number of conversations over the years that we've been a public
company about the logical structure that makes up Saga. What's interesting is when you
talk to our customers, to our members as they now are a member with over 1 million
members at the center of the brand. For them, they don't see it as illogical that Saga
would provide both insurance and travel to them. Those are two parts of their lives and if
we get it right, it helps them to enjoy their retirement, which is what the company is all
about.
I think there's an ongoing question about the relative pros and cons of it being owned
within the same legal entity. What we're starting to see with a strong database at the
center, with brand advertising that builds the whole brand not just part of it, with cross-sell
starting to build up through membership into travel which is a real ﬁnancial beneﬁt from
us with the ability to go out and talk to partners in the membership space and attract

Page 38 of 39



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-05

them to want to oﬀer products and services to our members. I think there's actually a
growing coherence that argues for logic to the business holding together.

FINAL

The honest answer is time will tell. We have to prove to you that we can do as well in
Insurance as we have been doing in Cruise and that's our objective over the next year or
two. And I think you need to judge us over the next year or two on whether that makes
sense from your point of view as well. We believe it does.
All right. We're going to take a ﬁve-minute break. Thank you for your attention. I
understand if you want to slip away and we'll see you in a few minutes' time. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 39 of 39

