Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Brett Shirreffs , Investor Relations
Jay S. Bullock, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Kevin J. Rehnberg, Interim Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Frederique Sleiffer, Analyst
Greg Peters , Analyst
Jeff Schmitt, Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good day, and welcome to the Argo Group 2019 Third Quarter Earnings Call and
Webcast. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Please also
note, today's event is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over
to Mr. Brett Shirreffs, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Brett Shirreffs

{BIO 15817618 <GO>}

Thank you and welcome to Argo Group's conference call for the third quarter of 2019.
After the market closed last night, we issued a press release on our earnings, which is
available in the Investors section of our website at www.argolimited.com. Presenting on
today's call is Kevin Rehnberg, Interim Chief Executive Officer; and Jay Bullock, Chief
Financial Officer. As the operator mentioned, this call is being recorded. As a result of this
conference call, Argo management may make comments that reflect their intentions,
beliefs and expectations for the future. Such forward-looking statements are qualified by
the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally and may
materially differ from actual future results involving any one or more of such statements.
Argo Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward looking statements as a
result of events or developments subsequent to this call. For a more detailed discussion
of such risks and uncertainties, please see Argo Group's filings with the SEC. Before we
get started, I'd like to formally welcome Kevin Rehnberg to the call. As reported, Mark
Watson, our former CEO and President, announced his retirement earlier this week. Kevin
joined Argo in 2013 to lead our US operations and has led the turnaround performance of
that business. At the beginning of 2019, Kevin was appointed both CEO of the Americas
and Chief Administrative Officer for the Group. Kevin has previously joined us on earnings

Page 1 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

calls and represented Argo at industry forums. So he's a familiar face to most of you. I will
now turn the call over to Kevin.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Good morning and thank you for the introduction, Brett. I'd like to welcome everyone to
today's call and thank you for your continued interest in Argo's operations. It is a privilege
to have the opportunity to serve as the interim CEO of Argo Group. I would also like to
personally thank Mark Watson for his 20 years of service for the company. His vision set
the course for this Company and I'm honored to lead it from here. As noted, I joined Argo
almost seven years ago. During that time, I've had the opportunity to work with many of
our employees across the company and I'm proud of the results we have been able to
achieve together. At our largest division, we have demonstrated the ability to grow
profitable businesses and significantly improve service to brokers, customers using
disciplined underwriting, effective capital management, innovation and entrepreneurial
spirit, which are a part of the DNA of this entire company. I'm eager to put these
operating principles to work throughout our enterprise to build value for shareholders.
Now, with the opportunity to look at Argo more broadly, I see Argo as a strong specialty
company with the appropriate tools to leverage across our global platforms. However, our
primary focus will be return on equity. We recognize there are opportunities for efficiency
similar to what we had delivered in the US the past few years. When we return to share
our fourth quarter and year-end 2019 results, I will have more to say about our forward
strategy as well as financial metrics for 2020. For today, Jay and I are focused on giving
you a fulsome review of the recent quarter. Looking at our third quarter results, we
continue to see strong performance for our US operations in contrast to clearly
unacceptable results from our international operations. The US posted its highest ever
gross written premium figure for the quarter, continuing to build on the momentum of the
first half of 2019, exceeding the record set in 2018. These results reflect nearly 10 years of
intense focus by the US team to refine underwriting, claims and operations. Given the
consistently strong impact of these actions, we have started to implement similar best
practices countrywide -- companywide.
As we reported in our press release statement last week, in Q3, we registered
catastrophe losses of $19 million, prior year accident losses of $42 million and additional
current year accident losses of approximately $10 million. As you know, we faced a similar
situation around losses in the second quarter. As we explained then, these adjustments
come from areas of business that we have exited previously or where we have already
taken aggressive underwriting actions to improve profitability. Some also come as a result
of more frequent large loss events, which has caused us to adjust our current accident
year expectations in certain business units. Clearly, we are not satisfied with our company
wide loss ratio results this quarter. However, we remain focused on improving
underwriting profitability as we look forward to 2020 and have several actions underway
that leave us optimistic about our future opportunities.
We continue to be encouraged by the ongoing strengthening of rates, not only in our
largest markets, the US, London and Bermuda, but also in most markets around the world.
Rate increases accelerated during Q3 and while some lines are experiencing stronger
Page 2 of 15



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

pricing than others, overall, we achieved mid-single digit rate increases for the quarter. In
the US, this is being led by property, professional, and certain liability lines. In international,
property, liability, marine and energy are experiencing the strongest rate increases. We
expect that these positive market dynamics will continue into 2020. In the US, our third
quarter gross written premium of $530 million was up almost 10% year-over-year, the
highest gross written premium for Q3 in our US operations history. And year-to-date, the
same is true. $1.4 billion in gross written premium is our best year-to-date ever, more than
10% above our year-to-date at Q3 last year.
The strongest drivers of this growth in the quarter year-over-year were Argo Pro, our
professional lines business; Trident, our public entity business; and our transportation and
inland marine units. Inland Marine, while a small line overall, has more than doubled since
Q3 2018 and is an area where we are eager to pursue further growth. Our construction
business, no longer within casualty and operating as a business on its own, is also driving
growth in an industry that continues to flourish in a robust economy. Between rate
increases and strong organic business growth, Argo construction continues to exceed our
expectations.
Jim Cornwell and his team continue to deliver strong results integrated with digital
solutions and enhanced customer service, leading to strong financial performance. A
significant factor in these positive results is a combination of the investments we've made
in digital products and processes. Argo's ability to respond faster than our competitors is
pushing us to greater levels of success. Our recently launched underwriting tools and our
predictive modeling assist us in making better decisions and doing so faster than the
competition. We're demonstrating that the time and expense we've devoted to building
these tools were well spent. And again, that all comes back to our strategic decision
making, putting profitability at the forefront wherever possible.
We continuously look at every business unit in the US, even if it's performing well. To be
sure, we are allocating our capital in the most impactful manner. Again, special thanks to
US team for their leadership in driving that profitability focus across the business, a
strategy that is rapidly spreading across our entire organization. We're also always looking
for ways to increase accountability and provide proven leadership across Argo. In fact, we
recently made a change to our management structure in the Americas, establishing three
new Executive Vice President positions to assist in running these businesses day to day.
This will certainly help as I am focusing on my new role.
Looking at our international results now. Though we did take additional losses in Q3, we
haven't wavered in our strategy of focusing on core profitable business despite the
ongoing challenges in some markets. While the strongest drivers of this growth in the
quarter and year-over-year were Argo -- I'm sorry -- right now, much of the international
leadership has done and still clouded by past losses hitting our results. The underlying
business is showing real signs of improvement. We have a number of useful international
platforms, but I'm certain there are opportunities to improve their efficiency. We will have
more to say about this in coming quarters.
Our gross written premium in the recent third quarter was down modestly in the quarter
despite achieving significant rate increases, which reflects our disciplined approach to
Page 3 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

improving profitability going forward. We have several new leaders in our international
business that have renewed our focus on underwriting profitability. Matt Harris is our Head
of International and he has recently welcomed a new Chief Administrative Officer and
Chief Actuary to his staff. These new leaders have been appointed within the last 12
months and have already -- we've already seen them take decisive action focused on
bottom line results.
One action we took in Q3 to refocus resources and mitigate cost was a restructuring of
our Syndicate 1200 underwriting operations in Asia. Moving forward, we will do most of
our underwriting for Asia out of our existing platform within Lloyd's, having closed our local
presences in Singapore and Shanghai as of mid-September. This will help reduce our
operating costs, while still allowing us to access Asian markets through London and
through our remaining resources in Hong Kong where we are committed to and
enthusiastic about our clean energy business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the third quarter, we also made the decision to exit all Marine Hull business in London.
Additionally, since the beginning of 2018, we have also ceased underwriting yacht,
onshore energy, livestock and UK SME business through Syndicate 1200. Our portfolio
remains diversified, but is now more focused on risks we have a history of generating
underwriting profits in. This is part of our larger determination to focus our resources in
lines and geographies where we can achieve profitable and consistent returns.
Our European platform has also undergone significant remediation over the last 18
months. As we mentioned last quarter, we have terminated relationships with a number of
cover holders that were producing business that fell outside of our appetite or profitability
expectations. Unfortunately, there's been a tail on the runoff of this business that has
resulted in the need to strengthen reserves during the past two quarters. In addition to
these actions, we also benefit from better market conditions. We experienced strong rate
increases in certain lines of business, namely Syndicate property and professional lines.
Our Bermuda insurance business is also experiencing pricing improvement in response to
some of the heightened claims activity. Overall, our focused leadership team is taking
actions to improve underwriting results, this coupled with more favorable market
conditions give us confidence that our results will be better going forward. And it isn't just
internal confidence, from the improvements that we're seeing, Lloyd's has also given their
sign off on our Syndicate plans for 2020, which we take as a vote of confidence in that
platform.
We've spoken a bit about our digital investments already, but let's take a closer look at
what that means. Our workflow and outsourcing costs are a big focus in two specific lines
of business in the US right now. Those are construction and marine. Both of these lines
have set aggressive goals to develop new digital solutions for their respective business
processes using Argo's own digital talent in order to reduce outsourcing costs over the
next two years. Argo has invested in tech for many years now and we're going to continue
to invest in technology to benefit Argo and our clients.

Page 4 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

For example, in partnership with Paladin Cyber, a startup founded in 2017 in which Argo
Ventures invested last year, we announced the launch of Argo Cyber Sphere, a new suite
of security tools tailored for small and mid-sized businesses. So to summarize our Q3
performance, we have continued to show strength in many ways. Our US division is
strong. Our international division is resilient and across the entirety of Argo, we are
focusing on deliberate, strategic underwriting decisions and continuous improvements
within operations.
So we continue to look to the future. We will continue to remediate the challenged lines
and grow in profitable areas, scaling our business and taking steps to manage costs and
control our loss and expense ratios. We're going to continue to look at results business
unit by business unit and invest where optimal for our bottom line and return on equity.
With that, I'm now going to turn the call over to Jay Bullock to give some additional
insights on our financials.

Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Kevin. I'll provide some additional color on the results in the quarter and nine
months, and then we'll open the call up to questions. For the third quarter, we reported a
net loss of $25.1 million or $0.73 per share compared to net income of $40.6 million or $1.17
per share in the prior year quarter. On an adjusted operating basis, we reported a loss of
$15.2 million or $0.44 per share compared to adjusted operating earnings of $23.5 million
or $0.68 per share in the prior year quarter. As Kevin mentioned, a frustrating and
unacceptable result for the quarter, and frankly, for the last two quarters. The quarterover-quarter decline in adjusted operating earnings primarily reflects the current and prior
accident year loss items we announced on October 30th.
Before I get into detail on those items, first, let me make some observations on the top
line. Gross premiums grew 5.1% in the quarter versus the third quarter of 2018. Our
growth was driven by positive rate trends across both our US and international operations
as well as from our strategic growth initiatives. Having said that, this growth rate is slightly
lower than in recent quarters due to a planned reduction in certain businesses in our
international operations.
I will get into more detail later in my remarks, but we remain convinced that the current
environment has momentum as we move forward and into 2020. I would point out that on
a net written and earned basis, our growth was more measured at 2% and 1%,
respectively. As we've talked about on recent calls, some of the risk management actions
taken in our reinsurance purchasing and increasing our use of third-party capital has
resulted in lower net retained premiums.
We expect our net to gross written premium retention will come in a few points below
60% for the full year. The loss ratio for the 2019 third quarter was 75.1%, up from 62.1% in
the prior year quarter. The loss results in the 2019 third quarter were impacted by a few
items that I would like to spend some more time going through.

Page 5 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

First, we reported $42 million of prior year reserve strengthening during the quarter or 9.3
points on Argo's consolidated loss ratio for the third quarter. Reserve increases were
related to the Company's Bermuda insurance business unit as well as European and
London operations. This was partially offset by a modest net reserve decrease within our
US operations. We conduct reserve reviews of all ongoing businesses each quarter.
Our process includes a systematic feedback loop between reserving underwriting claims
and reinsurance that enhances our ability to react quickly to the findings of the reserve
reviews. As we have stated previously, much of what we have seen over the last two
quarters has been a result of new information received relating to the resolution or
notification of several large losses. We will continue to closely monitor claims activity for
severity changes that have recently emerged and have been noted by several of our
peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Approximately half of our prior year development this quarter was related to Bermuda
casualty and professional lines business. Last quarter, we discussed how we had
development in our utilities class, most directly related to California wildfire exposure. We
saw some further development on our utilities class during the quarter largely related to
losses away from any wildfire exposure. This business is largely underwritten on a claimsmade basis, and as such, we don't expect there to be material further deterioration for
known claims and much less for the class in total.
Development in our professional lines business in Bermuda was driven by new case
reserves established on a few specific claims and updated information on a number of
other claims, primarily related to loss estimates. In Europe, we experienced further
deterioration on business written through several cover holder relationships that were
previously terminated. Issues identified included an increased incidence of large losses
and difference in expectations in classes written.
In London, unfavorable development was largely related to movements on large claims in
marine and energy and other liability exposures. In addition, during the third quarter, we
reported higher current accident year losses, excluding catastrophes of approximately $10
million in our international operations. The losses are primarily related to property, liability
and marine lines within our European and London business units.
The adjustment reflects a change in the actuarial estimates based on a more frequent
occurrence of large losses and the recalibration of current year -- of the current year
based on prior accident year reserve adjustments. When we increased the current
accident year loss ratio in the current quarter, we do show on a year-to-date net earned
premium. As a result, some of the current accident year strengthening represents a catch
up for the first half of 2019.
Lastly, catastrophe losses added approximately $19 million pre-tax or 4.3 points on Argo's
consolidated loss ratio for the third quarter. Catastrophe losses were primarily related to
Hurricane Dorian, Typhoon Faxai and weather related losses in the US. We believe that the
combination of accelerating rate increases and remedial underwriting actions taken will
lead us to stronger underwriting margins going forward.

Page 6 of 15



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Overall, our expense ratio of 36.3% was down 130 basis points year-over-year. While our
focus is on growth and underwriting income, we continue to pursue initiatives, which we
believe will drive further improvement to our expense ratio. Notably, our total underwriting
expenses are roughly flat in the quarter and on a year-to-date basis, while our top line has
continued to scale. Separately, I would note that we recorded $3.7 million of costs related
to activities, which resulted from the proxy solicitation process and related activities during
the third quarter. We do not believe these expenses are representative of our day-to-day
business operations and have consistent with prior quarters excluded them from the
calculation of our expense ratio in adjusted operating earnings.
Touching on the US operations for a moment. The loss ratio for the 2019 third quarter was
61.4% compared to 56.1% for the 2018 third quarter or an increase of 5 points. The
increase in the 2019 third quarter ratio was primarily driven by a reduction in favorable
prior year reserve development and to a lesser extent, a higher current accident year excat loss ratio. Catastrophe losses were roughly flat year-over-year. The 1.6 point increase
in the current accident year ex-cat loss ratio was driven by modest increases in property,
liability and professional lines loss ratios.

Bloomberg Transcript

The expense ratio in the US was 31.9%, down modestly from 32.5% in the prior year
quarter. The decrease primarily reflects the benefits of scale and lower acquisition costs
and are a result of increased ceding commissions on certain reinsurance programs. The
lower acquisition costs were partially offset by continued strategic investments in people,
technology, including digital initiatives and support of growth and the growth of our
business.
In our international operations, gross written premiums decreased by 1.2% to $353 million
compared to the 2018 third quarter. Growth was achieved in property, liability and
professional lines, partially offset by planned decreases in specialty lines. Increases in
property, liability and professional were primarily due to continued rate increases and
some growth in new business. The expected decline in specialty reflects the impact of
underwriting actions on unprofitable classes of business, including exiting certain lines,
certain business in London and the termination of the cover holder relationships in Europe.
I've spoken -- I've already spoken about the losses impacting the international operations
during the quarter, so I won't go back through that. The expense ratio for 2019 third
quarter was 38.9%, an increase of 1.1 points compared to the 2018 third quarter. The
increase in the expense ratio was driven by continued investments in technology and
severance costs associated with the exit of certain businesses.
Turning to investments. Our core portfolio continues to perform quite well with net
investment income growing nearly [ph] 17% in the third quarter. The total return in the
quarter was a positive 0.6% [ph] or up approximately $30 million. Our year-to-date total
return is a strong 5.7% or up $276 million [ph]. This compares favorably to this time last
year when we were only up 1.1%. Our portfolio was positively affected in the third quarter
as the US 10-year rally, while spreads remain flat and while major equity indices were up
modestly, certain exposures to energy and small-cap value stocks led to a small negative
mark. Finally, the strength of the US dollar had a small positive impact on the portfolio and
a small overall negative impact on the balance sheet as the dollar rallied against euro,
sterling and Brazilian real, which are relevant to our business and portfolio.
Page 7 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

In our core bond portfolio, the current yield is approximately 3.1% and reinvestment
opportunities are currently 70 basis points to 80 basis points above treasuries or
approximately 2.5%. Our risk portfolio, which is a mix of equities, high yield debt and
alternatives was down 1% for Q3, but up 11% year-to-date.
Equities continue to be the strongest driver in performance, offset by illiquid debt, which
includes emerging markets, special situations and bank loans. As it relates to net
investment income, alternatives contributed $7.3 million in the quarter. Interest and
dividend income increased year-over-year due to roll-off [ph] of the portfolio. With the
significant rally in US Treasuries, meaning, of course, reduced yield, the future
reinvestment rate just mentioned is lower as maturities roll-off of the portfolio, which will
negatively impact the interest income portion of that investment income.
Book value per share stands at $55.18 per share at the end of the third quarter. Book
value per share growth plus dividends is up 9.1% during the year-to-date period. For the
nine months ended September 30th, our annualized return on average equity was 70%
and our adjusted operating return on average equity was 3.2%. While these results are
certainly lower than our expectations, we expect improvement as our corrective actions
take shape. Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready to take
questions.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
(Operator Instructions). Our first question today comes from Greg Peters from Raymond
James. Please go ahead with your question.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

All right. Great. I have a couple of questions. I just want to go back to the commentary
around the international business and unpack -- you provided a lot of information, so I'm
going to have to go back and read the transcript, but there was a number of businesses
that you said that you were exiting or have exited in the third quarter, and I was wondering
if you could size up the total premium volume of those businesses that have been exited
and may be not only in the third quarter, but on the year-to-date basis.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Yeah, Greg, this is Jay. I think the ones that were mentioned was Marine Hull, which is in
London, the exiting of certain cover holder business in Europe. I'm trying to remember if
we've seen any others. I think those were the two most significant. Marine Hull was less
than a GBP30 million line at Lloyd's and we've been in it for a while, and just weren't
getting the returns. The cover holders that were exited, I don't have their precise
numbers handy, but my guess -- my estimate would be approximately $70 million of
premium that we've gotten off of as a result of exiting those. So those are the two that
come to mind. I can perhaps look into more detail, but that's what I've got for memory.

Page 8 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

So is there specific expenses associated with those businesses that is unusual and is
going to go away that's going to help improve the efficiency?

FINAL

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Well, the -- probably less specific expense. Of course, there's always acquisition costs,
right? But that's not really the question. The question is the non-acquisition cost. So less
expense reductions specifically related to the exiting the cover holder business. That said,
simplification of that business unit is one of those objectives and so, of course, that can
lead to -- that simplification can lead to expense reduction in the future and all the
functional areas that support it, whether it's finance or claims or whatever is required to
support it. As it relates to the exit of our Asian platform, there were a few million dollars in
the international numbers related, as I mentioned, to severance costs that were part of
the exit of that business.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Getting into the reserve charge, the second quarter in a row, I know you guys are
frustrated with it, but clearly, the numbers are large. And in our experience, usually, it
takes more than just a couple of bites at the apple to fix the problem, especially if you're
going to be closing other lines of business. So I was wondering if you could provide us
from a very big picture perspective, maybe with the actuarial range on the reserve charge
to see how the actuaries were looking at it. Is there another bite at the apple that's going
to happen at year-end? Sort of provide us some near-term visibility on how you think
that's going to move.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Well, let me start with your last question. Obviously, we try to put forth our best estimate
each quarter. And so, I would never say that it's impossible to see additional, but I would
never say that I expect a future charge, otherwise, it wouldn't be a future charge, would
it? I don't -- I'm not discounting the fact, especially given our track record, that these
numbers are large. That said, $40 million on $2 billion in reserves, as a percentage -- only
as a percentage is relatively small. As it impacts income, it's a large number. So I'm not
trying to downplay that at all and I feel like what I would repeat is kind of what I went
through in my prepared comments, which is we review each line of business each quarter.
What's been frustrating has been the additional information that keeps coming to the
surface each quarter and some of this -- let me give you an example. In professional lines
-- sorry, what I want to try to -- the point I want to try to make here is when we say that
we've taken action on some of these lines of business, I'd like to provide an example. So
professional lines in Bermuda was driven by two related claims -- not two -- sorry -- two
unrelated claims, both that had an element of cyber to them. One of them was affirmative
cyber and the other one was what you might refer to as silent cyber.
On affirmative cyber, we've exited, we've gotten off all large company cyber and that's
really what was driving that and that's really where most of the losses have come up and I
think we're very, very close to having all of that rolled off the books, if you will, from an
open exposure standpoint and the second one, I think there's a very much of a renewed

Page 9 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

focus by the underwriting team in Bermuda to think about the organization and where
silent cyber might exist and taking action not to write professional liability lines where
there might be material cyber exposure. Kevin, I don't know if you want to add anything to
that?

FINAL

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes, I think it wasn't silent that we missed. It was silent that we accepted.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

On that particular risk, it was known, underwritten and it was part of the larger accounts
that were being underwritten at the time, which we have gotten off worldwide, and we're
down to a handful at the moment with only one carrying into next year.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

So Greg, I feel like I'm not sure I covered all your points, but perhaps I did.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Well, you provided a fair amount of information, which is appreciated. I know there's other
analysts that are going to be asking questions. So maybe we can talk about for a second
the departure of Mark and the investigation into the compensation practices, et cetera.
Can you give us an update on how that's proceeding, when you expect some conclusion
about that? And give us some additional context, whatever you can. I know the lawyers
are probably wrapping this in some sort of legal answer, but whatever color you can now
provide would be helpful.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Yes. I think that's maybe most appropriate for me to answer, but I think what I would refer
back to is earlier this week -- it's been a long week, but I guess it's only Thursday. On
Tuesday, I think it was, we put out the announcement. We tried to provide detail on that
announcement. We also filed a 13-D that went along with it, that had some detail. Most of
those facts were picked up in one form or another by several different news outlets.
That's all the material stuff I think that I can say about it, but I also think it's all the material
stuff that we feel would be necessary to disclose.

Q - Greg Peters

{BIO 3111497 <GO>}

Aren't there going to be, well, I guess I can go back and refer to that. Listen, I'll let others
ask other questions. So thanks for your answers.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Thanks, Greg. s
Page 10 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Operator
Our next question comes from Jeff Schmitt from William Blair. Please go ahead with your
question.

FINAL

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, everyone. Looking at the runoff segment, going back a number of
years, I think the average charge there has adverse development of around $10 million. It
looks like that review though is being pushed off to the fourth quarter, it would fall in
there, but why was that push off ? And is there any color you can provide on what you're
seeing there? And what is in those runoffs?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Sure. Absolutely. So I've been here 11 years. I think this is the second or third time when
we've said, hey, look, we need more time and part or all of the analysis gets pushed into
the fourth quarter. What's unique this year is, as we had mentioned in the past, we have
undertaken proposals on what you might call a run off solution, whether it's some sort of
structured reinsurance, a transaction that provides some coverage and perhaps some
finality [ph] to some of this. That took up a lot of the team's time. It is ongoing, and -- but
we expect to have it concluded prior to year end. Because it's ongoing, the team didn't
have the time to do the other work that they've done and whatever the conclusion is,
whether we do something or don't do something, it will be part of that transaction. Our
run-off goes back to the history of the early, early years, 30, 40, 50 years ago of
Argonaut and includes things like, as you would expect, some small in environmental
exposure and also the risk management business, which was the historic workers comp
business that the Company exited in 2005. Just to kind of put ranges around that, our net
exposure on asbestos and environmental is less than $50 million. And our exposure on
risk management, which is again, the workers comp is less than $200 million.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. And then just thinking about the E&S business, obviously, seeing growth take off for
a lot of competitors just given some dislocation there, pullbacks by some of the big
players, can you touch on what type of growth you're seeing in your E&S business this
quarter? And how margins are -- underwriting margins are trending there?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. This is Kevin. I'll take the question here. We are seeing opportunities similar to what
you're hearing from other companies. And with the improvements in efficiency that we've
put in place in some lines, it's allowing us to grow significantly. In other areas, it's giving us
an opportunity to re-underwrite and get the rate we need. So it's been an interesting time
where we've gotten a lot of good business that fits our appetite and the rate increases in
particular lines of casualty, specifically or in professional liability are in line with what you're
seeing in the rest of the market where it's strong double digits. And in property, we're
seeing increase in rates, decrease in overall exposure, increase in attachment points and
tightening of terms. So while there's some room to go in property, we're seeing some
positive movement there as well.

Page 11 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. Is it safe to say then that E&S premium growth is higher than the, I guess, 10%
you're seeing for the US operations? I mean, it's growing at a faster clip?

FINAL

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Yes. A little bit, yes. I mean, it's one of those things where we write -- in some areas
where we're writing a book that's partly E&S and partly admitted. So is the same
underwriting unit. So there's consistency across the board and the approach is being
taken in certain lines. Look, there's no shortage of opportunities, is what I'm trying to say
for us to write business we like and we think is very profitable in the US.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. That's helpful thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Freddie Sleiffer from KBW. Please
go ahead with your question.

Q - Frederique Sleiffer

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good afternoon. Firstly, just wondering if you could give us some color on individual
pricing by line? And for which lines you've seen quarter-over-quarter acceleration in rate
increases?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

Sure. Across the world, we're seeing solid mid-single digit rate increases. So the largest
strong double-digit rate increases we're seeing are in property, which I just mentioned,
and in professional liability, but most specifically in commercial D&O, where the rates have
been moving up throughout the year, and we are in line with what we're seeing in the rest
of the market. In international, property is seeing some good single-digit rate increases,
but liability is seeing strong double-digit rate increases. So it really depends on where
we're looking at. But across the board, we're seeing it with the exception of very few
lines. And the lines that are not getting it are the ones that are most profitable in the
industries.

Q - Frederique Sleiffer
Okay. Thanks for the color there. And then so what are your current loss cost trend
assumptions? And why do you think you need to take extra rate to get ahead of loss
trends?

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Well, I mean, look, the loss cost trend assumptions have been consistent for the last
couple of years in the sense that we -- well, yes, our approach to it, sorry, has been
consistent. So we're taking in current factors that we see in the environment. And so, to
Page 12 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

the extent that those current factors are suggesting that loss cost trends are accelerating,
which they are in certain areas, that gets factored into our pricing. So I can't really get into
specific loss cost assumptions by line of business, but we're always factoring in the
current environment. And so, if you think about, for example, the current environment and
professional liability, right? There's a belief and some examples of the losses that [ph] are
increasing and becoming more frequent. And so that is, I think, reflected in the fact that
market pricing is moving up quite significant to get ahead of those loss [ph] cost.

Q - Frederique Sleiffer
Okay, thanks. And then just moving on to the expense ratios, it looks like US was down
year-over-year and international is up a bit. So how should we be thinking about both of
those individually going into 2020? And what's a good consolidated expense ratio that
you're targeting in the next year?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Well, we stand behind our target of incremental year-over-year, trying to knock 100 basis
points off the loss ratio. I think next year, our target would be another 100 basis points of
being solidly in for the year and a 36 [ph] area. As it relates to the expense ratios, it's
pretty easy to explain. Scale is what's driving the US. International is, and as I mentioned,
additional technology spend and that bears a moment of explanation because that's not
digital spend or something else. It's just more expensive these days to manage things like
security, to manage things like infrastructure. And that's part of also what gets factored
into our thinking about the platforms that we have. And by that, I mean, more sort of the
legal platforms and where we can write the business and so forth. And how we can
simplify that and how we can make that more streamlined. Much as Kevin has done in the
US, that's the idea internationally. So overall, for our group, I've provided a number. We
need to make improvement in international. We've got to figure out how to do that
because all things being equal, we won't see the same level of scale in international that
we have in the U.S.

Q - Frederique Sleiffer
Okay. And then just lastly, one for Kevin. So apart from the expenses that we just talked
about, what lessons can you take from the US segments persistently strong performance
to turn around international? And would you consider selling or disposing of international if
the turnaround is potentially unsuccessful?

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

So with the US, we've been able to deliver solid double-digit growth for the last five years
consistently in the low 90s range. In that time frame, we have sold businesses. We've shut
down businesses. We've started new businesses. We've taken people who are running
them well and moved them over, but we've managed to keep the headcount flat
throughout that time frame and I think that's important because over the last seven years,
we've gone from $950 million of gross written premium to what's -- you can extrapolate
where we're going to get to this year based on last year. But -- and that growth has been
through the increased use of technology and building resources out. So when you apply
that same principle outside of the US, the same type of opportunities are there. We really

Page 13 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

FINAL

like the platforms we have because when you're servicing specialty customers, if you're
not just providing underwriting claims or risk management services they value, sometimes
these platforms are valuable. And having access to Bermuda is really helpful. Having a
reinsurance company is helpful and having access to Lloyd's is helpful.
At this moment, Lloyd's, from an efficiency standpoint, not just for us, is a very expensive
place for us to conduct business. So we can figure out how to improve that. Does that
mean that some things like Asia get shut down? Sure. Does that mean that some may get
sold? If people are interested in things, we'll always entertain, but whatever is put forth
and if it makes sense, we'll do it, but as a whole, international is not one thing. We've got
a Lloyd's platform. We've got a reinsurance business. We've got the Bermuda insurance
business, and we've got European companies as well as the Brazil operations in Latin
America. So we'll look at each one of them like we look at all the businesses, focus on the
returns and put the capital that we have available in the places we're going to get the
best returns. I hope that was helpful.

Q - Frederique Sleiffer
Okay, well, great. Yeah. Thank you for the answers.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

And, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's question-and-answer
session. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call back over to Mr. Mark Watson (sic)
for any closing remarks.

A - Kevin J. Rehnberg

{BIO 3832713 <GO>}

It's Kevin Renberg, but I would like to thank all of our employees for all the hard work
they're doing. And I look forward to continuing moving forward with everybody to keep
achieving good results. Thanks.

A - Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for
joining today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
Page 14 of 15



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2019-11-07

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 15 of 15

