Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

NN Group NV Annual Shareholders Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo, Vice Chairman of Executive Board & CFO
E. Friese, Chairman of Executive Board & CEO
Jan Hendrik Holsboer, Former Supervisory Board Chairman
Janet Stuijt, General Counsel, Company Secretary & Member of Management Board
Johannes Wilhelmus Schoen, Supervisory Board Member
Unidentiﬁed Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Peti de Wit, Analyst
Robert Vreeken, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Welcome to this annual general meeting of NN Group. This year, once again,
we are meeting at the Marriott Hotel, the site very close to the national head oﬃce of
Nationale-Nederlanden, which was based here on the corner before it merged with NMB
Postbank Groep at Johan de Wittlaan 3 across the World Forum next to you.
In addition to welcoming you as shareholders, I'm pleased to welcome some other
guests. First, our external auditor, to my right and to your left in front of the room, Mr.
Devitt and Mr. (Davison), both representing KPMG. I'm also pleased to welcome our
notary, Mrs. Cremers of Stibbe. She is to your -- at your extreme right in the room; and the
representative of our Central Works Council. It's very nice to have you with us again. And
representatives of the press, welcome. As you'll hear, this meeting is in Dutch.
Some members of the management and supervisory Boards will be speaking English. For
that reason, we have headsets available for everybody to listen to the meeting either
entirely in Dutch or entirely in English. Channel 1 is Dutch and channel 2 is English.
The presentation, which will be projected on the screen here in this room as well as
online, is in English because of our international stakeholders. At the registration desk,
each of you received an agenda in English or in Dutch depending on your preference.
This meeting is also broadcast live on the NN Group website. I'd like to welcome our
online guests.

Page 1 of 51



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

I have a few observations. Pursuant to the law and the articles of association, shareholders
have been convened so that this meeting can take legally valid decisions. Shareholders
have not submitted any proposals for consideration. The issued capital on the record
date, which was 1 May 2019 this year, consisted of 335,209,071 common shares, a total of
1,878,640 common shares, were held by NN Group on the record date. So no votes may
be cast on those shares, which means that a total of 333,330,431 votes may be cast. The
capital presently represented and the proxy votes cast will be presented on the screen
prior to the ﬁrst vote. The entire meeting is being recorded on audio to draft the minutes.
I'm pleased to present the members of the Management and Supervisory Boards to you
now. To my right and to your far left, from left to right, at your far left, Hans Schoen,
HÃ©lÃ¨ne Vletter-van Dort and David Cole, all members of the Supervisory Board. Then
Mr. Delﬁn Rueda, our CFO; and next to me, Lard Friese, our CEO. To my left and to your
right is Janet Stuijt, the company Secretary and a member of the Management Board as
General Counsel. Then Dick Harryvan, Vice President of Supervisory Board. And next to
him, the supervisory members, Clara Streit, Bob Jenkins; and Heijo Hauser. One of the
Supervisory Board members, Mr. Robert Ruijter, is unfortunately unable to attend today
because of prior obligations.
Before I continue, I'm going to take a moment to speak about the death of Doctor Johan
Witteveen. In addition to being the former Minister of Finance in various governments
and Director of the IMF, Johan Witteveen, between 1960 and 1991, in various periods, he
was much appreciated as a member of the Supervisory Board of ﬁrst, the Nationale
Levensverzekering-Bank and then Nationale-Nederlanden. Later on, as Chairman of the
Nationale-Nederlanden Supervisory Board, he was an impressive Board member for the
Management Board and was pivotal in the merge between Nationale-Nederlanden and
the NMB Postbank Groep, which brought about the ING Group. Johan Witteveen became
the ﬁrst Supervisory Board Chairman there. And we're grateful to him for all his good
services for our company. And our condolences to his family.
In the room or present in the center front, the other members of the Management Board:
Mr. Satish Bapat. Satish, please rise; Tjeerd Bosklopper; Jan-Hendrik Erasmus; David
Knibbe; Dailah Nihot; and last but not least, Fabian Rupprecht. In addition to the CEO and
the CFO, they're in charge of the general operations at NN Group.
I'm going to elaborate brieﬂy on the procedure at this meeting. As you've seen, we have a
relatively extensive agenda. And I've got a rigid time schedule. For that reason, please ask
your questions concisely and formulate your remarks concisely as well so that everybody
can have a turn. Of course, the questions need to relate to that agenda item. Other
questions may be asked later on under any -- at any other business. If you ask a question,
please state your name. And if you're speaking on behalf of an organization, state the
name of the organization as well clearly for the minutes.
When we vote, in some cases, I'll brieﬂy summarize that voting item. And we'll otherwise
refer to the detailed explanatory notes to the agenda and all documentation on the
website. Of course, ultimately, the vote will concern the proposal as formulated in its
entirety in the agenda with the explanatory notes.

Page 2 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Finally, any questions or comments that you may have as a customer or regarding NN
products or services, please don't ask those questions during this meeting. But instead, I
refer you to the information desk in the lobby outside this room. And please switch oﬀ the
sound on your mobile phones.
As for the vote, the vote will be conducted electronically on all items on the agenda.
Those entitled to vote have received a voting device for electronic voting with a
corresponding chip card. And the voting handset and chip card are to be surrendered
when you permanently leave the room, not necessarily if you leave the room for a few
moments. And we'll be explaining how the system works shortly as soon as we need to
vote electronically. Those were my opening remarks.
Now Agenda Item 2 is the annual report for the company from 2018. This is a discussion
topic. Please see the 2018 annual review, which is Part 1 of the annual report for 2018, as
well as the 2018 ﬁnancial report, which is Part 2 of the 2018 annual report, especially Pages
1 through 31 and page 37.
Now I'm pleased to give the ﬂoor to Lard Friese to elaborate on the annual report. In his
presentation, Lard will reﬂect on the -- on 2018 including the performance. Adoption of
the ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year 2018 will be a separate voting item at
Agenda Item 4A.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lard, the ﬂoor is yours.

E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Have you got that? Perfect.
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome. Nice to see you here. Also on behalf of
my Management Board colleagues, I'm pleased to welcome you to this General Meeting
of NN Group Shareholders.
In just over a month, on 2 July this year, we will be celebrating our ﬁrst ﬁfth anniversary as
NN Group, that will mark ﬁve years of being listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
With over 14,000 coworkers, we aim to continue creating value in this dynamic world for
our stakeholders, including our 17 billion customers. I'm proud of what we've
accomplished in the past ﬁve years. We had crystallized our brand and identity and
established a solid reputation. NN is ﬁnancially robust and has strong ﬁnancial discipline.
On our domestic market and in Belgium, we've solidiﬁed our position, thanks to the
acquisition of Delta Lloyd; and internationally, thanks to acquiring the Aegon Life
Insurance company in the Czech Republic; and the Life and Pension Company of Aegon
in Slovakia. 2018 was a good year for Aegon. And I'm going to reﬂect today on our
strategic choices, our ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial performance and the ﬁgures for the First
Quarter of this year.

Page 3 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

But ﬁrst, I'd like to elaborate brieﬂy on changes that took place in our Management
Board, especially in 2018. We bid farewell to 2 appreciated colleagues: Dorothee van
Vredenburch, Chief Change and Organisation; and our CEO for International Insurance
Operations, Robin Spencer. In 2018, 4 new members joined the Management Board:
Dailah Nihot, previously Director of Corporate Relations in NN Group, was appointed
Chief Organization Corporate Relations, succeeding Dorothee van Vredenburch; Fabian
Rupprecht, from AXA, was appointed CEO of International Insurance Businesses to
succeed Robin Spencer; Janet Stuijt, who's a familiar face in recent years, joined our
Board as General Counsel. That's a new position on our Management Board; Tjeerd
Bosklopper, previously responsible for integrating Delta Lloyd and NN in the Netherlands
and Belgium, was appointed Chief Transformation Oﬃcer, also a new position on the
Management Board. And he works closely with all our business units in the 18 countries
where we operate to accelerate the transformation of NN.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our integrated annual report for 2018 features the title Shaping Our Tomorrow. So
shaping our future. We are navigating through a challenging, rapidly changing ﬁeld. And
to remain our success, we need to remain adaptable and ensure long-term vision. Our
country has changed over the years and grown since our very early start in 1845. But the
constant is that we help our -- we help people secure their ﬁnancial future. But in the
world where we're doing this, change is continuous in this international political
environmental dynamic featuring trade restrictions, protectionism, debt issues, increasing
nationalism and uncertainty, for example, concerning Brexit. In addition, after several
years of solid growth, the growth perspective of Europe is lagging behind that of the rest
of the world. And the growth is expected to slow down in the Netherlands as well. In the
meantime, digitization is rapidly changing the way we live and work together.
In the European Union, 20 years from now, it's expected as is already the case in Japan,
nearly 1/3 of the population will be over 65. At present, that's 1/5 of the European
population. But once again, in 20 years, the European demographics will be the same as
those of Japan today. The workplace is also rapidly changing. People increasingly have
ﬂexible employment contracts, including contract that transcend borders. And we're
seeing the risk shifting so that the traditional role of insurers is changing along with it.
Responsibility for securing people's ﬁnancial future increasingly boils down to the
individual.
The question remains: How can we help people to make carefully considered ﬁnancial
decisions? Because we know that the interest in ﬁnancial products and issues is limited.
So we need to help people because they need to take so many of those decisions
themselves. And together with governments, we're working hard to raise ﬁnancial
awareness and knowledge among people. As the NN Group Management Board, we're
well aware of these trends and developments and their impact on our customers and our
long-term strategy.
In 2018, in relation to our reﬁned strategic course in our group, we have discussed this at
length with our Supervisory Board. We considered the diﬀerent areas of focus for our
company in the future at length and also envisioned the opportunities and challenges. As
a result, we are convinced of the following: For example, that the need for advice in
ﬁnancial planning will increase rather than decrease in the years ahead. In addition, there
Page 4 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

is an awareness that growth will be driven largely by demographic changes in economic
growth. We explicitly seek changes in how customer relations materialize and how they
can be perpetuated. Services in 2018, that's a 24/7 business, 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. Digital and no hassle. And experiences from other sectors determine what
customers expect from our service.
It's becoming increasingly important to remain with solid relations with our customers in
this transition. The changes that we've introduced in our management will ensure that in
the future, we'll have the right knowledge and experience to deliver long-term value for
our stakeholders. Our strategy for the long-term is the logical continuation of the course
that we took from positioning ourselves as an independent company. And our focus is on
optimizing our existing business as those are the foundation of our company and also on
exploring and seizing new opportunities that add value for our customers, our business
partners and the societies where we operate.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll tell you how we'll achieve these 2 by setting the following priorities: ﬁrst we're going to
optimize our existing organizational portfolios. This holds true for all our business units.
We aim to improve proﬁtability and capitalize the growth opportunities. In 2018, in the
Netherlands and Belgium, the integration of Delta Lloyd was an important topic. We
received the approval from the Netherlands Bank to integrate Delta Lloyd Life and Nonlife
in the Netherlands in our internal model for Solvency II. And all legal mergers for all
business units in the Netherlands and Belgium had been completed. Rebranding Delta
Lloyd products to NN has been completed. And in the Netherlands, 1.5 million customers
of Delta Lloyd have been digitally transitioned to main nn.nl.
We're proud of all the work that has been accomplished and of the fact that customers
and insurance brokers and their satisfaction levels have remained stable. And market
share has increased and internal employee satisfaction is slightly up as well. In all business
units, of course, we continue to work toward optimization, especially in our nonlife
company where results improved considerably. And we achieved progress in cost cutting
and improving eﬃciency, in part by implementing IT and system migrations. That's a
challenging task that we'll continue working on throughout 2019. At the end of 2018 at the
integration -- in the Netherlands and Belgium, EUR 289 million in the cost were saved with
respect to the 2016 ﬁnancial year.
Now the next important priority. In addition to optimization, that has always been
achieving proﬁtable growth. By continuing to improve and expand our product selection
and diversifying distribution channels, the value of new business increased in 2018 in our
international operations. We are a leading life insurance and pension operator on many
markets. So we emphasize creating value over volume. Our products are sold via diﬀerent
distribution channels. For example, via tide and independent agents. Those are
independent agents or agents that work speciﬁcally for us. Those are the tide agents. And
we also operate through banking channels and with direct business models. So we work
continuously to expand and broaden our distribution channels, for example, through
strategic partnerships such as with the online loan provider, Hesapkurdu, in Turkey. This
enables us to reach a broader network to sell our products.

Page 5 of 51



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

In Europe, we're shifting the product selection increasingly to products with -- that are less
capital-intensive. So less capital is necessary to supply these products. In Europe, we're
shifting the product selection toward products that don't require as much capital, as I just
said, says the speaker. And in Japan, we launched some new corporate-owned life
insurance products in 2018. These products are purchased by SMEs in Japan. And
corporate-owned life insurance products mean that the policyholder is the company, not
the individual. That's why it's corporate owned. So it's a policy purchased by the
company. We would like to oﬀer a distinctive customer experience and continue to
digitize our sales process.
Our innovation labs, Sparklabs are now present in 7 of our markets and continue to
elaborate and test new initiatives. In addition, we invest in new technology to continue
reinforcing our operations such as artiﬁcial intelligence, machine learning and data
analysis. Advanced learning enables us to better assess risks and detect fraud more
eﬀectively. And we're deploying robots, for example, in our pension operations. Robots
can take over routine tasks.
In addition to focusing on optimization and growth, we are examining how, with new
partnerships such as ecosystems and platforms, we can create value in our services to
customers and add value. We continuously explore new ways of remaining attractive to
customers. And we consider the opportunities oﬀered by the increasingly digitized world.
We're exploring diﬀerent topics that are relevant to our customers and that our company
has an aﬃnity with, for example, carefree retirement. That's very important for life
insurance companies. Or vitality, that's essential for customers when we're talking about
income and disability insurance or cybersecurity. That's very important for our nonlife
insurance operations and for customers, especially in small and medium enterprises,
SMEs.
And within these topics, we extend our vision beyond traditional services that are initially
expected of us and are trying to expand our oﬀer. And ﬁnally, the focus not only applies
for insurance and banking activity but also for asset managers and investment partners.
We would like to continue strengthening NN partners in terms of expertise through
distribution strength and brand awareness so that we're an increasingly appealing,
enduring partner for our customers.
The focus for our asset manager lies in using our expertise in multi-asset, ﬁxed income
and distinctive equities. In addition, sustainability criteria, also known as the ESG criteria,
environment, social factors and good governance. Those principles are being absorbed
in our investment procedure. Scale matters for asset managers. So we're going to
emphasize achieving maximum eﬃciency and growth of assets, especially of third parties.
Integrating Delta Lloyd Asset Management was completed in mid-2018. Using new
techniques based on the combination of people and machines enable us to make the
most of the data available to us. Behavioral analysis also supports investment processes
and our approach to investments. And with NN Investment Partners, we want to expand
our portfolios to encompass new partnerships and distribution partnerships.

Page 6 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

In Japan, we have set up a new investment service with Rakuten Securities consumers.
Together with Irish Life Investment Managers and investment partners, we'll be managing
a series of sustainably improved share index strategies. And in China, we signed a
memorandum of understanding with one of the largest asset managers, their China Asset
Management Company. Together, we're creating a platform for joint product
development to use our mutual competencies on European and Chinese capital markets.
We envisage strengthening our supply of ourselves and of our Chinese partner in
responsible investments.
And now I'm going to address our ﬁnancial performance in 2018. 2018 was a successful
year for our company. We strengthened our market positions and retained a strong
balance sheet with a Solvency II ratio of 230% after subtraction of the ﬁnal dividend that
we're going to propose to you and a holding cash position exceeding EUR 2 billion.
Operating result of ongoing activities in 2018 was about 3% higher than in 2017. And this
was attributable to improved results in Dutch Life and Nonlife companies and at Insurance
Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Japan Life at NN Investment Partners and at our reinsurance company, there were a few
setbacks. Our net result decreased in 2018. But this resulted primarily from the
impairment of goodwill, a noncash item in connection with the integration of NN Life with
Delta Lloyd Life. Commercially, we retained our momentum, thanks in part to an improved
product selection, which led the value of our new business to increase by 13% compared
to 2017. Life insurance sales, which we also refer to as APE, annual premium equivalent,
was 8% lower in 2018 than in 2017, partly because of diﬀerences in exchange rates but
also because in 2018, fewer pension contracts were eligible for renegotiation than in 2017.
Our assets under management remains stable, EUR 246 billion. The majority of that is
proprietary assets. I mentioned 1 milestone at the start, that with the acquisition of the
Aegon Life Insurance Company in the Czech Republic and of Aegon's Life and pension
company in Slovakia. This transaction is compatible with our strategy of creating
proﬁtable growth and value and strengthens our distribution networks and position on
the markets.
This strong capital position and balance sheet enables us to pay you an attractive
dividend. Today, we are proposing a ﬁnal dividend to you of EUR 1.24 per common share.
Combined with the interim dividend that we distributed in September, the dividend for all
of 2018 would then equal EUR 1.90, an increase of 14.5% with respect to 2017. And a
distribution percentage of 50% of the operating result from ongoing operations. This
entirely aligns with our pursuit of achieving double-digit growth in the dividend per share
in 2018.
Now I'll tell you about the performance in the First Quarter of this year. We published
those results 2 weeks ago on May 16. We were oﬀ to a good start in 2019. The operating
result of EUR 468 million reﬂects these solid results of NN Life and in Nonlife and income
in Japan Life. This -- while, the results of Insurance Europe and Investment Partners NN
Bank were somewhat under pressure, our capital position has held strong with a Solvency
II ratio of 213% and a cash position exceeding EUR 2 billion.

Page 7 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Compared with the same quarter in 2018, new sales increased by 72%. All segments
contributed to the signiﬁcant increase, especially those in Japan. There, the increased
revenue resulted from strong eﬀorts by our sales staﬀ as well as from the anticipated
revision of tax regulations for the COLI life insurance products in SMEs. I'm proud to
report that various funds of our asset manager were distinguished in the First Quarter on
various markets. The hard work of the NN asset managers was rewarded with the
Morningstar Award and a top 10 climate score of Climetrics in the CDP Europe Awards. In
addition, NNIP has joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil in the previous quarter.
Together with our 14,000 coworkers, we continue to pursue our ambitions. As usual, we
notify you about this in our regular quarterly updates in August and November. And for
December, we'll issue an update for investors and analysts. That was our ﬁnancial
performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd also like to mention a few nonﬁnancial highlights of the company. As an insurance
company, investor, employer and user of goods and services, we aim to do right by
society. As I described, our society faces new risks, challenges and opportunities. As an
insurance company and institutional investor, we can help ﬁnd the right solutions. I'm
convinced at this. For example, in sustainability. This is not merely an ideological point of
view. It's an interesting business case as well. We want to ﬁnance the transition to a
sustainable economy and are helping companies that go about this seriously, in part by
engaging in discussions with them alone or together with other investors. But sometimes,
this dialogue is not suﬃciently eﬀective. And we have to make other decisions.
In 2018, for example, we decided that tobacco manufacturers and company that extract
oil from tar sands will be excluded from our investments. And this morning, we published
a coal policy. Mining companies that obtain over 30% of their income from coal are
henceforth excluded from all our investments. In addition, as far as our own monies are
concerned, we are going to run oﬀ our investments in the remaining mining companies
and utilities companies down to nearly 0 by 2013. This will be gradually.
Our asset manager, NN Investment Partners, is launching an intensive engagement
course with these companies to enable them to transition to more sustainable energy
sources. If these companies do not achieve suﬃcient progress, then they may be
excluded. For the sake of consistency, the stated criteria will also be applied to our
insurance operations.
Today, we also introduced our total tax contribution report for 2018. By paying taxes, we
contribute to local communities where our employees and customers operate. The report
reviews in detail the taxes we pay, to whom we pay them and that we collect for
governments and all countries where we operate. The total amount exceeds EUR 1.9
billion for 2018. This report elaborates on our previous steps to increase transparency in
taxes.
Invested assets is sustainable. And impact investment strategies equaled EUR 16.5 billion
at end 2018, which is an increase of 53% with respect to 2017. And our ambition is to grow
this further. If you would like to read more about this, NN Investment Partners has

Page 8 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

published its ﬁrst report this year with more detailed information, in part of that, ESG
integrations. So sustainable investment integration and the operations of NN Investment
Partners on active shareholdership and responsible investing. And you'll ﬁnd all these on
our website.
And I have more highlights for you. Our community investment program, NN Future
Matters, which aims to improve the ﬁnancial well-being and economic opportunities of
people, has reached out to nearly 113,000 young adults since it was launched in 2014.
And this already exceeds our target of 100,000 young adults by 2020. We aim to grow
this number further.
In 2018, NN staﬀ worked about 13,000 hours of volunteer work, of which over 800 NN
volunteers in the Netherlands alone. We participated in the week of money with 181
coworkers and 240 -- 274 guest lessons about insurance and money matters, reaching
nearly 7,000 primary school students. Through our program From Debt to Opportunities,
we're promoting ﬁnancial self-suﬃciency in the Netherlands. And we aim to reduce
poverty rising from debts in the 4 major cities.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for new risks as a ﬁnancial service provider, we can ﬁgure in providing protection
against data and cybersecurity risks. One example is Perfect Day, a new cybersecurity
company that we launched together with third parties. And we used the Dutch cyber
collective for this as well to oﬀer SMEs in the Netherlands' protection and support in
combating globally increasing cyber risks. In addition, we're taking on a lot of major
issues both domestically and internationally and seek broadly supportive solutions, for
example, about the future of the pension system.
Diversity matters for NN. Slightly over half of our staﬀ is Dutch. But aside from that, we
have 64 nationalities employed here. And in management, 33% is of non-Dutch
extraction. Our gender diversity is also receiving consideration. All managers in our
company, we now have a 35% share of women. And our target is to have at least 30%
women in senior management positions by 2020. In 2018, we increased from 32% to 33%.
But we're aiming to continue improving the score as well.
You matter, which is our brand promise, you matter, is pivotal. You matter to us. That holds
true for our customers and, of course, for our coworkers as well. We think it's important
that You matter is recognizable in our culture, a culture where every coworker feels
listened to, where we appreciate each other's diﬀerences, talents, personality and ideas.
It's gratifying to see that our eﬀorts to contribute to society and our dedication and
diversity have been recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. And the
FTSE4Good Index and Bloomberg Gender Equality Index have listed us. And
Sustainalytics see us a leader in this sector in terms of sustainability.
And we also take pride in the special performance of the NN Running Team. In 2018, the
athletes not only delivered an impressive from list of winners but also new record such as
the world record on marathon by Eliud Kipchoge or the improvement of the Dutch record
at that distance by Abdi Nageeye.

Page 9 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

We're also delighted with the partnership since 2016 with the Mauritshuis because we
also support a lot of cultural initiatives. And we recently extended this for the next three
years through 2021. The Mauritshuis is an excellent museum. If you have the opportunity,
please take a look at it. Go visit it. Now ﬁnally, we're proud of the successful sponsoring of
the North Sea Jazz Festival where over 90,000 jazz lovers listened to the best performers.
And these enhanced our visibility and had value.
I'm going to wrap up now. I walked you through our performance, the dynamic build in
which we operate our approach and the highlights of NN Group in 2018. Since we were
listed on the stock exchange ﬁve years ago, we've achieved ﬁne results altogether since
the IPO in 2014. We have returned EUR 3.8 billion to shareholders. The total dividends
equal EUR 2.4 billion. And in recent years, we did share buybacks totaling EUR 1.4 billion
including the present program of EUR 500 million.
NN Group is a robust company with a solid ﬁnancial backing. Customers and
shareholders can rely on this company. And the coworkers have reason to be proud of it.
This gives us a stable foundation and ﬂexibility to build our business for tomorrow,
shaping our tomorrow so that we can remain a company that really matters for our
stakeholders. Our values, we care. We are clear. We commit. We'll point this in that
direction.
And I'm pleased to hand you back to our Chairman. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Thank you, Lard. Thank you for this introduction to this item on the agenda.
So you now have the ﬂoor. Should you have any questions, we have 2 microphones
available for you, # 1 and #2. And I see Mr. (Kaynar) has raised his hand, ready to ﬁre away
with a ﬁrst question on behalf of the VEB.

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) Yes. (Kaynar) of VEB. Mr. Chairman, I have 3 issues I would like to discuss.
Two minor ones. And the third one is most important one. And the third point, I have 4
questions. So in total, I have 6 questions.
So ﬁrst point, positive. Let me start that way. I'm very pleased to see that nonlife is doing
well and that you have been capable of reducing your cost structure so that you have a
small margin of 0.6%. Now you might say, well that's not a lot of money. This is almost
EUR 100 million. So my compliments for that. A question under this item, what is your
potential here? 0.6%, I mean, is that so much money? I mean 1% would be really serious.
I'm pleased with that news and you were able to take that step. My question is what your
potential is without any possible acquisitions, because that could improve eﬃciency.

Page 10 of 51



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

My second question is a bit more critical. Return on equity, to be precise, net operating
return on equity, the second page in your ﬁnancial report. We see a decline here from
10.3% to 8.9%. And ordinarily, you could say, well that's bad news. Your returns are
declining. But the argument is that you -- or the reasons that you put forward is that your
equity is increasing and that, that is the reason why the percentage is declining. It seems
to me that the analysis should be, well, we are less proﬁtable than we would have hoped.
And equity, according to the balance sheet, remain more or less the same. That's my
second question.
Third point, very important point. In the preparation for this meeting, I remember, over
the past two years, that the Delta Lloyd acquisition was considered to be very successful.
You were able to get your hands on Delta Lloyd for a low price. Not only were you able to
get your hands on it for a very interesting price but you also succeeded in generating
eﬃciency beneﬁts. So reading the reports, I read that you had to impair something
because of the merger. And I don't know. And EUR 852 million has to be impaired. This is
impairment on goodwill. So I prepared my question. Was this acquisition of Delta Lloyd
perhaps less successful than we all had hoped or had understood from you? Until a
colleague of mine said to me, "Well (Erol), you should have read it more carefully. The
situation is not that there was a skeleton in the closet of Delta Lloyd. The skeleton was
probably with NN itself in the past." And that has to do with -- because I read it. And I
think I understand it. But this is my ﬁrst question. Is it correct what might colleague,
(Jasper Johansen) said? Is he right? Is it correct that, because of your valuation method on
the basis of market value with the exact interest rate without the historic interest rates that
the -- with the low interest rates, the obligations in the future have all of a sudden become
very expensive? And on a historical basis, NN had valuated its obligations, its liabilities.
And if you're going to do that with the actual interest rates, well it starts hurting. Is that
correct? So that was my ﬁrst question.
Second question has to do with the amount involved, the EUR 852 million. I'm sure this
amount was not discovered all of a sudden a month or three months ago. You must have
seen this about a year ago. You must have understood at the time of the acquisition that
you had to book goodwill ﬁrst if you want to valuate it properly. It appears to be worth
more than you expected. So you can book goodwill. And it's exactly this EUR 852 million
in goodwill that Delta Lloyd presented is being impaired. What a coincidence. Shouldn't
you have warned us at the time that you thought we were richer than we were? And you
should have said that there was going to be an impairment of EUR 852 million. So that
was my second question. Shouldn't you have warned us at the time?
Third question, which is more fundamental by nature. The NN Group, in the past, let's
forget about Delta Lloyd. In the past, don't you think NN should have warned us that the
valuation of your liabilities makes us seem richer on paper than we are in actual fact? Then
EUR 852 million is being impaired. This is the Delta Lloyd goodwill because Delta Lloyd
was worth more than what we paid for it being the former NN. Well isn't it a coincidence
that it's exactly this amount? Or I can imagine that the real amount is much higher. What
about the rest of this amount? Where can I ﬁnd it? It won't be EUR 852 million but EUR 1.2
billion, something like that. Where will I ﬁnd that impairment? It doesn't have to be
goodwill. Where can I ﬁnd it? Those are my questions.

Page 11 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

FINAL

(Interpreted) Thank you, Mr. (Kaynar). Well I would say, quite fundamental questions,
particularly the latter one. Delﬁn Arroyo will answer most of the questions. But ﬁrst, let me
discuss -- or Delﬁn is going to take care of the complicated things. And I'll do the positive
things.
Okay. Let's start with the nonlife business. Yes. We're really pleased that the program that
we've introduced at the end of 2017. This was a program that we announced on our
Capital Markets Day. As we said, okay, the nonlife business after the acquisition of Delta
Lloyd, we won't start integrating it. But at the same time, we really want to improve the
proﬁtability of this business unit, which is a large one.
In the previous years, we saw that the combined ratios, which is one of the metrics that we
work with, were really high, much too high. So this is a combination of 2 things, really.
First, that your eﬃciency is simply too low. Your costs are too high. And second that you
really have to think about it with the premiums that you're calculating, whether they are in
line with the way in which risks have developed over the past few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And here, once again, we have to really focus on these things. And we have a full-ﬂedged
program for that. And our goal is because you said, it's wonderful improvement. But what
are your goals? I mean are you going to improve this? Yes is the answer. We have a goal,
structurally. We want 97% or lower. This is what we want to have the combined ratio at. In
the Fourth Quarter, we had a quarter in which we had dropped from the 97%. But 1
quarter is not enough. And we want to improve it structurally. And we do this by reducing
the cost even further by improving our eﬃciency.
And second, also by looking at the risks and the products and see whether the risk have
been properly priced but also risk in SMEs, for instance, small and medium-sized
business. Look at the requirements that we have with respect to maintenance, sprinkler
equipment, whether that is really good enough. So we want to end up in a situation in
which we can structurally price our risk properly. We're eﬃcient. And that way, we can
increase proﬁtability of this business unit on a structural basis.
And with that, Jan, if that's okay with you, I would like to give the ﬂoor to Delﬁn.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
From 10% to 8.9%, yes.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. (Kaynar) for your question. I think they were all very
relevant. I think starting with your return on equity, I think -- well, that is taking the proﬁts
divided by the shareholders' equity. The very good thing is that the numerator. So the
basically the proﬁts has increased from one year to another. That is positive. And the
second one is also positive in the sense that the shareholders' equity has increased and
that is -- must be read as a positive. One point to mention is that our shareholders' equity
(ﬂoat away) quite a bit from one quarter to another, from one period to another
Page 12 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

depending on the revaluation reserves. So that means that shareholders' equity tends to
increase when we have increase in the value of our investments and decreases when it
drops. And that aﬀects the return on equity. But the main reason for the return -- the
decrease in the return on equities indeed that the base (inaudible) the shareholders'
equity was increased.
Your second question was about the goodwill. And I think also that this is a good question
because it is not intuitive. While the acquisition of Delta Lloyd -- when you look at it from
every angle in terms of the savings, in terms of the operating result, in terms of the capital
generated has actually resulted in better than we initially anticipated. And as a
consequence, this goodwill elimination is purely a technical IFRS account item and with
no reﬂection whatsoever on our views for the future cash generation coming from the
business that we bought from Delta Lloyd. This has, as I said, not underlying economic
signiﬁcance, also have no impact in our solvency nor on our cash capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

And because it's a bit technical, I suggest that I take you through the full details later. But
maybe for the beneﬁt of everyone, this relates to how, in IFRS, you need to look at the
impairment test of your goodwill. So the ﬁgure is not a surprise because at the day 1
balance sheet, we generated EUR 1.3 billion of goodwill, of which this EUR 852 million that
you mentioned was allocated to the business of Netherlands Life. So when we combined
and subsequently merged the business of Delta Lloyd with the business of NationaleNederlanden, the Life business, you no longer can look at the cash generated from the
old NN Life. It comes all together. When -- due to the test based on the cash ﬂows of the
whole entity. This is not speciﬁc for NN. It's the case for many insurance companies.
Liabilities tends to be value based on the assumptions at the time when you take the
liability.
So there is a very well-known accounting asymmetry. You want which our assets are -most of our assets are valued at market value and our liabilities based on the technical
results, the technical assumptions when you take the liability on both. So it's purely a
technical accounting item not impacting our views in terms of the cash ﬂow generation
from the unit or otherwise.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Perhaps Delﬁn, you can also explain that this was not at all a surprise for the investment
community. Perhaps for the average shareholder, it was something new. But this was
certainly not a surprise for the investment community.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. And also, what you can see, when you -- I think your third question was about the
devaluation of the liabilities. And this, we have always been very clear about it. There is, in
our ﬁnancial supplement, that you can see how we reconcile from IFRS equity to own
forms. And indeed, you can see that there are some adjustments, one of them very
important related to the valuation of the insurance. This again is not unique to NN. It's
very much driven by the IFRS 4 accounting that we all use at this point of time.

Page 13 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

And there is a lot of volatility. Just to illustrate, an example, at the end of the year, our
shareholders' equities were EUR 23 billion. At the end of March, it is EUR 27 billion. So it's
an increase of EUR 4 billion, which I don't think it will be reasonable to assume that has
been an increase in the value because the valuation will continue to ﬂuctuate.

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yes. It will surprise you but (only said) more of your story than you would assume. But it
didn't answer my question. My ﬁrst question was a simple one. Is (Jasper) right or wrong?
(Jasper's) point was the following: My colleague, he said it's not so much that there was
an issue with the portfolio of Delta Lloyd. Post -- at the time of the takeover, both the
assets and the liabilities were already mark-to-market but all the reasonable assumptions
of today. The reason why any kind of impairment had to be done was within the old NN
Life portfolio, not with that one. That was my ﬁrst question. My ﬁrst question is, is Jasper
right or wrong?

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
It's not a problem or a signiﬁcant thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So I think because the ways that you phrased the question was if there were skeletons in
the wardrobe about NN. So the answer is absolutely not. The accounted indeed reﬂects
for the all NN Life business that the book value because of what just -- I just explained that
the liabilities are measured not with current assumption but the assumption from the past.
Accounting-wise, correct. In terms of message to the market, we are always highlighting.
And that's why we also calculate our return on equity based on adjusted equity. It is
correct that it is related to the fact that NN Life, the book value was lower than the fair
value, IFRS accounting fair value. But that's no problem with the business of NN Life, no
skeletons in the wardrobe.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
But that's a (inaudible) it very clear answer to most of my questions. The last question,
which was EUR 852 million could be impaired, written oﬀ because that was the goodwill
which you received with the takeover of Delta Lloyd, how much extra had to be impaired?
You didn't have goodwill yet anymore. So how much was this total amount which was the
result of valuing the liabilities of the old NN portfolio based on current market conditions?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

No. The book value or the liabilities, nothing has to be revalued or written in a diﬀerent
way. This was only the EUR 852 million of goodwill that was generated at the time of the
acquisition from Delta Lloyd. And it is -- and this is again a bit technical from an IFRS point
of view. The assets between the price that you pay and the calculated fair value for that
entity. And that is the amount that has been eliminated, only that, not more than that; only
the one coming from the acquisition.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Page 14 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

But do you agree with me at least it's not counterintuitive? It's a bizarre that, okay, you've
got EUR 852 million. That's a gift more or less. Thank you very much. That gives us the
opportunity to really revalue the old portfolio of NN. So if we value it and it hurts, it hurts
less because you've got EUR 852 million, that the kind of impact you're having is just EUR
852 million. That's a very big coincidence. So there must be more than that.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

No. It's not coincidence because you cannot write oﬀ more than -- more goodwill that you
have.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Exactly. That's what caused...

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

That's the ﬁrst thing.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
So my question is where else do I ﬁnd the pain spread out?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

There is no further pain. So there is -- I think we should take this question oﬀ-line and we
can explain it further. Just if you want to believe me, the cash ﬂows that have been
generated not only from the Delta Lloyd Life business but from the Delta Lloyd -- from the
NN Life business, they are very healthy. You can see that on every quarter. So they are not
any skeletons in any wardrobe. This is how IFRS accounting works when you do an
acquisition based on the day 1 balance sheet that you need to establish.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
That, I understand.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

And from that perspective, be assured that there is no economic recognition of any loss.
There was no impact on solvency. Our capital generation and our proﬁt -- the capacity to
generate proﬁt has not been impaired at all because of this accounting matter.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I understand but these were not my questions. So you're answering questions which I
haven't been asking. So I didn't ask for Solvency. I understand that that's most relevant. I
understand that. The questions I'm asking if you have to do something with IFRS, which
you've done and you've explained that and you conﬁrmed more or less what I -- what -by introduction speech was here. My question, which remains, is there should be more
than EUR 852 million. If you're valuing your current portfolio, which is primarily the NN

Page 15 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

portfolio based on current market rates, it doesn't stop at EUR 852 million. It cannot be
like that.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

FINAL

And the answer...

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I understand that with goodwill, then it stops. There's no more goodwill to be written oﬀ.
But then there should be other places in your balance sheet where the pain should stop,
where the pain should be put to.

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. I can assure you that there is no need -- there was no need and there is no need in
order to adjust our current assessment of the liabilities under IFRS. I'm not saying that this
is a reﬂection of market value. But this is how we should account for it. And I am adding,
for your peace of mind, that this is not an NN-speciﬁc matter. Anyone that understand
IFRS accounting for insurance will understand that.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Okay. I will ask the external accountant later on.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

There you go. Probably they will be able to answer the question more elegantly. Thank
you.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
(Interpreted) I can add to that, that in the Supervisory Board, upon initiative of the
Chairman of our Audit Committee way before all this was about to happen, we had an
additional session in order to understand all the intricacies of IFRS accounting, everything
that was just discussed just now. So we discussed that and the Supervisory Board paid a
lot of attention to this. And indeed, it is exceptionally technical. And I compliment you for
asking this question because these questions were spot on.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) Mr. Chairman, if you allow me, I do have one question that was also asked. In
the Third Quarter, with the interim accounts, we said that we expected that in a merger in
the Fourth Quarter, we would write oﬀ goodwill. Your question is, shouldn't we have
announced that earlier?

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) We did that. Because in the interim accounts, it is earlier but we couldn't do
that at the time because we haven't sorted out the merger yet. We haven't ﬁnalized it.

Page 16 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

I see Mr. (Spanjer) there.

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) Yes. My name is (Spanjer). 40 minutes, I have a fan here at the table, which is
always great. And I studied the entire book from cover to cover, from left to right, from
top to bottom. And in the viewpoint on Page three in Part 1, here, I have a couple of
questions. The Chair says in the third column, line 12, says something about distribution
channels. I understand that you are talking about other businesses. My question is why do
you still do business -- with these businesses, with these proxy businesses? And what
about the proﬁt on these proxy businesses?
And in the second part, I understand that it is loss-incurring. Is this correct? Apparently,
because of the enormous payments that you have to make to these proxy companies, that
is why the business also is becoming loss-incurring. And I also think that there are
enormous risks involved in these proxy portfolios. And what about damages to your
reputation? What about that? According to my calculations, NN in Non-life, damages can
reduce its cost much more than the cost charged by these proxy companies if I read the
second part of your ﬁnancial report correctly. And it says that these proxy companies have
a better contact with their clients and that they make up for their intermediates -- or
intermediaries or their clients. But you can do that. You don't need these proxy businesses
for that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Those are my ﬁrst questions. Let me start oﬀ with that. But I also have some ﬁnancial
questions. But I'm sure that there are other speakers who would also like to ask questions.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
(Interpreted) Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much for your question. The Non-life
business has many ways of distributing things. You can underwrite damages through the
stock exchange. We do direct business. You can also buy an insurance directly from us, a
car insurance for instance. But we also work with what we call these proxy companies.
These are large, independent brokers. They're independent intermediaries and they need
a special license, a broker's license. So they need an additional certiﬁcate. And so what
they do is that they take over quite a lot of the work that we would have to do. And that
allows them to act in niche markets in the Netherlands. So these are markets, of course,
well, with -- your general products is very diﬃcult to reach these niche markets and they
can do a better job in doing that. And so they have very local contact with clients. It's
always a good thing to work with them.
And as to Mr. (Kaynar's) question, I just said that our Non-life division is a large division. It
is a division that in terms of proﬁtability is at too low a level. So we need to do something
about the cost and we need to do something about the way in which we price risks. And
the same applies to the distribution channel of the brokers. And here, we also see that the
combined ratio, this ratio of claims costs over and above the costs that you make that is
simply too high and that you're simply not making enough money and you're not
generating the return you want. And so in this overall program that we have for the entire
Non-life business, we have all these improvements on returns. We also have an
improvement on return with respect to the broker business.
Page 17 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Now the good news is that on the one hand, we need to focus more on this broker
business as part of the business and also the rest of the business. But with the number of
brokers, we see that the combined ratios are going down. One of the things that we did is
that the signing commission that we pay to the brokers has gone down. Why? Because we
want the cost of these brokers' businesses that they need to be in -- they have to be in line
with our own costs. So we're also decreasing in other parts of our Non-life business. So
that way, we want all the distribution channels in due course to have a good combined
ratio. Sustainably, we want a proﬁtable Non-life business. I'd like to close by saying that
the brokers are very important partners for us. We have a long-standing relationship with
them. It's good to work with them. They're very professional people, professional
companies that we expect a lot of in the future.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) What about potential damage to your reputation? Because they may be
taking too many risks and you may footing the bill -- be footing the bill for that, that may
be a danger.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(Interpreted) Oh, I entirely understand that you should ask this question. The thing is that
with these brokers, we have very clear arrangements and agreements and we check up
on them. So the brokers operate between -- within speciﬁc guidelines. And they've been
well trained. As I said, they have certiﬁcates for that and we check everything. We have
data exchange between the brokers and ourselves so that we can keep tabs on
everything. Thank you, Mr. (Spanjer).
And do you have a question? Microphone #2.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) (Stan Eckoﬀ) on behalf of VBDO, the Association of Investors for Sustainable
Development. We always address 3 subjects which we want to raise questions at AGMs.
This year, it's climate adaptation, living wage and SDGs.
So my ﬁrst question is with respect to climate adjustment in the review of the task force on
ﬁnancial disclosures, climate-related ﬁnancial disclosures. I read that you take the
implementation thereof onboard and you're trying to develop an analysis model in order
to analyze the climate adjustments. And VBDO would like to compliment you for
implementing that and, yes, also what you disclosed this morning about excluding mining
businesses, et cetera. Now our question is, can we expect. And if so when, carbon dioxide
reduction goals? Can we expect that? Because that's also part of the recommendations of
the TCFD.
Second question, living wage. As was said just now, palm oil appears in your engagement
in the palm oil sector. There are many violations of human rights. So VBDO would like to
ask you whether living wage is a part or shall become a part of your human rights
violation engagement in the palm oil sector and whether in other sectors, you will be
discussing and addressing living wage.
Page 18 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

For the third subject, the SDGs, the VBDO would like to compliment you on applying the
SDGs to your investment portfolio. So my question is whether in implementing the SDGs,
you also take into account the negative aspects, whether you're going to map them out
and whether you're going to establish speciﬁc goals for the SDGs.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
(Interpreted) Thank you. Thank you for those questions. It's a lot. First, I would like to
thank you for your very kind words. We're doing our best. But we realize full well that
we're doing this with the conviction that we want to contribute to a good climate, good
transition and so on. But we also understand that this is a journey. It's a journey we would
encourage you to constantly address these matters in your dialogue with us because we
are doing this together. This Bloomberg task force, these disclosures, we've been
including them in our reports for a number of years. So we're continuously improving
here. We have a carbon footprint report that we have drafted based on our investments.
The footprint of our own investments, this is closed and we have the (inaudible) that we
implemented in order to make sure that we can do the scenario analysis and in order to
be able to improve on that basis.
And as I just said for the second time now, in our annual review, we have further updated
our disclosures and improved our reporting on these task force disclosures. The analysis
that we will be doing this year with the (inaudible) is looking at the climate or the
temperature increase scenarios. We're going to look at diﬀerent scenarios, the horizons at
the short and medium term and the longer term and going to look at the physical risks as
well. And all this is in line with the recommendations of the task force. And in this respect,
we are developing in line with the task force's recommendations. And we hope that, that
way, we'll be able to make better estimates with respect to the impact of climate change
on our portfolio and what it is that we can do about that. We do intend to be more
transparent about the outcomes thereof. But we don't know exactly how we want to do
that.
So ﬁrst, we're going to carry out the scenario analysis and then understand what the
outcomes are and then we will be reporting on our progress next time. About these
goals, scope 1, 2 and 3, that is really what I would say. I'm sure you're used to thinking
along those lines. Scope 1 is the carbon dioxide emission of our own buildings. 2 -- scope
2 is the emissions by traveling air, the road, et cetera. And we do have a goal, namely 3%
per FTE per year. With respect to scope 3, which is the CO2 emission of the invested
equity, we don't have quantitative goals here but we have taken a number of important
steps. We're integrating all these factors in our investment policy. This is -- those are the
energy factors. And we have this concept of engagement that we constantly engage with
the companies that we work with.
So we constantly engage with them in order to make sure that the energy transition gets
the attention it deserves. And we encourage them just as you are encouraging us. We're
encouraging them to further -- to move forward in this energy transition and addressing
the energy change problems. And we're excluding businesses, as you just said, mining
but also the tobacco industry and also excluding the oil extraction from tar sands, et
cetera. And we want to make a positive contribution. So these are all these things that
we're doing in order to make sure that in scope 3, we can also make headway this way.
Page 19 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

And we constantly try to improve not only by means of the approach that we pursue but
also reports that we constantly do in the ﬁeld of this task force.
Now living wage. Yes. We do have the engagement policy. We joined the sustainable
palm oil roundtable and then there's active engagement. We constantly take living wage
on board. So there's a very active dialogue that we have. We're doing this engagement
along with others or we act alone. So we do work with other investors in order to make
sure that all these elements, including living wage, be taken onboard structurally. We're
also part of the living wage ﬁnancials platform. I don't know whether you're aware of that.
Living wage is addressed in the consumer industry and we're talking about food, clothing,
electronics. We're doing this with (Rebecca) NN Services, ING and ABN AMRO. And in the
annual report, by the way, the NNIP published that for 2018. You can see all the details
and what it is that we do. So this element of living wage is indeed something that we
focus on.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third point, the SDGs, sustainable development goals. In our annual report, in
several respects, we established this link. We try to do this and improve this every year
between the SDGs and the SDGs that are most relevant for us, the ones that we can really
inﬂuence given the kind of company that we are. We report on that. We report on the
diﬀerent indicators. Examples are, well, like I mentioned in the speech -- in my speech, the
Future Matters program, the people that we reach with that, the assets under
management which is sustainable more than 53%. And I can go on and on about this.
And in terms of the carbon footprint of our own investments, we intend to expand the
scope here. The latter, the emissions of our own investments could be seen as a negative
impact that we address, as you have just asked us to do. But this may not be compared
one on one to the reports that we do with respect to sustainable impact investments.
So we're constantly trying to improve our reports, how we can connect our operations
with sustainable development goals, how we can improve that every year and how we can
disclose more every year as well. So I would say with all these components, back to what I
said at the very beginning, is a journey and we are doing our utmost, knowing that every
day, we have to take steps and move forward in this very important subject. Thank you.
I see Mr. Vreeken at microphone 1.

Q - Robert Vreeken
(Interpreted) Mr. Holsboer. And -- in this NN Group case, what's so wonderful is that the
image is wonderful. And the image is no longer tainted with the ING Group, such as the
controversy about the CEO's salary and money-laundering damages amounting to EUR
800 million. So the image of NN Group has suﬀered no damage at all. More good news
concerns the good results. So the assets under management have achieved 20% since
January 1, 2018. They're really clever dudes. And one group even achieved a return of
30%. That's excellent. And you know what? The best performing fund is the NN
information and technology fund. And I achieved a return of 700%. That is fantastic. It's
the best performing fund I have. And I never see any advertising about that because if
you communicate that, I think I've invested in that for the past 10 or 20 years. A lot of
money can be made there. That might be worth considering.
Page 20 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Next, cybercrime. You're active on that topic. But in Taiwan, they suﬀer 20 million
cybercrime attacks every month. That's why you might want to consider using only Apple
equipment. So iPads, iPhones and MacBooks if -- because far fewer viruses target Mac
equipment than the equipment manufactured by the competitors. You know a lot about
China. That's another topic. In ﬁve years, China wants to be a frontrunner in all sectors.
Taiwan is warning, "Watch out for China because they chase you out like a plague of
locusts and you're left with nothing."
And how much of NN will remain to -- then NN is really on top of other trends. And there
are quite a few sustainable companies in the Netherlands especially at the top. But
despite the dedication of all those companies in the years ahead, 1 million plant and
animal species will become extinct. It's inconceivable. And if you crunch the numbers on
all those damage, the Climate Central calculation is that if the temperature increases by 2
degrees, all of the Western Netherlands will be ﬂooded, including the NN oﬃce. But
Delta does -- has a diﬀerent opinion. How about if you were to consider all those diﬀerent
studies? Because of course, they'll impact NN's performance and -- as well as the share
prices.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last year, you spoke about coal in Poland. Poland is the coal paradise. And perhaps you
could use your inﬂuence to see whether there are a lot of wind parks and solar parks that
could be built there. You can explore this opportunity with the European authorities and
other governments because coal is the dirtiest source of energy in the world and is on its
way to Germany and the Netherlands. So if we dismantle the coal centers here, the coal
stuﬀ comes our way nonetheless.
You support the SDG target of no poverty. What matters there is that people have water,
light and energy. Last year, I suggested that you use the Waka Waka, which cost only EUR
5 or EUR 10 to provide people with light. Has NN made any progress on that cause? Then
there's circular showers which cut consumption of water and gas by 80%, i.e. 80%
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. So if people don't need as much water and
energy, they won't suﬀer poverty as much. We also have wheelchairs nowadays that -- no,
we have desk chairs that reduce the use of energy by 20% at oﬃces. So you -- they heat
the air and keep people warm.
Next, DSR (sic) (DSM) has developed the clean cow so that you save 30% on methane
emissions. Perhaps NN would care to sponsor that, too?
And I always have to come here by car. What I wanted to suggest was that next time
perhaps, you could consider a site in the center, for example, Hotel Des Indes, Newsport
or the NN Group head oﬃce because DSM also has their shareholders' meetings at their
own oﬃce. So do Unilever and Randstad just as Ahold does. And that will reduce some
CO2 emissions a lot. And you have a magniﬁcent oﬃce that would be a joy for the
shareholders to see.
And the ﬁne print that bothers me...

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Page 21 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

(Interpreted) Do you have a lot more?

FINAL

Q - Robert Vreeken
(Interpreted) No. I'll be brief. My ﬁnal point for those who love hearing about this. I am
extremely irritated and it's not very customer-friendly that all insurance companies throw
that 10 pages of ﬁne print that you -- which are diﬃcult for me to understand. I would like
one page with the main exclusions. That's a much easier way of communicating with
customers and it facilitates things.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(Interpreted) Okay. That's an awful lot of questions, Mr. Vreeken. I've jotted them down.
First, return from the IT fund. And if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I wrote them all down.
I'll take them all at once. I'll take the bull by the horns.
Thank you for your kind words. We agree that NN is doing quite a good job and we're
proud of that. We're proud that all employees in all countries have achieved so much in
the past ﬁve years to achieve our independent positioning. We're all delighted and we're
glad that you are, too. As for the returns, we're also delighted at our good returns and
that with your good returns through your investments in NN and we'll continue to give our
all to ensure ongoing good returns. And our publications for the medium term are
ambitious and we're doing our best to achieve those objectives. As for the NN investment
partners investment funds, we're improving a lot there every day. Our investment teams
work day in, day out to make sure that they achieve better and better returns at their
funds, their mandates. And we do see continuous improvement. So I'm delighted to hear
from you as an investor that you're so happy about the return from the technology fund.
We're delighted, too.
Be good in talent is your recommendation -- be good and tell it. You're saying they
should publicize and advertise more? Well perhaps the best advertising is when you talk
about your experience. You could tell others how good it is. That might be the best
possible advertisement. And we do invest a lot in advertising. It does cost money. So we
have to weigh the expenditure. We keep building the brand day after day to ensure
ongoing, improved, solid, sustainable reputation and retain that reputation. And that
takes a lot of hard work.
As for your comments about cybercrime, we agree. In this world, technological risks keep
growing. We invest a lot to ensure that we're well prepared for all that so that our
customers' data are always protected. We have an extensive technology function for that
and we have hubs in certain countries. For example, we opened one recently in Prague. If
you thought you would be shocked that all the screens that continuously monitor how
safe the company is, there's a lot of hard work invested there and we have procedures
and protocols. And we've appointed security oﬃcers in recent years and we're doing
everything we possibly can to make sure that we keep everything safe and functional for
you and your customers. And we help our customers actively through all the products and
services I mentioned in my presentation. As to your suggestion that we should do
everything with Apple, whether we should consider that, I will pass that on to Tjeerd

Page 22 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Bosklopper, who, in addition to the transformation, is also responsible for IT. Thank you
for your suggestion.
As for the climate, you made a lot of points about the climate and everything that can be
done about that. Yes. We're aware that we're a large institutional investor that in our
investment processes continuously tries to urge those companies to enhance the climate
and the climate transition. We have an elaborate strategy and we account for that in our
annual report. I certainly recommend reading this. If you want to know even more, please
see the NNIP annual report, which reveals far more about that. And all the examples you
mentioned from the clean cow to wheelchairs and desk chairs, all those -- we welcome all
those ideas if we're talking about companies that want to invest and work on those. And if
by investing in them, we can support them as institutional investors, we'll certainly do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the venue of this annual general meeting, we would be delighted to have this at
our head oﬃce but our head oﬃce does not have enough space. We do have a space
such as this one but you would see all the technology that surround it because this is
webcast worldwide so that all our investors and staﬀ and other stakeholders can attend.
And that infrastructure can be set up more eﬃciently here than at our oﬃces in The
Hague.
Now to wrap up, the communication and complexity of products and documents that you
receive as a customer. Well this is from the heart. Last week, I attended an Insurance
Europe conference where I spoke out in favor of the cases, such as the BILLY cupboards at
IKEA. My son is in school and I have to keep building those bookcases that takes me a
whole weekend. The best thing to do is to get one of those BILLY bookcases at IKEA -and I'm all thumbs, to be honest. But that's the only operating manual that I can really use
and ﬁnancial products should be like that, too. I told the regulators I certainly understand
that we need to inform customers about our products and services. But it needs to be
eﬀective. And the simpler it is, the more eﬀective it is. So you certainly appeal to me.
We've got one more point, China. Yes, of course, Mr. Vreeken, China has a very important
purpose in terms of continuing to develop artiﬁcial intelligence and other technologies
because they aim to be one of the front-runners, if not the front-runner. In addition to the
partnership of our asset manager with the Chinese asset manager, we have no operations
in China but we often go there because we want to learn from everything that's
happening. We invest a lot in technology. And we also invest heavily in applying artiﬁcial
intelligence, robots and the like. We do all that because we're convinced that the digital
transformation has promised. So we've set up a position on our Board and appointed
Tjeerd Bosklopper to that to adapt our company even faster to provide still better services
at a still lower cost. You may have missed that part because that was part of the
introduction before you arrived. And also, China is particularly interested in this meeting.
They dispatched their vice president to this hotel. That's why there was some additional
security when you arrived here.
Very well. More questions? Mr. (Kainer).

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Page 23 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

(Interpreted) I'm Mr. (Kainer) from the VEB. I have an entirely diﬀerent question, customer
satisfaction, customer loyalty, Net Promoter Score. First of all, you're outperforming the
competition, 8 of your 12 business units. I know one competitor that doesn't do as good a
job and was under heavy criticism. But of the 12, there was a deterioration in loyalty
amongst 7 that you measured. As concerning as that 3 weeks ago, I read an interesting
article in the Wall Street Journal where even the inventor of the Net Promoter Score
argued that the system was not intended for this purpose. The system is being misused,
don't ﬁx what isn't broken. How can I rely on NN Group to use the system properly
without tampering it -- with it and thinking, "Let's call a customer who is very satisﬁed and
reiterate that satisfaction." How do you make sure that the system works as it's intended
to?

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(Interpreted) Okay, that's quite a few questions. I really care about customer loyalty. In
simply dismissing it with an NPS score, I couldn't agree with you more, Mr. (Kainer) and
with the founder. It really doesn't do justice to the importance of long-term customer
relations. It's good to quantify that. And it also reﬂects changes over time because it's a
consistent measurement system. But we examine loyalty and perception of customers in
many ways besides NPS. I'll tell you about one. Otherwise, we'd be here until the cows
came home. The (Zapa) score is an important methodology to -- and measures how
customers experience call center contact. That's an entirely diﬀerent contact moment and
the transactional scores that we have from NPS.
So your point that you should pay attention not only to that, I agree with you. We need to
consider a much broader range when you're measuring customer satisfaction. What I do
care about is that you need to discuss it continuously so that you can keep considering
your customers' feedback. All other aspects are 1 point higher or lower. And I'm sure the
founder would agree with me that to be honest, it's volatile and it's not signiﬁcant. Only if
there's a 10-point change does it become truly signiﬁcant on this speciﬁc measurement
instrument. So I certainly don't not want to suggest that we underrate NPS. But to be
honest, loyalty matters immensely. And quantifying, engaging in good dialogue with
customers to see where we need to improve is important and involves far more than NBS
-- NPS.
Could you state your name and your organization?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yes. My name is (Claude Uleski). I'm a senior (ﬁnance container) for Fundacja RozwÃ³j Tak;
Odkrywki Nie. In English, that's Foundation Development Yes Open-Pit Mines No. We are
coming for the third time to the AGM. I was here two years ago. And gladly, some other
already referred to Poland. First, I want to compliment you. I'm rather critical. But the
policy statement you pulled out in the morning is world class. It really goes a long way
towards achieving the climate objectives. So congratulations on this. Having said that,
there is a problem in Europe and this problem in coal is called (inaudible) with the
government and the companies. How to reﬂect that (BMP) during this AGM this week,
they said that they're engaging with the Polish company and this includes stop providing

Page 24 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

all the ﬁnancial services. So not only loans, underwriting, anything, advisory services to
the Polish coal companies because they don't believe there's a transition potential there.
Why am I referring to Poland? You're one of the biggest asset managers in the country.
You have a few subsidiaries who are running a number of resources. At the end of 2015, it
was EUR 470 million in the Polish coal companies. At the end of last year, it's EUR 375
million. And it's not because you stopped investing -- or your Polish subsidiary, to be
exact, stopped investing in it because the price has dropped. The share prices of coal
companies are already dropping. It's a visible trend. You still keep on investing it. I do
appreciate your focus on engagements rather than divestment. I think this is (highly
immediate). But I attend all the AGMs of the Polish coal companies and now on the
ﬁnancial institutions. Nationale-Nederlanden subsidiary is silent and all the other
institutional actors are silent. So if the engagement takes place, it's not here on AGMs.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I would encourage you with the statement that you've put out. But you actually do
engage publicly and state that what your purpose in climate is and how transitioning is
important also in diﬃcult countries like this one. And there are some analysis by -- for
example, the Institute for Energy Economics & Financial Analysis, what's even within the
framework, legal framework for the Polish ﬁnancial markets, third-party asset management
can be done with diversifying the portfolio. I know you're working on it.
My 3 questions, to be short. So it was a big step, the policy. Now what I think is still
missing, which might be improvement, there is -- you don't address those companies who
are planning on building new coal investments and new coal power plants if they don't
meet the criteria. In -- as you said, the world is shifting and increasingly, companies that
don't have anything to do with energy and coal mining or coal power plants doing
investments in the new ﬁeld. That happens in Asia. That happens in other places. And in
these forward-looking criteria, we don't actually buy equity bond in companies that plan
or have strategies. But applying new coal capacity is one element that's relatively easy to
adjust and it hasn't been part of it.
The other is will you apply your (other) statements, your policy to third-party asset
management? So particularly to your clients in countries that do not share your appetite.
Again, Poland doesn't have climate goals for 2050, (inaudible) company has a pricealigned strategy.
So it's clearly a diﬀerent situation than Urgenda and Holland talking about phasing out
pretty new power plants. And the last thing, speciﬁcally, it's a very new system for pension
provision that's coming in Poland that will be starting operating from July. And that's...

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

PPK...

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
PPK, it's like pension plans for engineers set up by the company and then pay itself. It's an
opportunity because if you have a climate statement and you're setting up a new system,
Page 25 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

you can design the rule for opt in, opt out. Will you actually be engaging your clients,
saying only if you opt for those nonpolicy option, I will do it and as a default option, I
would rather those policies. But they're covered within your climate policy?

FINAL

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for your presence here. It's quite a journey to be here. So I
highly appreciate the time that you're taking to get here. Well we share both, I think, the
longer-term objective as is, I think, demonstrated by the coal policy that we launched this
morning. I think the coal policy is a big step, I think, forward for us in demonstrating our
commitment. And your call to action and your call to, say, be public, I think, this morning,
we have been very public about what we think about this and how we should transition
and how we should transition ourselves but also help the world to transition.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we play our part. So there, I do believe that while the journey is long, we're together
on that journey and we do our best to play our part. When it comes to the particular
situation in Poland, you are very well aware that we operate in Poland in a number of
ways. And wherever we can, we will apply the policy that we have announced this
morning, right? But -- so whether it's the new PPK regulation, whether it is the funds that
we have by NN Investment Partners, where we can, we will implement it. Where it
becomes very -- more diﬃcult is with the OFE. So the pension management that we do for
clients in the pension management company that we own there. And the nature of that is
as follows, as you know.
First of all, legally, the money that we're managing, which is pension money for Polish
citizens, for Polish families and households, in order to protect their ﬁnancial futures and
prepare for that, we need to work according to the rules of the country. And the rules of
the country say basically 2 things. The ﬁrst one is thou shalt not interfere in the ﬁduciary
duty of the management of that pension company in the way they need to manage that
pension money. And the thinking behind that is that the pension money as per the
constitutional court ruling is seen as public money that we manage on behalf of the
mandatory system that is in place in Poland. That's one.
Number two, we have to adhere to very strict -- that pension management company's
Board, which we are not allowed to inﬂuence, needs to work also within rules, which, for
instance, say that you need to invest 70% of the assets in Polish-denominated investments.
And if you then go to all the conﬂicting regulation around that and the fact that you need
to diversify your portfolio if you want to be an appropriate manager of pension money
and if you also need to adhere to the rule that says that you need to maximize proﬁts and
investment returns, then you're basically forced to get yourself, to a large extent, into the
Polish stock exchange and as a result, with the nature of that exchange, you get
yourselves into an investment.
Now we have to work within those rules because we believe that we are better placed to
further the cause that you and I both share by using our relationships with the
government and help to continuously push for change. And that's what we do. And we
believe that is better than not engaging at all. That is one. And that is, unfortunately, the
situation where we are.
Page 26 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

So to conclude and to bring this all together, we've launched very publicly this morning
our commitment in this ﬁeld. Number two, where we are allowed and where it's possible
to implement that commitment, we will. Where we are confronted with conﬂicting
regulation, we will always need to abide by regulation. Our objective is to talk to the
legislators and move them step-by-step to improving that regulation rather than running
away from that business because we believe it is in the interest of the Polish citizens and
households that we are there to help them to manage the pension money and make sure
that they have a well-planned ﬁnancial future.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Just one. Nordea had a pension fund in Poland and they had climate commitments. And
they decided to sell oﬀ the management to Aegon and leave the country.

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

So increasingly, if those 2 trends diverge and you go on a climate pathway that you just
started. And you will see that the legislation of the country does not, there will be hard
choices to make. So I'm just raising it year after year. And it might lead to a conclusion
when engagement does not bring the results and the decision is straightforward. So I will
keep coming, yes. We will keep worrying...

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Yes. You're more than welcome. You're more than welcome.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I'm representing for the citizens that are resisting a project that was for their livelihoods
and health. So they are working their very self-interest. So they are not going to go away
easily. And that's why we have to also have this conversation. I know the rules are
diﬀerent. But this divergent is coming in a number of countries. And you will have to be
alert.

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Yes. We are. And we respect your position in this. We -- and I think, again, our common
objective is the same and what we're striving towards. So I welcome your comments. I
welcome your encouragement. But at this point in time, I also want to be quite frank. We
are not in a place where we wish to remove ourselves from managing the pension money
for the interest of the Polish citizens. And (inaudible) we are focusing on changing the
rules there and helping to convince the government to do so. But thank you very much for
your comments.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Okay. Any caller?
Page 27 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) I'm (Kase Godha) from Greenpeace. First, I'd like to compliment you on your
tar sand policy. Last year, you decided to stop investing in tar sands of oil companies. That
was an excellent decision both for owned assets and third-party assets. However, we
regret that in your -- in the coal decision that was disclosed this morning, you did not
reach the same decision because that holds true mainly for your owned assets and in far
less measure, for your third-party assets. That's a shortcoming, a ﬂaw in your decision on
the coal industry. And as the gentleman from Poland just said, you're also talking about
third-party assets in Polish coal. That's a serious shortcoming because you're estimated to
invest over EUR 500 million in coal. Half of that is in Poland. So -- and there's also a share
of third-party assets outside Poland, in Asia. We think that's a shortcoming in the policy.
And we hope that you'll be able to improve this.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, Mr. (Kopa Koroleski) in Poland also rightly mentioned coal plant developers
because you apply a threshold of 30% for coal-sharing power production and revenue
from mining companies. The problem, of course, is that they're a great number of highly
diversiﬁed countries, especially in Asia, that are active in many diﬀerent industries and are
therefore just below the 30% threshold. Unfortunately, those are the companies that are
building new coal power plants, such as textile companies or companies such as
Marubeni from Japan. Some of the large companies that are opening new coalmines are
within that 30% threshold. And that's another shortcoming. I know that you agreed on a
declining percentage, which that should solve the problem over time. But that will take us
nine years down the road in a worst-case scenario. So we'd like you to try to accelerate
there as well.
Now my ﬁnal question, which is about both oil and coal, we think it's very good that NNIP
voted as it did at -- on resolutions at Shell in Ecuador in IP. A lot of investors could learn
from that. And we think it's excellent that you issued a statement clarifying your
expectations from the oil and gas companies. But a problem in my view is that you still
seem to be assuming the 2 degrees of global warming. So the scenario of the
international agency, energy agency, that assumes 2 degrees warming. But that IEA
scenario has many shortcomings, one of which is assuming future available negative
emission techniques, CCS and comparable techniques. And those scenarios are betting
that in the next 4 decades, such technologies will become available and will be solving a
lot of the climate problem for us. So a massive forestation program and deployment of
CCS that's rampant with uncertainties and possible severe biodiversity disadvantages.
And those IEA scenarios are relying on technologies that we don't have yet and we don't
know whether they will be widely applicable. So that's why we think that the new
benchmark for everybody should be 1.5 degrees of global warming. And the ICC Report,
the UN panel of scientists last year, explained very cogently that there's a huge diﬀerence
between 1.5 degrees global warming and 2 degrees global warming. The risks arising
from 2 degrees of global warming are far greater than the risks arising from 1.5 degrees of
global warming. That's why we're urging that in your scenarios of energy, oil and others,
you base yourself on 1.5 degrees of global warming in the future and aware that the IEA
does not embrace that scenario yet. So that's why we, as environmental and development
organizations, have lodged an appeal to the IEA to develop such a 1.5 degrees scenario.
My question to you is whether you're willing to support that scenario on behalf of the
NGOs and the ING. That was my third question.

Page 28 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Thank you. Good to have you here. And thank you, in any case, for agreeing
that we are making headway in a number of respects. And as I said at the beginning,
we're doing our best, our utmost. But we do realize, in fact, that this is a journey. We're
taking diﬀerent steps in the ﬁeld of disclosures, the task force disclosures, the diﬀerent
elements that we're facing, tobacco, extracting oil from oil sands. The code, step-by-step,
we are moving forward. And your encouragement and the encouragement of your peers
are very much welcome. Just like we are encouraging so many other institutions and
companies by means that they follow these resolutions as well, that NNIP has supported.
And the very active shareholdership, more than 2,000 times, we have let our voice be
heard at the shareholders meetings. And so in that respect, we are contributing to the
meetings. And coal, 30%, why not? There's the problem that you were referring to, the
large conglomerates that are so large, that somewhere in the back of their company,
they're in the code wars. The overall revenues comply with the 30%. But these are
developments. And we've got to start somewhere. And we feel that we are really making
a move forward.
In terms of our own assets, we've shown you our program. Every year, we are going down
a bit more. The 30% revenue limit is going down time and time again in order to have this
extra incentive in order to be really close to 0 in our own portfolio by the end of 2030.
And as far as NNIP, the mandates and so on and so forth, we've said the same thing. But
we said this for mining. But for utilities, we said we feel that it's much better to add,
through the engagement program that we have, which is why we decided to do that. We
are evaluating. And we're starting with this. And as we said this morning in our
announcement, we feel that this is quite a considerable eﬀort that we're making. But
obviously, we are evaluating this program. So we will periodically evaluate the
implementation. But also to see where we can improve things. So let's start with what we
introduced this morning. And then we will constantly evaluate, as I said.
Third point, the IPCC scenarios. We are using them in order to establish the criteria of the
2%. They're based on the 2% increase in temperature, not the 1.1 -- not the 1.5. I need
some time to think about your question, whether we can support your call in this respect.
So I need some time to discuss this with my colleagues. But thank you very much for the
suggestion.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Right. Ladies and gentlemen, I see my schedule that we are 1 hour behind schedule, to be
quite honest. I would like to ﬁnalize the questions and answers on this item.
+++presentation
So I'd like to proceed with agenda item 3, which is the implementation of the
remuneration policy for the ﬁnancial year 2018. And this is also a discussion item. I would
like to refer you to the remuneration report that's included in the ﬁnancial report, pages
32 through 35. And also Note 46 to the ﬁnancial statements as included in the ﬁnancial
report, Page 129 through 131.

Page 29 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

2 degrees, not 2%. I'm sorry, it just occurred to me.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Well that's quite relevant. In previous years, I would give the ﬂoor for this subject to my
colleague, Ms. van Dort. But as you know, last year, I took over the chairmanship of the
Remuneration Committee last year. So I will continue to take the ﬂoor.
Ladies and gentlemen, the remuneration policy of listed companies is constantly a muchdiscussed subject. And we're quite aware of the constant sentiment in society and
political sentiment with respect to this matter. It emphasizes the fact that taking a decision
on the remuneration of directors in this country is extremely complex. In 2015, your
general meeting has adopted the remuneration policy for the NN Group. This is a clear
and transparent remuneration policy that is applicable to all, I repeat, all employees that
allows the company to attract and hopefully retain qualiﬁed and skilled employees at all
levels in our organization.
The Supervisory Board makes sure that the long-term goals of NN are supported, being
focusing on the interest of the customer, that's the ﬁrst thing, second, solid business
operation and also controlling risks, managing risks. In order to be able to establish a fair
remuneration policy, it's all about striking a balance and not losing sight of the
international nature of our company. NN Group has the ambition to become -- to be an
attractive employer. After the acquisition of Delta Lloyd in 2017, the company started,
along with the trade unions, started to harmonize the diﬀerent job classiﬁcation systems
and employment conditions because if you have one company, you need one CLA that is
aligned to the interest of the employees and the company that is future-proof and
innovative.
On April 2nd of this year, the unions and NN Group reached an agreement in principle.
And the representatives of the unions have shared their positive views with respect to this
agreement. Or this is what was stated yesterday. The new CLA that applies to more than
8,000 employees of NN in the Netherlands is an important step towards the integration
with Delta Lloyd. And so it constitutes a very important step for the future of the company.
This brings me to an explanation of the implementation of the remuneration policy for the
Board of Management for 2018. In establishing the remuneration for the members of the
Managing Board, the Supervisory Board takes into account the interest of the diﬀerent
stakeholders involved in the NN Group, being the clients, shareholders, employees and
the society in which NN is operating, both in the Netherlands and beyond. In accordance
with the remuneration policy, the Supervisory Board will review the level of the
remuneration of the Management Board in light of the remuneration of its peers in the
ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial sectors. And as Supervisory Board, we will be advised in this
process by external experts in this ﬁeld.
We also look at the mutual relationships. And it has been established that, for the NN
Group, that those employees that are covered by the collective labor agreement, they will

Page 30 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

be remunerated just above the median of the relevant peer group. And members of the
Executive Board will be remunerated just below the median of the relevant peer group.
Variable remuneration that was granted for the year 2018 is based on the outcome of the
performance indicators of the NN Group and the individual performance indicators for
the members of the Management Board. These indicators, as you know, because we
reported on this every year, are, in part, ﬁnancial and in part, nonﬁnancial.
For Mr. Friese and Mr. Rueda, based on these indicators, a maximum variable
remuneration of 20% of the basic salary has been granted. And the Supervisory Board is
of the opinion that both members of the Management Board have made an essential
contribution to the implementation of our strategy. The successful integration with Delta
Lloyd supports this. But also, there have been good operation -- there's been a good
operational performance and administrative costs have been decreased substantially.
And after the acquisition of Delta Lloyd, the capital position of the company has remained
strong. The organization has become more agile and more diverse. And now 33% of the
senior leaders of NN is female and clients are very positive about products and services.
And despite the integration, which obviously entailed uncertainty. So despite that, the
satisfaction among employees increased slightly. All these elements played a role in
granting variable remuneration.
From a benchmark in 2016, it appeared that the remuneration of the Executive Board of
the NN Group was amply below the median of the peer group, very amply. This was and
is not in line with the remuneration policy, which was adopted by you. In 2017, we
therefore announced that, gradually, step-by-step, we would want to increase the
remuneration of the members of the Board of Management. And this is what we've done
over the past two years. And with these adjustments, the salaries of the directors of NN, in
accordance with the policy in force, is still below the median of comparable positions in
the market. The Supervisory Board, however, has also determined that the salary of Mr.
Friese, after these adjustments, will not be at the level referred to in the policy, namely,
slightly below the median, which is why the salary of Mr. Friese as per the 1st of January
this year has been increased 5%. And towards the end of the year as per the 1st of
October, it will be increased with 3%.
Summarizing, the remuneration policy that was adopted by your general meeting in 2014
is transparent and beﬁt these times. It is a policy in which we try to take into account the
interest of the diﬀerent stakeholders and it's focused on the long-term objectives and
goals for our company. Next year. So that will be in 2020, we will once again submit the
remuneration policy to you, not the application of the policy. But the policy proper. We
will be putting it to you. And we shall discuss it at this meeting. So this brings me to the
end of this explanation to this agenda item. I'd like to give you the ﬂoor to ask questions.
+++qanda
I see no questions. Mr. Vreeken?

Q - Robert Vreeken

Page 31 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Well I can't really ﬁnd Mr. Friese's salary. Is that EUR 2 million a year? Could you perhaps
indicate how much it is exactly, the exact amount?

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. It's just below EUR 2 million.

Q - Robert Vreeken
Because Ralph Hamers, he makes EUR 2 million and EUR 5 billion. It's EUR 1,642,000.
Okay. EUR 1.6 million.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Ralph Hamers. Mr. Vreeken, if you don't mind, I shall not comment on salaries of other
CEOs.

Q - Robert Vreeken

Bloomberg Transcript

No. But a CEO who makes a proﬁt of EUR 5 billion makes EUR 2 million. And Mr. Friese
makes EUR 1.5 billion proﬁt and makes EUR 1.6 million. So I would say that the entire
system in the Netherlands is somewhat skewed. A CEO of another smaller bank is making
disproportionally much more than the CEO that makes a proﬁt of EUR 5 billion in the
Netherlands. So what I'm trying to say, it doesn't really refer to the NN Group, what I'm
trying to say is that the system is inconsistent. And it would be a good thing if all the large
companies would be able to do something about it.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

As I said, next year, we will adopt the policy once again. And we will be presenting it to
you for it to be discussed at the AGM next year and you'll have ample opportunity to
share your opinion. I'd like to point out that we ﬁnd it very important that we have a
moderate and orderly remuneration policy in the company, not only for the Managing
Board. But for the entire company. And I already pointed out that those employees that
are below the CLA, we pay them just above the median and that, that does not apply to
the members of the Management Board.

Q - Robert Vreeken
I'm not talking about the NN Group. I'm talking about the system.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Yes. But we are talking about the NN Group here. So okay. Right. No questions. Okay. I'm
looking forward to seeing your proposal next year. Thank you.
+++presentation
And with that, I'd like to proceed to the next item of the agenda, which is 4, which is the
ﬁnancial statements. First of all, we have the proposal to adopt the ﬁnancial statements for
Page 32 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

the ﬁnancial year 2018. So that is being put to you for a vote. I'd like to refer to the
ﬁnancial statements, the ﬁnancial year 2018 included in the ﬁnancial report, pages 38
through 184. And I'd also like to refer to the presentation just made by Mr. Friese under
agenda item 2. The ﬁnancial statements have been drafted on the 13th of March 2019 by
the Management Board in the English language and have been made available as per the
14th of March 2019 on the website of the company. The ﬁnancial statements have been
made available for perusal at the head oﬃces of the NN Group and were also available
free of charge for shareholders. The ﬁnancial statements have been audited by the
external accountant, the external auditor. And is issued an unqualiﬁed opinion to that
eﬀect. You'll be able to ﬁnd that on the ﬁnancial report, pages 185 to 200. And the
Supervisory Board advises to adopt the ﬁnancial statements.
Before doing that, I'd like to give the ﬂoor to Mr. de Wit of KPMG, our external auditor. I
would just like to highlight that the company has discharged KPMG of its obligation to
maintain conﬁdentiality with respect to this meeting. The auditor has the obligation to
restore matters. And if information is provided, it would be materially an incorrect
reﬂection of matters with respect to the ﬁnancial statements or the audit, that KPMG can
request a correction thereof at the meeting or can request that the matters be corrected
when adopting the minutes of the meeting. The auditor shall now give a brief
presentation on the auditing work with respect to the ﬁnancial statements.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peti de Wit
Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. I'd like to take the opportunity to explain our
work. My name is Peti de Wit. And on behalf of KPMG, since 2016, I am the external
auditor of the NN Group. I signed for the independent auditor's report. The ﬁnancial year
2018 is the third year that we audited KPMG's ﬁnancial statement. As the Chairman said, I
have no obligation to maintain the conﬁdentiality with respect to the audits. And I can
share some information on our audit and the opinion.
What is it that we audited? The single and the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of NN
were audited for 2018. And we issued an unqualiﬁed opinion as the Chairman just said.
And at the same time, in 2018, we evaluated the quarterly ﬁgures of the NN Group. And in
this intermediate evaluation, we were also able to issue an unqualiﬁed opinion. And I'll be
discussing Mr. (Kande's) Third Quarterly report later on.
Our nonﬁnancial information as included by NN in the annual review was also evaluated.
And we also issued unqualiﬁed opinion. And you'll ﬁnd this in the annual review.
Then I would like to highlight that the expressions of the annual -- in the annual review of
the NN Group, including the Corporate Governance, were read by us. And that based on
our knowledge and our understanding, there were no material misstatements or
contradictions with respect to the ﬁnancial statements that we audited. And we also
included this in our opinion. And the same applies to the fact that we've established that
the required information bylaw has been included in the annual review. So all that is
going very well.

Page 33 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Now I would like to explain the opinion itself, Page 185 to 200 of the ﬁnancial report. First
of all, with respect to our opinion, based on our work, we reached the conclusion that the
ﬁnancial statements give a proper reﬂection of the ﬁnancial position as for the 31st of
December 2018 and also the income of that year. And their ﬁnancial statements have
been drafted on the basis of the estimates and assumptions of management, which are
correct. It's important for you to know that we can act independently of management and
the Supervisory Board of Directors. Worldwide, we are independent of the NN Group and
its subsidiary. That has been the case since the 1st of October 2015.
2018, every quarter, we have conﬁrmed our impartiality to the Audit Committee of the
Supervisory Board. Another important matter is materiality. And we base our materiality
on the benchmark core equity. Core equity consists of equity minus the revaluation
reserves. And this approach, since 2016, has been applied since 2016. And for the audit of
2018, we've seen no reason to adjust matters and to do things diﬀerently. The materiality
that we applied in auditing the ﬁnancial statements is EUR 140 million. And with respect to
the core equity benchmark, materiality is 1% unaltered.

Bloomberg Transcript

Some parts of the ﬁnancial statements are audited with that higher degree of accuracy
because the nature of the matters requires that. This was the case in the audit with respect
to the explanation concerning the remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the
Executive Board. Any uncorrected diﬀerences over and above EUR 7 million have been
communicated to the Supervisory Board in writing. The reported diﬀerences are
individually. But also in total, are of limited signiﬁcance. If we take into account the scope
of the group and the complexity of the ﬁnancial statements, IFRS and Solvency II
information has to be included.
A few words about the scope of our audit. How do we go about it? Our responsibility as
external auditor of NN Group means that accountants -- business units of the NN Group
are given instructions to conduct audits. As per 2018, KPMG is also the external auditor of
the Delta Lloyd subsidiaries, a responsibility that we took over from EY. As the group
auditor, we determine where and with which degree of depth we carry out that audit. In
order to organize this in the autumn of 2018, we organized an NN audit group planning
event, inviting auditors and accountants from the Netherlands and abroad to an event. At
this meeting, diﬀerent representatives of the NN Group, the CFO, the CRO and the Head
of the Internal Accounting Service, gave presentations on developments that are relevant
for the planning and execution of our audit.
The outcome of the local audits are evaluated by us as group auditors and are discussed
with our team's local teams and also with the team at the head oﬃce here in The Hague.
And we also visit a number of countries every year. And we also evaluate the ﬁles of the
local auditing teams. This year, we visited Japan, Hungary, Belgium and the Czech
Republic. And obviously, we regularly talk to the auditors and the accountants of the
Dutch operations. And particularly with the very large Life and Non-life business. And this
work makes sure that, overall, we have suﬃcient coverage in order to be able to establish
an opinion on the NN Group as a whole.
Brieﬂy, I would like to take a moment to discuss the risk of fraud. Shareholders have
pointed out that they want to hear more from their auditor with respect to fraud risks and
Page 34 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

how that is embedded in their audits. And that is why, last year, we started writing a
speciﬁc paragraph in our auditor's opinion about the work that we conduct concerning
fraud risk.
In the audit of 2018, we saw reason for one incident to look into the underlying facts in
order to ﬁnd out what the causes of the incident was, what the risks were for the reliability
in ﬁnancial reporting. And to that eﬀect, we also involved a forensic specialist. And we
communicated with management and the Supervisory Board about this incident. And our
conclusion was that our work had not led to signiﬁcant ﬁndings in that respect.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another topical issue is the work of the auditing relationship with the compliance with
rules and regulations. Over the past few months, there's been a lot of talk about this. And
this is why we also included speciﬁc paragraphs in our opinion. And this paragraph says
that we distinguish between rules and regulation that have a direct impact on the ﬁnancial
statements, such as Solvency II. And on the other hand, we have rules and regulations that
have an indirect impact on drafting ﬁnancial statements, which is legislation on ﬁnance
and terrorism and money laundering. Our audit in this respect has not led to any
signiﬁcant ﬁndings.
Then in conclusion, this is very important, signiﬁcant risks and key audit matters in our
opinion. A signiﬁcant risk is an acknowledged risk with respect to deviation from material
signiﬁcance. In our audit, we pay special attention to these risks. And signiﬁcant risks very
often concern signiﬁcant nonroutine transactions or events that require a judgment on the
part of management. With respect to the signiﬁcant risks, we have gained insight into the
structure of the existence on the working of the internal control operations at the NN
Group that are related to these risks. And furthermore, we have speciﬁc -- we carried out
speciﬁc work, focusing on data, in order to establish that the risk does not lead to
deviation of any material signiﬁcance in these ﬁnancial statements. Given the signiﬁcant
risks, we acknowledge 5 core items. And they can be found in our opinion and they
concern the following matters.
First of all, the uncertainty in estimates, the exposure to risks concerning unit-linked
investments, explanation with respect to Solvency II. And the fourth point is integration of
Delta Lloyd. And the ﬁfth and last core issue is valuation of goodwill in the matter of Delta
Lloyd.
Ladies and gentlemen, very often, key audit matters focus on speciﬁc items in the ﬁnancial
statements. But shareholders have indicated that they also require information concerning
observation of internal controls behind annual reporting and ﬁnancial reporting, which is
why I'd like to zoom in on key audit matter 4, which is integration with Delta Lloyd.
2018 is the ﬁrst full reporting year in which Delta Lloyd was part of the NN Group.
Management, since the acquisition, has given regular information concerning the
progress on the integration of both companies. In our audit for 2018, this has been a very
important core issue in our work in the Dutch businesses in Life, Non-life and Bank, the
Asset Management, NNIP and in Belgium. As you can read in our statement, we had to
conduct an audit in the changing environment. Speed and complexity will diﬀer.

Page 35 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Particularly in Life, Non-life and in Belgium, management still has a lot of work to do to
ﬁnalize integration. 2019 is a challenge to make sure that internal controls reach the
requirements. And given the mix of the system and data-focused work, we've been able
to gather suﬃcient information to ﬁnalize our audit. For further explanation, I'd like to
refer to the explanatory note in our opinion.
All our work gives us enough basis to reach the conclusion that the ﬁnancial statements,
as such, is a good reﬂection of the actual facts on the basis of which you, shareholders,
can draw your own conclusions. Thank you very much.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

With that, I'd like to give you the opportunity to ask questions or make comments to Mr.
de Wit. I'd like to highlight that the auditor shall only answer questions on the auditing the
ﬁnancial statements, the work that he has done with respect to the annual report and
obviously, the auditor's opinion.
+++qanda
Who can I give the ﬂoor? Mr. (Espania)?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Interpreted) I'm Mr. (Espania) for the meeting minutes. Mr. Auditor, I had a question at
the ﬁnal paragraph on Page 187. This concerns the auditor instructions that were sent to all
sections of the group to identify the relevant areas of -- with relevant discrepancies and
information to be reported to the group auditor's team. All components that are eligible
for the group report are audited by KPMG member companies. My question is which
areas, because you speciﬁcally mentioned areas as they used -- called the term in English,
in which important areas in relevant risks do you mention in this paragraph? Can you state
that or explain it?

Q - Peti de Wit
(Interpreted) Thank you for your question. First, we check out if the consolidation takes
place and identify all the reporting components in the group. That's called the
components. So if a business unit makes a separate report and sends it to The Hague and
says this is my report, that's a component. Then we examine the important components.
Those are components that are either individually important in ﬁnancial respects. So it
contributes a lot to proﬁts or equity or assets, then, of course, that component needs to
be in scope for our duties. The second concerns signiﬁcant risks. As I just described,
those are the key audit matters. And if such a risk ﬁgures within the unit, then that
component is included in the scope. So that's how we came up with 26 components in 9
countries that are in scope. In some countries, we were on site to inspect the local work.
Other countries send their reports to us. And we discuss those. And that's called the
remote ﬁle review. So that from The Hague, we can look in the records of the local auditor.
We weren't in Poland this year. But that way, we can examine that the work was performed
as instructed in those ﬁles. That's how it works.

Page 36 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
But understand, unless I misunderstood you, that all your KPMG member ﬁrms were
brought on 1 October for an update in Amstelveen, everybody who was in the scope of
the group audits.

FINAL

Q - Peti de Wit
So NN, may have operations in countries where the operations are small. So that there's
no signiﬁcant ﬁnancial signiﬁcance or any signiﬁcant risk. Take Turkey last year, for
example. So Turkey is not invited because it's not suﬃciently relevant for our group
operations. Within the group, we do examine what's happening in Turkey. And we discuss
that with the management. We assess the numbers contributed by Turkey. And if we think
we identify a risk or a material error in the group, then we do conduct an additional audit
in Turkey.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
So based on this example, because you went to Hungary, should I -- was there some signs
that there was something amiss in Hungary and that you felt you had to take a look there
yourself, is that true?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peti de Wit
No. Each year, we examine the local operations and talk with the local management about
the results of the internal management. But there's also a separate team in Hungary that's
extremely important for the group's Solvency II operations in addition to the local country
organization. That's an important unit for us to be able to see the operations ﬁrsthand.
That's -- so that's what we also said about the security operations entering Prague. That's a
very important cybersecurity control center. We were on the ground there. So that we
could hear not only from our coworkers but see this ﬁrsthand. So that I can say I was there.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Mr. (Kande)?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I'm Mr. (Kande) from (DEB). And I'm sure Mr. de Wit that you're not surprised that I have
some questions as well. As I understand by now, there was apparently a reevaluation at
the old NN Life insurance portfolio, which led EUR 852 million to be impaired. And that
happened easily thanks to the goodwill that arrived, thanks to the Delta Lloyd acquisition.
Why did you not impair elsewhere as well because it's quite a coincidence that it was
those EUR 852 million of Delta Lloyd that was impaired? That's my ﬁrst question. Second
is when you discovered that there was EUR 852 million in goodwill thanks to the Delta
Lloyd acquisition that was in Q3 last year, why didn't you immediately disclose that IFRS is
not quite as important as it was 10 years ago? Nowadays, everybody examines solvency.
But we still have to impair those EUR 852 million. Don't count your chickens before they
hatch because the NN portfolio can better assess those risks through a normal discount
rate. Shouldn't you have done that much earlier? And my third question is more
fundamental concerning your own role. Shouldn't you have taken a more discerning look
Page 37 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

a few years ago about how obligations in the NN Life insurance portfolio should be
assessed and appraised? It's very naive to say, "Well we're allowed to do this according to
IFRS. But we still maintain the historical discount ratios. And perhaps, we felt that we had
too much -- perhaps, we assumed that we had more than we did based on the IFRS
calculation." I have other questions. But...

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

We'll do those after the ﬁnancial statements questions. First, let's wrap up the questions to
the auditor.

Q - Peti de Wit

Bloomberg Transcript

Mr. (Kande), thank you very much. Yes. Your questions reveal that we do need new
reporting standards. Please bear with us for a few more years waiting for IFRS 17. Your 3
questions are very closely related. And I would like to answer them in a certain sequence
and mention some spots in the ﬁnancial statements where you can ﬁnd that because, yes,
it is a very long document and it's diﬃcult to ﬁnd everything. Let me start with Page 71,
where in the explanatory notes to the intangibles, you'll see what Mr. Rueda explained
previously regarding how the assessment of insurance liabilities works in IFRS 4 and how
this relates to the goodwill issue. Now the ﬁrst step that we took was upon the acquisition
of Delta Lloyd to determine how much can be acknowledged as a total goodwill. Last
year, we were here with the -- with our audit of the ﬁnancial statements for 2017 and said
that the total goodwill equals about EUR 1.3 billion. And we said that's provisional. We
have a year to see whether that's the deﬁnitive amount for Q1. And you may have seen
that, that amount has not been changed. So EUR 1.3 billion was the amount to recognize
in the total transaction as far as goodwill was concerned.
Next, as you'll also see in the ﬁnancial statements, the question was how that goodwill
should be allocated to diﬀerent cash-generating units. That's the question that IFRS 36
raises. Cash-generating units are the units to which you attribute the added value. NN set
up a complicated process for that. And we audited that. The outcome was that the EUR
852 million related to the cash-generating unit for Delta Lloyd Life insurance.
Next, we said, okay, we have several units, Life, Non-life, Asset Management, Belgium.
How has that goodwill been allocated? And we said that, each year. So for the ﬁrst time in
2018, that has to be reviewed for impairment. So that, that was done. Now there was one
special detail, which was that the cash-generating units aligned with the legal entities. Of
course, the integration target of the management was for Delta Lloyd and NN Life to be
merged and the same, the Delta Lloyd and NN Non-life be merged as well. At ﬁrst, when
the goodwill was recorded, that was uncertain because it was subject to permission from
the Nederlanden Bank. So at ﬁrst, we said you cannot anticipate any integrated cashgenerating unit because this assumes being able to manage those cash ﬂows there. But
you can't because you're still waiting for the opinion of the regulator.
During Q4, the approval from the Nederlanden Bank was obtained to transition on 1
January 2019 to a legal merge of both Life insurance companies and both Non-life
insurance companies. So that was the point when the approval was obtained, not at 1
January. But when the approval was obtained to say so the restriction on the cashPage 38 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

generating units can be released, we should progress to a single integrated life insurance
company that will be one cash-generating unit. And at that point, what's in the -- and the
Life insurance company and the Delta Lloyd company that was acquired would then be
merged. The outcome of that review was that there is no foundation to maintain the
goodwill. So the EUR 852 million had to be impaired. When? Not on 1 January 2019. That
was the legal moment. But once the management could say, "Yes, I'm able to perform
integrated management of this." That was in Q4 2018. And that's why it appears in the
ﬁnancial statements.
What you're asking is was that all? That's a very good question. That was our key audit
matter, one which refers to how our insurance liabilities should be measured. And that's
the adequacy test or the reserve adequacy test in the report, which is a test that the
management performs each period to see whether you examine current -- the insurance
liabilities according to current assumptions, do you have enough there. And what you see
is that part of the reevaluation reserves are necessary in the equity to cover the adequacy
of the insurance liabilities. And that's the background. That's why when we determine
materiality, we do not base this on the visible equity overall but on the core equity. So we
do not include those reevaluation reserves as assets available to shareholders because a
signiﬁcant portion has been maintained to be able to meet the insurance liabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the question is do we, as shareholders, know what's happening? Well I have good
news for you because on Page 167, you'll see an explanatory note where the line, as Mr.
Rueda said, between equity under IFRS to Solvency II is visualized. And you'll see a
deduction of EUR 7.7 billion. So that is less than the reevaluation reserves. So you've got
that left. That's how you can assess the quality of the ﬁgures. And I think that, that
provides the insight into the ﬁnancial statements that you would like.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
So if I understand correctly, the conclusion is that if you no longer have enough goodwill
to impair, you have to resort to the reevaluation reserve and you can simply take from that
until that's empty and then you're in trouble.

Q - Peti de Wit
The background is to maintain investments, asset and liability matching on the grand
policyholder income receiving premiums and invest in long-term items. And in the
meantime, suppose interest rates decline and investments increase, you get a
reevaluation reserve from equity. But the counterpart to that, the reinsurance liabilities,
are not booked in IFRS. But the test is performed.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
I tried to state that in easier terms. So ﬁrst, you have to impair goodwill. But there's no
more goodwill. You have to see whether the reevaluation reserve is suﬃcient. That's the
buﬀer. But it's not a cost or an impairment. You're basically checking whether the buﬀer is
still adequate.

Q - Peti de Wit
Page 39 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

That's a question that I thought you asked last year or the year before. It concerns the
diﬀerence between the equity on the books and the market value of the equity.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

FINAL

So Mr. (Kande), you see that a simple shareholders' meeting can also be a course in IFRS.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
But I already took that course. And I should be asking you directly so that I can
understand that.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Okay. Does anybody else want to ask our auditor a question? No? Okay, Mr. (Kande), you
had a question for the management, didn't you?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Okay. I've learned a few things at this meeting and from other insurance companies in
recent years that we don't really believe in IFRS. It's an obligation that we have to comply
with. But what we're really interested in, Solvency II. And there are a lot of tricks that the
Nederlanden Bank considers as well. I know that insurance companies need to use
standard models that they cannot manipulate. They're compressed into a template that
yields a reserve to show whether they have enough capital. Now what could be
interesting as the NN Group has done to deviate from the standard model. And you need
permission from the Nederlanden Bank and you can use some of your own models if you
can demonstrate that you need to assess risks or upscale assets in diﬀerent ways, you may
have more reserves in your capital. To make a long story short, I understand that using it
in obtaining permission and extending permission to deviate from the Nederlanden Bank
standard model. So the internal, partially internal models, are very labor-intensive. You
can't have simply 2 or 3 analysts using spreadsheets. Often, it involves huge, very costly
teams. And occasionally, a company will say don't bother, it's not worth it. And we're in a
tug-of-war with the Nederlanden Bank. Let's just comply with the standard system. And
that will cut costs considerably.
That's a long introduction. My question to you is how much does it cost to NN group as a
whole, per annum, for permission to deviate from the standard model. And what is the
return? How do we beneﬁt?

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

First, the internal model that we use. We use that because we believe that it provides a far
more realistic reﬂection of the actual risks that we, as an international group, face. So our
exposure. It's not that there's a standard model and internal model and thus the internal
model provide an uplift. That's not what matters. What matters for risk management
practice. And our Chief Risk Oﬃcer would probably be very unhappy if we didn't do this
correctly. What matters is that for risk management, we need to determine together with
the (inaudible) bank that our models provide a far better toolkit to manage our risks.
That's what matters. So it's not strictly a cost-beneﬁt assessment. It's about proper risk
Page 40 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

management in NN group. We have a solid and prudent ﬁnancial policy and a good risk
management as well. And we want to keep it sophisticated. That's why we use the system
but as to what it costs us, Mr. Rueda?

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

FINAL

(Interpreted) For whatever reason.

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Diﬀerent button?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delﬁn Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

(Interpreted) So it's very diﬃcult to provide a precise number for the cost of the internal
model because that relates, as Lard has mentioned, the risk management framework, our
model validation, the team that produced the model. And there is model validation that
has to provide their independent opinion about it, then we've got the internal audit that
review that the process has been followed. So it is a bit, of course, here and there. And I
think it would be for me to guess a number. But certainly, controls, frameworks and better
risk management costs money. But I think it's a good investment to do. And maybe if I
take the opportunity on your initial comment about the insurance companies somehow
playing down the importance of our IFRS equity, I think it's right. But we have been
absolutely transparent from the very beginning, from the time we did the IPO, from the
time that I keep referring to investors and I referred to you, to our ﬁnancial supplement,
where you've got this adjustment between IFRS equity and shareholders and on
(inaudible) Solvency II on which you can see how much is the value that is reﬂected due to
the market value of the liability. So transparency has always been there. And we will
continue to do that. And it is our intention to continue managing the group based on the
capacity to generate capital, to generate solvency and to be able to pay without
dividends to our shareholders. And that's where the focus is.

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Thank you, Delﬁn. Explanation, which I think for the shareholders was very important.
(foreign language) (Interpreted) I could have said that in Dutch. I think we can wrap up
this agenda item following your questions and the answers provided and open the vote.
But ﬁrst, I'd like to ask the greenroom to say how much capital is present or represented,
which at today's AGM is 71.6%. Yes. You can see it. Everybody can see it. I'm pleased to
mention this because that means that the turnout is once again a bit higher than it was last
year. So that shareholder presence at this meeting, albeit largely by proxy, has increased.
Before we open the vote, I'd like to give the ﬂoor to Mrs. Stuijt who will explain the
procedure.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Once again, I'm pleased to explain the voting procedure to you. We're
going to start voting. Please take your voting handsets and insert your voting card with a
gold-colored chip facing into the handset. You'll see your name appear on the display.
Page 41 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

And after that, on the screen, you'll see the diﬀerent options for casting your vote. And if
you don't see that, please raise your hand now. No? No hands raised? You may keep the
voting card inserted throughout the meeting. If you want to vote in favor, press 1; if you
want to vote against the proposal, press 2; and if you wish to abstain, please press 3. We
will now vote on each proposal individually. The ﬁrst item you can vote on 4A as the
Chairman just mentioned. Please cast your vote. You may cast your vote by pressing 1, 2
or 3.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) We're waiting for the sign from the notary that the votes have stabilized, as
they call it.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Well I see that the blue boxes have stopped. Is something wrong?

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(Foreign Language) (Interpreted) The vote is closed. And the result is what I have in front
of me regarding agenda Item 4A that 99.54% has voted in favor and 0.46% voted against.
And there's some abstentions that cannot be conveyed in the percentage.
Now on to agenda Item 4B that concerns the explanation of the proﬁt retention and
distribution policy. And this is a discussion item. I'm referring to the dividend policy that
we published on the NN group website, which the summary is that the NN group's
dividend policy is that the ﬁrm intends to distribute dividend in accordance with the
meeting from ﬁnancial performance and aims for a 40% to 50% payout ratio of the net
operating result. The ﬁrm intends to distribute the dividend -- an option of dividend to the
shareholder in shares or in cash and should neutralize dilution by repurchasing shares.
In addition, it's expected that capital generated above the capital ambition of the ﬁrm will
be returned to shareholders, unless this capital may be used for other appropriate
corporate objectives, such as investing in net value-increasing opportunities for the ﬁrm.
When distributing a dividend is proposed, the ﬁrm will consider its capital position,
external debt position and liquidity position as well as ﬁnancial supervision requirements
and strategic considerations as well as expectations in that respect.
Will anybody like to ask any questions about the proﬁt retention and distribution policy? It
does not change with respect to last year. If not, I would like to invite you to the next
agenda item, which is the proposal to distribute the dividend. And that's a voting item,
the proposal to distribute dividend was also mentioned in Mr. Friese's presentation and is
now being voted on. I'm referring to the proposal as included in the convocation, in
particular Page 4, which in summary, reads a ﬁnal dividend of EUR 1.24 per common
share, together with which -- with the interim dividend of EUR 0.66, a total dividend for
2018 equals EUR 1.09 per common share. You have seen in the convocation, the

Page 42 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

explanation to the agenda that far more detailed is provided. Will anybody like for me to
read all that out? If not, I am pleased to open the vote on that subject.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

FINAL

(Interpreted) The procedures is the same. The voting system has been activated. And you
may know cast your vote by pressing the button of your choice.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed. And on my screen I see that 99.52% has voted in favor.
Releasing from liability that's agenda item 5A, proposal to release the members of the
Executive Management Board from liability for their respective duties performed in
ﬁnancial year 2018. That's the voting item. I referred to the proposal as included in the
convocation on Page 4. Would anybody like the ﬂoor on this item? If not, then I'm pleased
to open a vote on this.
The voting system has been activated. Please press the button of your choice.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) I note that the proposal has been adopted with 97.94% of the votes cast in
favor. The next item is 5B, which is the proposal to release the supervisory board
members from liability for the respective duties performed during the 2018 ﬁnancial year.
This is also a voting item. Aside from the present supervisory board numbers, obviously,
this proposal also provides a release from liability to Mrs. Vletter-van Dort who at the end
of last year's meeting on 31 May 2018, step down from the supervisory board. Please see
the convocation on Page 4. Would anybody like the ﬂoor on this agenda item? If not, I am
pleased to open the vote and hand you over to Mrs. Stuijt.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Please cast your vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) I know that the proposal has been adopted with 98.37% of the vote and both
the executive and management boards and the supervisory boards have been released
from liability. We are grateful.

Page 43 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

Agenda item 6 is the proposal to reappoint Mrs. Helen Vletter-van Dort to the supervisory
board. This is a voting item. Pursuant to the scheduled rotation for the supervisory board,
the term of appointment of Helen Vletter will end after this meeting ends. And the
supervisory board is, therefore, notifying you about a vacancy that needs to be ﬁlled on
this board.
The Central Works Council has an enhanced right of recommendation and has used its
enhanced right of recommendation and has requested the supervisory board to nominate
Mrs. Vletter-van Dort as the person recommended by the Work Council. Vletter has stated
that she's eligible for reappointment and the supervisory board, therefore, nominates
Mrs. Vletter for reappointment to the supervisory Board for a 4-year term.
If the proposal is adopted, the reappointment will become eﬀective as of the end of this
meeting and will end after the end of the AGM in 2023.
In the convocation for this meeting, you will have ﬁnd brief curriculum vitae of Mrs. Vletter
as is also conveyed on the screen above me or next to me. Mrs. Vletter is being
nominated for reappointment because of her extensive knowledge in -- on corporate
governance, corporate law and ﬁnancial supervision as well as for expertise in serving on
the supervisory board. For additional information, please see Pages 4 and 5 in the
convocation.

Bloomberg Transcript

The nomination to reappoint Mrs. Vletter by the supervisory board is subject to the
condition that the general meeting does not recommend anybody else for nomination.
Prior to this meeting, we did not receive any other recommendations. So I assume that the
general meeting does not want to recommend any other individuals. If not, since there
are no other recommendations for ﬁlling the present vacancy on the supervisory board, I
will now propose the reappointment of Mrs. Vletter-van Dort. This is the opportunity to
ask questions or make remarks. If there are none, I am pleased to open the vote.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) the Voting system has been activated. Please cast your vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Helen, congratulations I see that you have been reappointed with over 99%
of the vote. I note that the proposal has been adopted.
During the new term to which Helen has been appointed to the supervisory board, she
will continue to serve on the risk committee and denominations and corporate
governance committee of the supervisory board. She will also be a member and will also
Page 44 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

chair the remuneration committee, serving as chair of the remuneration, corporate
governance committee will transferred to Mr. David Cole as of the end of this meeting.

FINAL

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Agenda Item 7, the proposal to reappoint KPMG accountants as the external
auditor of the company. This is a voting item. I'd like to refer to the proposal as included
in the convocation of the meeting, Page 2. But before I give you the opportunity to ask
questions on this matter and to vote on the matter, we'd to give the ﬂoor to my colleague,
Mr. Hans Schoen, Chair of our Audit Committee.

A - Johannes Wilhelmus Schoen

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Jan. We are discussing the item on the agenda to reappoint KPMG as auditor
of the NN Group for the period from 2020 to 2022. I would like to explain how, from the
very start of the discussions in the audit committee in May '18, how we came to this point.
As you know, KPMG was appointed in 2015 for the years 2016 through 2019. We
experienced that changing auditing ﬁrm is a far-reaching process that has a great impact
on the company and the new and the old auditor and requires extra eﬀort. And -- so it
was obvious for us when we saw the end of the term of KPMG come decide whether it
would -- were there any reasons to change auditor. First of all, we look at it outcomes at
the annual service evaluations of the auditor by the company and follow-up of any points
of improvement, both on the part of KPMG and NN Group itself. We also looked at the
outcome of the self-evaluations of the audit committee with respect to contracts and
quality of the external auditor. We compared that. And then the audit committee asked
management whether they saw any reasons to change auditor.
Now on the basis of all this, the audit committee reached a conclusion that there's no
reason to change auditor at this point in time. This is a conclusion that was shared by the
full board -- the supervisory board and management.
We also established that, therefore, there was no reason to involve a diﬀerent accounting
ﬁrm in the selection process.
And subsequently, when it became apparent that KPMG would like to stay on as an
auditor at NN Group, we started talking about the extension of the current contract. We
reached an agreement rather quickly about a period of three years. As you know, the
maximum term, including the ﬁrst period of four years that is almost behind us now, is a
maximum of 10 years. So we also put a lot of time and eﬀort into discussing how the
follow-up or how the succession of the current audit partners of the group will take place.
And this is necessary, because given the role in regulation and also depending on the
positions they have at that point. That could take place after a period of 5 to seven years.
And I was intensely involved in this process as Chairman of the Audit Committee. And we
also looked in this phase, to which extent the rules and regulations in other countries
where NN has operations, requires a change of the audit ﬁrm. And there were 1 or 2 cases
in which this was an issue. And we ﬁnally found acceptable solutions for all parties
involved.

Page 45 of 51



FINAL

Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

The last step in this process was extensively discussing matters with KPMG with respect to
their fees for this new this period. And all of this process has led to the fact that in March
of this year, the audit committee received a proposal of KPMG covering all these
elements. A new period of three years as scheduled with the succession proposals for the
current audit partners were elaborated and also an overview of their fee structure. These
elements were discussed in the audit committee and subsequently, were submitted to the
full supervisory board with a positive advice. And a supervisory board approved the
elements. And this has led to the proposal that we have now put to you at this AGM. This
concludes my explanation.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Thank you, Johannes. I'd like to give the shareholders an opportunity to ask questions or
make comments on this item of the agenda. No one? Okay. So we can proceed to the
vote, the proposal to reappoint KPMG as described in the notice -- the convocation of the
meeting under Agenda Item 7. The system has been opened and you can now cast your
vote.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) The system has now been opened and you can now cast your vote.
(Voting)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Yes. The vote is closed. I note that this agenda item has been adopted with
more than 99% -- 99.5% even so congratulations, gentlemen with this reappointment.
I shall now proceed to Item 8, which is a proposal to designate the Executive Board as the
competent body to resolve on the issuance of ordinary shares and to resolve on granting
of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares in the context of issuing so-called contingent
convertible.
Securities, this is a voting item. The agenda item concerns a proposal that you have not
seen on the agenda of our company before. And it is related to the Solvency II
supervision regime, which is applicable to the company since January 1, 2016.
I would like to refer to the explanatory note to this agenda item, Pages 5 and 6 and also
the Annex to the notice convening the meeting, page 8. It's a new subject. It's rather
complicated but does anybody -- would anybody like to ask a question? Would anybody
want me to read out the full agenda items? Someone is calling out, "No, no, no." So we'll
just put it to vote. And I'll be pleased to do so. And I'll give the ﬂoor to Janet Stuijt.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) The voting system has been opened. You can now proceed to cast your
vote.

Page 46 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

(Voting)

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

FINAL

(Interpreted) The vote is closed. And I note this agenda item has been adopted with
almost 95% of the votes. I shall proceed to Item 9, the authority to issue shares and to
grant rights to subscribe for shares.
And the proposal designate the Executive Board is a competent body to resolve on the
issuance of ordinary shares and to resolve on the granting of rights to subscribe for
ordinary shares.
I'd like to refer to the explanatory note to this agenda item as included in the notice
convening the meeting, Page 6. And I would like to highlight that with this proposal -- you
are familiar with this proposal contrary to the previous one. Although the percentage this
year has been limited to 10% of subscribe capital as compared to last year when we were
asking you to agree to 10% plus 10%. Do you even want me to read out the entire text of
the agenda item as published in the notice convening the meeting? No? Does anybody
have a question or would anybody like to make an observation? If not, I will put this to
vote and give the ﬂoor to Janet Stuijt.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) the voting system is now opened. You can now proceed to vote.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Voting)

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) The vote is closed. And I note that this item of the agenda can count on the
agreement of almost 99.5% of the shareholders. And so has been adopted. The other half
of this agenda item concerns a proposal to designate Executive Board as a competent
body to resolve, to limit or exclude preemptive rights of existing shareholders when
issuing ordinary shares and granting rights to subscribe for ordinary shares as referred to
under 9A. This is a voting item. I would like to refer to the explanatory note to this agenda
item as included in the notice convening the meeting, Page 6. And this proposal is the
same proposal as the proposal that was put to you last year and the year before. Should -would nonetheless someone want me to read out the entire text? No? Thank you very
much. Does anybody have a question? Would anybody like to make a comment? No? So
then, I would like to put it to a vote.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) The voting system is now opened. You can now cast your vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) the vote is closed.

Page 47 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) 98.7% of the shareholders has voted in favor of the proposals. And the
proposal has been adopted. And with that, I'd like to proceed to 9B, which is proposal to
designate Executive Board as a competent body to resolve on the issuance of ordinary
shares and to resolve on the granting of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares by means
of a rights issue. This is also a voting item. And this item also concerns a proposal that you
have not seen on our agenda before, which is the proposal to designate the Executive
Board as a competent body to resolve on the rights issue. To be short, I'd like to refer to
the explanatory note of this agenda item, Page 5, of the notice convening a meeting.
Would anybody like me to read out the entire text of the proposal? If not, would anybody
like to ask a question or make a comment? No? So I'd like to put this item to vote. I'd like
to give the ﬂoor to Mrs. Stuijt.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) The voting system is now open. You can now vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

And I see that the 96.5% of the shareholders have supported this item. And -- so
therefore, it has been adopted. And with that, I'd like to proceed to agenda Item 2. The
proposal to authorize the Executive Board to acquire ordinary shares in the company's
share capital. I'd like to refer to the explanatory note to this agenda item as included in
the notice convening the meeting, Page 7. And this proposal is the same as the proposal
that was made last year or the years before that. Would anybody like me to read out the
entire text of the proposal? No? Would anybody like to ask a question or make a
comments? No? So I'll put it to vote and give the ﬂoor to Janet Stuijt.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

(Interpreted) the voting system has been activated. You can now cast your vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) 99.47% of the shareholders has voted in favor of the proposal and therefore,
the proposal has been adopted. Agenda Item 11, proposal to reduce the issued share
capital by cancellation of ordinary shares held by the company. Also a voting item. This
item has been explained in the explanatory note to the notice -- and the notice convening
a meeting, Page 7. This is also proposal that was made last year and the years before.
Does anybody want me to read the entire proposal? No? Would anybody like to ask a

Page 48 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

question or make a comment on this agenda item? No? So I'd like to give the ﬂoor to Mrs.
.Stuijt for the vote.

A - Janet Stuijt

{BIO 20747468 <GO>}

FINAL

(Interpreted) The voting system has now been activated. You can now cast your vote.
(Voting)
(Interpreted) The vote is closed.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) This last subject have been approved by the 99.75% of the shareholders, has
been adopted.
As such, thank you for that. Well you have complied with your duties voting for these
items. Well we still have 1 item on the agenda, which is any other business, I'd like to give
it opportunity to ask questions or make comments that are not related to the items that
we discussed earlier on. Can I give the ﬂoor to someone? Mr. EspaÃ±a?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Mr. Chairman, I'm very pleased that you have given the whole plastic (inaudible) situation
so much publicity. Thank you for that.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

Anybody else?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yes. Mr. Chairman, before I give the ﬂoor back to you, I have something I would like to say
in any other business. And that would be the following: I would like to take a moment to
concentrate on some news that we announced earlier this year. In February, we
announced that our Chairman, Jan Holsboer, the Chairman of our Supervisory Board has
decided to retire at the end of this meeting. And we reached that point in time. And we
also announced that the Supervisory Board has chosen David Cole on the right-hand side
of Mr. Rueda -- on your left hand side. And he's been a member of the supervisory board
since 1st of January. And -- so we've elected him as the successor for Jan. Jan can look
back on a very impressive career in the insurance business. And that he's a very wellknown executive nationally but also internationally. And he served on several supervisory
board and he has spent his career in executive positions over the past 175 years of NN
Group. Well he's experienced so many things. And he's been so closely involved with
Nationale-Nederlanden for the past 50 years, former member of the Executive Board of
our company, former member of the Executive Board of ING after the merger, he worked
for Delta Lloyd in the past, he was a member of supervisory board of Delta Lloyd. So we
are dealing with someone who has been connected to our company for a long, long time.
And we've been able to beneﬁt from his experience and his wisdom for so many years. So

Page 49 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

FINAL

on behalf of the members of my team, the management board, I would like to express our
appreciation and gratitude, the way in which you have led our company as a Chairman.
Thank you. And at the same time, we all know this, we're handing over the baton. And so
as management, we're also looking forward to working with you, David, as the new
Chairman.

A - Jan Hendrik Holsboer

{BIO 1432061 <GO>}

(Interpreted) Thank you, Lard. Okay, before responding to that, I would just like to make
some ﬁnal announcements. Logistics, requesting the minutes, the draft of the minutes will
be posted on the company's website within three months. And the shareholders can,
obviously, get a copy of these minutes. You can point that out at the registration desk. The
ﬁnal outcomes of the votes will be posted on the corporate website within a couple of
days and now, in terms of catering, outside this room, we'll be serving you drinks and a
bite to eat. I'd like to invite you to that. And we would request you to hand in your
handsets and your voting cards -- the chip cards. The chip cards do not contain any
personal details.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've almost reached the end of this meeting and Lard, once again, thank you so much
for your very kind words. I'm looking back on more than 50 years in which I had very
many diﬀerent positions. I've been closely involved with the NN Group, its predecessors,
the companies that are now part of the company. I feel privileged. And it pleases me
greatly that NN, after its repositioning as an independent company in 2014. And the
acquisition and integration of Delta Lloyd in 2017, has developed into a strong European
insurance company.
I would like to thank my colleagues and supervisory board, the members of the
management board and obviously, more than 50 -- 14,000 dedicated NN employees,
external stakeholders in the company, politicians and regulators. So I'm very, very grateful
for your -- the excellent cooperation that I have experienced in my long career. I wish the
NN group a very -- every success in the future. And I'd like to thank you for your
contribution to its success. We may be meeting next year but then, I will be attending the
meeting as a shareholder at the other side of this table.

A - E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Time for drinks.
(Portions of this transcript that are marked (Interpreted) were spoken by an interpreter
present on the live call.)

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
Page 50 of 51



Company Name: NN Group NV
Company Ticker: NN NA Equity
Date: 2019-05-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 51 of 51

