Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Neil Manser, Interim Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Penny James, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrew Broadﬁeld
Andrew Sinclair
Edward Morris
Greg Patterson
Joanna Parsons
Kamran Hossain
Lain Pearce

Bloomberg Transcript

Sami Taipalus

Presentation
Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning everyone, and welcome to our ﬁrst half 2019 ﬁnancial results. I think we're
few down so if we don't all on the way through than apologies and apologies for those
who've had to dial instead of be here in person.
I'll just take a pause and say, thank you to Morgan stanley for hosting us And to simplify
your lives we've also -- we're going to put the speech online straigh after this, on the
website I just want to say, I am so proud and excited to be presenting today. Just the next
stage of our journey, this is a great business with real potential, and I'm pleased with the
progress that we've made in the ﬁrst half.
So why don't I start by summarizing the ﬁrst half on slide 4. With a backdrop of a highly
competitive motor market, we have delivered a good ﬁnancial results. We're on track to
meet our ﬁnancial target helped by the diverse business model, and the cost and
underwriting discipline. Operationally, we've hit some of our key milestones on our path
to transforming our competitiveness and strengthening our ability to grow sustainably.
Now Neil will go through the ﬁnancial details a bit later and give a little bit more context
on the market environment.

Page 1 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

But just to summarize the performance, we continue to grow our direct own brand
policies, while maintaining underwriting discipline. And we've delivered a combined ratio
of $92.5% as you know, reducing cost is a major lever for us to be more competitive. So
I'm pleased to say that we're on track to achieve our operating expenses of less than
GBP700 million for the full year. This discipline has meant we could deliver a good
operating proﬁt of GBP274 million, resulting in an annualized return on tangible equity of
21%. We've grown our interim dividend 2.9% to 7.2 pence, leaving us with a strong
solvency position at the top end of the risk appetite range. We've also made great strides
in our operational and strategic journey.
On the operational side, we've launched three new IT platform in the ﬁrst-half key
milestone on our multi-year journey, and I'll talk more about those shortly. And
strategically, I've used the ﬁrst few months as CEO to challenge ourselves and to look
beyond the next couple of years. And ask are we focusing on right areas so that we will
thrive onto the future. So what I've concluded? Well, I believe we're investing in the right
areas and our business model is the right one. And in fact, an advantaged one, to capture
the opportunities that lie ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

And our IT transformation aims to enable eﬃciency, pace of deployment and ﬂexibility, all
of which will be required to capture those opportunities. So we must operate and
organize ourselves in a way that takes full advantage of that, and this is a priority for me.
On slide 5 I'd like to take a moment to paint the high level strategic picture. Our aim is to
give peace of mind to as many customers as we can through our multi-brand, multichannel, and multi-product approach, we achieve this through distinctive strengths, that
mean we can react, we can reach more consumers and oﬀer them more choice.
We have trusted brands built over many years an innovative propositions that give us
valuable relationship with our customers our data and insight. Gives us the opportunity to
create value for our customers and our shareholders.
Our vertically integrated claims model gives us advantages on claims cost, enables
industry-leading propositions, and gives us good insight on claims and Car Technology
trends. And we have talented and passionate people, you can see this with the three new
executive appointments I made last month, homegrown talents who between them have
nearly 35 years with the organization. And this talent runs all the way through the
business. For any of you that have visited our sites or have used our customer services,
you will note ﬁrsthand the quality of our people.
Looking to the future though, I expect consumers to demand easier journeys and
personalized product. And with this in mind, I believe that our comprehensive channel -channel strategy equips us well having a direct channel gives us a relationship with our
customers, which allows us to better understand in a unique way their needs and meet
those requirements. As a result, direct is a real driver of value for both our customers and
our shareholders and is a channel that will continue to be very important to us. The
intermediated channels such as price comparison and partnerships, are both signiﬁcant
and evolving as well.

Page 2 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

On price comparison site, we're good, but we want to be great, and we expect the nature
of partnerships to evolve. Combining our partnership skills with the strength of our
brands, means that we can create real competitive advantage here. Now there are two
critical enablers, which when combined with our strength aim to underpin sustainable
improvements in our competitiveness. And they'll help us respond to customer's evolving
needs.
The ﬁrst is technology transformation. I have said to many of you before, that with our
legacy systems it would be diﬃcult to compete proﬁtably in commoditized channels, like
price comparison. Here, the cost, speed, data and ﬂexibility really matters. So I'm excited
by the technology capabilities that we're developing to improve our competitiveness.
The second is business transformation. To realize the full beneﬁts of our new technology
and grow the business, we need to work in a diﬀerent more agile way to deliver a faster
deployment of change.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the coming slides, I'm going to focus on the IT platform we've launched this half.
The beneﬁts we expect to get from them, and give a glimpse as to how the transformation
of IT is fueling the transformation of our business.
Turn to slide 6, here we're trying to show the overall IT platform picture. You can see, I'm
not exaggerating, when I say, that we are transforming virtually every IT platform in this
business. 2019 has seen us achieve some signiﬁcant milestones, but actually we've been
steadily building and delivering for some time now. As you can see on the slide, each
program is at a diﬀerent stage in its delivery and with beneﬁts likely to emerge at diﬀerent
time scales.
Our investments aim to materially improve our competitiveness for the market as it is
today and to set us up for the future. Of these, the most signiﬁcant program is on Motor
and Home portfolios. We expect the beneﬁts from this to start to emerge from next year.
And in a similar way, our commercial broker business NIG is already starting to beneﬁt
from a string of platform improvements to strengthen its pricing and underwriting
capabilities. Some of our other investments have the longer-term more in mind to enable
us to access and serve our customers in new ways with new products.
Direct Lines of business for instance is now well established and has the potential to grow
proﬁts meaningfully over the medium-term. Travel, which focuses on partnerships today,
oﬀers promising opportunities in the future, particularly in providing another touch points
with our customers.
And Darwin, our new approach for price comparison customers is already giving us
insights that could oﬀer another growth opportunity. Within the next couple of years, we
expect to have implemented changes on nearly all our major insurance platforms, to have
reshaped the way we work as an organization and to be well on the way with our IT
infrastructure. And all of this is designed to deliver beneﬁts through reduced costs faster
and more accurate pricing, greater product ﬂexibility, and greater pace of change.

Page 3 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

So let's take a look, at some of the individual platforms. On slide 7, we show the very highlevel delivery program for our major, motor and home platform. Through this program,
we're upgrading nearly all of the applications that are used in the customer journey,
including policy administration, billing, pricing deployment, we're upgrading the claims
system and we're shifting most of the data onto the clouds to provide a more ﬂexible and
resilient data storage, so in short we're doing a lot. As a result of this, the customer will
beneﬁt from things such as online documentation and seamless quote journeys. More
product choice and ﬂexibility, more accurate pricing, more targeted marketing through
faster pricing capabilities and new more granular data. And we're progressing well on this
having launched privilege motor this half to both direct and on our ﬁrst price comparison
sites with the others following shortly.
A phased roll out is designed to enable us to do this in a fast, safe and controlled way
whilst minimizing the disruptions to the rest of the business. Once we have delivered the
key functionality across motor and home, we'll then have the ﬂexibility to expand the
product range. We'll have the ability to start to break products down into smaller
components and to build more personalized products, delivering them more quickly and
more cheaply. Overall, the new platform is giving us all a real sense of excitement and
optimism for the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now onto Darwin on slide 8. From the outset here, our ambition was to combine the
beneﬁts of our scales and data with a new approach to pricing, designed speciﬁcally for
price comparisons and to increase our pace of learning. We wanted to use the latest
digital and data techniques to create a pricing model that doesn't overlap with the
group's existing model and we wanted to do it with a cost base that would give it a
competitive advantage.
So we pulled together a team of data scientists and data engineers, gave them the group
date and provided them with the support and scale of our claims team. Now we're
managing the roll out very carefully by placing limits on numbers. So that we can test and
learn, and I'm pleased with the progress.
The roll out will take some time and as it progresses, we'll see the degree of overlap with
the main book and this will give us a better sense of the scale of the growth opportunity.
But the group is already beneﬁting as it learns from the Darwin's team working methods.
And the main book is beneﬁting from Darwin's detailed information in areas such as
application fraud and risk modeling for customers with claims and convictions.
Now on slide 9. I'd like to tell you about travel and our new partnership with Starling Bank,
starting on the left with travel we have totally transformed our travel platform. Building a
system that is fully optimized for tablets and mobile, provides online medical screening
and self-service upgrades and is fully automated for certain claims. Delivering this has
helped secure the renewal of both our RBS and Nationwide contracts. But it also provides
interesting options in the future. It provides potential another touch point with customers
and lends itself well to emerging distribution platforms.

Page 4 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Moving to the right hand side of the page and our partnership with Starling Bank. We've
mentioned our API capabilities in the past, when we discussed our home proposition with
RBS. I'm delighted that we have enabled --we've been--I'm delighted that our strength
here have enabled us to combine our Churchill brand and our partnership strengths to be
the ﬁrst major insurer on Starling's marketplace. It's small volume today, but we're already
learning what we can do in this environment and there is potential to access valuable data
that will improve the customer experience here. So as you saw earlier, we are
transforming our largest business line with the aim of -- to grow our proﬁtability over the
near and medium-term. But also you can see, that we're investing in the long-term, and
we can meet the evolving needs of customers.
On slide 10, we show you the evidence that we can successfully grow businesses. Some 12
years ago, we launched direct line for business and today, we have half a million
customers and over GBP 100 million of premium at good and steady margins. But you
know, over the past few years, we've invested in building the next generation systems to
give small business owners the conﬁdence to buy their insurance direct. Those of you
who came to the Bristol oﬃce last year, heard a little about the way we work in DL4B
which is a really agile working approach and gives the team pace and real customer
focus.

Bloomberg Transcript

So they continue to seek to optimize the current product suite and customer journeys.
And I am always excited by that innovation and their energy. They have just made good
progress to-date and have further product launches planned in the second half. And
Rescue is also undertaking a lot of activity under the surface.
Reengineering the way people work, building a center of Excellence with multi-skilled
team, successfully relaunching the Rescue Me' app. Renegotiating supplier contracts and
so on, the list is long. And we continue to see great potential in rescue and in the second
year of its ﬁve-year plan we're conﬁdents with it's progress Look, I hope that I have
conveyed there is a real buzz and sense of ambition within this organization. We've made
excellent progress, but as you can see, there's a lot of change going on, which I just can't
do justice to it here today.
So we'd like to share more with you at our Capital Markets Day on 21st of November. Now
we'll be holding this at our largest contact center, which you can see behind us in
Doncaster to bring to life for you some of the things that are so special about DLG. As an
ExCo we love to go to our contact centers so the extraordinary energy of our people
there and to see team in action their commitments for our customers.
But we'll also provide you with some insights on the capabilities our new technologies
bring and how we're using them to transform our business and bring competitive
advantages. I'm really proud that we've been able to deliver so much change while
delivering good ﬁnancial results this half.
And with that, over to Neil to do the ﬁnancials.

Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}
Page 5 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

Thanks, Penny, and good morning, everyone. Now I was talking with andy there other day,
and I realized that I've been in the last 15 years, I've been to over 300 results
presentations. I know many of you in the room, have maybe done a few more than that I
know. that the presenters always look forward to my constructive feedback. And I very
much look forward to yours.
So let's start on slide 13 in the pack. For me the summary today is good results on track to
meet both our 2019 targets and our medium-term combined ratio targets. Before I go
through the results in detail, I'd like to talk to two key themes that these results highlight
about our model.
Our discipline and our diversiﬁcation. Discipline shows through in both the trading results
and our cost story. In motor and home we priced for claims inﬂation in what were highly
competitive markets. And our operating expenses are at the lowest level since the ﬁrst
half of 2015.

Bloomberg Transcript

The value of our diversiﬁcation is also showing through with over GBP100 million of
proﬁts from outside of the motor business. As well as continued strong premium growth
in Green Flag and Direct Line of business. These factors have enabled us to report
another good operating proﬁt, which in turn has helped us grow the dividend again, all
supported by a very strong capital base. So all in all, a good ﬁrst half ﬁnancial
performance.
Now for the details starting on slide 14. Operating proﬁt was GBP 274 million in the ﬁrst
half lower than last year due to few signiﬁcant items most of which we highlight on the
table at the bottom right of the page. On the positive side, weather has been very benign
compared to last year, when we suﬀered the Beast from the East. But there are a few items
going the other way.
Most important, is that you'll recall we had exceptional motor performance in the ﬁrst half
of 2018, which beneﬁted from price increases as a result of moving to an Ogden discount
rate of minus 0.75% whilst still beneﬁting from the pre-Ogden reinsurance cost. Last year,
we also had a gain on the sale of our Bristol oﬃce and high investment gains. This year,
we've had more -- we've had lower gains a more normal motor market and the
conﬁrmation of the new Ogden discount rate, which has cost us GBP17 million.
Now whilst proﬁt is down in the ﬁrst half 2019, a combined ratio of 92.5% is a good result.
If we normalize out good weather, we get to 94.6% of which about 1 point is ogden
related so underlying 93% to 95% is well within our range of 93% to 95%. As Penny
mentioned, return on tangible equity is close to 21% despite a more conservative solvency
position than usual and well ahead of our target of 15%.
Moving on to in-force policies on slide 15. Overall, we saw ﬂat in-force policies in the ﬁrst
half and premiums down 2.2% as our diversiﬁed business model helped oﬀset some of
the pressure we saw in motor. Starting with our direct own brands in-force policies. Motor,
which represents just over half of our direct own brand portfolio was down 1% since the
start of the year, with most of this reduction coming through in the second quarter.
Page 6 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

This reﬂects our discipline and I'll talk more about pricing later on.

FINAL

Home policies, were broadly ﬂat in a highly competitive new business market. In terms of
channel performance for motor and home, we had some good growth in PCW
particularly through Churchill, but with market shopping levels generally down, we saw
fewer opportunities in direct.
Green Flag continue to grow, with policy count up 5.9% year-to-date again achieving
double-digit growth year-on-year. The team here has built great momentum, and is
looking to pass one million customers by the end of the year. lower due to package

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to commercial, Direct Line for business grew to over half a million policies with
volumes on the SME platform doubling in the period. The table on the right shows what
happens outside of direct own brands. Policy count fell in motor and home partners,
which is due to partner exits we've talked about before. Rescue partners and other
personal lines were primarily lower due to package bank account volumes a trend we've
seen over a number of years. And in NIG and other, the team is focused on improving
margins, particularly motor lines and this has led to lower volumes.
Now, before I move on, I'd like to focus a minute on the long-term trends of our direct
own brands. Because it's evidence of our ability to grow in the most valuable part of our
portfolio. We've grown in motor when the time was right, and our diversiﬁcations has
balanced that when we have needed to hold discipline. You can see, that since 2015,
we've grown our motor own brand policies by 13% and delivered 16% growth across the
rest of our own brand portfolio. This gives me the conﬁdence in our ability to grow over
time.
Now to the segmental results starting with motor on slide 16. Motor delivered a good
result and continued to trade to target loss ratios in a highly competitive market. Overall,
operating proﬁt of GBP154 million with GBP86 million lower than prior year primarily due
to the reversal of last year's exceptional underwriting performance. You can see this in the
current year loss ratio, which increased by 4.9 percentage points to 83.4% and returned to
a more normal level. Prior year releases have reduced consistent with our purchase of
more reinsurance in recent years.
This reduction also reﬂects the increasing reserves from the move to minus 0.25% Ogden
discount rates. You will recall, we are reserving at 0% at year-end. Turning to top-line,
headline GWP is down 4.7%, with only a modest reduction in IFP. Underlying this is a
reduction in risk mix due to several pricing updates at the end of last year and
improvements in addressing application fraud. On top of that, our free legal expenses
proposition on Churchill is performing well in the PCW channel. Collectively, these actions
reduced average premium, but have enabled us to ﬁnd pockets of value, where we were
able to maintain our margins.
In terms of claims trends, underlying inﬂation is still at the top end of our 3% to 5% longterm range. Within that, third party property damage remains high, but has stabilized after
a poor ﬁrst quarter. Inﬂation here was in part due to pressure in the motor repair industry
Page 7 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

from high accident frequency in 2018, but the start of 2019 has seen that pressure ease.
And to remind you, we believe our auto repair centers continue to give us competitive
advantage on damage claims.
On slide 17 we show the latest ABI premium data. We said, at the full year results in March
that we have priced-- that while pricing had stabilized in the second half of 2018, we were
disappointed that the market as a whole was not pricing for claims inﬂation. Since then,
we've seen one or two positive data points, but to-date this has not turned in to sustained
market pricing improvements. As we stand here today, there are two market trends that
insurers will need to make judgments on. First, the upcoming whuplash reforms and
second, the new Ogden rate, which was worse than the 0% to 1% range most in the
market we're expecting.

Bloomberg Transcript

While we can't predict how the market will go from here, our approach is unchanged. We
remain focused on maintaining our pricing discipline and we will continue to prioritize
target loss ratios over volume. And while we can't be immune from market pricing
pressures, we remain committed to investing in the business with the aim of delivering
beneﬁts on cost and underwriting that mean we can to some extent carve our path.
Let's look at home on page 18. The ﬁrst thing, I'm sure you'll notice is the big jump in
proﬁt year-on-year, whilst benign weather is the main cause of this, the team has also
done a great job improving the normalized combined ratio by around two points
compared to last year. This has been achieved by determined focus on pricing,
underwriting and claims actions particularly in relation to escape of water. Whilst we still
expect long-term claims inﬂation around the 3% to 5% range, our latest experience has
been better than this.
Moving to the market, we believe that most are broadly rating for claims inﬂation, but
there remains a small number of players that we see come in and out the market with
more aggressive pricing tactics.
Against this backdrop, we've traded in a disciplined way around PCW's with targeted
growth where we see value and pulling back where we don't. And overall, we've achieved
rate increases of 1.5% and a continued reduction in the risk mix. It's also worth noting, the
commission ratio which continue to fall and is starting to ﬁnd the appropriate level
following the exit of two partnerships in 2017. So in summary, GBP71 million of proﬁt
supported by strong underlying performance.
Now slide 19. As you can see, Commercial and Rescue and other personal lines between
them contributed GBP49 million around 20% of group proﬁts. Beginning with
commercial. The segment continues to see growth in top line with Direct Line for business
up 8% partially oﬀset by a ﬂatter picture NIG as it continued to focus on margin
improvement. Rate carry in the ﬁrst six months for renewed business was around 6% with
the strongest improvement in motor lines.
Importantly, the current year attritional loss ratio improved by one points due to the
margin focus and price initiatives at NIG and a greater weighting towards direct line for
Page 8 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

business where loss ratios are lower. Overall, it delivered a GBP32 million operating proﬁt.
Rescue and other personal lines, proﬁt increased by a little over GBP2 million to GBP18
million. This result was largely driven by Rescue, which saw a 10% improvement in
operating proﬁt to GBP21 million. There were two key drivers of this growth. First, the earn
through of higher Green Flag direct premiums from the previous year, which improved
the risk mix away from partners. And second, better claims frequency following last year's
adverse weather.
As I said earlier, Green Flag is beginning to show some real momentum and is well
positioned to win in the rescue market.
So turning our attention to costs on slide 20. As you are aware and as Penny mentioned,
we are not satisﬁed with our current cost proﬁle. And Over time, we're looking to
sustainably reduce this and have over 90 initiatives in train at the moment. These cut
across the whole expense base and include investments we're making in the
transformation program, many of which Penny has already talked through.

Bloomberg Transcript

The current core areas of focus, include self-service and digitization, process
improvement and automation, as well as more traditional forms of cost-cutting in terms of
procurement activity and managing cost leakage. And you can see the results of some of
these actions coming through in the ﬁrst half with operating expenses down GBP16
million to the lowest level since the ﬁrst half of 2015.
Of particular note is the reduction in marketing where we have again improved
eﬀectiveness. The expense ratio was fairly stable as these lower costs were oﬀset by lower
earned premium. Given the phasing of levies including ﬂood Re in the ﬁrst half, we are
conﬁdent of delivering operating expenses below GBP700 million in 2019.
The next slide 21, pulls together the underwriting ratios in one place. So I've already
talked to the headline combined ratio of 92.5% and the 93.5% to underlying for Ogden
and weather, is well within our target of 93% to 95%. So I'll move on to the main purpose
of this chart. This is to show that we've delivered consistently strong combined ratios over
time. And again, demonstrates the DLG model and the beneﬁts of a disciplined approach
to underwriting and a diversiﬁed portfolio.
Moving on to the investment result on slide 22. Lower assets under management and
lower gains led to a GBP20 million reduction in the headline results. The net investment
income yield was up a little, at 2.1% due to lower hedging costs and was slightly ahead of
the 2% expectation. We're still conﬁdent of achieving this expectation for the full year.
With reinvestment yields down year-to-date it's diﬃcult to improve to 2% from here in the
current environment.
As expected, gains were much lower in the ﬁrst half compared to the ﬁrst half last year.
We recognized net gains of GBP12 million as we consolidated mandates with a view to
reducing investment fees. As you can see, on the table on the right, last year's gains were
supported by fair value adjustments on our property portfolio, which did not repeat this

Page 9 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

year. This is expected, given conditions in part of the U.K.'s commercial property market.
To remind you, our portfolio is prime and has a relatively low exposure to retail.
On a more positive note, the available for sale reserve has improved from an unrealized
loss of GBP 37 million at the year-end to a gain of GBP 27 million at the end of the half
year as credit spreads narrows and interest rates fell. Our guidance for signiﬁcantly lower
gains in 2019 is unchanged and I'm not expecting any further gains for the rest of this
year.
Now to the group's capital generation on slide 23. In the ﬁrst half, we saw a small
reduction in SCR which reﬂects our reduced risk exposure. As we said before, we expect
this to continue given the greater use of reinsurance than in the past. Our capital has also
been supplemented with positive mark-to-market from narrowing credit spreads since
year end. Moving across, capital generation is broadly consistent with IFRS proﬁt, so no
surprises there. And penultimately, capital expenditure, which supports the group's
transformation program was GBP90 million around half of the full year guidance of
GBP175 million. Finally, we grew the interim dividend by 2.9% to 7.2 pence per share. And
we end the half with strong capital surplus of around GBP1 billion up around GBP120
million in the full year.
Onto solvency ratio on slide 24. After the interim dividend it's a very strong 180% and is at
the top end of our risk appetite range. You'll recall at the year-end, we held back some
capital to form a buﬀer against heightened political and economic uncertainty. This buﬀer
has increased in the ﬁrst half helped in part by the tightening of credit spreads. We said at
the full year, we keep this position under review and since then environmental factors
haven't improved. Therefore, we are not returning any additional capital today, and this
leaves us at the prudent end of our risk appetite range.
Under normal conditions, as you know we still expect to operate at a ratio around the
middle of the risk appetite range. In the future, we will also consider the most appropriate
mechanism for returning any surplus capital and may utilize share buyback if conditions
are appropriate.
Before I hand back to Penny, I'd like to close with the outlook and targets on slide 25.
We're conﬁdent that we can again deliver a combined ratio within the 93% to 95% target
normalized for weather. We've made good progress on costs and are on track to reduce
operating expenses to below GBP 700 million this year. Investments are also on track to
generate 2% net investment yield with no further expectation of gains in the second half.
And as you've heard from penny we're making great progress with our transformation
agenda, which is underpinned by the GBP 175 million of capital expenditure in 2019.
Thank you, and back to Penny to wrap up.

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thank you. Neil. So what are the Key messages I'd like you to take away today? well ﬁrst,
whatever the market conditions, we will remain disciplined and long-term focused. This is
Page 10 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

a key ingredient in our objectives of sustainable attractive returns and the results today in
highly competitive market are a testament to that.

FINAL

Second, we're a business with diﬀerent sources of earnings through diﬀerent products,
diﬀerent distribution channels, via diﬀerent brands and propositions and this positions us
well to steady earnings and dividends for our shareholders and to meet customers
evolving needs.
Third, we're on track with our operational change agenda and are well down the IT
transformation part albeit with plenty still to do. Across the group we're moving towards
newer faster ways and more ﬂexible ways of working to realize the beneﬁts from the new
technology. And then to unlock the potential of our people and leverage the group's
existing strengths.
Also fourth, this management team is excited by our plans to deliver a material change in
the capability and eﬃciency of this group. And we look forward to telling you more about
that on the 21st of November in Doncaster.
And with that, I'll hand over to you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Penny. Thank you, Neil. We'll go to questions in the room ﬁrst and I'll start on
the right hand side.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Penny. Thank you, Neil. With questions in the room ﬁrst and I'll start on the
right hand side is (Multiple Speakers) Ask your question.
So, with Andrew.

Q - Analyst
Good morning, all. (Inaudible) Just a three questions. (Inaudible)
If interest rates remain here can you sustain a 2% investment income yield into 2020 and
2021. Secondly, with your pricing up 2% and claims, avarage claims 5% long if it stays like
this? And can you maintain your conﬁdence in the 93% to 95% combined ratio?
And ﬁnally, on the special dividend, I understand political uncertainty, but in and of itself it
has no impact on you. The impact is if credit spreads blow-out. Credit spreads have
Page 11 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

tightened, so why hadn't special dividend been paid which is owed to the market? Last
and the ﬁnal. And under what conditions given Brexit is deeply uncertain, will you ever
start to move on that.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

(Inaudible) investment income.

Q - Analyst
So the ﬁrst investment income The investment yields are down year-to-date, I agree.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Maturity.

Q - Analyst
If we look at our maturity proﬁle performance through the next 18 months. We should be
able to maintain the 2% based on current yields, obviously, if yield move from here that
will change.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Look --I mean we --our approach is to price to a target loss ratio. So, we will price into the
93% to 95%, and the thing that gives as it has to give is the top line, rather than that. So,
we will keep focus and keep pushing towards that 93% to 95% and are conﬁdent of doing
that, it's why were reiterate those targets.
On dividends, so do you want to.

Q - Analyst
(Inaudible)

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

(Inaudible)

Q - Analyst
Changed from, the policy. The policy is still the same normal conditions operating in the
middle of the range. You know that we tend to hold more capital in the middle of the
year, because the just generally look at capital, at the year-end, only. This year we did say,
we'd look at the half year. But as I said, I said a minute ago, we don't see the factors
changing and we're still within the range, I think it's not a bad thing to be conservative at
the moment.
Inherently, we are a fairly conservative company. But don't read too much into the in that
conservative, but we also have a very strong track record of returning capital when it's

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

appropriate. So, I mean, I'd deﬁnitely say that we've returned I think since IPO. So, the
credentials of the company is the same and the track record.
I think you should be comfortable with it when it's appropriate we'll return the capital.

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yeah, look I this board all committed on returning capital to shareholders. I think, that
what gives us pause around this -- into this we all do a sheet amount of work around
capital models creating 100 and 200 scenarios building them out, X variables. When
you're faced into binary dislocation events. You just need to be prepared for that. And
none of us know what credit spreads will do in those environments and we do know that
we're sensitive to them, and that's it. --So that means that we are really protecting. But we
will absolutely keep this under review. We don't see it as a permanent state of aﬀairs.
We do believe that the middle of the range is the right place to be. And our shareholders
will beneﬁt from that.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. (Inaudible)
Thanks. (Inaudible) Two questions as well from me. So, ﬁrst just on Motor claims inﬂation.
You speciﬁcally highlighted third-party repair cost inﬂation and your connectors have also
actually gone third-party. Why is it third-party total repair costs? Could there really be
issue here? You mentioned obviously, this year about --oh sorry the advantage you have
in own repair work, but I'm wondering if it's more than that, because there's actually some
sort of structural driver of a diﬀerent third-party and sort of -- and honestly, all the accident
plans.
The second is on capital generation, So neil you speciﬁcally said capital generation is
roughly in line with our gross proﬁt. you might have seeing that number that it might be
lower because PYD is an important contributor. And PYD under IFRS is not necessarily the
same as PYD under capital. Does this imply that actually capital. generation should
improve versus IFRS. As your mix moves away from PYD to their expense ratio.
And then the ﬁnal question is a bit more broad about the motor environment. We're also
looking out for the green shoots as it were I think from an investor perspective one of the
challenges is it's diﬃcult to know, or to judge, what could cause that without having some
good explanation for what if I don't sort of a deterioration or sort of an intensiﬁcation
conclusion? What's your best explanation for why the market has been in terms of rates?
Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. TPPD, it's been up and down a little, I think we have good evidence to
suggest that our internal --the repair to give us a cost advantage. I think, you partly saw
that in the back end of last year, where we kind of did damage eﬀect to the market.
Page 13 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

We called out earlier this year in Q1 that we were seeing the third party damage costs
going up signiﬁcantly. And they have deﬁnitely stabilized in the second quarter, what we
we're sure of at Q1, because it takes a little bit of time what the shape is when severity
goes up it, can be because of an underlying ﬂuctuation or it can be because frequency is
putting pressure on credit high cost supply. Or whatever so severity can go up as a result
of frequency moving.
And I think, there clearly is underlying high damage cost inﬂation across the board the
construction eﬀects. But I think what we've seen in Q1, was a frequency driven increase in
severity costs, if that makes sense. And that's what we think is going on that's why we
think it's level stabilized in Q2. And it remains the case that we believe we get better value
out of our than we get out of third parties, for whatever reason.
So, I think that's the most you want to be capitalized.

Q - Analyst
So, I don't think there's need anything particularly in there of note. Obviously, the other
one. Adjusted for I think, was in reserving I mean obviously, one discounts that not back
and create some slight diﬀerent, but I don't think there's.

Bloomberg Transcript

Anything in the ﬁrst half, we may have classiﬁed but anything in there to call out, [ph.]
looking forward. There's no reason, why as PYD reduces you'd expect disconnect. It's all
coming out of the actual best estimates, which underpins both the numbers.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

And why is the look I don't speculate on why other people do? What they do clearly, we
are pricing and we're getting some clawback in the risk mix, but the one thing I will say is
that and I called this before there's been so many external stimulative to the market
through but on its way. But actually, even two people rationally looking at the situation
together might make a massive diﬀerent course through that.
So, I still don't necessarily; see it as a long-term structural problem. I think, we'll know
better once comes in and how in of that response. But you have to ask my competitors
why they do what they do.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Questions. The ﬁrst one is on, you talked about the transformation technology growth
from the PCW in the longer-term I guess, do you expect your market share to change
markedly from here?
The second question is on Ogden would set up minus 0.75%. No one actually was paid at
minus 0.75. So the implied impact is not as bad as the --I guess the -- just putting the map
through in it do you expect that to be the case this time or any thoughts about those very,
very, very early?

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

And the third question just coming back to Andrews's comments around solvency ratio
under Brexit is 180% the new 160%.

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Sure. The last one is no. So no transformation -- look what we are trying to do is create
competitive advantage. We've certainly been at a disadvantage due to. And in particular
in particular price comparison because of some of the features I drew out earlier. So, our
job here is to give us the competitive advantage. Whether that gets deployed as growth
or loss ratio beneﬁts. Some of it will come through expenses probably anyway.
But will determine a little bit as we go depending on what the market conditions are at
the time, but let's get ourselves in a position where we're on the front but we've got
advantage these others haven't got and so that will be --then we can make that choice.

Bloomberg Transcript

Ogden, so I think the market -- well we the know market is expecting somewhere between
north of 1%. It would likely be between north of 1%. And most equal I think move their
reserving into that range last year, we certainly did in that. And I think, that's good
evidence in the way pricing has moved over the last few years to show that most people
were pricing for somewhere in that north of 1% exactly.
So, minus 0.25% was the fundamental -- most important thing is we all have certainty. So,
it's good for consumers that we have certainty and it's good for businesses that we have
certainty. So, that's the main thing we don't ditch the price. We're outside the original
range, we've taken a small hit here today. And I suspect, pricing will adjust through the
market I think anything I said they've left the prospect of the compensation on a dual rate
out there.
I actually think dual a June rate is a pretty sensible approach given the nature of the claim
proﬁles and maybe the best in the long run. So we'll be supportive of that happening, but
it's more about the fact that the right answer than it's about a particular ﬁnancial eﬀect on
us I think.
So Ogden -- and then we touch on solvency. Look there is no change in the Philosophy
the risk appetite. We remain as absolutely committed to shareholders, that we have been.
We simply try to make sure we navigate with potential implication.

Q - Analyst
Thank you. Go to (Inaudible)
Thanks. (Inaudible) This is in three questions. I just asked about the dual pricing the
regulation from FCA. One do you have data? And is there anything new which you are
having ? And secondly, what's the diﬀerence in proﬁtability for you guys onto new
business versus renewal? On the Motor and home business number one.

Page 15 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Second, just staying with regulation whiplash reform expected next year. Numbers around
beneﬁts have changed bigger number now we're down on those and what is your view as
in what could be the potential beneﬁt for you?

FINAL

And lastly in terms of results our core target remains at 93%-95%. It has been beneﬁting
from prior releases which remains as decent sized number. How should we think of last
year in absolute numbers?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I think there's nothing fundamental that has changed since last clearly there has been a lot
of attention may have come out with new statements. The FDA has come out with a --sort
of an update on the consultation. But I think none of that is a sort of fundamental shift a
couple of. And what do we do? Let's start with what we do and then on how we view the
kind of industry position?

Bloomberg Transcript

I think what do we do? We do a number of things across our book, business customers
and for renewal customers. Because -- probably because we think insurance isn't just
about price, it's about value as well. So whenever we give one of our propositions that we
always talk to you about whether it's a seven day turnaround or we do that to everybody
in the book, because we think it's the right thing to do customers for that.
The second thing we do is we review we have our own internal pricing practices and
standards and within that we review every policyholder renewal at ﬁve year point to make
sure we're comfortable that appropriate place. And that we results in some cases in
discounts in some cases in some cases there's no action required. So, --but there is a clear
review point. And we were half to last year premium disclosure because some of this is
about transparency for customers as well as the absolute pricing.
And in our technology developments we're doing a lot again to make policy journeys
easier to get more options on the way. And to make documentation much, much clearer
and simpler and there are lots and lots of things we are doing internally to try and do our
bit to try and resolve the situation. But the reality is we can't tackle this issue on our own
we have to do it as an industry, because of the way the competition works and the way
that new business pricing is heavily discounted and mostly this is pricing isn't
economically viable as permanent price.
So, there is a structural point in this market. And so that's why we support the FDA doing
what they do, we work extensively with the APB and in the development of their pricing
principle, we're just trying to create the same work to make it move insurers down the
path to make this even --to make this a better situation and improve previous issue.
So, how do we feel about it? We think, yes, I'm sure the FDA will make changes, it's not an
easy issue for them because it's the competition in the market that is creating the
particular issue that is of concern here. And so, anything that they do is a correct level
playing ﬁeld we're supportive of. And actually, when I look at us, with a multi-brand, multichannel distribution a long history of writing successfully in the home market.

Page 16 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

I feel conﬁdent, that we'll be able to adjust and whatever that marketplace (Inaudible)

Q - Analyst
(Inaudible)

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

So, the ﬁrstly, whiplash beneﬁts the original business case I think was GBP 35. I think,
generally we think that we suspect that a that was done some time ago the markets
moved on a real skeptical, that actually the beneﬁts will be that high. Whatever the
beneﬁts are customers who've made that promise on the path. I think in timing terms it
feels as though the industry is pretty ready The MIB sounds as though they're pretty ready.
There are still some bits that needs to be sorted out about how the legalities at some are
operationalized in some areas and that required MoJ time to get that done.
So, depending on the level of focus or distraction in the MoJ, I suspect is what will drive
whether or not. We haven't given a speciﬁc number; we don't of competition give out
speciﬁc components but original estimate, I suspect. Thanks.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Reserving. So after shape of reserving for the ﬁrst half. So, if you look at where reserves
came. about third, of them were from 2018. The third from the three years prior to that
seeing most press release from the more recent years important. Within that have now
gained maturity.
How do we oﬀset what we said, we'll be reducing probably reserve amount book smaller
which is expenses underwriting improvements and ultimately some growth input. Those
are the three key drivers to oﬀset it.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
(Inaudible)

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

So, reserves, the reserving philosophy is pretty similar. Clearly the book is smaller than it
was so there's a quantum eﬀect. So diﬀerent positive impacted.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Santos from Goldman Sachs. We're all obviously, looking forward to the trip to in
November.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

As you should, yes.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Is it possible to say, anything about your strategy to relating to partnerships already at this
point maybe. It's, where you've been losing a bit of volume recently. What's the level of
commitment here? What kind of things are you looking for?

FINAL

And then the second question is, you gave a roadmap for implementation or introduction
of it systems. Can you talk a little bit about switching oﬀ legacy IT systems as well? They're
getting quite important to cost saving.
And then ﬁnally, just on the buying back. You mentioned that there's a potential,
conditions for buying back. It's Just a question of share.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The prospects on some cost, very diﬀerent king's cross direct trains and it'll be well worth
the visit. Because we all love it. Partnership, is I think what you really want to know. The -we gain partnerships when the economics arise. So, we put some kind of partners' value
from the service quality and the skills that we bring when it's pure commoditized
traditionally we're probably less likely to be your plan. So, we remain interested in the
right kind of partnerships the point I was trying to make in the presentation is really that as
time moves on, I think the nature of partnership arrangements is shifting. So it becomes
more about making it easier for customers using their customer their data with to make
oﬀers more payment for them.
And we think it's particularly interesting to me about is one of the ﬁrst using our brand in
someone else's marketplace, which you can see as being a development area for the
future. And that's really interesting, so I think, we are still in partnership we build up for
the right kinds of partnerships, we've just renewed two travel partnerships it has to be on
the right economics. And we think that whole world will evolve and we'd like to be a part
of it.
In terms of IT and legacy. So, we have -- I think I mentioned IT infrastructure. So, we've
outsourced the running of a lot of our IT infrastructure to a partner, who's also the partner
who's leading with development. So that we run those two things in tandem. And in
doing that we've contracted on a basis that gives us more the underlying costs. So, you're
right there is a process, but that process is matched -- it runs over the course of seven
years depending what it is, but it seeks to move from the beneﬁts and see get a at the
end.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Share buyback. So this is response to customer shareholders thinking about how we
return capital? We're not going to set up a real explicit framework, but to give you some
idea I think the biggest indicator of whether a buyback is more preferable to point of yield
we're trading out on a regular yield. So, if the regular yield is very high it adding to the
special dividend it might be more appropriate to buy back shares. But it is an open item
on the agenda.

Q - Lain Pearce
Page 18 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

We've had some comments around. What are you seeing there And what proportion of
your claims are in Motor? And something on CapEx over the medium-term? What was the
split between diﬀerent businesses? You build and take new system there with of rewiring
etc. And then just going back to the point on capital, 180%, 160%. Still the uncertainty of
full year. Should we think that you're paying down to 180% instead of the 10-point, the 170
last year?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

That is a pretty small part of the overall claims the big claims components are probably
injury and damage. So, it is running hot at the moment. So, it is high, but not a dramatic
eﬀect. I think in terms of the overall outweighed by movement on damage. Overall CapEx
I'll leave to Neil, and so far on capital there's been no resetting in this process. We haven't
reset our expectations as an endpoint. We haven't also talked to assess what those will be
like at year end. So, we'll do that at once.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, just have a debt is about 5% of cost. So It's not a material amounts for us. In terms of
capital it's been said that 180% is not the new 160%. I think that it's hard to speculate what
conditions we might be in at year end as I sit here today. I think, you know what normally
looks like in that every point in until the last, but last year end clear.
I can't say whether actively messaging here in February or March time the condition will
be 160% condition or 130% condition or a diﬀerent number. I think, we'll assess the
conditions when we're at the point in time when we need to make a decision. But I think,
all we want to reiterate is the policy is very much fun changed.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

CapEx. A lot of the CapEx is across the portfolio, so the big home and Motor platform will
be used ultimately for rescue as well. So there are some going on in rescue, but not that
dramatic in the scale of things. So it will be the home and motor portfolios that take -- the
vast weight is unsupported behind that so tech transformations and moving all of the
infrastructures everything.

Q - Lain Pearce
Right, but what we're hearing from others is.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

20%,25% so I think it's about inﬂation.

Q - Analyst
It's okay. I guess the ABI I think they said that's about 23% or something maybe they're
saying 25%. Is it fair just

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}
Page 19 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

I wouldn't overread it, because I think you're seeing movement in other parts of the book.
So, one small part of can I say factors in the claims and they seems to move in diﬀerent
ways all the time.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

FINAL

(Inaudible)

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks. question just trying to understand the expected ultimate proﬁtability in the
business that you brought to date. Obviously, you've had changes in pricing. In term of
Inﬂation that seems to be quite large, I would say currently. Can you just give us an
indication of whether the expected is outcome is within the 93% to 95% and how that's
evolved over the last few years. That would be really helpful.
The second is on; you mentioned if conditions remain competitive that volume is likely to
be the thing that starts to gain from here. Do you see any risk that premiums might make
it more diﬃcult to reduce the expense ratio in ratio terms?
And then thirdly, assets under management, obviously, have been declining as results
come down. How far away are we from the point? Where you're actually stable?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

We target loss ratio to price into the 93% to 95% on an ultimate basis. Because that's how
we kind of set it up. So that -- I think to give you the sense for that one. Expense ratio, so
look, if we work hard to alleviate by aﬀecting on diﬀerent components propositions those
sorts of things to alleviate the volume impact. But you're right ultimately if we take volume
impact we will expenses. So, it creates an expense pressure into the extent that we take
outcome. So -- so we are super focused on expenses would have a similar to be had on
that asset.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

But also the reinsurance program as well. Means lower AUM at a time. And I think, we're
pretty much there. I think on the AUM at the time, and maybe there's more to go and then
I think it's much more in the top line so the growth potentially the future growth in the
business will drive much more with the AUMs.

Q - Lain Pearce
Questions from me, please. Firstly, it's about your auto repair network because it's in
competitive advantage on insulating you from some of the claims inﬂation on the market.
Can you just remind us, the number of auto repairs you have and what sort of proportion
of your own damage claims actually go through your own network.
And then on the IT spend, it sounds like quite a lot of the initiatives focus on new business
competitiveness. So do you see the main beneﬁt of this IT spend coming through in

Page 20 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

increasing growth? Or is it more ineﬃciency sort of element and the cost savings that
these programs could generate and main beneﬁt coming through.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

FINAL

So, we've got 20 sites at the moment and I think it's just over half of our repairs go
through those they are in repairs they are in repairs there?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

100,000 a year. And look IT spend should beneﬁt renewals and new business, so it's not
designed to -- I mean one way or the other. So, everyone, all customers should beneﬁt
from that and the business reﬂect more of that should beneﬁt. It's a combination, so there
are clearly eﬃciencies we do lots of manual work around today that we don't have to do
in the new world. You've had examples of automated claims that increases eﬃciency,
There are lots and lots of eﬃciency. Examples, The biggest beneﬁts I will come in terms of
-- what I call competitive advantage in the market place. Whether we take those in terms
of the kind of loss ratio bottom line all use those I think just depends on the dynamics at
the time, when they're.

Q - Andrew Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

On the impact. I was wondering, if you have any early estimates of how that may aﬀect
your reinsurance spend?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Short answer is, no I mean, there are lots of things that go into the reinsurance assessment
part, so we don't know exactly what people are modeling in their reinsurance model. So
it's too early to tell, I think.

Q - Andrew Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Let's come back to go to the phones after Ed and see if there are any other questions in
the room.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

And thank you, everyone, for your questions. We've seen some others in the market
introduced new product structures, so you have ﬁxed, for year example, with new price
guarantee. Is it something that you've done a lot of work on and do you think ultimately
the market will go in that direction?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

We -- when we think about whether they've done that because of the royalty pricing
questions or whether they've done that we don't know But in terms of the pricing
questions, we look at costs, and we've done a lot of work across the work. We haven't
focused yet, on new propositions partly because we think the big issues about renewal
customers or our new business customers. And also because we do have three-year sort
of ﬁxed rate products with one of our partners with RBS and that's proved to work very
Page 21 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

eﬀectively through where you're talking to people in a customer journey. It works on the
price compared to context. And then it inﬂuences the commoditized end of the market,
because to be economic the new business prices have to be higher eﬀectively.
So, we're comfortable with the approach and we kind of -- we just wait and see how
successful some of those others at the moment, our assets are focusing elsewhere on the
issue. But it's not something we rule out, we go elsewhere if the market wants to support
those kinds of products we'll have to like.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Quick question from (Inaudible) phone's.

Q - Analyst
Does that mean you're also pretty much now on the SCR decline?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I think we said that is in reinsurance side of the business. So I think in terms of, that's
probably a bit more, but I mean if the material change I think is --we'd say, has changed in
relation to that to the risk proﬁle part of the business.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We go to the line for any questions on the telephone line.
Okay. So, we have our ﬁrst question from Greg Patterson from KBW. Greg, your line is
now open.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 17872394 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. (Inaudible) four questions. First one is, could you give us the
new money yield on investment? That's question one. Question two is, the mix impacts,
which have been hurting your top-line. I was wondering, when you think those are going
to turn or be stabilized. And the third thing that's on U.K. Motor. I was just wondering if
you could sort of characterize the diﬀerence in year-on-year premium rates at the
beginning of the second quarter. And at, the third at the end of the second quarter. So,
I'm trying to understand how the year-on-year rate has changed over.
And then ﬁnally, in terms of general pricing in the motor markets is it everybody -- only
moving slowly in terms of the green shoots? 1 or 2 players you're hoping disruptive in
going for share and then are clearly identiﬁable?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Welcome, Greg. We're missing you. So, I'm going to take the last two I might attempt on
the second one and also quite for also quite for the ﬁrst one -- you? Okay, I'll just give it to
Neil. So pricing in the market and Now we're seeing I think the home and the motor
Page 22 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

markets are slightly diﬀerent. I think, the most market is sort of seems to be new base. I
don't know if any one or two players are standing out particularly the. And we keep
seeing kind of little positives and what does that feel like it feels like you've put a chain
there or something and it's ﬁxed if it sticks as opposed to you losing. So, we see even now
little green shoot and then we're not sure that's the same. So -- and perhaps your point 3,
what's that felt like year-on -year it's diﬃcult, because rate was coming oﬀ quite fast at this
point last year, or it was because of the shape of last year's rates.
But if I -- I think that we were falling in the ﬁrst quarter and I'd characterize it as ﬂatter in
the second quarter. Which I think, the API graph actually probably sort of supports as well.
But that would be our sentiment on the shape I think. In the home, I think there are always
a couple of players doing sort of coming out the not with we're same players. So the
market is pricing sensibly we are pricing sensibly and then you've always got a couple of
outliers that are going --but usually small ones that are going for growth. And they're
chop and change over time. Fixed for the last year or so.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mix impact is stabilized I mean the mix impact that we see come through and kind of
oﬀset the IPT for because we take the initiative. Be they so we --and to give you an
example, we've switched propositions from free rescue to free legal cover on Churchill.
That changes the mix, we did it for proﬁtability reasons but it does change the IPT mix.
And the risk mix and equally, we've upgraded as we've told you before some of the
forward models and sort of application forward models earlier in the year again, it's not
harvesting a particular mix. But it has an eﬀect on mix. So, I don't think -- I wouldn't give
you a particular direction on mix travel from here equally, I wouldn't say it's going to stay
the same because it depends on what are the steps and propositions we put in place in
the market at any point in time. I think you had about.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I think, Greig, you want the new business, new money yields. So, I've gotten by half the
portfolio, they're very diﬀerent depending on where we're investing. So, weighted
average one doesn't really help you. It depends what's insuring, what you're reinvesting
into. So I said -- repeat -- reiterated the answer again earlier, which is as we look into
2020, when we reinvest what's coming up for maturity. We think we can still keep.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 17872394 <GO>}

I'm saying in the ﬁrst half, what did you achieve on new money? I appreciate there is a mix
eﬀect as we go forward, but what did you achieve on new money in the ﬁrst half.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I don't have it on me, but it's, in eﬀect, moving the numbers.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 17872394 <GO>}

And just on the mix point. Are you saying, any can't give you guidance? Could go up or
could go down it's a pretty random sector, in the second half?

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, so quite random, but it reﬂects the propositions and the targeting we do at that
point in time. And it will also reﬂect what we view the competition in the market is today.
So if particular --if people are -- if other people are checking particular parts of the market,
we may do something diﬀerent. So, it wouldn't be appropriate for me to tell you that it's
going in one particular direction.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 17872394 <GO>}

But is it true to say that you have a number of initiatives underway to try and address the
mix -- the negative mix impact that we've seen.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yes, well we have a number of initiatives underway, we don't target mix. Through. We
target proﬁtability outcome. We have a number of issues and issues that are underway
and they may well aﬀect mix and average premium in doing that.

Q - Greg Patterson

{BIO 17872394 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(Inaudible)

Operator
Our next question is from Andrew Sinclair from Bank of America. Andrew, your line is now
open.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 3232978 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Just a couple on expenses from me. If that's okay. So ﬁrstly just
on expenses. How much of this year's operating expenses were one-oﬀ for IT and other
developments? And secondly, just looking at what the run rate must be in H2 to get you
under your GBP700 million target for the full year. And particularly how that rolls into
2020? Can you comment to that expense base being lower in absolute terms again in
2020 than it was -- and than it will be in 2019? Thanks.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Right. So, the second one. So, yeah, the run rate in the second half will be lower it
naturally is because it's phasing. As I think you said, it's probably in the ﬁrst half, it's about
GBP20 million. So, if you look at the ﬁrst half second half split historically in 2013 there's
obviously even bigger gap between ﬁrst half and second half. But, I think the -- there's
nothing in there that should be standing run rate, we -- as we look forward into 2020. I
think, we will be targeting lower cost in 2020 than in 2019.

Page 24 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

FINAL

So, yes, in terms of one-oﬀs in there I don't think I'd call anything one-oﬀ in there a lot of
the transformation costs are capitalized, as you've seen so yes, there's always these
additional costs when you're running a lot of transformation programs, but I wouldn't
necessarily say it's one oﬀ at the moment. So I think we're going to revise some
transformations in the next couple of years.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 3232978 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
Any other questions may line [ph]
Our next question is from Johnny from GBI. Johnny just come oﬀ of the line. So I'll move
on to the next question.

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you so much. Three question from me. Just in terms of your comment on dual
pricing that you've been reviewing the way you've been treating renewal and new
customers at the year. End when did you start doing that review has that been a long-term
process or was it post the ABI, calling for that to be done? And then the second question
is FX? is that going to have much of a negative impact for you do you think on claims cost
in terms of repair costs for parts?
I think, so we've had a pricing framework in place for some years including a renewal
point of review at ﬁve years. So in that sense it's been a long-time thing, we continue to
review the lines and the positioning sort of and approaches last we take within that
framework. Because what you're trying to do over time is kind of improve the situation
and even the situation. So, we've tightened as we go if that makes sense.
But it's not a new process, there are -- but we are we do work with the ABI continuously
and keep making improvements at all the industry including ourselves on improving both
transparency. And any tail risk over time. So that I think is the dual pricing FX, do you
want?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I think, Jawana, clearly certain devaluation or reduction in investment and it does increase
inﬂation sometimes, it's cost so I wouldn't overcall the impact of it.

Q - Analyst
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Next up, we have (Inaudible) from CBS. Johnny, your line is now open.
Page 25 of 27



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

Q - Analyst
Hi, guys. Can you hear me?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Welcome, Johnny.

Q - Analyst
Wonderful. Thank you so much better. Just to go back to the FCA pricing investigation. I
mean, how do you have you changed any of your renewal pricing practices? Speciﬁcally
this year ahead of the interim and full year ﬁndings that we're going to get. It's hard to
gauge like at the market level is some element for pricing weakness that we're seeing
from the ABI is some of that because renewal pricing is coming down a bit, just as people
clean things up ahead of the FCA? Any color there would be great. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me continue to make changes within our pricing not directly a response to any
particular communication from the FCA or anyone else. But because we have pricing
practices that have been --and principles that we can review, unlike the rest of the ABI
members we've introduced the -- and reﬂected the pricing principles that we have there,
and those keep moving through. So, we are constantly making improvements in the book
and our numbers will reﬂect those improvements already. So, I think that's maybe -- I can't
comment on, what other people are doing, it still feels competitive out there. So it's not
obvious that anything dramatic is happening. But I can't comment on what other people
are doing on pricing.

Q - Analyst
Penny, thanks.

Operator
Next up, we have phill Ross from (Inaudible) your line is now open.

Q - Analyst
Good morning, (Inaudible) from media banker. Just one question left from me, please.
Which is a bit of a follow up on top line so apologies for that? You talked at the start of the
presentation about your future ability to grow sustainably I think they were the words you
used. What's your view on when we might start to see sustainable growth in the top line?
And what kind of role might partnerships play in that growth. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. I mean, I think we are -- I think I said at home, what we're trying to build is
competitive advantage, that then gives us choices and bottom line in growth depending
at any point in time on what the market is doing.

Page 26 of 27



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-31

So, we believe, that when you combine those with some of the newer initiatives and so on
that there is growth potential we absolutely do. As we sit in the market today in the short
term, our priority will always be discipline. And so we can see -- watch that dynamic at the
moment. So -- and will point to what that growth path will be in the short term. In term of
partnerships? are more? Binary. That's the that's sort of -- it's sort of an on-oﬀ switch. So,
yes, we would be in the partnership arena, yes we think partnerships will be holding their
shape over time but I think its early day for evolution. We just renewed two partnerships
on travel so, which proves that we're still actively participating in that marketplace.

Q - Analyst
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We have no further questions on the line?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I think unless there's any urgent question as you can probably
running out of time. So, thank you very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just say thank you to everyone for ﬁghting through the tube lines as you and yes the
presentation the scripts will be online if anyone have missed the beginning. So, thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

