Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Cecilia Reyes, Chief Risk Oﬃcer
Conny Kalcher, Chief Customer Oﬃcer
George Quinn, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Giovanni Giuliani, Head of Strategy
James Shea, Chief Executive Oﬃcer Commercial Insurance
Kristof Terryn, Group Chief Operating Oﬃcer
Mario Greco, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Richard Burden, Investor Relations
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Analyst
Andrew Ritchie
Farooq Hanif
James Shuck

Bloomberg Transcript

Johnny Vo
Jon Hocking
Jonny Urwin
Nick Holmes
Peter Eliot
Vinit Malhotra
William Hawkins

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Investor Day 2019 Conference Call. I am Sandra,
the Chorus Call Operator. (Operator Instructions) At this time, you will be joining to the
conference room.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Okay. In the interest of time, we'll get started this morning. Good morning, everybody
and thank you for joining us in London today. Before I hand over to Mario, just a few
points of order for the course of the day.

Page 1 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

First is as you've noted we've tried as far as possible to make this paperless today.
Therefore, there are very limited printed presentations for a few people who do not have
electronic means, but please do not ask us to provide presentations. We're not going to
do it today. That's hopefully in line with our sustainability goals, and please be
understanding for that. All presentations are available on the website and there is internet
access in the room. So if you need to download them, you should be able to do that ﬁne.
Second, as day presentations will be webcast, could I ask you all to turn oﬀ your mobile
phones, so we don't get disruptions during the course of the day. And now just turning to
the logistics for the day. There will be a coﬀee break after Mario and Kristof's
presentations this morning at around 10:30. Coﬀee will be served across the hallway in
the room where you probably were just before you came in here. And if you need
bathrooms, the bathrooms are down the corridor on the right hand side.
We will have two Q&A sessions. The ﬁrst at the end of the morning, just before lunch and
the second at the end of the day. So I would ask you to please save your questions for the
dedicated Q&A sessions.
Lunch will be served around 12:45 in the room across the hallway and you also have time
to ask further questions to our management team who will be around over the lunchtime.
We'll then start back in here promptly at 2:00 o'clock for the afternoon sessions before
ﬁnishing up around 3:45 this afternoon.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you have any questions, obviously the IR team is available throughout the day, so please
feel free to reach out to us if anything is uncertain.
With that, I'd like to pass over to Mario to start the day.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Thank you, Richard. So good morning, welcome to the 2019 Zurich Insurance Investors
Day and thank you very much for being here with us today. This is a special day for us.
When three years ago, George, Kristof and myself stood in front of you, we planned for
this result, but of course, we weren't sure about that. This is a much better feeling and it's
a diﬀerent presentation, because today, we can report not just on ﬁnancial results and
future ﬁnancial targets, but also we can better explain what is our vision for the markets,
the industry and ourselves, and how we planned to achieve the results and where we're
planning for the future.
There is a very diﬀerent composition today and let me spend a second on this. Compare
with three years ago while the three of us just stood out, now you see full management
team, you'll see the CI management team, the Commercial Insurance, which is Jim Shea,
and Sierra Signorelli. Sierra is the Chief Underwriting Oﬃcer for Commercial Insurance.
Both Jim and Sierra have been driving over the last 3.5 years the repositioning and so
they own the results of Commercial Insurance.

Page 2 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Equally, you have presentation by Conny Kalcher. Conny recently joined us from one of
the most important consumer goods company and where she spent a few years there.
She is Chief Customer Oﬃcer. So she's at the core what we need to do to deliver our
strategy. Giovanni Giuliani, Head of Strategy. He was behind the strategy deﬁnition three
years ago, and has been a driving force in the execution of the strategy through the years.
Also you ﬁnd in the room and you have an access later on in the breaks to Kathleen Savio,
Head of North America and of course owning the big piece of the commercial books; and
Alison Martin, Head of Europe and before Head of Risks; and also the Dalin Hoke [ph], our
Head of M&A and our former CFO of US this year. So you have the full team of people
here present and I talk later about the Make The Diﬀerence and what they have done in
the past years and what they're doing today.
On three years of targets and eﬀorts, we're very pleased and that's the message you will
hear over-and-over through the day. We have delivered the targets. We have exceeded
the targets. We have delivered a simpliﬁcation program, which is probably an industry
benchmark, and we have adjusted the volatility of the business, to who we are. We are in
income stock, we need to generate cash every year, that's the promise we made, that's
the promise we are keeping. And we're here to do that, so we needed to reduce the
volatility of the business as we executed on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we feel very strong today in terms of the foundations of the business. We've retail
and we've a commercial business. So over the last three years, we have worked hard
strengthening both and I'll comment on what we mean by strengthening and this is
exactly the boost to the engine driving us forward.
We are on a journey. We are on a multi-year journey, which doesn't ﬁnish in three years. It
didn't three years ago, it doesn't ﬁnish now and the next three years. The journey is to
make this company the most successful insurance company in retail and commercial,
knowing the challenges that we have ahead of us, knowing what the markets are doing
and I'll deﬁne the sense of division we have later on in a better way.
The strategy we set three years ago is the strategy which has been guiding us and is
working very strongly. There is nothing more important than being customer focused, or
the old revolution in retail but also in commercial is customer lead and what matters is the
customer satisfaction, the customer loyalty and the further potential that exists to develop
with customers.
The targets that we announced today, they're very ambitious. They're much higher than
the targets we're exceeding today. And we think we know perfectly at this time how to run
the machine. We tested the capacity, we know where the potential is, we know what
levers to use to reach the targets, but the targets are further stretch on what we have been
achieving so far.
We maintained our dividend policy as it was announced as it was so far with 75% payout
ratio, and the current dividend in each year consider the ﬂoor. So it's a ratchet function,
where the achieved dividend is the ﬂoor for the future. Now, this dividend policy of
Page 3 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

course has been important over the last years in delivering what we think is quite
rewarding shareholder return. We're close to 100 shareholder return over the last three
years in excess of the insurance stock index.
You guys all you know that's a very well. And more importantly, all the targets that we set
are going to be met or exceeded. And we are and, frankly, we still think that we're going
to exceed all these targets by year end. George will talk about this later, but this is where
frankly we feel extremely rewarded and proud for this achievements.
Now, why has the stock moves so strongly, so fast? The EPS growth has been above any
other peers. Each of these column here is innate company and you can get yourself
through the company start. These are the normal peers and you've seen the footnotes the
list of them. Our earnings per share have grown above anyone else, but more importantly,
the net income coeﬃcient of variation is the lowest among the peers, now it matters a lot.

Bloomberg Transcript

As in income stock, this is what we are supposed to do. We were not always known for
this and this is probably the most important achievement and we count on maintaining
this over the next years. The core what we did over the last years was a massive
simpliﬁcation program and let me spend a few seconds on this, because it's quite
important that you really understand what we were doing. Yes, we have the cost target out
there, but what we have in mind was a business objective. We wanted to become more
agile and simpler to serve the customers much better, and the way we pursue this was not
imposing top down targets of cost reduction to the units and we did not go into massive
layoﬀs.
We were not doing butchery in the organization. Instead, we try to gather the organization
of forces to get a simpliﬁed organization, a simpliﬁed IT and simpliﬁed products and
services. How we did that? We did that in an unconventional way, because you remember
we started oﬀ with the strategy deﬁnition, which was done by a team of colleagues
without any external support and without really us a store management guiding what they
were doing. They developed is for the colleagues with the support of some senior
people, but just the support, they developed the strategy and they developed the
strategy that they felt, it was the most proper for us.
Going into this simpliﬁcation program we thought about following exactly the same path.
So let's have ourselves deﬁning what to do. So this wasn't a CEO-led program, it wasn't a
COO-led program, it wasn't a CFO-led program. It is the organization itself that has the
reshaped it to become more simple and more agile and the way we did it was to create
this group of people which we called, Make The Diﬀerence. It all started when we
requested, we made a pledge about who is willing to help us in doing this.
And initially, the deﬁnition is you have a chance to make a diﬀerence in your organization.
This is where the name is coming from and they volunteered to participate within this
program in rolling waves. And everything has been important meaning on this. Rolling
waves means, that are not professionist of simplifying changing the organization. They do
this for three, four months and then they go back, right? The beauty of this is that now we

Page 4 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

have almost 1,000 people, who have been involved and this 1,000 people are the ones
who have created all these changes here that you see.
So when we talk about delayering the organization, that wasn't a top-down order you
delayer. It naturally came out from the work of the colleagues who are needed to be
simpliﬁed in the organization. We changed authority approvals, we changed
authorizations, but we did that because ourselves, the colleagues, the Make The
Diﬀerence people drove us into what needs to be done to simplify the business.
Make The Diﬀerence focused on three diﬀerent priorities over time, initially was
simpliﬁcation. Later on, it became sustainability, which of course is an important priority
for them being millennials. And they helped us focusing ourselves towards that what
sustainability can mean and how important it should be, and even simple internal things
like burning plastic or reducing paper. What Richard mentioned before, they were not
even helpful, they were very decisive on that, eliminating printers from the organization. If
you want to eliminate paper, just take the printers away and then people will adjust and
this is what they told us and this is what we did.

Bloomberg Transcript

Eventually, which is what they're going to talk today, they move to business, they move to
customer segments, they move to products and services. Again, with the mindset that we
own the company, we are young people, this is going to be our company, how better,
how best this company can be over time?
Now, let me come back again on this because all these achievements are extremely
important, de-layered organization, reduced corporate center. We're the huge corporate
center which was calling for duties around the organization. It's 35% lighter today what we
have the old organization has beneﬁted from it. The Make The Diﬀerence people came
with a proposal to cut one-third of the steering committees. We cut so one-third of
steering committees of older organization. Zurich was known to be a company always in
committees, now there is one-third less of that.
Simpliﬁed IT, Kristof committed to reduce the number of IT centers, he'll talking a few
minutes about that, but we delivered on the reduction of the data centers. We delivered
on the reduction of the networks that we use. A number of IT applications cut by 20%, but
more importantly, we simpliﬁed the products. You cannot do these things if you don't go
into the business at the roots of this complexity and start simplifying the products. You'll
hear later from Kristof, you'll hear later from Giovanni, what this means in practical terms.
But this wasn't a gigantic simpliﬁcation program and this is going to continue, because
the kids are continuing to give us advice and suggestions on how to do it and because
once you get the attraction, you keep on becoming more agile, more simple almost every
day.
The results -- the ﬁnancial results you know them. One company achieved more than we
did on that, we're quite pleased and this is what we targeted and you will see in
December that we will come ahead of our target to $1.5 billion of cost reduction. But it's a
gigantic business simpliﬁcation, it is not just cost reduction and this will continue over the
Page 5 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

next years and will give us further traction in business, besides helping the P&L and
besides helping the cash generation.
Why we were simplifying the business and creating more opportunities for business? We
were also investing in the business and the two most important things that we were doing
to invest in business were work on speciﬁc markets and take opportunity in these markets
to create a strong retail position in these markets. What you see there is the list of the
acquisitions that we made, some of them are tactical, some of them are very strategical.
Travel is very strategical. We were not a player in the travel business, now we have the
second biggest global player in travels after a number of acquisitions we made.

Bloomberg Transcript

Australia, we took opportunity of markets -- of market changes there and now we're
number two in the Life business. South America, Asia again, we took opportunities that
are available there. We are the third biggest South American player today across the
continent. And we acquired a very interesting, promising opportunity for the future in
Indonesia, where we are today the biggest Western company and a top ﬁve company in
the Indonesian market.
So we look at opportunities to strengthen our business. But then most importantly,
organically, we spend time understanding our customer bases. Later on, you'll hear the
Make The Diﬀerent people saying, we don't want customers, we want fans. But where we
started three years ago from was who are our customers? The insurance companies don't
know the customers, right? As strange as this statement is insurance company were not
used to consider customers their policies, right? So we started the really from ground
level, who are the customers, who are the, what they want from us, what needs they have,
with whom other [ph] they work, and who else is out there, who can be a customer?
We established a system to understand and get feedback from the customers. Conny is
going to talk later about this and how this is going to evolve, but some numbers are quite
interesting. I mean, this year, we've more than 1 million people, who have responded to us
about how we serve them. This is a massive set of information that allows us to change.
And again, later on this morning, you'll hear about what change is how we responded for
customer satisfaction and changed ourselves.
We are running for what we call closed loop calls. It means that we call back to customers
and we do it, everyone does it. CEO do it, CFOs do it, everyone does it. The old
organization is calling back customers, listening and taking actions. It's a massive traction.
As a result of it, what we see is that the retention growth and we see that our capacity to
develop the customers is much better, stronger, and broader than it was before.
And then we track market-by-market, country-by-country what is the customer satisfaction.
This all go into the people incentives and the people KPIs from two years ago until today.
So it became an important also way to measure the performances. So simpliﬁed
organization and we invested for the future by building businesses or by creating much
better customer relationship. What's the vision we have? The way we run the business
today is, of course, we look at the market and we look at everything that's happening

Page 6 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

around the world, and the market has a lot of inputs and a lot of constraints, given to us
from regulation to the customer revolution.
Our strategy is in the middle of it, because we ﬁltered the market trends and inputs with
our strategy. And our strategy is the customer-centered strategy, and then simplify and
innovative for the customers. Because as much as we understand the customers today
that's their request, get it simple please, insurance is too complicated. And that sounds
very simple to ask, but they're diﬃcult to deliver.
How we confront the market today? We've a unique business model, and I'd like to spend
a few minutes about this and any question you have happy to take them later. We are the
only company I'm aware of that is running commercial and retail under one roof. One roof
means one balance sheet, one business unit, one head of country. I'm not aware of
anybody running these businesses of retail and commercial under one roof as we do.

Bloomberg Transcript

We do that because of this, because we have a unique distribution model. The customer
data for us again are the treasury of our business organization. We're not relying as some
others do on huge captive organizations for distribution. We are relying very often on
partnerships, and we made this a strength of us by developing our capabilities on the
partnership distribution model, we're relying on brokers, we're relying on direct and we're
using the customer data across these two sectors.
That means, that for us, working with a commercial company is also an opportunity to
develop the employee business with them in life and in property and casualty. The two
things are quite diﬀerent, because all of you have individual needs, but all of you also are
employee of a company. As a employee of the company, you need some coverages as
individual persons, you need something else. The data is extremely important and we've
been working a lot on data and we continue improving the data and, again, you'll hear
later in the day this importance of the data.
The two markets though -- although uniﬁed by the data. They're quite diﬀerent. As we say,
it is a marketing transformation, it is under a revolution, it's a distressed market and it's a
great opportunity to take advantage by being an innovator and possibly disrupt ourselves
to take advantage of it.
In retail consider, and again, you'll hear this later that there are fundamentally two buckets
of customers in retail. One is the baby boomers, all the people, let's say, above the
millennials, older than millennials and then the millennials and younger generations.
What's the fundamental diﬀerence? It's not age, it's education. It's digital education. The
baby boomers are not digitally educated, we can be digitally savvy. I can use technology,
but I was not born with technology.
Millennials are born with technology. This means two things, two fundamental
consequences for us. And again, you'll hear that later by the colleagues. Consequence
number one is they have diﬀerent needs. We tested these needs over the last years, we
launched Klinc in Spain in 2018, we launched Toggle in US, we launched a similar

Page 7 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

business in Argentina. We wanted to test it is right that they have diﬀerent needs? Yes,
they have diﬀerent needs.

FINAL

The second thing is this opens up to global market, because this diﬀerent needs they
have are very similar, because they're educated in the same way by the digital tools. It's a
very diﬀerent set of needs and opportunities compared with the baby boomers,
compared with the other generations.
So the challenge in retail every set going forward, on the baby boomers, on the older
generation, is how to achieve dominance in the customer needs? Today, we estimate that
we cover 30% of their needs. No other insurance company does much better than us. But
the model with the baby boomers is that they buy insurance tactically and coincidentally,
they don't choose insurance companies. As a consequence, you end up having a market
share with the customers, which is typically around where we are or even lower. That's
your opportunity with the baby boomers with existing customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, there are these new customers, the millennials, the Generation Z, are how to
grab that opportunity, changing your business model and providing solution for their
needs, which are very diﬀerent. So retail is evolving transformation, where there are lots of
opportunities, but there is no sustainability of the existing business model.
Commercial, it's a very diﬀerent world. We're proud of where we are in commercial. It's
diﬀerent from what I heard over the last three years. We have no intention at all to scale
down and exit commercial. We're the third biggest company in commercial globally. Our
results are great. We are improving combined ratio. Jim is going to talk about this. The
way Jim and Sierra transformed our portfolios over the last years made this business for
us interesting, promising, and sustainable and we will maintain this leadership position
over time.
It's a sustainable business, it is not under revolution. You need to be extremely clever in
the business you want to take in your portfolio. Today, we are enjoying the results of
choices made three years ago about the strategic vision of the market. We reduced
casualty, we reduced long sale, we went into short sale business, and now the next
progression that Kathleen and Alison are implementing in US and Europe is removing the
business more and more towards markets.
This is gradually transforming and improving the quality of the business, but it's a much
more stable world than the world of retail. What's the ﬁnal aim of this? The ﬁnal aim of this
is that we want to remain a leader here and we want to become the priority choice in this
space for our customer using the glue, which is the customer data, the brand and the
capital for that purpose.
And if this is not clear, please ask me question and I'm happy and as you here I'm
extremely passionate about that. And this is where really the journey is for us. This is a
long-term journey that we started back in 2016. We're making progress, we're gaining
speed, we're gaining traction and we will continue on this.

Page 8 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Let me now talk for a second about how we run these two businesses and where we think
we have a competitive advantage. In commercial, everything we try to do over the last
three years has been diﬀerentiating ourselves. First of all, we wanted to diﬀerentiate
ourselves on the proﬁtability of the business. Again, these are named companies and you
can do that yourself. This is our improvements and this is what happened to them. So we
managed to have results pretty much ahead of the market and, in some cases, contrary to
market results. So the businesses can be run with proﬁtable good combined ratios.
We reduced volatility. We did not speak any more about large losses. Large losses is
something that George and I never mention any more. Why is that? Because we brought
to the large losses volatility in a corridor, which don't make them interesting to discuss
with you anymore and we'll continue monitoring and working on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

The portfolios. The portfolios have been completely reshaped. One thing you heard me
say many times is it's not the stock peaking matters, it is much more the strategical
portfolio choices. We took underwriting as such. We said in which sector do we want to
be present? We shrank -- a year ago, we shrank credit that was a decision that Sierra and
Jim took and we implemented it painfully with the business, with the regions with the
customers, but we thought it was right to do it. And now people start understanding why
that was right.
We shrank casualty, not because we like or don't like, because we thought it was right to
do it for us in 2016. And again today, we enjoy the beneﬁts of that. You need to have a
market vision to do these things. The proﬁts, the beneﬁts will continue to be extracted
over the next year, so we will continue managing the portfolios with the strategical views
of the portfolios. That is where we made the diﬀerence and this is where we will continue
exercising this diﬀerence.
The underwriting -- the other underwriting expense ratio in commercial has been
produced and is probably one of the lowest in the markets. There is further potential to
grow here. On all these things, we're not satisﬁed. We're still hungry to go and we will
continue improving, but it's important that you understand that there are years of
development behind us and we know precisely how to reach down the next targets that in
a second I'm going to get to.
We maintaining commercial a unique service model. Almost 70 points of TNPS score is
one of the highest we have and I believe is one of the highest across the industry . That
has always been a Zurich characteristic. Zurich has always been an extremely high service
company, we maintain that and we're proud of it.
We have dedicated to customer account managers, we follow the customers one-by-one
in commercial, especially the bigger customers. Jim is personally active with the number
of customers. It's a very hands-on reactive mode, which is what the customers like. This is
the uniqueness of Zurich and we will continue with this.
Underwriting, underwriting has been an extremely important theme for all of us. With
many of you I discuss what was the problem with underwriting, many of you thought that
Page 9 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

we had an issue with our underwriters. So never had an issue with our underwriters.
We've 1,000 of underwriters. They're brilliant people, they are extremely skilled.
What we did was to reconsider, ﬁrst of all, what was their empowerment of recognition,
and we moved them to be much more empowered than before and we moved the
recognition up. We changed the compensation system. We changed their incentive grids.
We changed their KPIs. We work on their professional careers and we developed a new
professional careers for the underwriters. We started doing that in UK, now we moved to
US. Kathleen led a program on underwriters beginning of this year. We then moved to
Switzerland. At the end -- at the beginning of next year, we're going to move to Germany.
With that, so we will cover practically 80% of our underwriters.
The rest of the underwriters are scattered, because in UK, in US, in Switzerland, we also
run halves [ph] for underwriting across the world. So we stabilized the underwriting
populations, the turnover dropped to below market and deﬁnitely below historical
numbers we're very pleased with that. Underwriting and claims are the backbone of this
organization. We need them to be happy with us, we need them to be motivated, and we
need them to be good as they've always been.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me move now to retail. But before I start talking retail, let me summarize on
commercial. So a lot of changes happened. All these changes have been driven with the
very clear strategic review of what we wanted from commercial. This is a business, which
will give us a sustainable high single-digit return on capital over the next years. And we're
conﬁdent that the way we have formed the business, the business will deliver this over the
next years.
Be also mindful of the cycle of where we are in commercial. Commercial today is in
hardening cycle. And be mindful of the fact that this hasn't been always the case. We've
been on a softening cycle for a number of years and now the cycle is turning around. This
is the right time and we are in the right set of positions to enjoy this, and continuing
developing what we have been doing, which is work on reducing volatility, work on
improving the proﬁtability, work on the strategic composition of portfolios, reduce the
cost and keep underwriting and claims, as strong and motivated as they have been.
Retail: disruptions, revolution, opportunities in retail. What have we done? As I said,
customer insights has been one of the lighthouse that we followed over the last years.
One thing that probably went under the retail is that in 2017, we acquired a company
which was specializing itself in data analytics for customers. It was marketing data
analytics company, which we acquired, we transformed it as captive. So we eliminated all
the external businesses and we started using it internally. This is one of the engine
besides this customer focus and now this is what is that ZCAM, which stands for Zurich
Customer Management.
Now, we use it in our business units to provide us understanding of the needs and leads,
what would the customer like to buy? The other thing that we've been working is we
acquired more than 80 million customers over the last three years. This is a huge number.
We developed partnerships. Partnerships that Giovanni will touch on this later is the way

Page 10 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

we see the future of retail. Forget about captivity. Customers don't want to be captive
anymore. You need to connect yourself through partners, through opportunities or
directly.
And you need to reach out the customers with a unique customer experience, which is
what Conny is working on and what she will deliver later on. And we introduced new
services, all right. We introduced new services in mobility, in property, in travel and in
wellcare. So far, retail has grown roughly 2% per annum in property and casualty and in
life. But '19 is accelerating and we're conﬁdent that over the next years, this will give us
further traction to accelerate.

Bloomberg Transcript

Farmers; farmers is 50% of our retail capacity, and farmers is part of all these eﬀorts and
changes that we've been making with one important exception farmers is a huge agency
force, right? So this is where exactly the disruption, the revolution happens. So knowing
that, we started two years ago transforming the farmers agent in agents capable of facing
the changes and the disruption in the market. This has in-selling [ph] number of diﬀerent
things including management changes. There is a brand new management team working
and leading the agents of farmers. We changed the tools for the agents. We changed the
incentives for the agents. We target as a result of this much higher numbers than 3% of
growth per annum at farmers.
At the same time, farmers have been investing in new opportunities. This new
opportunities are Toggle, which is millennials directly contacted with the platforms that
they developed in-house and it's very similar to Klinc that we had in Europe. They
developed a strong relationship with Uber, which is very interesting that their diﬀerence is
not agency driven and they start investing themselves into partnerships.
So the retail franchise we have is evolving around customer insights and customer leads,
but also about new investments in new ways of contacting the customers. What does that
mean for the targets and why I spent so much time talking about things that we have
developed? Because this is exactly what give us then the conﬁdence and the trust that's
now we can change the gear and go faster and achieve this higher targets than the one,
which are behind us for the next three years.
What we want to do in the next three years? We want to establish ourselves as the
preferred provider for our retail customers. That's an ambitious target. Today, we're not.
We cover 30% of their needs, we want to move and become the preferred ensure for our
retail customers. And in commercial, we want to take advantage of the market situation in
our strength and keep building on that and remain one of the market leaders, but
improve our proﬁts and improve the contribution to the proﬁts.
Now, in doing all this, as I mentioned before, we have a very strong priority into leading
also on sustainability. Now, we made a number of pledges and you see them on that side
of the page. But again, what make the diﬀerence people told us strongly and lovely is we
care for these things. This is our world and we want this world to be sustainable. So we try
to decline the things that mean something for us and we found three areas where we can
lead the world in sustainability.

Page 11 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

One is work. Yesterday, we published a commitment in work sustainability, which is quite
important for us. It's for our employees, but it's also externally. We commit to help
societies to face the issue about work sustainability in the future. We need trust, we need
conﬁdence that work will remain an opportunity for all families and for all individuals,
despite the concerns that people have on computers and digital and automation.
On changing climates, we have been working already over the past years in ﬂooding, but
then we extended our commitment to be responsible underwriters and responsible
investors. And I think we're leading the way of the industry in making choices on the
customers that we want to ensure for that or in leading discussion with the customers
about what is your plan to make your business fully sustainable over time.
And on connectivity digital cyber, we are working hard and making the trust back that this
is the world where we can all thrive and live. And we're doing this with government, with
organization, but also with SMEs, with individuals by giving them tools or coverages to
maintain this trust in the world. That's an important element of how we will work over the
next years and we will not go away. That's the way we see the daily work that we're doing,
and doing that on time Richard, sorry.

Bloomberg Transcript

One question, I often heard was what else can you guys deliver? We can deliver a lot
more, because we've been investing on ourselves a lot, and this is probably what you
guys did not perceive in details in the past and this is why I wanted to spend time on this.
This is where, we see opportunities. We can grow the business much more than we did
before. Because now we know precisely what growth means and which growth we will like
and which growth is not interesting for us.
Productivity, we will remain cost-driven, we will continue to simplify the organization.
There is further opportunity to be achieved through cost reduction. Portfolio policy, we've
done a lot, there is more to do. We're not at the end of the story. Three years ago when
George, Kristof and I presented you the plan, we told you we would not be ﬁnished by
2019. We're not ﬁnished today that we are in 2019. Portfolio quality can still improve.
Capital allocation, we have a continuous creation of capital. Capital allocation can help us
improving return on equity by properly deploying the capital and better making use of
capital. These are the opportunities that we see in front of us and trust me, we know the
machine very well today. We know exactly what livers to use to get all these things into
the P&L. Of course, we have drain and when you see later George's famous ROE walk you
also see the drain that we have.
And so that all together will make us achieving the targets that now are we standing in
front of you with. We talk today of BOPAT ROE in excess of 14% and growing over time.
George will show you a chart in ROE walk. We've 15% ROE targets by 2022. And
cumulative cash remittances in excess of $11.5 billion, in the past three years, we talked
about $9.5 billion That's a signiﬁcant step up in our capacity to generate cash and then to
use this cash for shareholder and innovation.

Page 12 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

We introduced new targets, which you kind of asked us for which is earning per share
growth. Now, the important word to underscore you is organic. We commit to organically
grow the earning per share by at least 5% per year. And we think this is relevant
commitment again being that organic. And of course, we remain committed to Z-ECM,
capital ratios and to run the business with AA as we do today.
We also want to introduce two new KPIs. We talk KPIs not targets, because their brand
new for all of you and pretty brand new for the industry. Net new customers, they matter
to us. They matter to us for all the things I said before, for all the things that Giovanni and
Conny will tell you soon. And retail brand consideration, again that's very important. And
so we will track timely these two results and we will report on you and maybe later, they
will become target.
So let me wrap it up before Richard takes oﬀ my microphone. You know the targets, you
know the story. One thing I want to make clear and I repeat this afternoon, we're not
going to let any stone unturned in order to achieve this. Thank you.

Kristof Terryn

{BIO 17664174 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Thank you, Mario. Good morning, everybody. Good to see you all of you. I'm
excited to share with you operations will contribute to what Mario described, I mean,
some of the accomplishments over the last two years, but also how we'll build on that
going forward.
Now, we have worked really, really hard to drive simplicity into everything that we do at
operations. And that's because I believe that simplicity is not just about eﬃciency. I mean
it's not how you deliver a consistent customer experience, it's also you create trust that
you can execute and deliver for your customers. Now, simplicity may be one of the most
diﬃcult things to do. I mean, it's like that in life, it's like that in business and it's no
diﬀerent than insurance.
Now, we are a complicated industry, we're heavily regulated, regulation is increasing, it
sometimes diverging. We all deal with old technology and some time and somehow in
that legacy we need to bring in the new technology and address changing customer
needs. And that's why almost every insurance company talks about simplicity, a very few
have actually done it.
Now, at Zurich, we started this journey three years ago when by enlarge we are done with
the back-ends. It's where we have focused. It's where you have seen the delivery of the
$600 million of savings in operations. But I think what more important is also giving us the
conﬁdence to, actually, now move from the back-ends to the front-ends and, basically,
accomplish two things. I mean one is drive a completely superior customer experience,
and two is continuing on that cost eﬃciency drive. And with that, we're committing to
taken out another point of view of OUE ratio after the investments in growth and in
capabilities.

Page 13 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Now, these are some of the targets that we set three years ago, and I won't dwell on it. I
think the numbers here speak for themselves, but I want to point out just one thing, which
is that all numbers on this page are absolute numbers. So when we talk about the savings,
the $600 million of savings in operations, I mean that is our contribution to the $1.5 billion
overall, that is an absolute number. So basically, it means that we started with our cost
base at the end of '15 after the inﬂation, after the growth, after having continued to make
the required investments. I mean our cost base and operations today is $600 million
lower than it was at the end of '15. And that goes for every number on this page.
I'll just give one more example. If I look at the IT applications, so you see reduction of 550
applications. The reality is that when we started this back at the end of '15, we had close to
3,000 applications and that application number grows organically. I mean we add new
propositions, I mean we also do acquisitions. And to just give the example of Latin
America, QBE and EuroAmerica just those two acquisitions came with more than 150
applications. So all the hard work to get that absolute reduction after absorbing all of that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, when I think about simpliﬁcation, our strategy. I mean simpliﬁcation comes at many
diﬀerent levels. And if you think about the operation landscape, I mean in the back you
have infrastructure, that's our network, data centers; applications and tools sitting on top
of that; and then ultimately processes some products. And cutting through all of it is that
data layer that is so crucially important.
Now, our focus so far has been on the back end. I mean it's where most of the
investments have gone over the last two years, it's also where you've seen the savings.
And it doesn't mean that we haven't started on products and processes, but moving into
the next phase now that is where to focus will be.
Now, before I go to the next page, let me give you some examples of what we've
accomplished over the last three years. This is an example of what we done on the
infrastructure side. And so as I said two major components, there's the network and
there's also the data centers. On the network side, I think Mario mentioned before
already, we had more than 140 diﬀerent suppliers. So think about what that means. When
you need to put in place new technology like a next-generation ﬁrewall, the complexity of
that implementation we have brought that down to just one. We're working with one
single global supplier, makes it much easier for us to predict that, make it more secure,
but also roll out new technology at scale.
So the hardest piece of work here have been the data center side. We started with 70 and,
here, similar as what we did with the applications, now I mean through some of the
acquisitions, if I go back to the QBE and EuroAmerica example, they didn't just come with
150 applications, they actually added 12 data centers as well that somehow we had to
integrate. So in spite of that, today, we're down to 13. We will move the remaining three
directly into the clouds over the next few months, which gets us to the targets of 10.
Now that again has done a couple of things, I mean it has vastly reduced our attack
surface. I mean, from a cyber-security perspective, I mean it is a lot easier to protect 10
data centers rather than 70-plus. It's also reduced our cost when you look at the two

Page 14 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

combined. I mean this has saved us those more than $100 million in the run rate,
infrastructure expenses over the last few years. And more importantly, it's also allowed us
to move to new technology.
Now back in '15, we had some limited clouds oﬀering. I mean we had a private cloud
oﬀering, but very few applications running in it. And over the last few years, we've been
on a journey of moving your application loads into the cloud. Today, we run 34% of our
application loads in either the public or private cloud, I mean we're on a hybrid cloud
concept. But more importantly, we've actually taken our entire technology stack.

Bloomberg Transcript

So taking that entire technology depth, moved it into the clouds and, with that,
compressed it signiﬁcantly. Because we now run on scalable standard infrastructure that
again is much easier to manage. Now some of the beneﬁts of that were clear, I talked
about security. It is much easier to protect, because one other thing that we've done at
the same time is that we moved to an API-based architecture, which basically means that
we have a standard way to get in and out of the environment, which makes it easier to
work with ecosystems, distribution partners, et cetera, and much easier to manage that
single point of entry than having many-to-many endpoint integrations.
But it also had a massive impact on stability. If I look at stability and we measure the
outages, I mean the Severity ones and Severity twos overtime. If I look at the amount of
severities that we've had say ones and twos this year, it is less than a third when I
compared to the same period in 2015. So that's the simpliﬁcation journey on the
infrastructure side, big driver of eﬃciency, big driver of expense savings as well. It gives
us the ability to now move to new technology. It also gives us a much more stable and
secure environments.
Now, moving up into that operation landscape to the next level of simpliﬁcation this time
on the application side. I commented on that when I showed you the overall target slide.
We've taken out 550 applications and it has really been across the entire spectrum, I
mean both from back end to front end. Just give you two examples, I mean a Russian
business was sitting on our legacy system came to the end of its life, rather than replacing
that, we moved them onto the ﬁrst system, which is our homegrown application that we
run for most of our standalone commercial countries.
Now an example on the front-end, simpliﬁcation. We used have ﬁve diﬀerent applications
that we're facing the customers. We had three risk engineering apps, we had a claim apps
where the customer could directly download claims data, we also had a MIA application,
that's the multinational insurance application. They were all sitting on diﬀerent technology
stacks, they all had diﬀerent operating models.
We brought those onto one single My Zurich portal. Customer has access in one place to
the data they need. It obviously sits on one single-technology stack, so cost of ownership
is much lower. And there's plenty of examples and a lot of hard work to get to that
number, but this has been one of the biggest drivers of the savings. I mean $230 million
in savings just from the application simpliﬁcation.

Page 15 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Now, one thing that I was worried about three years ago was also our ability to deliver
new development -- new application development, new capabilities to our customers
because we had an IT organization that was actually largely outsourced than oﬀshore that
was using predominantly a waterfall model. And in order to be able to be much more
agile and faster in delivery, we've done a couple of things; on the one hand, we brought
some of the critical capabilities in house and predictive analytics, big data is a good
example of that used to be almost entirely outsourced. We brought all of that back in
house. I mean our two centers one in Barcelona, one in North America that serve all of our
regions where we have teams that can do predictive analytics, but also host the
infrastructure for big data analysis, data lake infrastructure, data visualization tools, et
cetera. That's an example of in-sourcing.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the outsourcing model, I mean we've become much more agile. And one of the things
that we've been working on is to actually leverage crowdsourcing. I mean we signed
strategic deal with TopCoder now two years ago. TopCoder is a crowdsourcing platform
that host 1.5 million developers. It's global platform, it is now bought by Wipro. But the
way we've been working with them is to access on smaller pieces of development where
we need peak capacity or we need skills that are scarce to come by product design,
customer experience design, I mean UX, you name it. We work with them in a very agile
way. And over the last two years, we've done more than 60 projects with them, more than
half of them have been in the innovation space.
Now, simpliﬁcation is not just about applications. It's also about tools and I'm particularly
proud of this example. I mean not because of the eﬃciencies this has driven, because
frankly taking out this single pricing tool doesn't have a big impact on our cost base. I
mean the importance of reducing the number of pricing tools and, here, we went from
680 pricing tools to 300 is about the quality of the data.
I mean, typically, the ﬁrst place where you capture the underwriting data is within the
pricing tool, and having that in one consistent space leads to better risk selection and
leads to better pricing. It also helps us with accumulation management. I mean to just
give you an example, on the global marine line of business, we now have one single
global pricing tool. So we get to see the data in one single application, it also allows us to
then run predictive analytics, allows the student run machine learning techniques et
cetera. So a huge beneﬁt on the underwriting side from simplifying the pricing tools.
Now, moving through the stack of the operations landscape, mean we've covered
infrastructure, tools and applications. If I now move to the process side, this is an example
of our Irish retail business. On the left hand side, you see the good old green screen very
clunky, non-intuitive, took a lot of time to actually train claims handlers, and I could have
brought a video. There's actually a cool video where we compare the green screen to the
white screen, which is the much more digital front end that we've now put in place.
And we have two employees doing the settlement of a claim next to each other. And the
one on the right is done so fast and get so bored, that the other one is still working that
he got up and left. So it gives you a ﬂavor of how much this is improved in terms of
processing times, but that is not the most important piece.

Page 16 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

The old system didn't have any interfaces needed, I mean neither with suppliers nor with
customers. I mean this one is fully connected with our customers, and the customer
experience has been vastly changed. So the way now works when customer has a motor
claim, they can choose to either make a call, but they can also go to our web. They can
download a small app and they can initiate the claims process himself. It's all very
intuitive. They can take pictures of the claim, upload those, and in some cases, we can
actually say through process those, oﬀer indemnity or send them to one of our preferred
suppliers.
Now with that TNPS, which Mario talked about it's how we measure the satisfaction of our
customers went up 9 points on this transaction settlement times. So time to pay a
customer is down from 10 to 3 days and we're targeting on the improvement of 1 points to
2 points in the loss ratio, because basically we will have about a 20% better steerage of
people into preferred suppliers within our network, we will also be able to use predictive
analytics to do 2 things. One, look at which claims are good candidates for space with
processing, but also look at whether a fraud patterns.

Bloomberg Transcript

Which then brings me to the last example of simpliﬁcation. So this is now really the top of
the stack product simpliﬁcation. And the example here is one from our UK SME business. I
mean Mario talked about the 108 products that we had in the UK and now you may think
that 108 products is a very customer centric thing to do, because it reﬂects all the diﬀerent
needs, the reality when you see that product complexity typically, it has grown historically,
it's the result of acquisitions that are not fully integrated, it's because we made exceptions
overtime for a particular distribution channel, and what it makes is actually a very slow and
diﬃcult environment. Hard to change things, I mean hard to put in things like dynamic
pricing, when you have such a complex product landscape.
Now, what is diﬀerent here with our approach? We did not tackle this from the back-end.
And so, we didn't try to create the Pan-European, Pan-Galactic platform that could host all
products. I mean we started with a customer needs upfront and we basically map the
customer needs to a minimum set of products that map those needs, that were vastly
simpliﬁed, have much simpler wording. And the result of that has been that, ﬁrst of all, it's
much easier for us now to articulate our appetite. Can you broke a channels, I mean
online channels? The processing times here as well, I mean we all settle 80% of all service
requests within an hour, TNPS went up by almost 30 points and the new business pipeline
in UK is historical high at GBP100 million.
So a very good example of how simplicity on the product side doesn't just drive
eﬃciency. And yes, I forgot to mention at back of this, we could sunset two applications,
but that was not the main driver. The main driver was really how do we have a much
simpler product set that is able to go to market much quicker that we can adjust much
quicker and at least feel much better customer experience.
Now, that was some of the work that we did over the last few years. As we now move into
the next phase of our strategy, we're shifting radically towards the front end. And it
doesn't mean that we're giving up on the back end. We will continue that journey. So
particularly on the infrastructure side, you'll see us continuing to migrate to the cloud,
you'll see as continue to migrate to that standardized API architecture that's important
Page 17 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

because, we do want to play in ecosystems, we do want to play in new distribution
channels.

FINAL

Same on the application side, we will continue to be vigilant about that application count,
we will continue to invest as well in tools and capabilities around data analytics, but the
focus really will be on the front end.
So on the product and services side, that means that we want to develop more digital
products. It means products with a much more digital claims and underwriting
experience, and I'll give an example of that later in support of the growth in retail and
commercial. And on the process side, we want to roll out intelligent automation at scale.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now one of the reasons that we're doing that is because we think there's still an eﬃciency
gain to be had. I mean we've made really good progress there over the last couple of
years. I mean, we brought the OUE ratio down by 2.4 points, but there is more to be had
on the eﬃciency side. We think we can drive that down by a further point in your OUE
ratio.
But let me give you some examples, ﬁrst on the product side and then on the process
side with regards to intelligent automation. Now, this is an example on the product side of
our Japanese retail business, where we started to write parametric earthquake insurance.
Now, if you think about a traditional earthquake product and the underwriting process
and claims process that goes with it, I mean we would assess the structure of a building,
then based on historical data and our rating and pricing factors, I mean quarter [ph] price,
issuer policy. If an event and would happen, the customer would start the claims process,
we probably send an adjuster at the end of all of that. We then pay out an indemnity or
we help the customer to get up and running.
Now, when you write product like parametric earthquake insurance, the underwriting
process is vastly diﬀerent, because basically we develop a pricing model to get a bit our
global cap modeling team purely based on historical data and geography. So purely on
location where a customer lives, we provide a coverage, which in this case is relatively
small it's JPY30,000, but the claims process then is fully automated as well.
And so when a earthquake triggers of an intensity of 6 on some Japanese scale, I think it's
a shindo scale. If that happens and the community in which the policyholder lives has
issued an evacuation order, there's an automatic payment. So the customer receives an
SMS and then they have two choices, we are to wire the money into their account. Or if
there's somewhere abroad and they need, we can actually just send them a pin that they
can go to an ATM and withdrawal the cash immediately. So vastly diﬀerent customer
experience, underwriting process is basically gone, because it is pre underwritten claims
process as it is fully automated as well.
We've signed up 175 customers so far through an aﬃnity deal, 10% of those customers
actually elected to have higher coverage, and we planning to roll another 1 million
customers into this program over the next two years.

Page 18 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Now, let me then move on to automation and I give you two examples. Now, the ﬁrst one
around intelligent automation is from our commercial property business. And this is from
the European commercial property business. So when you think about underwriting a
large property program, it is typically a very labor intensive process. I mean you receive all
location data, multiple structures, multiple locations, I mean, through the broker. If you're
lucky, it's in diﬀerent formats, but it's at least structured. If you're unlucky, there's some
unstructured data in there as well.
In the past, we would ship all of that oﬀ to (inaudible), we had the BPO provider who then
put it all in a somewhat consistent structure and underwriting assistant with (inaudible),
with complemented data, with accurate geocoding, and then ﬁnally the rating and pricing
process could start. Now, what we've developed here is a natural processing capability
are base the ingest of those ﬁles, put them into a consistent structure and then uses
machine learning to actually put right geocoding into missing address data.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, massive improvements in the process, massive improvement in the adequacy of the
data as well, helps us again with risk selection pricing, helps us as well with the
accumulation management. So it's examples like that, I mean this one will roll out across
diﬀerent geographies. We have other examples in other lines of business. I mean, but we
think that through intelligent automation at scale in the underwriting expense base, we
can take up to 15% out of that.
And then my last example is a claims example. So here, this is an example of our MedMal
business or hospital liability business and our commercial business in Switzerland. Now,
here we developed a self-learning algorithm that is homegrown. I mean we traded on 10
years of MedMal data and what it actually does is when a claims ﬁle comes in, it looks at
the elements of the claim, it maps it against medical practice, it also maps it against the
coverage data in the ﬁle and then comes up with a recommendation on both the
indemnity -- the ﬁnal indemnity and the initial case reserved for the claims adjuster.
Now again, massive improvement in terms of eﬃciency in the claims handling process,
but also a very rich and consistent set of data that then helps us with fraud prevention,
we're looking for patterns. It's just one example, we're rolling similar things out across
diﬀerent lines of business in aggregates here as well on our claims expense base, we
think we can take up to 15% out over the next three years through similar eﬀorts.
Which then brings me to my wrap up slide. If you think about the strategy over the next
three years, we're really trying to do two things. One is driving intelligent automation at
scale across all of our core processes. So underwriting claims, but also sales support, that
will drive eﬃciency. Now at the same time, we want to enhance our propositions, make
them much more digital, have a much better customer experience. And when I add the
two up and for those of you who have done the math, yes, it is about $4 million and $5
million in eﬃciency if you take the expense base and take that 15% out of it, some of that
we will reinvest. After those reinvestments, we're still committing to a point in OUE ratio.
So that then brings me to the key messages. Look, we've worked really hard over the last
couple of years. I think we've turned the corner on the back end, I mean we have

Page 19 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

simpliﬁed our back end the operations. It's what has driven this savings. It also gives us
the basis now going forward. We're radically shifting to the front end to really do two
things. One is drive that superior customer experience, the second one is to continue on
that eﬃciency journey. And with that, we commit to taking a point out of the OUE ratio.
Now, I'm conﬁdent we can get this done. We have the team in place, we have the track
record. If I look at what we delivered over the last few years, we will deliver on these
targets as well. Thank you for your attention.
And then with that, I think we have a break and, Richard, how long of a break do we get?

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

We will now take a coﬀee break in the room across the way. But can I ask you to please be
back in here punctually 11 o'clock, so we can continue on. Thank you.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
Please settle down, so we can carry on with the morning and not lose too much time. I'll
pass it over to Conny to start the second part of the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Conny Kalcher

{BIO 21089028 <GO>}

Everyone, my name is Conny Kalcher, and I joined Zurich on July 1 as Chief Customer
Oﬃcer. To be very honest with you, I wasn't really that interested at ﬁrst when I heard
about this opportunity. I thought insurance customer focus, I'm not sure. But actually
getting to know Zurich a bit more through the process, I got really, really inspired by the
vision and the ambition for driving customer focus.
And I have spent most of my career with one of the world's leading brands driving
customers focus, and that brand is LEGO. So customer focus is really key to our business
at Zurich. And it's something we're going to focus even more on with the establishment of
the customer oﬃce. So already in 2016, we deﬁned our ambition to become customer
focused and the changes already well underway through the NPS program as you already
heard. We actually get feedback for more than 1 million customers around the world. We
understand what drives their loyalty and we keep on acting on what they tell us.
So keep customer loyalty is very key to our business and it's also a key to driving progress
going forward. We have a huge millennial -- huge opportunity in the millennials segment.
Today, you will hear more from the Zurich millennials. It's a fantastic group of people and
they will tell you how the needs behaviors and lifestyles of millennials are changing. And
they actually help us future-proof the company.
Today, the main part of our business is more towards this Gen X and the baby boomers,
unless so towards the millennials. But actually, we only see that as a huge opportunity to
grow as we move forward. So we're now ready to step up pace, drive this transformation
Page 20 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

and focus more on customers. And to measure our success, we are establishing two new
customer KPIs. So we will understand how well we are doing on this journey.
So with this ambition in mind, what are we actually going to do diﬀerently? Well, we're
going to look less inside on ourselves and focus much more about being customer that.
That sounds pretty easy, doesn't it? It is something that's very easy to say, but quite
diﬃcult to do, especially if you are in an industry that's very standardized, policy-driven,
complex and highly technical. But what we need to move to is becoming much more
customer led, that starts with focusing on the customer needs, and servicing up things to
them that they ﬁt ﬁnd relevant in a personalized and seamless way, but that's not enough
really to become truly customer led.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what else do we need to do? We need to change ourselves from being a product
brand to an experience brand. What does that mean? Well, allow me to tell you a little
LEGO story. So LEGO used to be a product-focused brand, we were selling construction
toys. However, our industry -- the toy industry was disruptive, the kids life was changing.
They have computer game suddenly, they have access to the internet to play unlimited,
they also had TV on demand, so always there, not appointment TV as what we were used
to, and huge blockbuster movies what changing their wealth and their interests.
So LEGO actually had a choice to make, we could either adapt and stay relevant with
these kids, or we could remain a little player in the toy business. So guess what? We
actually did change, and we decided to become an experienced company. And an
experience company, means that we no longer competed with other toy manufacturers.
We now competed with children's time, which is a whole diﬀerent ball game. So what we
did is we started creating characters, stories, universes around the toy experience to
create a much deeper engagement with kids.
But LEGO, of course, is not the only experience brand in the world. There are other very
strong ones, Disney, Nike, Apple, just to mention a few. And what they focus on to be
really experienced brands is what you see on the slide up here. They focus on
understanding their customers deeply their needs, their behaviors, who they are, then
they create distinct and seamless experience for their customers.
So that they can move with them from online to oﬄine and across channels, make it easy
for their customers. They also focus much less on pushing advertising up, information up
instead they create moments of dialogue. They really engage with their customers. And
most importantly of all, they continuously improve the customer experience. What does
that look like? Well, if you just think of the Apple stores for example. And if you think of
the LEGO store in Leicester Square here, both stores are battling, they are alive. When
you go in there you get excited, you think wow this is an exciting brand.
And that's when you look at that, you think retail crisis, what retail crises? People are
shopping, they're walking out of the stores with bags, but they're also lining up in front of
the stores to get in. So what can we learn from that? Well, to take a step back, we're not
going to be a Disney, we're not going to be a LEGO, but we're going to be something
diﬀerent. We're going to transform who we are and be much more focused on customers.

Page 21 of 81



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Where does that start? It starts with looking at who we are, why we are here, and what's
our value proposition to customers going forward, what are the promises we give to our
stakeholders? And stakeholders are lots of diﬀerent groups. It's our customers, it's our
employees, it's our partners, including the agents, including the brokers and it's the
planet, our promise to the planet and to our shareholders. Through that, we study and get
a deep understanding of customer behaviors. And through that, we become customer
focused and we start creating signature of experiences for our customers. Giovanni will
tell you some examples about what those signature experiences are.
But what's important in this context is that they are unique to Zurich. Not what everybody
else is doing. So we will focus much more on that going forward. And if I was to tell you
an example of a signature experience, I'm sure you can think of many yourself, it would
be, for example, the genius buying an Apple store. So what Apple did was really, really
brave. They took part of their shop store plan and about retail that's actually selling space.
They turned it into engagement space instead and that way they did gave their customers
a reason to come into the stores to be engaged with their products, to be engage with
their brand. So all of these are actions, we also need to take and ﬁnd our ways of doing in
a straight content -- context, because it drives loyalty.
So part of it is understanding the customers and listening to them and we have already
done a lot of listening. We listen to more than 1 million customers a year. And on top of
that, we also call them back if their detracted. If they weren't really happy with the service
that we gave them or the product we sold to them, we call them back across the
organization, across layers of leaders and non-leaders and we get that one-to-one
dialogue with our customers. It's hugely important and, through that, we learn to
understand what the drivers of loyalty are. And when we understand that we can of
course be very targeted in how to improve it. And our eﬀorts are paying oﬀ as Mario
already showed you.
You can see how we are changing the pictures across the landscape here. For example, in
Latin America, we have grown the score with 5%, that growth of loyalty comes mainly out
of Brazil, where they've done a lot to digitalize the process in order to make it easier for
customers to be in contact with us.
If you look at the North American score, you might think, how can that be a positive result
minus one? But it actually is the positive result, because what they have done in America
and their NPS score is very high already actually world class I would say. They have really
focused on the pain points of their customers, they realized and, this is Kathleen's team,
they realized that the claims process wasn't working. They needed to measure it across
more touch point to really deeply understand what they could do better.
So instead of thinking about the score, because NPS is not about the score, it's the impact
we can have with customers. They thought about how can we learn more, so that we can
improve more. And they did, so they measured more touch points that cost them a little
bit on the score, but they did the right thing. They actually achieved a lot as well.

Page 22 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

EMEA is a little bit of a mixed picture, some countries were really good and some were
suﬀering a little bit for example in the UK, but suﬀering in the positive sense. They
launched a new product that was highly, highly successful, so their service team had a
problem catching up. That whole problem has now been ﬁxed. So again, the actual
focusing on the customer drive the right decisions, it drive -- it drove the right action.
Then look at Asia-Paciﬁc, that's a fantastic growth. They of course come from a lower base
in the NPS score, but they roughly comes out of Japan. If you notice, Japanese service
culture, you also know that they are very critical and they are really expecting top service.
So we had some issues in Japan in our customer contact centers. The service was a bit
uneven, but to team ﬁx that. They introduced more training and more coaching for the
staﬀ and they even trained the back oﬃce staﬀ, so they could go on the phones as well at
peak periods, and it all paid oﬀ as you can see.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then we have farmers there less -- last which also has improved their RNPS score, but
it's already also at a very, very high level. But we don't feel loyalty just for the sake of
building loyalty. We have been loyal, because it makes economic sense. So if you look at
the numbers, here, you can see promoters buy more. They actually by 1.3 more insurance
policies than detractors do. They are also more loyal, they stay with us longer and if they
are multi insurance policyholders, they stay 2 times as long. So it's really meaningful, not
to focus on the score, but focusing on driving loyalty.
And then of course to no surprise for any of you, retaining customers is very cost eﬃcient,
because you save the cost of attracting new. So we did -- we keep on acting on this
customer feedback. And I'm actually very proud to stand here after only four months and
having red pages and pages on activities taking around the world on this customer
feedback.
I think there is already a very strong movement in the organization to focus on removing
these pain points from customers and delighting them instead. So here three examples,
the pain points we saw. We have already talked a little bit about this situation in Japan,
but just to mention one in Spain, we learned from customers that they felt that the oﬀer
we had in auto insurance was very kind of restrictive. They didn't have enough choice. So
the team in Spain actually launched a modular oﬃce -- oﬀer where insurers could at their
own choices, so they could choose do I want windscreen insurance or do I want excessive
parking coverage, et cetera, depending on their needs. And you can see in all of these
cases, the score is going up.
But not only the score is going up, we're satisfying the customers, we're delighting more
customers. And that's what we need to do. So the NPS program already works pretty hard
for us, but it needs to work harder. So we need to roll it out in more countries, listen to
more customers and also drive the response rate up, because the more information we
get, the more we can act.
But more importantly, what we also going to do is add sentiment analysis, because it's not
just the question about whether they would recommend us. It is especially about what
they say, what their sentiments, what their comments are? And you can mine that data, so

Page 23 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

we add sentiment analysis and also social listening. So it's about being where the
customers are, not necessarily where we are. So by listening there as well, we can take
action in a much higher way.
So as I said, millennials are a very attractive segment for us. And even though, they are
more than 50% of the population. They actually only today 20% of our business. So we
need to change that. But what's interesting about millennials is, I'm sure, you know if you
have millennials at home or around you, I have so I know quite a lot about this, they have
a radically diﬀerent lifestyle.
Let's look at the traditional lifestyle ﬁrst. That's in the white up here. The traditional
lifestyle for previous generation is very linear. So you live at home, you get an education,
then you get a job, you start a career, you settle down, you get a family, you buy a house,
you buy a car, that linear ﬂow is super for insurance, because we can oﬀer a product at
each stage that is really, really relevant to these consumers.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, if we look at the millennial lifestyle, it's quite diﬀerent from that. It's not linear.
It's ﬂuid. It goes back and forth. They settled down, get family and kids must later in life
and they have might have two careers, they might even move back home with you after
the education, so -- which is not always a good thing I know that, but also we need to
understand that way of life. And we need to be able to meet them where they are and
oﬀer the products and services that are relevant to them.
So what are we doing to address that challenge? Well, we are launching four strategic
initiatives. The ﬁrst one is to re-look at our customer value proposition as I already said.
Why are we here, what are we delivering to our customers and what essence [ph] of
purpose? Customers today, they search for bigger purposes and companies and we think
we're quite well placed to deliver on that.
Then we will look at our corporate brand framework and deﬁne the promises to our
stakeholders as I have already mentioned, dialing up tremendously in behavioral science
and data analytics. Because as you saw that's really a key prerequisite to be successful in
this space.
And lastly, we need to innovate our customer experience. All of that to deepen our
relationship with our existing customers and attract new customers. So to measure our
progress, we are introducing 2 new KPIs, brand consideration as the ﬁrst one, and net
new customers as the second.
Brand consideration really talks about the strength of the brand. And we know from
research that customers only really can recall 3 to 4 names -- brand names when they are
looking for insurance or any other product. So is imperative for us to be in that
consideration set and, thus, we are looking at to work with our local markets on how we
can drive ourselves up into that set. If we look at where we are today, we are amongst the
1 to 5 quite well represented there, but half of our markets are really outside that. So we
need to be more relevant to them and work on that.

Page 24 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

The next KPI is net new customers. So this is of course all about securing that we don't
lose our existing customers that we treat them well, we're relevant to them. So they want
to work with us and stay with us for longer, and that is combined with how good are we at
attracting new customers like, for example, with Gen Z and the millennials. They are key to
our growth. So that's why we have these two measurements.
So to summarize, we have already delivered on part of the transformation. We understand
what -- we understand what drives customer loyalty and we know how to service
customers better. We want to be relevant to new generations and to serve them in a
proper way, because it gives us an opportunity to drive further growth.
We have a clear plan for how we're going to get there and we want to transform together
with our customers, and we want to measure success. So I'm really looking forward to
come back here next year and the year after and the year after, and share our progress.
Thank you.

Giovanni Giuliani

{BIO 20678339 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everybody. My name is Giovanni Giuliani. I joined Zurich in 2016, and I
look after our strategy as well as our innovation and business development agenda.
I'm very excited today to speak with you about retail, which is such an important
contributor to our group performance and also complements very well our commercial
business strength. You heard from Conny, our continuous focus on customer experience.
You will now see from the business retail point of view, how it looks like today and how it
could look like in the future.
But let me start with some key messages that I want to leave with you. First of all, we like
retail. Retail is large and it's growing and we operate in retail with a very solid franchise,
which we have also further strengthened in the last few years. Not only we like retail. We
also like the way that retail is evolving.
Mario mentioned this morning about the disruption that is happening, this create an
opportunity for us. It is driven by technology and by customer shifts. But the opportunity
for us is big, because we have an open architecture in distribution and we are also
beneﬁting -- starting to beneﬁting a lot from our recent simpliﬁcation eﬀorts.
In the past years, not only we worked on simplifying the organization, not only we worked
on strengthening commercial, we also made signiﬁcant investment and tested solution in
retail, which we are now ready to roll out furthering the group, which are creating the
opportunity to go much deeper in the relationship with our customers. I will also share
with you our plans to grow in customer segments, which are largely unserved in the
industry, SME and millennials.
And last but not least a transformation of the size and with such an important focus on the
customer, it requires speed and requires scale. And I will show you how our program,

Page 25 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

which is employee led, make the diﬀerence is unlocking the energy of entire group across
organization [ph].
So let me start with the ﬁrst message, which is we like retail, why we like retail? Retail is
large, 70%, 80% of the entire industry premiums. And not only large, but is also growing.
It is forecasted to grow by 5% in the next -- in future. This is probably the largest
contribution to the industry growth. We deﬁne retail as individuals and SME and, as such,
it also oﬀer a variety of risk, which stabilizes our earnings. Being also short-term in nature,
it's very proﬁtable. And compared to commercial, which is our other strength in the
group, it's also less capital intensive and, therefore, it produce very attractive return on
equities.
Not only we like as it is, we also like the evolution that we see. Let me explain you how we
see the evolution. What in the past was almost a one model ﬁts all scenario and which
basically we were pushing -- entire industry was doing this, we were pushing products
through 1 or 2 channels, speciﬁcally agents and direct more in most of the cases. We were
outsourcing the customer relationship completely -- almost completely to this channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are moving now in a situation, where the customer have much more power. The
power to compare, the power to choose. They are also much more easy to buy from a
variety of distribution alternatives, like they do for any other products besides insurance
already. To compete in this scenario, you need two strength -- two characteristic one. The
ﬁrst one, you need to be as easy with the multiple distribution channels, you need to be
much more open, you need to be where the customer is.
Second, you need to change the approach on customer focus, customer simplicity. This is
a largely was what [ph] in the industry, but what is meant so far, it was meant like a captive
relationship with customers. This is not anymore we -- we cannot captive -- keep the
customer captive. What you need to do, you need to be close to the customer. You need
to have a customer intimacy, which is based on superior understanding of the customer
and also the ability to meet their needs.
This is even more true if you think about the next generations. You see here on the map
how relevant we are, how sizable we are, and Conny mentioned, how distinctive we are in
their needs? If you like a tsunami honestly and it's coming very, very soon and very
strongly.
So against this backdrop, how are we performing? What is our franchise today? I have
only one word to summarize in this [ph], very solid. First of all, it's large. We have 20
billion of -- more than 20 billion of premiums P&C. We've more than 3 billion of APE in
life, we have another 20 billion in farmers. This is a massive operation that we have in
retail. And it's not only large, it's also proﬁtable. Every single business contributes to our
proﬁts in an almost equal part. Not only proﬁtable, but is also growing. So it's a very solid
starting point.
With proﬁt that we generate from retail, it is also very healthy. Think about our life
business for example, we were among the ﬁrst to focus on capital eﬃcient products
Page 26 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

already years ago. And at the end of last year already, 80% of our new business mix is
made up of protection and unit link, which are very, very capital eﬃcient products.
If you think about P&C, it's a similar picture that you see. Our combined ratio, which was
already very good as further improved over the last year's to below the 94% threshold.
And if you think about the eﬃciency and the result of the simpliﬁcation that Kristof has
mention before, we have further beneﬁted also from that angle. So it's a very healthy
business that we have.
We also enjoy the fact that we have 6 markets which together represent 70%, 80% of our
business. That's a very good also from a managerial point of view. But diﬀerently from our
-- some of our peers, these 6 markets are not concentrated in one continent only. We
actually have a much more diversiﬁed -- geographical diversiﬁed franchise, which is very
good for the stability of the earnings. Moreover, we have further invested in them.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we acquired through bolt-on acquisitions, speciﬁc capabilities and we have also
solidiﬁed speciﬁc market situations. Speciﬁcally in travel, we acquired Cover-More and
also a few other companies after. We're now number two in travel. We also acquired the
in life, the businesses of OnePath making us the number two in the life business in
Australia. In Latin America, it is a very fast growing market. We are now number three
altogether. Thanks also to acquisition of QBE and EuroAmerica. And in the Indonesia, we
have acquired Adira, again giving us a very prominent position in this very large and
growing markets.
What we also like a lot as I mentioned before, it's our heterogeneity in the distribution.
We don't depend on one single channel. We don't have a massive legacy situation
defend or to worry about. We're actually very, very well diversiﬁed. We are strong in
agents, of course in farmers in America, but not only, we have similar number of agents
also across the business in diﬀerent parts of our geographies.
We're also strong in direct, where we serve a more than 3 million customers and we very
often have a leading position in the market. We are among -- we're the number two or
three in this diﬀerent markets. For example, in Japan, we are in this situation, we are also
in this situation in Argentina and also in Germany.
In the other market, we nevertheless grew more than the market, so direct is also very
strong. But we also have a very strong elements in Bancassurance, because the biggest of
our partners namely Santander, Sabadell, Deutsche Bank and now AnZ, but we're actually
enjoying more than 70 of these relationships, which give us access to almost 100 million
of customers.
And last but not least, particularly in the scenario which I mentioned you before, aﬃnity
and partnership. These are becoming very strong. We already beneﬁt from the heritage
with some of our traditional large partners like in Brazil, we have (inaudible), which was
historically very successful for us. But we are also growing and growing in this channel
continuously, and I will show you some example in a minute.

Page 27 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

But this is not enough, having a solid franchise that is large, proﬁtable, growing, well
diversiﬁed, well diversiﬁed also from a point of view distribution is not enough. What we
have done in the last years? Besides as I mentioned before taking care of the operations
and commercials, we've also invested.
To the start from the center of this light, there are few examples that I wanted to mention
to you. First of all is our continuous eﬀort on driving customer satisfaction and resolving
their pain points and Conny alluded to this already before. The second is our ability to
extract and to understand customer insights. We have stated the speciﬁc unity in the
group that does exactly this, it is called Zurich Customer Active Management, Mario
mentioned it before, I will illustrate it to you in a second.
The third example is our new propositions. We have tested and launched several
propositions in four domains, which are very important for us in mobility, in wellcare and
property and in travel. I will show you how these propositions help us to retain and
advance more customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the last two example that you see on this slide are related to enhanced distribution,
both in terms of depth and in terms of breadth. Depth that we achieved to another
technology, which we provide to our distributors, speciﬁcally in the agents apart, and
breadth is the continuous expansion of our network of aﬃnity and partners.
Why with these slide is important? For several reasons. First reason, all that you see here is
based on proprietary know-now. So we have developed this internally. So it represents
our competitive advantage. Second reason, this is -- all these initiatives are already active
in the group. We have tested them and reﬁned them. You don't see here what didn't
work, you only see here what's worked, and you will see how we are ready to deploy this
at scale in the group.
Third, these initiatives each of them in isolation and in conjunction impact directly before
driver of our business performance. So they allow us to retain more customer, which
means customers spend more time with us longer and you see the impact, you see how
fast it's to achieving back to previous year [ph]. You will -- they also tend to buy more and
you see here, just by selling one more product that we serve to customers produce a very
signiﬁcant result. Not only that when you have customer let's say longer that you know
better and they are also more invested into the company by owning more products like
tend to have a better risk proﬁle, which is also of course very helpful for our performance.
And by expanding our distribution, we are getting two more of them.
Let me go through some of these examples. The ﬁrst one is the program that we already
mentioned. I'm going quicker here, but I just wanted to highlight, we already had a
program for NPS in place several years ago. What we did in the last two years we brought
it to the next level. We expanded the number of countries we participate 25 up to now.
We expanded the number of touch points that we monitor. Many, many more such point
that we use be to have before, which was mainly focus on claims in the past.

Page 28 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

We also consistently apply the same methodology. Everybody in the group now use the
same methodology, same provider. And if anybody of us wants to see what is the result of
the latest customers recession or even the latest complain of customers, we all have it on
our mobile. I can access from here every single market, every single sub segments and
not only myself, everybody of expert colleagues can do the same.
When you do this, you understand you can start to act on ﬁndings. The example that I
have here is the same that Conny mentioned, so I'm going to go quick on that, but it was
based on a speciﬁc channel that we had in Spain, a car distribution channel of dealers.
They were bundling -- as many are doing in the industry, they were bundling the
possibility to buy a new car with a new policy, but this bundle was considered as very, very
limiting for the customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what we did -- what did happen is that after one or two renewal, some of our
customers are well journeys [ph]. We learned this, we changed the proposition, we
introduced the modularity and ﬂexibility that Conny mentioned, not only that we also
inserted this channel into our renewal program, but we already did for the other channel
and now it's fully integrated and is end-to-end. And now, you can see the impact on the
customer satisfaction.
Similarly, we achieved very good retention impact in Italy. We achieved the 1.3 times in
product density. In Germany, we also reducing signiﬁcantly the cost of acquisition,
because it's intuitive. If you don't need to require a customer, the cost of use [ph] much
less to retain it. So this is the ﬁrst example. Let me go through the second example, which
is the ability to generate insights. This was very important for us, while we were advancing
on the NPS program.
In order to generate customer intimacy, you need to understand the customer in a
superior way. We were not able to do that, so we went out. We look for the capabilities,
we found the best capabilities and we acquire them. And once we acquire them, we
voted [ph] in the group, we represented them at Zurich Customer Active Management
and we gave them a mission. And the mission that they are executing against is very clear
of three things.
The ﬁrst one is give us the 360 degree of the customer review. This is something that's in
the industry is very often mentioned like the holy grail. It's only we could know everything
about the customer. And the issue is that very often, this exist, but they are expressed in
numbers -- multiplicity of IoT silos, databases and things like that.
Now this technology, we actually summarize them in one place. We now know the
customer has a car policy good. We also know that the customer lives in a certain part of
the city, which other products they have, which channel they use, what is the proﬁtability,
what has been the claims history and so on and so forth, all in one go. But that is only the
ﬁrst.
The second things that this technology does they look for partners. They look for partners
into the business, in the results, in the data. So for example, they found out that the vast
Page 29 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

majority of customers drive a sport utility vehicle, also happen to buy life insurance for
children to protect our children. Once you ﬁnd it, it sounds very intuitive and it's obvious,
but it was not before we found it. But now that we know it, we can actually pass this
information to assess distribution, and that is the third things that was companying [ph]
us.
It seamlessly integrates with any of our distributors. So the agent, for example, receive a
pop-up directly on their CRM system, whatever they use and whatever tool they use, and
this information is passed very timely to them. The system doesn't stop there, the system
is also looking the portfolio and see whether the recommendation was successful or not
based on the actual sales, and before the artiﬁcial intelligence continues to learn.
The results that we have achieved are quite impressive both in terms of increase in share
of wallet and product density, but also in terms of how many times customers now buy
from us a product in the P&C side and in the life side. And this is not a surprise that many
other countries are already embarking on this journey.

Bloomberg Transcript

Why this is important? It is important because ﬁrst of all, we have made the investment. So
now we can scale up at the marginal cost. It's also fast, because the algorithm has already
been tuned. So it needs to be ﬁne-tuned in the next countries, but not starting from
scratch like the ﬁrst time.
Second, it's important because it allows us to do what Mario mentioned this morning,
which is to try to transform our current customer from what they are today, which very
often they are transactional buyers, because they don't have varying type portfolio with
one carrier, they don't have the entire product with us. They actually spread across
diﬀerent carriers, because for them, we are all the same.
So they both over time in their life, just because it happens that at the speciﬁc moment,
someone propose them one product of they were looking for one speciﬁc solution. Our
results indicates that the, on average households, our households clients have 6 products.
But with us, they have only 30%, so there is a huge opportunity here if we know exactly
what they need.
The second reason why this is important is because the intuitive relationship between the
tenure and the number of products you have is now proven. We have documented it in
our business and it's more than proportional. And when you achieved the situation where
they buy not only P&C but also life, it's even exponential, and so we are going to beneﬁt
from this largely and we expect that this would be a big driver of our growth going
forward.
Let me tell you that when you propose a new product to customer as you are much more
successful if you propose something that is more than the traditional product that
everybody else can oﬀer. The industry like Conny said, is very standardized and we tend
to all oﬀer similar products. That's why we also started to invest in new propositions. And
we did it in four domains which are poor for us, because after all, what we do is to protect
our customers when they use the automotive when they move, when they are at home or
Page 30 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

in their oﬃce, when they travel, and we also look about how their lifestyle and their
wellness.
So in these four domains, we will remain active. We'll do it in a diﬀerent way, which is
much more modern using technology, using digitalization, providing convenience, but
also putting together an ecosystems of insurance solution, but also services. And this will
create a diﬀerent relationship with a customer and, ultimately, also improve a risk proﬁle.
Let me bring this for domain alive for you by showing you a video, which is synthesized
(inaudible) proposition that we already have launched in the market on each of them.
Please.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
So we said so far at your customer, but stay longer. Better understanding of customer
needs, which allows us to propose and to serve their various needs. How to improve the
propositions? So what do we need now? We need more customers. Therefore, we also
worked on the distribution both in depth and in breadth, so let me go through this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Depth is made up with the our agents using an enhanced technology. So the situation
that we were facing here is that all our agents have already CRM solutions. They can buy
from the market, multiple vendors available. There is only one issue, it's a same
proposition with same vendors that sell to all of our competitors. So there is no real
competitive advantage here.
So what we did here, we have to go beyond it. And we asked our agents, why don't you
develop yourself with tool that you need? Why don't we do this in a way that is distinctive,
it's diﬀerent. We even went to (inaudible) do this. We involved all or many of our agents,
we designed the solution directly with them and the tool that they come up with is a tool
that is extremely easy to use, but apparently for them it is very, very eﬀective and there is a
one reason why is this the case.
When you approach a customer, it reminds you for a ﬁve things that you should know
about this customer. When a customer calls you, automatically the phone is connected
with iPad or tablet and immediately you see the customer proﬁle on that. You can
investigate everything about the customer, you know exactly how many product they
have, the claims history, proﬁtability and so on, exactly like I mentioned before in ZCAM,
because they two are also connected with each other.
You can then visit the customer, you don't need to have the customer coming to your
oﬃce. Forget about the black screen that Kristof mentioned to you or showed you before,
and this is a completely diﬀerent experience, you can look at the tool together with the
customer. So also the intimacy is much better. If you want the quotation, you press a
button, you get a quotation. If you want the contract, it also getting you the contact
directly. The customers can sign directly with the pen and then it gets the contract in the
email immediately.

Page 31 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

So already from these, you understand the potential of this tool, it saves a lot of time. It's
also much more eﬀective in the sales pitch. It's a very good tool that we have developed
ﬁrst in one country to test it and now even our mother company is adopting it at scale and
more we will do in the future.
And last but not least is the extension of our reach in distribution. This is the core to us, as
Mario mentioned this morning. We are convinced that we need to open up ourself much
more. We need to be where the customer is when they need for insurance arise. Today,
the vast majority of insurance, they are all ﬁghting and competing here, which is for a
limited -- very limited share of customers time, which is when they want to buy insurance
with an agents or with direct. But the customers don't spend the entire day of life to think
about insurance. They actually have something more to do. They go to work, they go to
bank, they interact with utilities, they use the telephone, they travel. In each of these
industries, this -- where our services that are provided to them and needs that arise that
would beneﬁt from an insurance coverage. Problem is, insurer are not there, we're have
never there when it's needed.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we know of the other hand how important is to have this relationship with these
industries. We know it, because we did it in bank. It's called Bank Insurance. It's a very
successful channel is growing very eﬀectively. So we think that the same is going to
happen with all other industries. There will be companies, champions in each of these
industries that are already looking for the best partner in insurance out there. And we
want to be that partner and we think we can be very good partners for several reasons.
First of all, we are present in many geographies, in retail and in commercial it is even
more, because we are present everywhere. But in retail, in all the four continents,
whatever markets, we are there. For champions in other industries, particularly those that
are not only focus on one country, this is very attractive as a potential partner.
Second, we oﬀer -- we cover all the possible type of risks and you also saw before, we are
very open to also innovate in new coverage and new propositions. The brand -- the Swiss
brand speaks by itself, it's very solid, it brings value-added to their customers. We have a
very ﬂexible distribution channel, so we are not afraid of any legacy conﬂict with one
particular dependency. So we can embark in this relationship much more openly and with
a good intention then others can do.
We now also know, how to understand the customer much better, we have a stronger
customer data analytics franchise and we can deploy these and we can also partner with
them to leverage on them and our track record is very strong. I mean, the heritage of
Zurich has always been to be very close to big corporations. From our commercial focus,
we inherited this. So we understand the B2B, we understand it very well. We know how
the corporation thinks and work.
26% of our business you can see already comes from this channel 50% even in life. And
it's interesting to know that in the last 12 months only, we've been able to secure more
and more of this partnerships. These partnerships, each of them in one go give us access
to a large amount of potential customers. I'll give you one example, not to mention always

Page 32 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

banks, to mention utilities. We did one partnership recently with Eni in Italy. It's a utility,
energy and gas utility provider.
In one go, we reach -- we can reach 9 million customers. Imagine how many agents or
how many other type of channels we would need to deploy to reach such a polarity [ph].
What we oﬀer in this case? Well, we started from the simplest idea, which is we're going
to ensure the electrical appliances that they bring it to your house, but that's an asset and
you need to protect it. Then, we went on, and we said, what about the income protection
of being able to pay the bills in the future, that's also important and you need to cover it.
And then we went on and on, and we eventually reach the full spectrum of risks, third
party liabilities in your condominium. All the pipes, and glasses, and the building is
covered and so on and so forth. So these are very, very promising distribution
opportunities that we have in front of us.

Bloomberg Transcript

So to summarize this part, we have a large customer base. We are going to go deeper in
the relationship with them. We're going to make them stay longer with us by more
because we better understand their needs and also increase their proﬁtability through
two new propositions and reach more of them through an asset distribution. But that is
not it's not enough, because as I mentioned to you before, we also have plans to grow in
SME and in millennials. So let's see how?
We have invested also in these areas and we know how to do it. So ﬁrst of all, SME. SME is
a large and very attractive market. In many of the markets where we operate, there is a
strong SME market potential growing and proﬁtable. But I think, we can go beyond this.
And why we are conﬁdent in this is because we have laid out a set of initiatives, which we
are now going to deploy at scale. First of all is the simpliﬁcation. So Kristof mentioned the
simpliﬁcation that we did in many parts of our business and Mario as well, so millennials
[ph] and SME.
So the example in UK that was mentioned before, from 108 diﬀerent propositions, which
as you can imagine generate some confusion in the distributors and customers, where
some overlapped, not to mention the complexity of running them and making sure that
there are no errors will import [ph] and things like it. We consolidated to eight very well
structure propositions. It's now much, much easier for us to quote and to serve our
distributors. It's much easier for the customer to be served. 20% -- 20 point of increase in
satisfaction, that's impressive and we enjoy now the wider access to distribution and the
pipeline that we have ahead. This is now moving further from the UK to other countries
where it matters.
Similarly to what we did? What I showed you before in individuals, we are also working to
enhance our distribution for a SME. Couple of examples here. The ﬁrst one is a new tool
that we are providing to agents. So what is it? It is a mapping of all the SME that are
present in your area of responsibility. For each of these SME, you will know how many of
them you already serve because they are your clients, but also how many you don't serve.
And further later, you will know which industry they belongs to, what is most likely the
needs that they have and, therefore, you can prepare much better for going and meeting
them and be much more eﬀective in the meetings.

Page 33 of 81



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Another example is in for brokers. We know that when application request or quotation
come to us from brokers, they come from a variety of diﬀerent platforms. We need to
respond to all these platforms of course individually. It's requires a lot of manual work and
it's a very lengthy process, and also exposes us to possible errors or inconsistencies. So
we changed all these. We simpliﬁed dramatically. We go -- we went to one platform. One
platform on our site, very easy to connect with this platform from a distributor side. We
have now entire catalog of products only in one place. It's also one underwriting engine
and, therefore, consistent in speed of execution, faster throughputs, it's all improved
dramatically.
And the third example that I want to give you in distribution is how to serve or how to
reach the SME that prefer to shop online or to at least the research online and then maybe
shop online or shop in physical presence. These SME are typically smaller in size and they
are also a younger leadership. So what we do to reach them, we are working with our
wallet. We have done an exclusive partnership oﬀer with CoverWallet in Europe. They are
very strong in digital marketing as you can see from these impressive conversion rates
from leads to buy and from post to buy. And therefore, it's not the surprise vectors we
have started one country, we have already rolled out in a second county and more
country will adopt it going forward. So SME is an opportunity that we are very committed
to capture to these innovative solutions.
The next one is that is millennials. And millennials as I mentioned before and Conny
mentioned as well, it's very large and it's very diﬀerent. And so for millennials, all that I
said before of course can apply but after a certain extend. We need something that is
even more speciﬁc and that's why we developed solution that are speciﬁcally designed
for them and we are continuously learning here. We launch, we learn, we launch, we learn
and it's continuous process.
The ﬁrst one that we launched is Klinc is gadget insurance as it called or smart phone
insurer. You can take your PC, your mobile, your electrical bike. And from the mobile, you
can insure it with one click. You can also day insure it if you want. There is a switch on,
switch oﬀ features. This is a very convenient and they love it. The second one is Toggle.
Toggle was launched by Farmers, it's already active in 23 countries, more than 16 states,
more than 20 -- 16,000 policies in forced already, it's targeting speciﬁcally renters.
HomeFlix, it's a similar proposition developed by Zurich. I mean if you like Netﬂix, you will
love HomeFlix. It's same content [ph]. It's subscription based insurance. Not only you have
the convenience of the digital home insurance in your iPhone, but you also -- or your
smart phone, but you also have the possibility to have 24/7 home assistance always
available. And you also have a network of provider that has been selected for you like
plumbers, electricians and so on, all embedded in the same proposition.
And the last one is Doppo. Doppo is a very innovative way to completely invest the
relationship between the insurer and the client. So we are not going to ask you many,
many questions and then provide you with the pricing that we think it's better. But
actually, we do the opposite. We ask you how much value of your car you want to insure,
we are going to tell you exactly how it's going to be done and we will commit to that. And

Page 34 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

if you change idea, if you want more value insured in the future, of course you can adjust
dynamically whenever you want.

FINAL

So with this, we are acquiring more and more expertise, very promising, but it's only the
tip of the iceberg. You should expect that this will evolve over time as we continue to
invest in this segment as we continue to progress on our understanding.
So let me summarize, my key messages today for you. First of all, we like retail, not only
because it's attractive but also because we have a very solid franchise that it's growing
across world that we have further solidiﬁed and it's very well prepared for the next
evolution that we see in retail, which is much more open architecture and based on
customer intimacy. We have invested in retail in the last year. We know what works, why
works and we are ready to deploy these at scale. We are ready and we are very clear
plans to target SME and millennials.

Bloomberg Transcript

Only one point I didn't cover so far in my presentation, which is my closing. In order to do
all these, you have to understand this is a revolution also for us internally. It is a massive,
massive change. So we cannot simply dictate it or send a memo around and make it
happen. We have to unlock the energy of our colleagues. That's why, we launched this
program already at the beginning of '18. The program initially was focus on simpliﬁcation
as Mario summarized, but then eventually moved to business innovation customers.
More than 1,200 people are already touched by the program, actively touched. They
worked on more than 700 crowdsourcing idea from all of the organization, more than 60
speciﬁc projects already accomplished and more to come. The program is unstoppable is
like revolution that is happening as we speak. So we cannot dominate that anymore.
Some examples I give you of what we were able to achieve. The steering committee was
mentioned this morning. I mean you understand the importance of things like these,
right? They may sound very small when you hear the ﬁrst time and you think through to it,
it means not only that we save all the costs associated with steering committee, which is
the preparation, dependence, (inaudible) making, the dissemination, not to mention the
fact that very often we use in committee to procrastinate decision ideally.
So -- but we also empowered organization. Now the message that is going around the
organization is don't ask for permission, ask for business. You know already what's the
right things to do, you don't need to ask. Particularly do the right things for the customers,
you are always right. So this is a massive also from changed mindset point of view. But
also other example, they simpliﬁed our policies, they also worked on the language of our
products, so to present them in a much more understandable way. They worked on
commercial insurance, they accelerated dramatically the renewal process.
You must know that in the past, some of our business took longer to be renewed than a
new risk, because we went through all the process again and again. But there is nothing
has changed since last -- you can actually speed up this. So now the process is 15% faster.
And the same is happening now for Versailles [ph], our youngest more junior
underwriters use referral very much to ask advice of their senior colleagues. This was
Page 35 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

taking very long in the past. Now, in two days maximum they get what they are looking
for.
So, it's my pleasure to have a representation of Make The Diﬀerence here. There are
several ways of makes the diﬀerences as Mario mentioned. So this representation today
represents the variety of many of them. Before I pass it to Cecilia, I would like to leave you
with one video that give you a sense of how we recruit these people and also how we
create the energy into them that then is unlocking the potential of the group. So let's play
the video and then Cecilia up to you.
(Audio-Video Presentation)

Cecilia Reyes

{BIO 3934728 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Giovanni. And we're so excited and so proud to have the opportunity to share
the Make The Diﬀerence story with you today. Living our best lives is important to all of us
and our homes are a huge part of this. So a couple of months ago when I moved to
Chicago, I found the perfect apartment in the heart of the city, but I didn't choose my
apartment because its location or its amenities, I chose my apartment because it was
designed for someone like me, a millennial, by someone just like me.
The developers for my apartment really thought about creating an experience, not
building an apartment building. They've developed an app that provided me with the
things that I needed the most at my ﬁngertips. So literally right now on my phone, I could
order my coﬀee, I can get maintenance requested in my unit, and I can even get my
laundry delivered to my door. This was a game changer for me. Everything that I need on
my phone, just like I like it.
I used to think of as a lease as a contract and now I view it as an experience, a living
experience. This is what insurance needs to do, because the next generation is changing
the world. And our team of 7, represents that generation but it's not only us. We represent
thousands of employees all across the world who not only believe in the work that they
do. They truly believed that things can be done diﬀerently, not next year, not next month,
but now. And this will coupled with Zurich support is empowering our frontline
employees. This is on locking Zurich's potential.
But let's be clear, the insurance industry does not address my generation's expectations,
and we need to change to remain relevant. Because if we don't, who will? But the good
news is that Zurich is already in that journey. Zurich is empowering its employees and
we're here today to show you how we are making the diﬀerence. I'm so excited to
introduce to you our global team and they will tell you who they are and where they are
making the diﬀerence.

Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Good afternoon. I am Velentina [ph] from (inaudible)

Page 36 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Hi. My name is Philip and I am from (inaudible) business unit.
I am Tom from USA.

FINAL

(inaudible)
(inaudible) It's Alex from Japan.
(inaudible) from Spain.

Cecilia Reyes

{BIO 3934728 <GO>}

And I'm Cecilia from the US. And as Mario shared, our strategy is not changing. And this
diﬀerence is grounded on our three strategic pillars; simpliﬁcation, innovation and
customer focus. And Giovanni already shared with you some of the work in simpliﬁcation
that we've accomplished. So today, we're going to be talking to you about innovation and
customer focus, because it's time that we rethink how we address customer experience.
Because if because if we don't, somebody else will.
Verity [ph] will come up and talk to you a little bit more about that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Thank you, Cecilia. So as Cecilia said, we need to start addressing our customer
experiences. But ﬁrst of all, we need to speak their language. At the moment, I would
understand -- see the customer experiences like that. But our customers can't relate to us,
they don't understand that. So we need to start speaking their language. Our customers
do not speak about renewal, they talk about loyalty.
When I started with Zurich three years ago, age 17, my school friend asked me, are you
mad? Why would you want to work for an insurance company? It's too complicated and
we don't understand it. But I soon learned that there is nothing complicated about it. We
protect people's life, we protect the things that people really cherish and we gave people
peace of mind. But we need to start using next lens, our customer lens to attract people
like my friends. Because at the moment, we case [ph] for older generations, but it's time
to look at the future.
The next generation is a huge part of our population, totaling 4.8 billion. They're almost
the majority of the workforce and that is only going to increase, and they are already
taking up leadership positions, in fact, an earlier age than previous generation.
My generation are already inﬂowing this interesting decisions for the group. But
millennials, they're disruptive. They changed the way we do things around here, but that
is the drive to mass market. And for those of you in the audience who may be feeling a
little less, don't worry, because it's not about a date of birth, it's about a mindset. Look at
the way most of us watch television, gone are the days of going to a store and renting a
Page 37 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

DVD, because we have Netﬂix driven by millennials. We don't go and buy CDs anymore,
we have Spotify driven by millennials. Look at WhatsApp, created for millennials by
people with millennial mindset, and I don't ﬁt by people like my grand, third generation
away from me.
The millennial mindset is infectious, and it is a key to growth. But as Mario says earlier,
there's no doubt that technology is making the world smaller, but not stopping the next
generation global opportunities. And you can see that just in our lifestyle as Conny
highlighted from our side. Previous generations, they doesn't have this (inaudible). So
they are more locally anchored. So the next generation, they're huge. Over half of our
population, they are inﬂuential, already making decisions for the globe, and we are
global, connected by mindset technology and social networking.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can also see that previous generation have more of a traditional and predictable
lifestyle. Yet, millennials, they have a higher need to reinvent themselves. Giovanni
showed you in his video how these diﬀerences in lifestyles have impacted our industry
and our products, but let me give you some examples.
Starting with car ownership. The next generation own fewer cars. So we need to start
considering mobility concept. We also own fewer homes, so we need to address rental
needs, just like we have started with Toggle in US. And to my father's disappointment,
millennials are getting married much older. So we need to start considering this in our life
insurance policies, and we love to travel. I've traveled to 8 countries this year. But all of
this represents change and that represents opportunity. By engaging the people you have
within Zurich, we have that opportunity to become a trusted partner for the next
generation.
The evidence is standing in front of you. Zurich's capability is right here. I'm 20, I have just
ﬁnished my modern apprenticeship and I'm already engaged to Make The Diﬀerence. But
it doesn't stop here, there are thousands more already wanting to make that change. But
Philip will now show you what millennials really need.
Thank you. So as Verity [ph] told you, our generation is based, it's inﬂuential and it is
global. And if we want to design products and services that cater to their needs, we have
to address them. We identify the following; community, individuality and convenience. So
let me go into a bit more detail from millennials perspective. When I talk about
community, I talk about interacting, about sharing with my family, with my friends, with my
Make The Diﬀerence colleagues, and I stay [ph] in touch via WhatsApp, via Facebook, I
follow their lives on Instagram. We're not just online, I'm also very active member in my
local rowing club, my oﬄine community.
This brings me into my point of individuality. As an active grower, nutrition is key. So when
I get up in the morning for my 6:00 a.m. Session, I don't want to eat just about anything
and the right fuel to power for intense session. So I got ails [ph] of cereals, but what I
really want is the one product where I can order online, pick the ingredients and nutrition
that I need to get me started into my day.

Page 38 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

When we talk about convenience, we millennials we grew up with a completely diﬀerent
expectation towards convenience. I grew up with the internet, I grew up with my
smartphone on which have the roll out my ﬁngertips. First time, I went to a bank and went
to pay with pay slip, that was the last time, too cumbersome. I don't want to do that, now, I
only use e-banking.
And let's be clear, the insurance industry today does not cater to my needs. So we have
made the diﬀerence. We set out to change this, we set out to reshape the industry. I will
now give you some examples of what we do on community and then Tom will take over
and give you some examples of what Make The Diﬀerence is to change individuality and
convenience.

Bloomberg Transcript

Community is arguably the hardest from insurance point of view, because we lack the
trust of this new generation. As Verity [ph] told us, her friends, they don't see us as a
partner, but we do share one important value of them. We at Zurich, we can care about
our planet, we care about sustainable and resilient future. I'm very proud to work for a
company that actually cares. So we've made the diﬀerence, we started several initiatives.
Internally, we started to ban single-use plastic for several of our oﬃces, for example, in
Japan where Alex works. We also pushed strongly to reduce the usage of printer. Thank
you, Richard, for helping us here.
And as Giovanni told you, we also give our agents the means to go to the clients with a
digital process, so they don't have to carry the portable printers that they didn't use that
they used not so long ago when they go. But we have made diﬀerence, we're also very
into [ph] innovation, we want to change. We can't all do it all alone internally, so we also
partnered externally. For example, at the HackZurich, Europe's largest hackathon with
400,000 coders, who spent 48 hours together to work on their projects and present the
ﬁnal solution on (inaudible). We partnered with the City of Zurich to oﬀer a challenge on
making new things in Zurich more environmentally friendly.
I'm also very proud to talk to you today about the Zurich Innovation Championship. The
Zurich Innovation Championship is our unique way to approach innovation with partners
from all across the globe. We took together world-class entrepreneurs, established
startups and we launched it to US last year, and it was a huge success. We've more than
450 startups participating and 11 best, who managed to make it through the country, the
regional and the global stage are now partnering with us, implementing their solutions.
We don't stop here. Next year's Zurich Innovation Championship will be all about
protecting the next generation. It's been a huge success so far. This slide is very recent,
but we already passed the 700 mark, we passed the 800 mark already. So we go more
than 800 startups who wants to make a change with us. And if you know somebody, who
wants to create a more sustainable future together with us, who wants to help protect the
next generation, tell them about the Zurich Innovation Championship. We are still taking
applications until the 17 of December.
With this, I would like to hand over to Tom, who'll give you some insight in what we, Make
The Diﬀerence, did in individuality and convenience.

Page 39 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Thank you. As you heard from Verity and Philip, individuality and convenience are of the
utmost importance to the millennial customer. Now, let's be real, no one uses the phone
to call anymore, and insurance is one of the last industries that forces us to pick up the
phone and call in if we want to get something done. On top of this, they make us refer to
ourselves as a policy number rather than with our own name. As a 29 year old millennial, I
ﬁnd this to be outrageous.
You see, we millennials like to take the power of technology and the internet to search
around and ﬁnd the right ﬁt for us. Zurich has developed among many two platforms that
I would like to showcase to you that demonstrate our ability to walk the talk. And while
these platforms have been designed speciﬁcally with the future generation in mind, rest
assured that they can be used by all of our customers.
Now, I think I can pretty safely say that all of us like when something is personalized to us
and it doesn't feel like it just fell oﬀ of an assembly line or is copied from a template. And
that's why, right now in the Swiss market, we have customers like you. Customers like you
reduces the entire life insurance coding process down to just three simple questions.
Now, when I heard this, I paused, and I thought what would happen to my wife and my
one-year old son if something unfortunate happened to me?

Bloomberg Transcript

So naturally, I loaded the website, I entered those three questions and in less than one
minute, seriously in less than just one minute, I was able to see three policy choices, a
good, better and best. That detail for just the cost of one ice-cream per week, my family
would be covered for CHF200,000.
Now what I didn't see and what our customers don't see is the magic in the background,
the powerful algorithm scanning thousands of customer proﬁles to customize this content
just to me in detail how my family will be protected if I'm not around to protect them. And
when it comes to convenience, the ultimate goal is self-service.
As a risk engineer here at Zurich, it is extremely important to me that customer is not only
understand the exposures that face their business, but happen mitigate or protect against
them. Our face-to-face consulting is wonderful. We love getting out in the ﬁeld and
meeting with our customers, seeing their businesses. But let's face it, we can't be
everywhere at once. And that's why Zurich is harness the power of technology to create
an application that can be downloaded anywhere in the world, the Zurich Risk Advisor.
Now when the Zurich Risk Advisor was ﬁrst launched, it was created for multinationals. But
this left our local business champions and our entrepreneurs under served. As Verity
mentioned, we millennials are already here making up a major part of the workforce and
we're the ones risking it all to start businesses and build brands, so we set out to change
this. And the spirit of being customer lead, we came together, we sat down and we
listened, we truly listened to the experiences, the stirrings and the stories of these
business champions and the entrepreneurs.
One of the most insightful conversations I had was with Ronda. Ronda is the owner of a
cookie store on the main street of my hometown in Missouri, USA. And speaking with
Page 40 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Ronda, it was very apparent that she's wearing multiple hats every single day. She's the
CEO, the CFO, she's marketing, she's working the frontline and, surprisingly, she's more
worried about making payroll this month, then she is worried about a ﬁre or cyber-attack
that would shut her business down. I was startled when I found this out, because more
than 40% of small businesses never reopen after a major event. Furthermore, out of those
ones that are lucky enough to reopen, another 20% to 25% fail within just one year of that
same event.
So when our global team of risk engineers came together, we broke down the technical
information and we simpliﬁed the expertise of 1,000 risk engineers and safety
professionals, so that it could be disseminated to millions of people around the world,
allowing all customers and speciﬁcally the future generation to protect themselves at their
convenience.
If you've not already downloaded the Risk Advisor, I hope you take a moment to do,
because it is truly a unique and powerful tool. And once you have it downloaded, be sure
to share this with any millennial minded friends, colleagues and co-workers you have. And
as Giovanni mentioned, this is just the tip of the iceberg. We have so much more that
we've already completed and is in development right now, that I hope you stay tuned to
our next strategic cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cecilia Reyes

{BIO 3934728 <GO>}

So today, we've really shared with you how Make The Diﬀerence is really laid foundation
for the future at Zurich, but this is just the beginning. Like we shared with you today, the
next generation is changing the world. This is happening right now. So we need to
continue to unlock Zurich's potential, because we need to change to remain relevant.
But the great news is that the Zurich is already in that journey. And in our journey, we
learned a few things. So we've learned that it is not about processes and it's not about
systems or IT and it's deﬁnitely not about hierarchy. So you're probably wondering, what's
it about? Well, it's about people and we are empowered. Zurich is investing in us, the
future and we are invested in Zurich. So the question today is, are you?
(Question And Answer)

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Thanks Cecilia. We'll now come to the ﬁrst of our Q&A session. So if I could ask Mario,
Kristof, Conny, and Giovanni to join us on stage. We'll take your questions. I know we're
running a little bit over, so we'll run a little bit into the lunch break, but not too long to
leave everything getting cold.
So who would like to start oﬀ with the ﬁrst question?

Operator
Page 41 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

(Operator Instructions)

FINAL

Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of Societe Generale. A couple of questions. The ﬁrst in retail, I wondered
what's your approach to jewel pricing? I mean, this is very much a customer issue. Do you
see an opportunity to reverse an industry practice by rewarding loyal customers, which -who are normally rewarded? And secondly, a strategic question. Wondered, where you
see the life business going? Is 25% of earnings the right level or do you want to take it
above that or below that? Thank you.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Can I start with the life question and maybe Giovanni then I pass it to you for pricing and
you can help me on life Kristof. Look, I mean of course we want to grow life. And of
course, we think that there are opportunities with the partnerships in our positioning on
product to grow life. However, that's not the way we think. We don't have the perfect mix
in mind, we just want to chase that the customer needs and deliver to the customers what
they want.
We don't reverse this engineer thing. We want life to be this much and property and
casualty this much, but we want to achieve the above 50% coverage of the customer
needs and we want to remain as proﬁtable and as relevant as we are today in commercial.
But yes, I mean -- and Kristof has been leading life some years ago and, now, he's working
on the life technical excellence. And so, we're taking lots of initiatives, but not with a
precise target in mind honestly.

Kristof Terryn

{BIO 17664174 <GO>}

So, we've had very good historical growth in life business. And if you think about how our
book is positions, we're one of the largest protection players globally, I mean which is the
space in the life insurance industry where there's still tremendous growth. I mean this
industry is still where we have a massive protection gap. I think what we're doing on the
protection side is some of the innovation with bringing wellcare as well, I see that as a
major driver of growth.

Giovanni Giuliani

{BIO 20678339 <GO>}

On pricing, if I can answer. First of all, we are very aware that if you go after growth, you
could sacriﬁce proﬁt, that is not our intention at all. And therefore, we are investing a lot in
pricing, pricing sophistication, dynamic pricing. But your question was very speciﬁc
about, are you ready to reward loyalty?
And yes, we are studying also this. There is an opportunity that we are already exploring
with wellcare, for example, where we are providing rewards -- physical and practical
rewards to our customers is a exhibit that (inaudible) if I stay longer, but if you think about
the economics underlining what I showed before, there is also a possibility to share more
with the customers if I stay longer. So that's an area that we are exploring. It's too early to
Page 42 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

say, exactly how it's going to be working, because it's not new in the industry, but is
clearly direction that we like.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

FINAL

Andrew Ritchie on the left hand side. Andrew, can you keep your hand up.

Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hello. It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. A couple of questions ﬁrst for Kristof. Kristof,
remember meeting you at the beginning of this journey end of the '15, early '16, and there
were a couple of couple of things. You were very keen on improving -- understanding of
aggregation exposures or accumulation exposures that was part of your project. Could
you just update us on where you think you are on that with respect to both cap [ph] or
let's call man-made or casualty aggregations?

Bloomberg Transcript

And also you were very keen on improving the data ﬂow. As you had a catalogue lot of
information from risk engineers, but it wasn't always ending up with the right people at
the right time, is that -- where are we on that process now as well?
The other question. I think with this retail initiative, does this mean you're going to start to
try and target markets where you're very strong in commercial lines, but not so strong in
retail? Take the UK, I appreciate, I'm a bit old and probably not the target customer, but if I
have a term life insurance policy from Zurich, I think my employer has an employer's
liability policy from Zurich. It's very hard for me to buy a home insurance policy from
Zurich or a motor insurance policy, but that be an example of a market, where you can
sort of put it together and say actually there's an opportunity here, or is it simply on the
existing market where you have existing retail strengths?

Kristof Terryn

{BIO 17664174 <GO>}

Okay. So on the commercial management and, you're right, back in '15, there was one of
the things that do buyers surprised, the famous challenging event. We've made massive
progress since then. And year-on-year, we see us progressing from accumulation
management perspective and we actually get it externally validated as well. I mean we
score very well against the rest of the industry. And that's not just property, but that's also
all the adjacent lines. I mean that goes for casualty as well. So by enlarge, I'm very
comfortable with where we're at with our accumulation management capabilities.
On the piece around data, you'll see in the presentation from Jim this afternoon, what
we've done on Insight 360. And what that is really taking that content and starting from
the pricing tools and this is why it's important to link it to the example I gave on
simpliﬁcation of pricing tools. Pricing is typically where we take some of the ﬁrst
information around exposures and risk rates, et cetera, having consolidated that has been
a massive win for us.

Page 43 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Now, Insight 360 goes a level further and it actually links at the underwriters' front desk,
that pricing data together with exposure data, together with claims data as well together
with risk engineering data, and someone with whole [ph] things that it now allows us to
do. If I'm -- for instance, I'm marine underwriter sitting in Belgium, I can actually see the
entire portfolio of exposures, and then what important is understanding the marine
routes, because those are typically the ones that drive the proﬁtability of those lines and I
get access to the entire global portfolio. I get [ph] my portfolio against that, and so I have
massive insights I mean from diﬀerent sources.
So, it's not just about the risks engineering data, it's really bringing claims, exposure,
pricing data together at the line of business, at a global level. That's what we've done
over the last couple of years.

Giovanni Giuliani

{BIO 20678339 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On your second question, this is clearly an attractive opportunity. One -- two things we
like a lot about the millennials segment is, A, you don't need to rely on a large installed
capacity, physical distribution capacity in order to reach them, because they actually go
and use diﬀerent medium. And second they seems to have global needs, so they are very
similar from one country to another in what they are looking for. So if it is true and it
seems to be true, then we can deﬁnitely take advantage of both situations to go deeper in
addressing them also in market where, we are not so strong in retail at the moment.
Whether this will be a speciﬁc opportunity for UK. I think it's too early to comment,
because entering or pushing in a market depends also many other consideration like our
strength in terms of brand, the positioning, the competitors presence, the dynamics of the
market. So it would be a much more articulated decision, but clearly, it is an opportunity.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

And Andrew, we some other examples in the room of people, who really wanted to insure
their homes with us, and we disagree on the quality of their home. So they couldn't. So I
don't take any promise on UK today.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

We'll go well on right here.

Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just three questions I guess. I mean there is a big
focus on customer growth. I guess one of the questions is, as a percentage, what
customers growth is coming through the existing channels and how much do you expect
to come through new aﬃnity or partnerships? That's the ﬁrst questions.
The second question is just in relation to growth in partnerships, clearly that's a big area
particularly for retail customers. But how do you reconcile this with getting closer to the
Page 44 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

customer? Doesn't it mean that if you have a relationship with a platform that actually the
platform owns to customer rather than yourself, and the product becomes very
commoditized?

FINAL

And the last question just in regards to commercial lines as well. Does this mean the
environment is quite positive, does this mean that we should see a resumption in growth
on top-line for the business? Thanks.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

All right. I'll try to address the question on commercial. Jim will talk this afternoon. But
deﬁnitely, the business is growing. It's growing because of the rates and it's also growing
because this gives us opportunities to contact customers who in a soft market were not
interested to shop around.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other questions, I mean ﬁrst of all, between distribution channels, I can't give you
a precise number, but we're relying on partnerships in direct channels, much more than
we rely on agents and brokers by the nature of our business and by the nature of our
conﬁguration. We have markets where we have strong agency business. But broadly
speaking, we believe and we have developed very successfully the partnership concept
around the world.
Now, in terms of who wants the customers? Now, if you ask the people there in the
second row, they would tell you that no customer wants to be owned by anyone, they're
own by themselves. And this is the main challenge that the millennials are bringing us. I
mean no one is controlling them. They're free to move, they are free to get information
and to make their choices. And that's why, Conny said was so important. You hold them
together with you through customer experience, nothing else works because they move,
they are free.
I mean what happens over the last years is that technology gave them the freedom to
move and make choices. And you don't put -- there is no way in which you can put them
back in the cage, whatever you do. The only think is the customer experience. You give
them the customer experience they're looking for and then you have the stability of their
relationship, nothing else can work.

Giovanni Giuliani

{BIO 20678339 <GO>}

Farooq?

Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. It's Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. SME has been kind of a bit of a
holy grail in the way, where everybody wants to do SME insurance as possible. So could
you tell me kind of which markets you see the greatest opportunity for growth through
penetration into that? What investment you have to make on the proposition products
platform? And how much of a mix shift we're going to see in this channel? Thanks.
Page 45 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

So Farooq. The market where we started early on working an SME is Switzerland.
Switzerland is a natural consideration for SME. Switzerland either has SME, so has global
corporate. Finding up, there are few mid-market companies in Switzerland. So Switzerland
started in '18 focusing on SMEs. They started this year with a entire new oﬀer for SMEs on
and with the digital oﬀer and with an agency oﬀer. And this is one of the driver of the
growth of Switzerland this year in the market is exactly SMEs.
Germany then is following up with the same principle. Broadly speaking, we think that
there is a big opportunity for this in Europe. And that is where today we're focusing.
Investment is not really a lot of investments needed. It is more about simpliﬁcation more
than investments. You have to go to the SMEs with the simple clear focused oﬀer. And so
it's more what you take away than what you need to add. And so it's frankly not relevant to
talk about investments.
On the business mix in the results, well I mean let's keep something for next year's
Investor Day, right? We will have that.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Jonny Urwin on left hand side.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you. Jonny Urwin, UBS. Two questions on retail, please. All the existing markets,
which do you think are most accommodating for you to growing, right now? And then, in
terms of the overall sort of footprint, where do you feel underweight and where might
inorganic growth help? Thanks.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Underway, I think Giovanni showed that seven markets make 73% -- 75% of the of all our
retail business, and of course farmers. So you have is a very important component of this
size. Where we underweighted? Can I ﬂip the question? I mean, are there markets where
we would have an aspiration for being stronger than retail? Yes, maybe in some European
markets, so we deﬁnitely will look at UK and we've been trying in UK diﬀerent ways to
grow in the UK market. And frankly, in life, we're quite strong, but not that strong in
property and casualty and retail.
I wouldn't really consider, so what next we have to expand, because we've enough
opportunities following organic growth and organic opportunities in the markets where
we are. These seven markets are big, big markets. And as we try to argue before even
with existing customers, we have immense opportunities to grow our business that we
shouldn't be looking out of it.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}
Page 46 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

I think come down to the third row, Jon Hocking in the middle.

FINAL

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you very much. John Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Just one question please.
Conny, in your presentation, you're talking about brand consideration and how important
it is to be in the top three or four companies. How does that map onto an increasingly
complex distribution environment, where you're distributing through partners, where
presumably your brand may not be visible in the same way that it was traditionally?

Conny Kalcher

{BIO 21089028 <GO>}

It comes back to the relationship that Mario talked about and being -- having the
awareness out there. We think brand consideration has a lot to do with the brand
strength. And the way we work with partners and also with agents that the Giovanni was
telling about is that we are providing tools to help them on that journey that brings back
to us. So we can drive that brand considerations with the agents.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Can you just pass it to Vinit [ph].

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thanks. This is Vinit from Mediobanca. So three quick one, if I may. The ﬁrst one is, so
Mario, you talked about retail and SME, which from the external view are one reported
segment. And always struggling in my head, which are the numbers I'm looking at for
which segment in which kind of customer base. So today's presentation is massively
overweight on retail. In fact I would pinch myself at if am I actually [ph] -- yes, so far, so but
even the whole conversations you're having on retail. So how do you distinguish between
retail and the SME, because retail is still smaller part of even that retail segment, am I
right? So that's the ﬁrst question if I may.
Second question is just happy customers come from probably to element service and
money. So if they get their money, they probably are happy. They don't, then I don't know
what will make them happy. But what's the -- what's your experience of the data? Is it that - is there some check internally done that, hey, we paid you guys a lot of money and now
there are [ph] happy sort of customers or something else happening?
And last question is just for Kristof. So you mentioned MedMal in Swiss and it triggered
some diﬀerent memories in my head. Has -- just almost a decade ago the same day today,
we had this problem in Germany MedMal. (inaudible) software is learning from or trying
to learn at least within the group, the experience, because you're giving the kind of
MedMal to an engine. And, of course, I'm old as well, but it feels a bit like, wow, we've
had one problem in another market. And so this is one area, whether the loss and the cost
saved, where do we go. So just some thoughts.

Page 47 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Kristof Terryn

{BIO 17664174 <GO>}

I'll start with that one. Okay. So the way we are using, and then it also goes back to the
ethical use of data. I mean we don't use any black boxes that we do not understand. So
even when we run some of the new technology ultimately has to go back to a
deterministic model that actually allows us to understand, I mean, what variables drive it.
And then in most cases this is decision support. The ultimate decision is still made by
claims handler.
Now, there's a diﬀerence between making an individual claims decision, and then looking
at the overall shape of a portfolio on long-term trends. I mean, we look at our portfolios
on a global basis. I mean we call it the virtual circle at the global level, where we put
underwriting, claims, ﬁnance and my organization together to look at some trends. And
we have learned from trends on the MedMal side, because we have seen few books
where we had issues. I mean we've learned from that, restructured our portfolios in such a
way that coverage and wording allow us to be proﬁtable within those segments, but that
is more important portfolio piece of work than at the individual case.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Look, on retail versus SMEs. Yes, I understand your question it's always blurred, where one
ﬁnishes and the other start. I mean SME start -- retail is individuals, right? SMEs start
companies, which are made of a few individuals. And this is really the characteristic of
SMEs, 3-4 people make a company could be grocery or it could be a travel agency or it
could be any kind of food shop. And yes, it's blurred and this is why we gather all
together them into one sector, which for us is retail and SMEs.
The other thing which for us is uniﬁed is that we then used self-products, use selfsolutions. These are not customers who can spend their time with risk advisory, with the
complicated risk management tools, they don't have time, and maybe, they don't even
have the interest to do that. So you got to be very, very simple. The more you move up,
the more tailor made is the solution. And some of the Jim's customers are fairly complex
in their needs and in their capacity also to discuss with us.
Then your second question of service and money. Look, I think the money is the same for
everyone. I mean I don't think, you can make a proposition and, deﬁnitely, we don't want
to be the cheapest company. So we don't really want to compete on money, but we need
to be fair on the cost that we have. Services what really matters.
Again, what you heard many, many times today is that customer experience is the
diﬀerentiating factor. This is the service. And the people can stay with you just for money.
That's not what this industry is. It is about the service. This is where the competition will be
and where you need to have a competitive advantage. With a premium service, you keep
the customers. Without it, you won't be able to sustain the customer relationship.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Page 48 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Peter Eliot here in the room [ph], third row.

FINAL

Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Maybe just to carry -- Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Maybe just to carry on that last
point and we've heard some examples, where there's big a protection gap, like there are
big need for insurance. But I think (inaudible) earlier on in the presentation, 30% of needs
are being met. And I'm just thinking that involves going quite a long way, it's far down.
And we heard a lot about you're making sort of people aware or make it easier for people
to buy insurance by making them aware, but is there a risk that some of those products
they may be actually don't need? I mean insurance is about protecting yourself from the
losses that you can't aﬀord not to make. Is there a risk that? How do you manage that risk,
I should say, that people might be presented with things down the line that actually are
beyond their need if you're talking about sort of very small purchases? That's one
question.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

You're talking about, is there a risk that sales would now be compliance with the
principle? So we would sale bad stuﬀ to customers to make it simple.

Giovanni Giuliani

{BIO 20678339 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Not bad stuﬀ potentially, but--

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

A necessary stuﬀ.

Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

What might be necessary ones (Technical Diﬃculty)

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, please hold the line, we lost connection with the speaker.
(Operator Instructions) Please hold the line. You will hear some music until the speakers
are connected back. Thank you.
(Audio-Video Presentation)

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Thank you very much everybody for coming back promptly. Obviously, we now turn to the
afternoon session. We've got two presentations. First from Jim Shea, Head of Commercial
Insurance, and obviously, George will follow-up with the commercial -- with the ﬁnancial
performance. After which, we'll have our second Q&A session. And appreciate this
Page 49 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

morning's Q&A session was a little bit cut short. So if there are additional questions that
you didn't get answered over lunch, we can run a little bit longer the Q&A session
(inaudible).

FINAL

So with that, I will hand it over to Jim.

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

Thank you, Richard. George and I were talking over lunch that we've saved the most
exciting presentations for after lunch. So good afternoon, and welcome to our session on
the commercial insurance Business. My name is James Shea and I've been the Head of
Commercial Insurance for the past three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm excited about the opportunity to tell you more about our business, how we have
delivered on our commitments made three years ago, and how we will continue to deliver
to help the group meet its targets over the next cycle? We solidiﬁed our position as a top
three global carrier in the commercial market. We accomplished this by investing in
strong underwriting culture focused on long-term sustainable proﬁtability. We've invested
in data and technology to support our underwriters to make better underwriting
decisions.
We've shifted our portfolio mix through focus risk selection, improved terms and of
course, pricing. We've delivered s level of consistency as demanded by our customers
and our distribution partners. We will continue to invest in people and tools to keep
underwriting at the forefront of what we do. Recently, Mario and I had a meeting with the
CEO and management team one of our largest distribution partners. And his comment to
us was he believed that Zurich was one of two markets that are stable, while he sees the
remainder of the peer group struggling with the inconsistencies and changing in this
marketplace.
To reiterate the message we want to leave you with today. We've had a clear plan on
where we want to take Zurich in the commercial market. We are already a top three global
commercial player with the potential to improve. Our history, our brand, and our global
footprint serve as the foundation upon which we've built. Our proﬁtability has improved
signiﬁcantly since 2016. This occurred despite the headwinds of a soft market and is the
execution -- is the result of an execution of a clear underwriting and portfolio strategy.
Consistency of underwriting discipline, risk appetite, portfolio and customer focus have all
played pivotal roles in the results that we've seen over the past three years. We continue
to bring additional services to our customers as they increasingly look for insights and risk
mitigation services in addition to the transfer of their risk. We have the agility to drive
further change in the market and opportunity to change opportunistic markets as
permitted as the cycle continues.
So just brieﬂy. I'm originally from Canada, I have two children, who are dual citizens of
Canada and the United States and my 16 year old daughter loves to send me texts of
Canadian jokes. She lives in the United States. And the most recent one was how do you
Page 50 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

identify the Canadian in a crowded room? You step on everyone's toes until someone
says sorry. So apparently I'm more comfortable apologizing than promoting the
achievement, so let me try, because I do think the results do speak for themselves.
I just want to remind everyone where we came from. This is not the result of any single
person or any single strategy. This is the result of over 12,000 people across the globe
working towards change. This support came from all levels and all functions of this
organization and it was contagious. We committed to moving our portfolio away from
long tail liability towards more balanced mix. We achieved this and are well positioned to
take advantage of the changing market.
We have refreshed our product oﬀering, have consistency regardless of whether we're
approached in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Argentina, we have become
one Zurich. We are not afraid to ask customers for business and have increased our share
of wallet with a focus on lines of business that we want to write.

Bloomberg Transcript

A few years ago, I was meeting with one of our relationship customers and, for this
customer, we wrote their global ﬂeet program. And we ask that customer if we could have
the opportunity to quote on some of the other lines of businesses, some of the more
probably higher margin lines, and the response was, well, those lines are with our other
strategic partner, who by the way doesn't write ﬂeet programs. And so, I'm pleased that
today, we still need that ﬂeet program and captive program where we share the risk and
we share the outcome with the customer, but we also lead for the lines of businesses for
them, all because we asked.
Brokers now understand our appetite and know we are committed to our customers. But
we will apply our own underwriting standards. They know not to approach us in diﬀerent
markets for the same risk looking for the weakest link, one Zurich, one response. We even
developed an app for our brokers that described our risk appetite and so there was no
excuse in their part to us to say they didn't understand it anymore.
Our lack of balance between process and underwriting had resulted in some adverse
selection and lots of underwriting talent. This has been the biggest change over the past
three years putting underwriting and underwriters ﬁrst, give them the tools to facilitate the
decision, but then empower them to decide. As Kristof mentioned this morning, we've
simpliﬁed our tools providing real insights and data analytics and automated many of our
processes.
As stated earlier, we did this during a soft market, maintained our reputation and
powered our existing underwriting talent, and attracted new skills and talent to the
organization. Having spent the last three years focused on these changes, we're well
positioned to capitalize on the growth in this changing market.
Some key metrics, we have delivered on both our loss ratio and expense ratio targets. We
achieved this through improved eﬃciencies across the organization to where we believe
we are the most eﬃcient carrier amongst our peer group. We invested into underwriting
talent and culture, which allowed us to drive a diﬀerent portfolio mix, improve our risk
Page 51 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

selection and execute a diﬀerent exposure and capacity management strategy. We
delivered a consistent external message to all customers and business partners.
During my ﬁrst -- I think it was my ﬁrst month at Zurich, I had the opportunity to meet with
an existing customer with whom we wrote multiple lines of businesses, but we didn't write
their property program. I asked if we could have the opportunity to quote the property
and the customer responded very politely, absolutely, we're more than welcome quote
our program, but you realize you wrote it for 20 years had no claims and canceled it last
year, because it no longer met your risk appetite. This approach was driven by a model
with a process focused KPIs as opposed to underwriting, that type of inconsistency
doesn't happen anymore.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to show you some proof points on how and when this change began. Based upon
the March index, we've tracked our rate increases compared to market performance. We
started earlier than most of our peers in the marketplace. The exception to this, which
people will point out will be Asia-Paciﬁc and that's driven by Australia where the markets
saw signiﬁcant increases in ﬁnancial line and other lines of businesses that we didn't have
a signiﬁcant percentage of that market. This demonstrates our early execution of rate and
risk selection initiatives. It clearly had an impact on our top-line, but has positioned us
better. And is a key contributing factor to our improved performance over the past three
years.
Everyone talks about rate and while it is critical, our equal concern over the past several
years has in the broadening of the terms and conditions. We have focus not only on rates,
but also risk selection, terms, conditions, and program structure. While rate is easiest to
measure, we do track other metrics. Capacity has been managed down, deductible
increases on larger risks and programs restructured. In US property, we've reduced our
exposure to hazard grade 4, 5, which is the highest risk categories by 37% in 2018 and a
further 17% this year. A continued focus on US Cap [ph], wind, California quake also
managed down over the past three years.
In addition to policy changes, we shifted our portfolio mix. In terms of portfolio mix, we
focused on what we set out to do three years ago. We reduced our dependency on long
tail liability. Especially, in the United States with 31% reduction in the liability portfolio and
we've reduced our motor ﬂeet portfolio globally by 18%, including exiting several
markets.
Our shift to specialties didn't go as far as we had hoped to in 2016. The reason for that is
the specialties market has changed. In ﬁnancial lines, we focused on either reducing or
exiting some loss performing lines of businesses, architects and engineers, professional
indemnity for large IT companies. We didn't feel that the D&O market was poised to
grow, particularly risks that had exposure in the United States and Australia.
Credit and surety, we have a signiﬁcant portfolio in credit and credit and surety and it's
been one of our most proﬁtable lines of businesses over the past decade. However, we've
taken a more conservative outlook on the credit markets and it held exposure ﬂat and
even a downward trajectory in several markets.

Page 52 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

A&H investments for commercial customers began over the past 18 months and will
continue to show proﬁtable growth through the next cycle. We will continue to remain
agile to take advantage of opportunities as they arise, create opportunities for ourselves,
but be prepared to take conservative positions and actions when needed.
Taking a look at where Zurich sits amongst our global commercial competitors. We are a
top three global player regardless of how you measure commercial insurance. The gross
written premium split by region is reﬂective of the overall global commercial marketplace.
We are, for example, well captured to capture growth in the emerging markets. Our
acquisition of QBE in Latin America has given us scale and capabilities in that region. Our
focus in Singapore on the hub for Southeast Asian business are two good examples of
our investments and focus on geographical balance of our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our investment focus goes beyond building a stronger underwriting community and
improve data to make better decisions. We've invested in our international platform to
service our largest global customers. We have the industry's largest network with over 160
partners supporting our customers across 217 countries and jurisdictions. We have won
the European Captive Insurance Provider Award three years in a row. Our captive strategy
allows us to focus on risk sharing with our customers, driving improved loyalty, and
increased partnership as we share in the same outcome with our customers. The captive
strategy has also proven to be an excellent source of fee income.
We have one of the largest risk engineering teams in the industry with 1,250 risk
engineers globally focused on support on both our underwriting community and our
customers in terms of the risk management, risk mitigation and risk servicing of their
business. I'm now going to show you a short video on how we continue to incorporate
technology and data into our risk engineering services supporting both our underwriters
and providing risk management to our customers.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
Let's look externally now. The market is changing signiﬁcantly not just in rate and capacity
environment, and we're now prepared for this. We're positive about the change. Our
focus and investments have given us the agility to adapt to these changes. I'd like to
discuss a few of them right now. Firstly, distribution landscape is changing. We're all
aware of some of the consolidation that's taking place in the brokerage communities and
brokerage market. We are well positioned for this change.
Our portfolio is just under 50% of this portfolio is with the global top ﬁve brokers. The rest
is with regional, middle market and the broker -- and the global broker networks. We are
investing in our infrastructure and management information to become a market of
choice for the regional brokers with dedicated resources and commitment of time to their
management. We've also invested over the years in strong direct customer relationships,
which have enabled us to have direct conversations and planning directly between
ourselves and these customers.

Page 53 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Now, I competed with Zurich for a little over 22 years. And I can tell you that, the
competitors do view Zurich's customer relationship model as best-in-class. And when you
were trying to take an account from Zurich and it was a house account, it was very-very
diﬃcult. And I believe that Zurich still maintains that number one position in terms of how
we manage customers and our proximity to those customers.
Another good example of our focus on the customers is what we've done internally is
we've taken our global leadership team, which is approximately 100 people and we've
each -- we've assigned to each of the executive team three customers to be an executive
sponsor. I think it's very important for all parts of management, whether your market
facing or not to interact with the customers, and understand how all parts of our
organization do inﬂuence the experience a customer has when dealing with us.
The second point is customers now want more from their insurance partners. The level of
sophistication of buyers and their approach to risk management has changed. While risk
transfer remains important, risk management and mitigation have equal importance. Our
experience in data on risk, losses and loss prevention positions us well to service this
need.

Bloomberg Transcript

Clients like to work with insurance carriers with these capabilities. Many of the smaller
markets have not invested to the extent that Zurich has, we're invested at all and,
therefore, have become dependent on the rest of the market and they become a followup market. As mentioned earlier, we have the second largest risk engineering capability
in the industry with over 1,250 risk engineers located globally.
The role of the risk engineer has also changed over the past 20 years. Previously, the
focus was on ﬁre prevention and now many customers has sophisticated and risk
management solutions for these traditional risks. We have one customer, who tells us that,
I'm okay with the ﬁre risk, I have my own ﬁre prevention services that rivals the ﬁre
department of most cities. So what he looks to us and our risk engineering community is
to help identify future risks and additional risks.
New services include supply chain exposure monitoring, employee beneﬁts
benchmarking, cyber risk mitigation, and post lost support, workers' compensation
medical support and as we recently announced launching a climate risk service capability
next year. The sales of such service to customers has been more challenging. It's sold via
underwriters during the underwriting process. We're building a holistic global service
model to bring a sales culture approach to customers and services to complement our
underwriting and risk transfer capabilities. Our approach to risk management is more
closely aligned to the customers. Zurich and customers have a vested interest in
improving the risk.
Thirdly to changing market, we're all hesitant to call it a hard market, but it's certainly
something that is improving and changing, and the years of declining rates and
broadening terms seems to have come to an end. This has been a challenge for the entire
industry, which has generations of underwriters, brokers and risk managers, who built

Page 54 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

careers, lowering price, broadening terms and conditions and delivering great news to
their CFO every year that the price of the insurance purchase has come down.
We began early to focus on the training, attracting, and retaining underwriting talent in
anticipation of this challenge. We have also ensured support across the organization for
all countries regardless of the level of the local experience. Compared to 10 to 15 years
ago, risks are increasingly mobile. It's not just local versus the London market anymore.
Recently, we've seen Australian D&O risks presented to us in Belgium and in California,
nothing wrong with Belgium, Kristof.

Bloomberg Transcript

In LATAM, we see the risk that are presented to us in the local market, they're presented
to us in Miami, they're presented to us in Madrid and they're presented to us in London.
We have a connected -- our connected network with expert -- expertise, which drives the
consistency and we've invested in this structure accordingly. Customers and brokers need
to receive a consistent appetite and expertise for all risks presented to Zurich regardless
of the country. Our global network established with hubs and centers of excellence to
support underwriting ensures one Zurich experience.
Over the past three years, we focused on products on a consistent global oﬀering to
support multinational and a growing middle market customer segment. The market has
driven broader and the spoke wordings around the world. 10 years ago, when a claim
came in regardless of the line of business or the jurisdiction, we knew what the coverage
was. Today, we have to ask because the market has driven such broad terms and
conditions adapted to local markets. This is changed and we've been investing in the
consistency and carriers are now driving terms and conditions, not the brokers and
customers.
We're not trying to be all things to all markets. Investing -- and to say we're going to invest
in the middle market sounds easy, but it is diﬃcult. We're selecting the markets we want
to invest and grow. We're changing our model to address this. In terms of service,
combining risk transfer and risk mitigation services, we know what customers want. They
want us to bring our knowledge, our products, our services, but also the relationships,
which we've developed with third-party vendors. We've partnered invested in third-party
vendors to bring expertise and support to our customer service proposition, cyber,
telematics, and supply chain are just some of the examples.
We are foremost an underwriting organization with a strong customer focus. We value
underwriters to make decisions and invest in data and technology to help them make
better decisions. The models don't decide on their own. Talent is developed and retained
with our voluntary turnover dropping signiﬁcantly over the past three years. We also
attracted new underwriting talent at all levels of the organization. I'm now going to show
you another video, which I believe demonstrates some of the investments we have made
to improve the life of the underwriter and help them make better decisions.
(Audio Video Presentation)

Page 55 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Moving to front lines of business and segment comments. Not all lines are viewed the
same. We have a broad geographical diverse portfolio with signiﬁcant scale. The key
message is we see we're stabilizing or increasing across all markets. Where we see rate
increases we anticipate lower retentions as past -- as a possible outcome. We focus on risk
selection resulting in either ﬂat to growing top-line with a better underwriting
performance.
I've brieﬂy discussed our view on the credit lines. These have been some of the most
successful lines of business delivering a consistent proﬁt. The credit market has been
good for several years, but our going forward view is less optimistic. So if we look forward
we don't believe this market will continue to be as positive and have decided to manage
our overall exposure ﬂat and potentially down in the credit space.
We're not trying to time the cycle. We would be more stringent with our credit
requirements and agility to bring down our overall exposure is our plan. This is our view
today of the lines of businesses. We have the agility to change and grow where we see
the opportunity, but also the agility to shrink exposures and top-line as needed.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've talked about the middle market and I wanted to give you some further insights into
our decisions. We're deﬁning middle market as companies with turnover between $25
million and $500 million. Anything above that, we refer to as a large corporate. I believe
these deﬁnitions are fairly consistent within the industry. The complexity of underwriting
and exposure can vary between lines of businesses, but this market is expected to see
continued growth over the coming years. Our brand has been built largely on the
corporate sector and something that remains our key focus.
The global mix between these two segments mirrors closely our own portfolio splits.
Middle market business is historically less volatile with lower lost ratio, so we're investing
in key areas to adapt our infrastructure to compete on a larger scale, but our DNA still
remains in the large corporate space. This is a good example of our middle market
strategy in the United States. We've made some mistakes in the middle market in the US.
We've identiﬁed it and we're ﬁxing it.
We are re -- we are rebuilding our underwriting expertise and bringing a balance of
underwriting models and automation to the process. We need all of them to be
successful. In this retooling process, we're hiring the right type of underwriters. We're not
trying to apply large corporate models and skill sets to these customers and distribution
partners.
We're going to the customers and not relying on them to come to us in the major centers.
Centralization doesn't work in a market dependent on relationships. We're opening 20 to
30 new locations across the United States, three new oﬃcers alone in the past few
months. Managing the distribution partners in a diﬀerent way, closer relationships and
performance metrics we have to treat them diﬀerently than we do with the large ﬁve
brokers.

Page 56 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Improving our service standards. Giovanni discussed this morning the opportunities,
investments in the retail space and how we intend to service those customers. While we
are investing in (inaudible) technology to prove our underwriting outcome and facilitate
the process, we cannot lose sight on the services we need to provide to all customers.
For the middle market customer, bringing insights from our global experience and scale
and making it relevant to them and their industry is critical. The risk engineering tool I
showed a video on and what we saw earlier this morning is an example of how we've
adapted this experience and expertise and brought it to the middle market customer. The
service standards in our industry have to improve. Getting the basics right in this space is
a diﬀerentiator. Fast response, industry speciﬁc products, fast and fair claim settlement,
get it right the ﬁrst time, this is where we are investing.

Bloomberg Transcript

I've mentioned accident and health. There are a select number of lines of businesses that
we don't have scale or exposure. Aviation is one example. We prefer to remain on the
sidelines, but we will look for signs of sustained improvement before considering to enter.
Accident and health is diﬀerent. We already have a strong portfolio across life and retail,
but opportunity to grow in the corporate space with a greater focus on the accident side,
focus on products such as business travel accident.
We already have an existing strong customer relationship and distribution platform for
this business. There's limited competition with such global capabilities as this truly global
program covering employees as they travel around the world. Coverage includes
sickness, accident or any loss while traveling on business or leisure, beneﬁts can include
emergency medical expense assistance, personal accident [ph], and travel inconvenience
beneﬁts. Our acquisition of Cover-More, as discussed earlier this morning only
complements this initiative further.
I've talked about the need to complement risk transfer with risk mitigation and services.
We're going to take this one step further and bring our risk management services
oﬀerings under a more holistic proposition. Underwriters do not always make the best
salespeople, I know. Our service platform will provide support to both our underwriting
community and with our risk selection to our customers. By consolidating this into a
focused oﬀering with a sales culture, it will allow us to consolidate and add to our existing
service platforms.
Volatility and improved margins remain our key measurement of success. We continue to
focus on multiple levels to achieve our results and contribute to the group's performance.
Rate is obvious, but continued focus on risk selection, terms and conditions is imperative.
We believe we started early and we will continue. The top-line has not been our focus, but
we are taking advantage of the current market and have the agility to be opportunistic
when needed. Volatility is stabilized since the fourth quarter of 2015 driven by many of the
actions that have been described to you today. We believe we are the most eﬃcient
amongst our peer groups, but we're not relaxing our focus.
In conclusion, I provided you with insights into the progress we have made and where we
are going in the commercial space. We do have a leading market position. We're building

Page 57 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

on our brand, global footprint and ﬁnancial strength. We have delivered to our customers
and distribution partners the consistency of underwriting and risks appetite they require
along with claims and risk management services.
Our proﬁtability has improved over the past three years and our portfolio mixed strategy
has taken us from overweight and long tail liability and limited focus and specialty to a
better mix of business, a platform to continue optimizing our segments, our products and
our geographical footprint. All of this will continue to support our growth across all
geographies as one Zurich.
We are well positioned to compete globally. We've invested in the right level of
underwriting talent and understand what our customers want and need. Customers
depend on our knowledge and network to navigate and grow in this ever-changing
market place. We have a clear ambition to be the leading global provider of risk solutions
to our customers and we know what it takes to achieve this, consistent underwriting and
risk appetite, a clear focus on the customer along with their current and future needs.
We have the focus on the future and opportunities that exist or yet to be created. We will
focus on where we can be successful and not try to be all solutions to all customers.
Entering new products and segments where we can lead as well as take decisions to
reduce exposures as and when needed is critical. We have delivered on what we set out
to do three years ago, and we are well-positioned to take our commercial insurance
business to the next level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And I look forward to questions later today.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

As I walked up, there Kristof said, break a leg. So maybe just before I get started and go
through a large sea of numbers. I want to make a couple of comments on Make the
Diﬀerence. So together with my colleagues on the Esco [ph], I've had the privilege of
engaging with Make The Diﬀerence through [ph] six diﬀerent generation. May be
touching on 25 to 30 diﬀerent topics. I've really enjoyed again listening to the team today.
Verity story about leaving school three years ago, I'd say reminded me of something, I
can't remember leaving school anymore. But I do remember, leaving Glasgow to start my
ﬁrst proper job in London and I was working for a relatively well-known ﬁnancial services
company, workers claims is the same was one of the clients with the Queen. So I really
prayed. So I moved to London, start work. I guess as employees, they give you something
that they think would be useful. In those days, it wasn't a mobile phone, it wasn't a laptop,
but it was a bag. So I had a bag with the name of the company on the side of its initials.
And I started the job and then holidays of Christmas comes around, so I stuﬀ bag full of
my stuﬀ for the holidays, head back home and spent Christmas and New Year with my
friends (inaudible). I still have at least one friend in Glasgow, who thinks my ﬁrst job was
for the sports bag manufacturer.

Page 58 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Anyway, good afternoon, everyone. I'm all the way [ph] stands between you and Q&A and
an eventual freedom from the today [ph]. It really doesn't seem like three years, since we
last did this a wonderful next year requires fast [ph]. This morning you heard from Mario
on the plans that we have the priorities for the next three years. You heard from Kristof on
the eﬀorts that we're undertaking to improve the eﬃciency of the group and a particular
operations. And that you heard from Conny, Giovanni and Make the Diﬀerence team is
only the that we see -- I think would have sounded [ph] quite diﬀerent. You just heard
from Jim. As Jim pointed out [ph] me in the break, my fellow mother tongue English
speaker. He talked about commercial and the ways that we can improve performance in
commercial and by commercial -- I mean, commercial performance (inaudible).
My job is to tie all of this into some numbers. And if you've seen these presentations
before, you're not going to be surprised by what about follow [ph]. I'm delighted to stand
here today and conﬁrm something that you already know. We've exceeded the targets
that we set back in 2016 each and every time we presented them. And that's not going to
change in February of next year. But that's not the main reason why are we here. We've
got new targets for the next three-year period. And they all represent the pretty signiﬁcant
level of increase in the ambition that we have for the entire organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

We left the ROE target, the construction is the same, so the number has changed 14% and
increasing over the next three years. And something new for us, our compound organic
EPS growth target and the earnings growth target of 5%. I think many of already that
we've been working on this for most of the year. The diﬃcult part is not the ﬁnancial
targets. The diﬃcult part is where you want to be, in particular how we're going to get
there.
On productivity, you heard earlier for Mario that we believe we've delivered on an
industry-leading simpliﬁcation program, but we're not announcing a new cost savings
target today. Cost discipline now does remain a key focus area for the group whether it's
driven by customer expectations of value or just by simple need to be competitive in the
markets that we operate. None of these forces have changed and none of them are
allowed to change in the near future either.
But what has changed is I think we've demonstrated that you can achieve cost reduction
and simplify the organization at the same time. This is going to continue, we expect to
combination growth in the business together with further simpliﬁcation eﬀorts as outlined
by Kristof and by some other things that I'll mention in a second, will lead to a further
improvement in the OUE ratio of about 1 to 2 points.
Capital allocation. Over the past three years, we've announced the range of transactions
in the extracting capital from non-core or other businesses. I think such as Morocco,
Taiwan, South Africa disposals of non-core portfolios, such as their legacy UK employers
liability booked [ph] earlier this year. The ﬁrst of these, we announced back in June of
2016, the most recent of these we closed last month. This is a process that we run
internally that is absolutely going to continue. We also take routine capital allocations
decisions every day in the business and deciding which are to grow, which are not to
grow contract even and again that will continue over the coming years and that will
further support improvements in the group's returns.
Page 59 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Cash generation. Financially, Zurich's USD [ph], that mean there's no one who can match
this at the scale. The business model is highly cash generative by design and we expect
further improvement in the earnings to feed through and to increase levels of cash
generation, which will also contain support the investments that we need to make some of
the things you heard about today as well as the attractive dividend policy.
On dividends, we know why you own the shares. There's no change to the deﬁnite policy
that we said three years ago. Dividends will be based on sustainable growth. Our
approximate payout ratio is 75%. As a dividend rises, the higher dividend becomes the
ﬂoor for the following year. You already saw at the ﬁrst half that we're on track to achieve
all the goals. I mean we said -- and I reconﬁrm today that we expect to exceed all the
commitments that we made back in 2016. Today, it is not really about the past and all of
our eﬀort is really directed at the future. And there are few highlights that I'd like to
mention.

Bloomberg Transcript

On ROE, again you saw the results and I don't expect it to quite replicate that in second
half. I do expect the second half to conﬁrm that we're not very far away from our targets
for the next three years. The most signiﬁcant fact behind this, we have been reluctant to
combined ratio 8 points since 2015. But it's more than a proﬁt and improvement story. I
mean you seen -- I mean truly excellent growth from the life business, you seen growth
from farmers and, of course, a lot of what we've done over the course of the last three
years has been supported by reductions in our direct expense base.
Capital. Our capital position is very strong, but above all the relevant cash thresholds,
whether it's our own internal Z-ECM metric, external measures such as SST or S&P. In fact,
latter -- the Latta [ph] recently aﬃrmed double AA minus rating that moved the outlook
from stable to positive.
Cash. I mentioned earlier, our business generate very kind, very high cash payout ratios
by design. We were just a shade beneath the three-year target at the 30-month point.
We're clearly the above by the end of the year. And keep in mind that this is after the
impact of the restructuring course we brought over the course of the last three years.
Expenses. In my experience, there are several possible responses to an expense
reduction program. Number one, suggest savings that someone else can make. Number
two, oﬀer reductions and expenses in your more proﬁtable business with an even greater
reduction in operating proﬁt. Or three who wanted the imminent return of the four
horsemen of the (inaudible). Or alternatively actually save money cut across. Three years
ago, we committed to reduce the cost base by about 15%. If you zoom in closely, you look
at 15 as -- you look at the cost cut -- proportionally, a addressable cost base is much
higher than 15%.
On the chart. Richard and I had an interest discussion with ahead of planning
performance management (inaudible), but quite how far it extends that slightly, wiggly
line at the end of the course par into next year this was the compromise position that we
adopted in the end [ph]. I mean, this something that was simple in concept, but it's really
diﬃcult to do. It's really fair to say back in November 2016 that we didn't know where this

Page 60 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

is going to come from. But I'm really grateful to my colleagues for working with me on
frequently unreasonable requests and looking for the ways that we can actually achieve
this goal rather than to oﬀer me one of the ﬁrst three alternatives that I ideally have in my
governance.
Every single part of the Zurich group has contributed, country, region, center group.
Richard and rest of the IR team who did such a fantastic job at getting us ready for these
event suggested to me that I could say I am thrilled to talk to you about new targets.
Despite suggestions to the contrary, I do speak English. I do understand what thrilled
means. But thrilled has never describe my state of mind ever. If you're following this on
the transcript, that is available after the event my apologies in advance. However, today it
is easy part to more (inaudible) delivery. And the only thing that comes to my mind is the
responsibility of living up to the commitments that we make today for the next three years
just as we have for the last three. Anyway, I'm thrilled to talking through you on our
ambition for the next cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

Firstly, we target an ROE as I mentioned earlier, and it sets to 14% and rising over that
three-year period. In the past three years, we want to take in a range of measures to
improve the quality of their earnings and we're conﬁdent we can further grow proﬁtable
business, justifying 2% target increase, which is you all know based on current
performance is not really 3% increase.
Secondly, we will target cash remittances in excess of $11.5 billion over the course of the
next three years. $2 billion increase, roughly half comes from the absence of the more
exceptional level of destruction you've seen from us over the course of the last three years
and the other half from the plan that we've been describing today.
Certainly, introducing this EPS growth target I mentioned earlier, 5% per annum. It's an
organic target it doesn't include the impact of capital deployment. We certainly hope over
that course of the next three years opportunities will arise, but we can't guarantee them
and, therefore, we have not yet included them. And lastly, I think as you'd expect will
continue to manage the balance sheet in a cautious and conservative manner and
continue to target a group capital position between this 100%, 120% of Z-ECM, 100%
being roughly equivalent to AA on the rating scales.
I didn't invent ROE walk, but I don't remember the last time I gave a presentation, I didn't
have one [ph]. In the ﬁrst half, we shared with you a result for the ﬁrst year with equivalent
of 15%. So I mean that you understand this, but I can imagine other people might think or
doesn't seem in the most ambitious target. But I mean there always a number of factors
that you have to consider when you look at the 15%, may not least of which are relatively
in the ﬁrst half for natural catastrophes and for whatever, we had strong performance and
actually market to hedge funds and we pay all the dividend at the end of Q1. But I think
we take all of those, probably the ROE beneﬁts by 1.5 points. So it gives you a sense of
what we see as the real scale of improvement required.
So turning to the future. Consistent with what you saw from us last time, we anticipate with
the roll-up of capital due to retained earnings is a drag on the ROE. It gives us ﬂexibility, it

Page 61 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

gives us options for future, but for the time being mathematically, it's negative in this
picture. It's not a statement of intent, it's just how it has to begin with. We've also
accounted for the negative yield environment. When we set the starting point for the
three-year period last day [ph] and by luck judgment by doing or what combination of the
two, we picked the low points and the yield cycle.
I don't know that, that would be true today. It is a highly uncertain part of the model, but I
think as you know to some degree that the businesses self-racing. If we do see a further
fall again in interest rates, the issue is we can't guarantee that this happens with suﬃcient
speed that works in every single reporting period, but the most important thing I can see
is that we're not geared to this risk. And if you like this risk, you're in the wrong meeting.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fortunately, there are a number of levers that we have a disposal to the (inaudible)
proﬁtable business growth. A combination of some of the things you've heard from
Giovanni, Conny and James through the course of today also includes the beneﬁt of two
of the more recent acquisitions where you haven't really seen the impact yet, so OnePath
and Adira. What seen as a growth is not some fantasy will grow at higher levels than the
market at the same level of proﬁtability, this is really looking at businesses and asking
them to grow at current market rate. So it's very diﬀerentiated, depending on where the
business is. It's not risk-free, but it's been a long time since we've been in a better position
to deliver this.
Productivity. We expect we'll deliver about 1 to 1.5 point of ROE compared to the OUE
commentary as earlier from Kristof, which covers part of the cost base and the things that
-- and the rest of it we will do on the remainder. I mean it is mainly driven by expense
eﬃciency some targeted cost reduction, but really ﬁxed cost leverage as the business
grows.
We'll continue to focus on underrating the portfolio quality and particular improvements
from the recent price increases can be expected to at about 1 to 1.5 points, while we've
further focus on capital allocation, so as moving or reﬂecting our preference internally,
can I get another point ﬁve points for the ROE? It is possible that in this view that pricing
outlook is a bit conservative. But we still got to deliver it. So I it's appropriate to be
cautious. There's nothing in here in terms and conditions and well our view into 2020 is
more optimistic than it would have been earlier in year. We have been extrapolated
beyond 2020. So combining all of these factors brings us towards an overall ROE of
around 15% by 2022.
Over the past few years if you've been at these events, you certainly have heard us talk
about what we're doing around reallocating capital usually in the context of acquisitions
and disposals. You've also heard how we've reshaped the P&C portfolio, particularly in
regards longer tail lines of business. I'm going to spend a little bit time on some of these
topics, in particular (inaudible) ROE for us. Commercial lines business consumes just over
twice as much capital per unit of premium or risk as a retail business driven by the fact it is
more volatile, has high levels of investment risk because of the longer duration typically,
but it's a fact. Since 2016 as we managed and tally the capital allocation, we've released
about $1.7 billion of capital from commercial, while we've added about $0.5 billion of
capital to retail support group [ph] there.
Page 62 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Over the next three years, I still expect higher levels of draws from retail and commercial.
And in fact, as you've heard from Jim, the continuing focus on proﬁtability means that the
growth in commercial is more likely to comes from improved rate and from gross and
underlying exposure. The combination of gross retail and further improvements in
proﬁtability and commercial will obviously support further improvements in the ROE.
We place a high value in having as much access as possible to the risks that oﬀer better
risk-adjusted returns. And at this stage, ﬁnancially, the other retail is probably still the
choice area. It's worth point area. There were not capital constraint that we can take
advantage of both as and when the opportunities arise.
I like our life business and I'd love to claim that the part of the decision a decade ago, that
set the group on the path to what it achieves here. But I will say our decision is no [ph],
because the person who took the decision is in the room. We've been successfully
growing protection business in all regions and this remains a key priority for the group.
The right hand chart shows the IRR for protection unit link. Traditionally you see the
things, how these compares diﬀerent products.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I take the scale oﬀ the x-axis or the y-axis rather, I don't think there's anything surprising
about the relative positioning play roughly where you expect it to be. Maybe all the [ph]
quantum, maybe the quantum is a bit higher than you may have seen elsewhere. I think
the (inaudible) the x-axis. And nobody claim that this is unique, but if I may look at this,
especially if you're truly market consistent about the capital elements at this IRR
calculation.
I think if you measure our business, our life business as the entire, life market is far from
the largest. If you measure it against the market that we choose to focus on, the picture is
entirely diﬀerent. I won't say much about traditional other than it's not a preferred risk for
us. The Swiss capital requirements are punitive, I'm not complaining. But a local teams
have worked very well, very hard with distribution partners to oﬀer what we see a more
sustainable alternatives to others [ph] and their clients here. There'll be no change. So
overall the average IRR is above 15%. And it's one of the reasons why we're very happy to
grow it organically and organically.
I mentioned the cost savings plans earlier. I think when you look at our ﬁnancial
statements, it helps to remember -- the numbers in the ﬁnancial statements moving a
broadly similar way. But here, we're talking about direct expenses, so it's the real hard
cash expense and it can diﬀer a bit from what you end up with in the P&L, because of
things like capitalization and amortization. But the diﬀerences are so small with it. When
you compare, when you get in the ﬁnancials, what you see here there is no material
diﬀerence.
Within our deﬁnition, we include the expenses that set within the loss reserve line, so just
be aware of that. And the further inﬂuence by M&A, which of course is added as you can
see here substantially to the expense base. As we've acquired businesses that we think
generally attractive returns for investors. I think after the eﬀorts of the last three years, it's
really tempting to sit back and admire the program. The only problem is at the end of this

Page 63 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

current three year period happens to coincide with the start of the next three year period,
there's no weekend in between.
In preparation of today, we've been through planning and no one [ph] ask of the business
as follows for a few, it's a relatively small group, but further targeted expense reduction
that they're just not yet whether it need to be for most marginal cost growth only as
always [ph] to see the beneﬁts of operational leverage and gain eﬃciency. For some
additional investment in support of some of the key strategic priorities and you've seen
those things in these presentations already today. And for me and for the rest of the
corporate center, you work with what you have. There's no new money and we expect
over the course of the next three years, the corporate center relative to investor group
[ph] will both shrink further.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is industry that oﬀers tons of scope for eﬃciency. The need for cost reduction is not
going away. And even if the expense discipline doesn't take care of itself, I think it's far
more ingrained in organization than it was at the start of this journey. I'm conﬁdent we can
deliver further eﬃciencies and allowing us to free up additional capacity to invest in other
new propositions and that includes doing things that will emerge over the next three
years that we haven't even planned for today. Kristof's presentation not only outline the
progress that here the ops team have delivered, but it also shows there are lots of
opportunities to further improve eﬃciency.
Looking forward, the pricing condition, the restored proﬁtability in commercial make me
conﬁdent will seen (inaudible) in premiums grow and that means that in combination with
the eﬃciency savings allows those to be comfortable reduction in the OUE ratio. And
we're looking for about 1% to 2% reduction to bring it down to the 12% to 13% range.
I've spoken too much about future returns, the productivity gains. It's really important we
don't forget about core technical skills you've heard. I mean lots of that from all the
presentations that you've heard already today, I mean we could save as much money as
we like, but if we can't get this range, you know what happens. I'm going to say we -- I'm
not sure if it's okay, Jim, if I say we, but we have worked really hard over the past three
years. I want to give credit to Jim, Sierra, everyone in commercial and all of the country
commercial leadership teams, who have worked tirelessly to deliver a large part of what
you see here in this performance. And it's not as if the team have been receiving bookies
along the way. It's not done yet, but at least, they can continue with better tailwinds and
the conﬁdence that comes and seeing your hard work start to pay oﬀ. That tailwind
combined with the changes that we know we need to make and create very positive
outlook for business.
Having said that, though it's not all days of wine and roses. And this year just as it has
been in each of the last three years, we need to address risks in the current portfolio. In
recent years, it's been commercial auto, it's been construction liability, it's been ﬁnancial
lines, it's been liability generally. This year, as Jim mentioned, it's on a credit. I can't
promise that we'll always get these things, right? And it would probably suspicious we
tend to always get it right, but we're investing heavily underwriting to make sure that we
stay on the front foot on this topic.

Page 64 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

For those of you who were at last year's Investor Day, you remember -- you might
remember in my closing remarks on capital allocation, an improving capital allocation in
our core businesses is amongst the highest priorities. We pay very close attention to how
we use the capital. And whenever, we can, we look to release capital from businesses that
we're doing the things that we said to do.
We have specialist teams and their only job is to take over problems and ﬁx them. The
decision to exit remains with business leadership. But once the decision is made, we were
team that comes in, they take over day-to-day management and they deliver the exit and
insulates the ongoing business from the performance miss challenges and other
distractions that comes from this. I was going to make an analogy here at an old dog
story. I'm always surprised by how many animal lovers come out and tell an old doll story.
So I'm going to skip that.
Over the past three years, we've released $2 billion of capital on from divestments
between 2016 and 2018. Reassurance has also played an important role. It allows us to
raise and retain proﬁtable business while optimizing capital eﬃciency. It's one of these
where Zurich of 2019 is and the Zurich of 2022 will be completely changed from Zurich of
2015. Almost all that capital has been reinvested to strengthen our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the course of the last three years, this aspect of capital reallocation is added basis
17% [ph] points to the ROE. If you break it apart perhaps the impact of disposals is not
quite as signiﬁcant as the impact of acquisitions. But without one, we would not have had
the other. It's not only about capital and its generation, it's also about being able to
convert this stuﬀ into cash and we've got particularly strong track record in this regard.
We've already met -- just want to repeat we have already met our 2017 and 2019 targets. If
you look back over the course of the last three years after tax earnings, capital generation,
cash remittance is pretty much the same number. Something in the mid-$3 billion range.
We did get used to a slightly higher number in future, but it reﬂects the simple short tail
cash generative nature of our business.
The P&C business beneﬁts from a global and diversiﬁed footprints, where both was the
shorter tailwinds. Life remittances is supported by that shorter payback period. And I
don't need to tell you how farmers works, you all know how farmers works. Key message
here is that you can expect to see continued strong underlying conversion of earnings
into cash well in excess of the dividend, which brings me to the next slide.
I know that this slide is as important to you as is to me and, for me, this leads never gets
old. As Mario showed in his presentation, we provided shareholders you with an attractive
level of return with a signiﬁcant part that coming through derivatives. Over the three years
2017, 2018, 2019, we paid about $9 billion of dividends and other capital returns, which is
about 19% of our average market cap over the period. Dividend has grown steadily about
6%, and line dividend policy expand [ph] as we have in the past. We will in the future
continue to look through one-oﬀ items both positive and negative to grow the dividend in
line with overview of sustainable earnings and deliver a payout ratio of about 75% of net
income to our shareholders.

Page 65 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

There's a couple of things I want to reiterate at the very end. You've heard me saying this
before and I'll say again, improving capital allocation is one of the most -- is one of the
highest priorities for the Zurich's ﬁnance function. We will do everything we can to
support Mario and all the CEOs in the group to ﬂexibly deploy capital to meet the
solutions that our customers need and to deliver the returns that our shareholders
explained.
Just as our last ﬁnancial plan, it was really important to living the foundation for this one.
There are many areas here where we're investing for the future. So the sustainability
topics, the customer experience, millennials and Gen Z, relevant oﬀerings in mid-market,
accident and health, and commercial, these areas share two things in common. Strategic,
it is a very important but I don't expect them to contribute anything other than expenses
for the next three years. The entire team has worked on preparation for today for the best
part of the last 10.5 months, Mario has set the direction and maintained the temple.
My team together with Giovanni's and Kristof's have developed targets. Our colleagues
including Kathleen and Alison have taking the outline and turning it into a plan that we
can actually execute. We've delivered more I think in the last three years than I think
almost any of us anticipated. But that was then, this is now. We've raised the bar over the
last three years, and we intend to do exactly the same thing for the next three years.
Richard?

Bloomberg Transcript

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Thank you George. If I could ask you to stay on stage, and if I can ask Mario and Jim to
join you. We will come to the last Q&A session of the day.

Operator
(Operator Instructions)

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Who would like the ﬁrst question? Farooq on right.

Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks. Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Just two questions. I remember in Kathleen
Savio's presentation last time we met, there was this quite ambitious target for -- what you
deﬁne as commercial eﬃcacy [ph] combined ratio in the US and US commercial. Just
wondered what the progress was? I think you said it, it hasn't been great so far, because
of investments, but just what you're allowing for in terms of those shift to middle market in
the US in your numbers? And secondly, could you just clarify again, what you meant by
the inclusion of the pricing assumptions that you've put into that ROE walk? So I think you
suggested it was up to 2020, that wasn't quite clear what you've assumed for pricing to
the 15% indicative number? Thank you.

Page 66 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Okay. So on the ﬁrst question. So go back to the investor update that we had last
December where Kathleen presented I mean her ambition for commercial in the US, I
mean we've integrated that into what you see here today. There's no inconsistency
between that and in fact we already talked and I think Kathleen mentioned last year that
mid-market was a key priority for us. I think the challenge we know we have on midmarket is it will take some time to bode the foundation required to serve that market really
well. And that's why I made the comment that we won't have huge expectations if that's
been a substantial contributor. But Kathleen's three point improvement on the combined
ratio in the US is in that walk we're today.
On the pricing expectation, I mean we struck the basis for this -- so we typically do the
planning August, September, so you can assume that the underlying more or less reﬂects
the environment that we saw then. I made the comment and the remarks that from pricing
perspective, we've assumed a rate environment that is maybe slightly more conservative
in the one that you see today, because prices are still moved up again in October,
November.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've assumed it steps down on a written basis next year, a really signiﬁcant step down.
And then we assume at the end of 2020 that, we will more than neutral environment
versus most [ph] cost. So there is a signiﬁcant beneﬁt baked in here, so that margin
improvement that we think comes probably a bit more conservative than the market
currently delivers and we stepped it down for 2020.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

(inaudible)

Analyst
Thanks a lot. You've actually done remarkably in achieving all of your key targets and it's
very, very hard to ﬁnd (inaudible) didn't score absolutely full marks. But if I look back three
years ago, I guess one of things you're looking at was reducing the volatility of crop
insurance and maybe we've had -- not this year isn't looking the best for it. Is that bad
luck, is there anything more you can do there?
And I guess another area you're focusing on this life in force and you haven't (inaudible)
for earnings, but I'm wondering whether those few words you can say on -- sort of update
on that.
And If I'm allowed, the second question. Last week, we also touched sort of brieﬂy on the
sort of the capital framework. Probably it probably wasn't right forum to discuss that, I
mean this is a slightly better forum. But I'm just wondering if there's any sort of hints you
can give in terms of if you were to make any reviews of the framework. What you might
like to see that might help you better manage the business. Is there anything that you
would like to say on that? I'm maybe pushing my luck, but (inaudible)

Page 67 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Okay. So I think it would be really greedy to complaint about the farmers have crops for
the last several years. I mean you're absolutely right, this is going to be one of the years
we pay some back. I mean the net-net, the performance of crops has been a signiﬁcant
positive contributor to the group. And Kathleen and the team -- I mean Kathleen was
responsible to the transaction. And a large part of what gave us the conﬁdence to do that
was the view of the team that they could take the technology, they knew they could apply
and rather than give the beneﬁts of that 75% of other people, we could have the whole
thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

This year, just to make sure everyone gets the same knowledge base, I mean it will be a
tough a year where we have prevented planting cost as a results. We don't yet know the
outcome for the yield in revenue. I mean that no sayings that something particularly
signiﬁcantly happening that we just don't know at this stage. But for us, I mean rather than
see a combined ratio, we normally expect to see in the mid-90s. We're going to be in the
lowest three digits. So something like 7 or 8 point turnaround from where we have been
before. I don't think -- just not to correct you, but I don't think we ever said, it was crop
volatility goal. We did say it was volatility goal overall. And crop or no crop this year, we
will deliver on that too.
On the life side of things, I made a few comments in the introduction to the earnings -one of the earnings call, but the update in last week and really that was just to make the
point that, I think from where we start today, it get more interest rates up and I expect P&C
to do more the run rate for the next three years. And life has a bit more headwind. I don't
think it's speciﬁc to us, we're not troubled. I think we're happy with where we are, but just
look at dynamics that's a view around life. So we haven't set far more targets, or any of the
subsets of the business to be honest.
And in the capital thing at the end, I mean one of the choice and one of the impositions of
working in insurance is that everyone can ﬁnd the capital model that they like, because
they're all there somewhere. And the problem is we update -- we operate on demand in
the same time. So you need to be really careful that you change one with really careful
consideration of what the unintended consequences will be. So we have a new Chief Risk
Oﬃcer, he have been in place now for to six weeks give or take, though it'll take a bit
more time to look at this more carefully. And the one of the beneﬁts of our rest model is
that that's help to determine that life portfolio I showed you earlier. You need to be really
careful that you don't disturb that as you look at how the business response to the rest
model, but we are looking at in that.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Jim Shuck on the right hand side.

James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

James Shuck from Citi. Three from my side, please. George just going back to ROE walk.
If I grow the EPS at 5% after 2022, I don't get 15% ROE. I guess something that's less than
Page 68 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

that. Obviously, if you allows the growth in the equity base there. So just help me, either
my math is wrong or I'm missing something, kind of link to that? I can see the productivity
gains in the business growth from portfolio and quality.
Obviously, when you look at your businesses on a country-by-country basis, there are
some countries that are making good returns, and some making bad returns and I think
we spoke about the past the diﬃculties in allocating capital and equities and seeing
whether that ROE countries are. But where the actual improvement in some of those
under-performing businesses as opposed to productivity gains and business growth is
our actual businesses that can be turn around? That's the ﬁrst question.
Secondly, just clarify restructuring costs, you given guidance for the current year. Are
there any restructuring costs to be included out to 2022 and hence still dragging on that
EPS, CAGR?

Bloomberg Transcript

Final question, just, Jim things you've got you hear a lot happening on the liability claims
outlook. We speak about it often and did so on the recent earnings results. And I was just
keen get your view on what's happening kind of large commercial, small commercial, the
outlook there for the kind of claims environment over the medium term is that
catastrophe that's going to get worse. Do you think you'll get better and (inaudible) book
is better positioned, what does that mean for your mix of business relative to the target
you had? You had the property and casualty and the specialty book and your ability to rebalance that, at what stage you'll start to go back into liability when the pricing is
adequate? Thank you.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So on the ﬁrst one on the comparison that you've made is, you've modeled is, I mean this
really hard to do it from the stage. James and my suggestion would be that we do it oneon-one. I mean the number of people allude this from our advisor side and they also have
slightly diﬀerent outcomes and, obviously, the starting point is extremely important. But I
think, if we chat together more directly, it'll (inaudible) where we may have diﬀerent views
or where we have diﬀerences.
On that capital reallocation topic. I mentioned earlier that over the last three years
through a combination of M&A and some of the non-core activity, we had about 7, 10
point and there are some things there that you cannot repeat, because we've done them.
Having said that, I'd love to tell you that this things just runs oﬀ and it eventually disappear
for the no issues in the capital allocation, but of course that's not true. Some of the risks
that we take just don't turn out the way we hope. And then, we have new things to deal
with. I think one concrete example here, when you know that we have a large core share
on a property risk in North America, that's really been overview of base adequacy versus
the risk that we'll take on that product. And we have the ability to essentially retain more
of that. It we'll requires to buy that more cap cover to maintain the cap levels that you're
familiar with, but that be one obvious example if we want to take more risks, because we

Page 69 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

believe pricing is more adequate. That's an option for us. Likely, an option that over the
course of the next three years. We'll pull on either in part or in whole I think.

FINAL

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

On the claims, so we deﬁnitely track the claims inﬂation that we see by line of business by
country. But a lot of the conversations that we've heard and talked about over the break,
over lunch, over the last couple of weeks, what we're talking about is primarily in the
United States. And so what we've done and as I explained the lines of businesses, where
we've get the most attention of the motor and the general liability, which we've reduced
by 31% in the United States, we've reduced the motor portfolio globally. We're obviously
watching it, we see it. But when we look at our performance in terms of rate, our
performance improvement in terms of policy and policy structure, we feel that we've
managing it well.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Jonny Urwin on left hand side?

Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Jonny Urwin, UBS. So I think we spent most of the last two years being
corrected by Richard that the 95%, 96% combined ratio was an ambition not a target. So
my question is the 15% ROE an ambition or a target?

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So the target, Johnny is for an ROE that is more than 14% and rising. Within that, we have
ambitions.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Will Hawkins in the middle.

William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm William Hawkins from KBW. Can you just remind me, we've a lot on
technologies. Just to put context, what is the size of your IT budget as you currently
measure it's and how do you break that down between your investments just to keep the
current business taking over and where you're investing in change?
And then secondly, slightly more kind of conception again, take onboard everything
you've said. But the implication for of your technology changes within the context of the
groups is sort of gradual over time. You picked this into your smooth changing numbers.
Are there any circumstances in which you can envisage say actually we need to make a
step change here, the pace of technology in the market overall is accelerating, so we
need to do something which is big either organically or inorganically? I mean to get
Page 70 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

everything you said to implies, you said is no, but I'm just wondering if there are any
circumstances you can envisage?

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

FINAL

I was going to say, let's spend all the money [ph], tell me how much you spent?
(inaudible)

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

So it's been about $2 billion on IT, about a third of that is changed. I mean that's still one
of the challenges. I mean, it also what was back to how much we spend on the back ends.
I mean we want to change that makes clearly going forward. Now, in terms of step
changes. I mean you will see an increase in some of the areas where we will continue to
invest in and up the investments, I mean security is one of them. I mean, we made a
commitment to the customers that we need to standby. And then we do acquired. I mean
things like ZCAM, I mean, bring new technology into our environment. So I think those are
also things that you should think about, when you think about the overall investments that
we make there.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Jonny Vo in the end.

Bloomberg Transcript

Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. I guess just a quick if I add. In case IFRS 17 gets
implemented in 2021, what happens to your target? Or at the end of '21 or the start at
2022.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

(inaudible)

Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe. I'm not sure, you'll have a better view than I have. That's the ﬁrst question.
The second question is just in terms of again capital allocation. I guess in terms of
remittances, if I take out all the dividends of probably north of $1 billion left over, is that
what is limited to M&A and potential further capital turns and is there a preference
between M&A and further capital returns? And ﬁnally, in terms of the life business. If I look
at your Z-ECM ratio, obviously it's been impacted by traditional life business sitting on
your books. Is that something that you would consider looking to mitigate by disposal or
potentially selling part of the back book to reduce sensitivity? Thank you.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Page 71 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Okay. So on each of these -- I may be do in reverse order sets. I think on the last one, on
the life books. I mean if something that makes sense from a strategic perspective is open
to us to do one that doesn't cause issues for our partners from a distribution side. We
actually solve the issues. And we're open to all of those solutions. We've done some of
them already. So if you look back at, we had annuity [ph] in the UK. It is the transaction of
Roche [ph] about three years ago. We've done subsequent follow-on template transaction
with Roche [ph]. Just to keep removing a risk that doesn't ﬁt our risk appetite. And from a
capital perspective, it is pretty capital intends on the Swiss framework.
So if we can do that, we would. I'd say that maybe in some markets, it is a higher priority
than others, but we're actually trying to grow the business, create the right foundation.
And it's actually the point of more important goal that we have. Remind me what the ﬁrst
question again was Johnny?

Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

IFRS 17.

Bloomberg Transcript

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

IFRS 17, I forget that. So what happens, if IFRS 17 suddenly accelerates. So let's just say,
that's a hypothetical. This seems so from the tail. I think I mean, we have the beneﬁt just
given the products we have. We are in an advanced stage of preparation. I said to
someone earlier, we will start running IFRS 17 in production [ph] as of next year. So for
some reason, it appears in the following year, we're ready. Maybe I mean there are some
things that still need to be ironed out, but we're ready.
I think the general view of the industry is that another years delay would be beneﬁcial to
low for a properly planned adoption of all of the diﬀerent aspects. I mean we've had it
both in the (inaudible) in the Board already, some of the high level numbers. What I can
tell you is that you can appear used to an entirely diﬀerent world, when this thing arrives.
And what was your second question? I forgot.

Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

(inaudible) capital return--

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So I mean you're right on the number. So I think I mean typically all things being equally
generate about $1 billion more for year. But If you looked at the walk, that accumulation
was that ﬁrst drop in the walk [ph] of the headwind. So that's something that gives us the
opportunity to do things that they come along. And we would obviously prefer to grow
the business in a way that would support higher dividends a future for shareholders. And
that would be the highest priority.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}
Page 72 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

We come down here to Nick Holmes.

Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

FINAL

Can I say that I know you (inaudible) I can't call the three questions.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Don't worry. (inaudible)

Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of SocGen. First question for Jim. In big picture terms, how important are
lowered -- fallen bond yields this year to driving the commercial P&C pricing? And how
important in 2020 will bond yields be do you think for pricing?
Second question is on the expense ratio. Just wondered what your thoughts are -- I mean
the expense ratio even after the OUE reduction is still higher than peers. And I just I mean
a lot of this is business mix obviously. But is the more that could potentially come in terms
of expense reduction even theoretically beyond the OUE reduction that you're looking at?

Bloomberg Transcript

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

Well, I do the OUE things ﬁrst and George will do the other topic. So on the OUE, I think I
said in the comments that it's hard to imagine that at the end of the next three years, we
go all done. Nothing to see move on. There's a revolution in technology taking place and
our customers expect us to take advantage of it. I mean Mario talked in his presentation
actually about the critical issue and trying to make look after the communities that were
part of trying to make sure that people are trained. We help you develop the skills to
confront some of these new challenges. But I don't think it stops here, but where it goes
to I mean today this is as far as we prepare to go on predictions.
On bond yields, I mean what your -- ﬁrst part of your question was about 2019. So we're
no longer pricing 2019 risk for the most part probably into 2020. And so I think, when you
look at how we decide on pricing. The overall strategy in terms of the consumption of
capital, the long tail investment availability, the short tail business, that's factors in into the
larger picture. But I really in the past -- I would say in this, if we look at the last year, it's
about loss ratio and risk collection. And so it hasn't -- in terms of the pricing, it doesn't
factor into the modeling yet. But it is that driving our decision in terms of pricing or risk
selection or portfolio mix. No.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

But Nick also I'm not truly convinced that we have a cost disadvantage on commercial.
We've been adding benchmarking for example carefully the US business against US
players. And typically, there we have a cost advantage over practically all the peers. If you
talk broadly about our total property and casualty, cost position that could be diﬀerent
Page 73 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

story also because we have a heavy cost component in the low claims and a low loss ratio
business that we drive in South America. So that is where the business mix has an impact.
But I mean honestly. I was trying to think back to Kathleen's numbers in US, I mean, it's not
immediate to me that we have any cost disadvantage on commercial with any of the
peers.

Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

I can remember a very, very long time ago. I think, it was 2004 when Zurich had the
lowest expense ratio in just absolute terms not adjusted for business mix or anything, but
the lowest expense ratio of all of the European peers. And now if you look, I mean even
also the OUE thing, you still look a little bit high. I just wondered, but your answer is that
it's business mix essentially.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Can I point out, that in 2014, we changed the way we calculate cost ratio and added two
points to it just for the sake of--

Bloomberg Transcript

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

But Nick, we're not saying it's only business mix. We're saying we are committed to
continue driving down the cost ratios. So we're not saying it's just a business mix. We're
just saying I think we are highly eﬀective or productive in commercial. And even there
we're looking at ways and Kathleen is committed to continue on culming down cost
inﬂation in US. So don't take it on the other opposites. I mean we want to work on cost, so
we'll work on cost, we will improve our cost eﬃciency further. It's not immediate to me to
that we're lagging behind on the commercial space to anyone else. Actually, whenever
we compare ourselves to commercial, we typically conclude that we have a cost
advantage to the others.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Next we go to Andrew Ritchie.

Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. I think I've got one for each of you. I think it'll
make it easy. Simple one just for George to start with. I presume the capital intensity of
commercial will fall as prices rise, because you referenced it to NEP, but if NEP growing
just because of price model exposure, I'm guessing that falls. So it was in the 90s based
on today's pricing and if pricing is about six and maybe another six, then that could fall
quite materially. Just clarify that.
And for Jim, I'm still a bit confused on what your ambition is in specialty at this point. I'm
not sure also what you're including in specialty. I presume you're including professional
lines in specialty not in casualty. But you're happy to grow specialty now apart from credit.
I think that's what you said and maybe just clarify that you've got the capability, the
Page 74 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

underwriters in place for that. But I had also a longer term picture, there's very few global
commercial lines insurers with multinational global master capability, maybe 5, maybe
less than 5 right now.
Traditionally, they haven't had great pricing power, despite the fact you have to maintain
vast networks of claims and regulatory people and you have their pricing power, because
of the power of the brokers and because of the impact of excess capacity. Is there a real
pricing power now? Can global -- large global corporate multinational insurance now
really make money and can it make excess returns if there's so few of you that do it?
And the ﬁnal question for Mario. I guess you're going to reramp the remuneration
structure because you -- I think you ramped it, at the start of the last three year plan, I'm
assuming if it will be the same structure of so they'll be a cash remittance target in their
BOPAT ROE will move from 12 to 14. Is it going to be fully aligned or are there any other
quotes you're going to check in? Thanks.

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So yes. So to answer the ﬁrst part of your question, what do we mean by specialty. So
specialties includes ﬁnancial lines, it includes marine, it includes political risk, trade
credits, surety, accident and health. And so your question on professional indemnity and
that professional, that's what I look at as a subsection of the ﬁnancial lines business. So
that would include professional indemnity for individuals, for professionals, but also for
ﬁnancial institutions et cetera.
And so, it's a very big mixture of lines of businesses. The credit one is the one that we -credit lines and surety exposures, we deﬁnitely see a change in the marketplace. And so
we think we're -- as George said, we might -- we're not always right, but we certainly
believe as we look for that this is align to either maintain or to reduce regardless on the
geographical exposure. In ﬁnancial lines, we made some signiﬁcant portfolio changes
with respect to lines of businesses that weren't performing well and haven't performed
well for many carriers in the industry.
Growing in the D&O space, which has historically been a good line of business has
performed relatively -- quite poorly over the past three years, so we didn't grow it. But we
do have the talent and expertise. And as the market is changing and the rate increases
and improving terms that we're seeing particularly in the United States, we're seeing it in
the D&O marketplace, and so we're conservative but we're ready and we're opportunistic
and to capture that market.
We hear a lot about the marine portfolios and diﬀerent carriers in the market and that's
historically been a tough line of business. But one that helps complement many of our
other lines of businesses that we have with customers. So we do believe that A&H is an
area that we will grow and continue to grow. And so the collection of lines that we call
specialties, they are always interlinked to each other and so it'll be opportunistic, but we
absolutely feel that we are well positioned in that space. So we will continue to see how
that progresses through the coming cycle.

Page 75 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

Your point on the large multinational business. You're correct. There are four, ﬁve, six
carriers that have the network and the ability to service these customers. What we've seen
is they've become challenging for a number of reasons. Number one, they have a much
higher level of risk management -- sophistication and risk management in terms of how
they manage their risk and portfolios. They have from the intermediate -- vast majority are
intermediated, and the brokers will put their best people on that to ﬁnd the best terms
and conditions in the market.
I believe that a lot of carriers, look at them, there's a prestige in some of the markets to
write these lines of businesses. And to access the broader portfolio, you need to have
about the distribution in the tougher risks. You also have these companies have the ability
to retain more risk. And so the more they retain and have the premium sitting in the what
would be more of the attritional layer, what's left that goes into the risk transfer of market
has more volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so the question is can this, is there -- your question was going forward is this scenario
that we can make money? If I were to look at and segment where we've seen the best in
terms of rate increases, the best changes in program, structures, the best deductibles
introduction of captives and risk-sharing, it's been in that space. And so that is where
we're seeing the signiﬁcant changes. It's coming through in the large middle-market
multi-country jurisdictions, but I absolutely think that is the diﬀerentiator for us.
I'm often asked when you talk about middle market, you're going to grow and try and
compete with in a market with 35 carriers and how are you doing it with the in the larger
when you have a smaller? So that to me is the area that large multinational is now that
diﬀerentiates us, when we've invested in. I think that the customers. When I talk about
service and as opposed or in addition to the risk transfer, it's getting more and more
diﬃcult to operate a global organization in some of the changing geographical
environments, regulatory environments, political environments and so they rely upon their
insurance partners more and more to help them navigate in that space. And so I think yes,
it's scenario, we will continue to invest and continue to lead in.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

And I have a yes myself as an answer. All targets are aligned with this targets year-by-year,
they were in the three years before and they will equally for the next three years including
the target that Conny introduced and indicated on customers and brands.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Jon Hocking here in the middle.

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. Is the middle market completely distinct from SME or is there some overlap?
That is the ﬁrst question. And then secondly, looking at the capital intensity slide that
George put up. Is this middle market business lower capital intensive than the rest of

Page 76 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

commercial or does it depend? And then ﬁnally, the slide that was put up showing the
servicing capability that you need for middle market. As the shape of the ROE look
diﬀerent from middle market. You're carrying more expenses with low volatility returns,
how should we think about that mix shift over the period? Thank you.

FINAL

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Okay. I can do it in two straightaway. So that be yes. And maybe also three. So if you look
at the broader middle market, it would have diﬀerent characteristics and that's part of why
you the eﬀort on our part to deepen the footprint that we haven't said this in our [ph]
group more eﬀectively. I think for the mid-market that we've ended up with today, it's not
delivering that for us. And that's why Kathleen and the team are making the changes that
we talked about and Jim talked about in the presentation.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And just in terms of where there is overlap, it's not a clear cut oﬀ point, when does a
company stop being a SME and become a middle market and went from middle-market
to corporate. It really often depends on lines of businesses and you look at -- I could see a
risk of a scaﬀolding company in New York City that has a small warehouse in Queens and
ﬁve vehicles. That's a pretty SME risk. But when you start looking at the liability exposure,
it changes a little bit. And so it's so hard to say -- I mean we try and say a turnover just as a
general guideline, but we will vary by lines of businesses. And the same is true at the
upper end when does it become stop being a middle market and become a large
corporate.
But it's conceptual division is meet SMEs or products. We're -- almost there is an
automatic underwriting at the origin of the product. Middle markets, there is an
underwriting of the risk and the policy can be written on the risk. On SMEs that should be
excluded. And SME, which is outside of a product is not an SME. Now, you can get very
passionate and you can spend a lot of time in these deﬁnitions. But intuitively, the concept
is quite easy to grasp. And yes, I mean sometimes we become very passionate about that.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Vinit here.

Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. So just two questions, can you -- so Mario, I heard you
loud and clear in the media call that you're not happy to present any guidances regarding
combined ratio in this plan. Now, I was very surprised, because if anything that would
have been one of the strongest part of this plan, because we've seen such an amazing
combined US commercial situation where claims inﬂation is very it is pricing is still
accelerating and we can see that credit is slowing down for maybe a very low combined
ratio area is slowing down. But if you could help us a bit has to why this stance was taken
in this target setting or am I completely missing something in what has been
communicated? So that's the ﬁrst question really.
Page 77 of 81



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Second question is for Jim as well, I can see very clearly that the 31% general liability
reduction has helped you better whether the current sort of claim severity in the US.
Could actually comment that was something more to it? So in other words, the book as it
was in '16, was there some sectoral diﬀerences already when you came in which would
have said, hey, we anyways would have whether this better? Because, it can't -- I mean in
my experience, it has been it's not just some cutting back in premiums that lets you get
any in commercial carrier whether this kind of situation easily. So if you could just
comment on exposures as well. Thank you.

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. When we look at liability, what we're including is general liability, workers' comp
and motor, right and generally is the three large. And so over those three years as I said,
we've reduced both motor and the overall liability portfolio and those numbers were
based upon net earned premium. So as we've seen some rate increases in these spaces in
the accounts that we retain, we've also reduced the exposure even further. So it's -- we
look at it from a customer perspective as well. And so if we're a major carrier, our major
supplier of a certain line of business for a customer to leave them in a certain line. It's a lot
easier to focus on a reinsurance or a reduced net position, but I think it's not -- workers'
comp we've deﬁnitely taken positions and changes in that portfolio. I would say, the
motor and the general liability have been the largest.
Outside of the United States, there's a lots of large multinationals that have exposures in
the United States. And so we've seen signiﬁcant change in that portfolio as well both on
our underwriting how we structure treaties and that and so all of that has contributed to
that reduction, but when you look at that 31% that we talked in the United States, that's on
NEP the exposures probably come down a little bit more.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

(inaudible)

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

So that we don't have combined ratios and our plans we do, but if you followed the
company's commentary, if you followed my calls over the course of last year, I asked to
change tack slightly just about every single three months currently. And there is no value
in that. I mean I think the team have more than happy to help you guys ﬁnd the elements
of the ROE walk, combined ratio relevant and allow you to work out where you think the
convention will go. But our aspirations are better return on capital. That's the key driver
for us.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Give me break. But I would have given the same answer of this morning. So I thought it's
better to give another answer.

Page 78 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

One last question from Jim Shuck.

FINAL

James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. Jim from Citi. I'll also ask on volatility. So 13 points you showed on slide, it
come down to ﬁve points. Was that in your budget? Is that what you were targeting to get
to on ﬁve points and are you happy with that being at ﬁve points on the commercial book
or do you want to take that down further?
Secondly, there's a little more conﬁdence around European commercial rate outlook. The
environment has been improving. Can you just comment on how sustainable you see that
is and some of the drivers behind that? I hope my third question doesn't get forgotten
again, but I was just keen about -- to know about the restructuring charges in 2022,
please?

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll do one and three and Jim will two. So on the what was the aspiration? We actually
added aspiration to reduce the large loss experience below the level that we currently
see. As Mario mentioned earlier, we've tried to go away from -- it's not as it's a large
losses. (inaudible) excuse for why things don't work, so we don't do that internally, we
don't do externally, but we did have -- we had an ambition, we have an ambition to try
and take large losses (inaudible) and today.
On the restructuring, apologies Jim for forgetting it last time. We gained that we think that
probably given the size of the group and the activities we have. If we want to $200 million
as a reasonable ongoing assumption around and restructuring, the programs that we
have here I expect to be within that number. So no change to restructuring guidance.

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Rate increases that we've seen in the marketplace really began, I would say, towards the
end of the ﬁrst quarter of 2019, and it's great consistency. And we saw it ﬁrst we in the
United States, we saw it ﬁrst in the cat exposed lines of businesses, and we've slowly seen
that in each from quarter-to-quarter increased in the United States, we've seen it in the
London market and so the London market probably sometime in the summer started to
show substantial consistent changes. Continental Europe is a diﬀerent market place. And
so the vast majority of the business not just our business, but the business in the market
renews on January 1.
And so it was this time last year, all of those accounts were renewing and so we're in the
middle of that process now. I'll talk to you in February how it all worked out. But the
indications we have today are that the rates are increasing and holding in the large
multinational risk certainly across most of the European countries. I would say the market
probably has been was in denial in the summer that it would happen. And the challenge
that we -- from the underwriting community, you talk about this market coming for years
Page 79 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

FINAL

and when it comes it's really diﬃcult, because you're dealing with customers who don't
want it to change, don't see why they're being impacted by the change. They then want -they don't believe if there are brokers been bringing them up to date and preparing
them, they don't believe it. So they want to get another broker to try and look at it and it
moves around markets. And so it's a very disruptive time. But the indications we're seeing
are that the rate increases that we were seeing in the US and here in the UK will be seen in
the ﬁrst quarter in continental Europe.

James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

I'm just keen to understand the drivers of it a little bit. I mean, people, we sort of seen a
reversal of globalization and more localization of capital. So why should German or
French clients see rate increases just because there's been US cap [ph] or Japanese cap
[ph], for example, what's happening on the claim side that's hardening the market?

James Shea

{BIO 1701530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think that a lot of these companies are multinational companies, right? And so they don't
live in their own market and they're not able to purchase towers within typically under
local capacity. Markets around the world have beneﬁted from a soft market. So if you are a
property risk in Argentina or in Australia, you didn't -- you weren't a better risk over the
last 10 years. You just beneﬁted from the global markets coming down. And so I think,
what we're seeing is that the reinsurance market. They've had certain experiences around
the world across their portfolio as have carriers, and so more and more it's being looked
at as a global portfolio.
What I can say is what we're seeing in many of the European markets is a consistency of
approach by what you referred to earlier is the top ﬁve or six carriers who have this
experience and have this history. You do see some local carriers coming in who have
never written the business before in that jurisdiction are willing to take it at expiring price
without the experience. So the customer in my view will win for a year or two until the
same experience comes up. So that's a possibility that we'll see in some of the European
market places, but generally I think it's the consist, it's the global nature of the reinsurance
markets of the global treaties that people purchase and having to look at it as more of a
portfolio. So we'll see in a couple months.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Okay. Well, thank you very much, everybody. We'll leave the Q&A there. If you do have
follow-up questions, our IR team available later today and obviously coming weeks. And
I'll pass over to Mario if you want to make some closing remarks.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Yes. I mean it's hard to say anything after this long day. Thank you so much for your
support through the years. Thank you so much for the questions today, and please keep
us awake with challenges, with questions over the next three years ago. But the rest

Page 80 of 81



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-14

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

assure that we plan to have a very similar day in two years' time with very similar
messages. And we count that all of you being there as we will be there. Thank you.

Page 81 of 81

