Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Investor Meeting - London
Company Participants
FINAL

Clare Bousfield, Chief Financial Officer
David Macmillan, Chief Customer & Distribution Officer
Jack Daniels , Chief Investment Officer
Joffy Willcocks, Global Head of Asset Management Distribution
John Foley, Chief Executive
Roddy Thomson, Chief Operating Officer & MD Heritage
Spencer Horgan, Director of Investor Relations
Unidentified Speaker
William Nicoll, Head of Institutional Fixed Income

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Dom O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Presentation
Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Good morning everybody. My name is Spencer Horgan, I'm the Director of Investor
Relations at M&GPrudential. It's a real pleasure to welcome you here to our new office, 10
Fenchurch Avenue. Today, it's for the first time, but we look forward to meeting together
with you here many more times in the future as we have through demerger and into our
new life as a public company.

Page 1 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Our ambition for today is to give you a thorough insight into M&GPrudential, its business,
its strategy, its unique capabilities and the opportunities we see in front of us. We'll also
give you deeper insight into our financials and the new segmentation we'll be using going
forward.
I know you'll be very keen also to hear about our future financial ambitions, our capital
management framework, and of course, dividend policy. And here, we will have to ask you
to be a bit patient with us. We won't be discussing those today. But closer to the time of
demerger, be assured that we will go into these crucial topics in detail. You'll see from
your agendas, we have a comprehensive schedule of speakers for you. And after the
presentations, we'll have plenty of time to take your questions. So in a moment, I'm going
to hand over to John Foley, our CEO. But before that, to get us warmed up, we'd like to
show you a brief video.
(Video Presentation)

Bloomberg Transcript

John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

It tells me two things. One, the rest of the day, we will keep our lips in sync with what we
say. And the second thing is, I need a haircut. So, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the
first-ever Analyst and Investor Conference for M&GPrudential. Welcome also to those
watching on the webcast, including our colleagues in the UK, Europe and beyond. As
Spencer said, the main purpose of today's event is to give you the opportunity to gain a
better understanding of our business. Along the way, we will demonstrate that we are in
great shape to use the freedom of demerger to grow that business. We will also share
our view on the long-term growth opportunity and why M&GPrudential is ideally positioned
to capture it. And we will explain how we will grow our customer base and assets under
management, so that we can deliver attractive returns for shareholders.
You will hear from most of the executive team today as we set out why we believe we
have the right capabilities and experience to grow this business at scale, how in the past
20 years, we have built a series of new and highly profitable savings and investments
franchises, both at home and internationally, how our investment in transformation and
merger has given us strong and deep foundations for future growth as we head towards
demerger, and how I think we have something very special in M&GPrudential and our
unique business mix.
I want to start though by giving you a sense of what drives us at M&GPrudential. Now, it's
very fashionable to talk about the sustainable purpose for business. The reality is that
we've had the same purpose for more than a century. Put simply, we are here to help
people manage and grow their savings, so that they have the money they need to live
the life they want. And we like to think we make the world a little better through how and
where we invest our customers' savings. Our customers money goes into the real
economy, not just into shares and bonds, but also into hospitals, schools, ports, bridges,
solar power, housing. Of course, many of our competitors could say the same. The
difference at M&GPrudential what makes us exceptional in my view, is summed up by one
word, care.

Page 2 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Customers want us to care about their finances and to care about some of the same
things they do, a retirement without financial worry, a high standard of living. They also
increasingly care how and where their long-term savings are invested. What's the point of
financial security if the planet is dying. As an institutional investor of scale, we are in a
position to be a force for good. Today, our customers expect us to reflect their views on
the environment and social values. Tomorrow, they will demand it.
As Chief Executive of a business whose roots date back to the mid-19th century, I am
proud of our tradition of care and how all my colleagues at M&GPrudential strive to go the
extra mile for customers. Demand from the PRU still resonates today because he went
above and beyond for his customers. M&G too has championed the interest of the small
investor, introducing the first regular savings plan for mutual funds in the 1950s. Our
challenge today is to continue to show the same level of care, but in a digital world that
requires our business to act at scale and at pace, and at an international level. Now if we
get this right, and I have every confidence we will, then we can become the best loved
and most successful savings and investments business. So that's what makes us tick at
M&GPrudential.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move on to our unique mix of businesses and why we describe ourselves as a fund
manager with the balance sheet. The life insurance side of our business dates back to
1848. That's 30 years before the invention of the telephone. M&G is relatively young,
having being founded in 1931, when it introduced the first mutual fund to UK savers.
Today, as a combined force, we are a leading provider of savings and investments,
serving more than 5 million individual customers and 900 institutional clients, with a focus
on high value-add savings and investment solutions.
We now have an international footprint, serving customers in 28 countries from 20 offices
around the world. With assets of GBP321 billion, we're also a major institutional investor,
withholding spread across public and private markets including major infrastructure. The
merger of these two great names in savings and investments requires a new financial
structure. So later today, Clare will take you through the detail of our new financial
segmentation, but let me give you a high-level snapshot.
Essentially, we have two business lines at M&GPrudential, a GBP198 billion savings in asset
management business, which is open and growing. That's everything under the M&G
brand and the Prudential Retail Savings franchise, anchored by PruFund, and David and
Joffy will provide more detail on that later. Now, demerger gives us both opportunity and
means to scale this business in our chosen markets. Moving at pace, but always with our
customary discipline on capital and always focused on profitable growth. After all, that's
what I've spent my life doing. And the reinvigorated GBP123 billion Heritage insurance
business in the UK, which, while it's close to new customers, remains vital to our future
growth. Our strategy for the Heritage business is optimization. Improved customer
outcomes, create efficiencies and maximize cash flow.
Having these two businesses under the same roof, working together and alongside each
other is a source of competitive advantage. Capital from the Heritage business underpins
capability in the savings and investments business. It is also deployed selectively and
carefully to grow this business. Without it, we could not offer PruFund and the smoothing
Page 3 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

of returns. It allows us to see new customer propositions in an agile and cost effective
way. And its stickiness, the long-term nature of the assets, enables us to develop new
investment capabilities. As I say, we are a fund manager with a balance sheet.
The other point I want to make here is about profits. Of course, there is pressure on
margin in some parts of asset management. But our move over the past decade into
higher value-add solutions has allowed us to preserve margins across the aggregate of
our assets under management. Jack will talk to the resilience of profits in our savings and
asset management business when he takes you through the breadth of our investment
capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now a little more detail on our successful recording growing new savings and investments
franchises since Prudential acquired M&G 20 years ago. In the UK, we have built a new
retail savings franchise around PruFund, with total assets of GBP51 billion. PruFund has
raised GBP43 billion of assets in 15 years by delivering reliable, smooth returns. David will
share his vision of a winning strategy in this sector later.
We have successfully internationalized our retail management business. Hiring locally and
investing in brand, we have gathered GBP37 billion of retail assets in Europe in little over a
decade, almost half our total assets in this business segment. Joffy will explain how we
have become a leading fund manager in Europe and how we are looking to take
advantage of changing buying patterns among wholesale clients. We have also grown a
GBP71 billion institutional business. Here, we design bespoke investment strategies for
clients, often drawing on the expertise behind the GBP57 billion of private assets. Our
pitch conversion rate is 80%. Will will demonstrate the value of our patient and methodical
approach to institutional business, which is characterized by sticky assets and high margin
propositions. We have achieved all of this without the benefits of transformation and
merger. Imagine what we can do once the merger allows us to be truly masters of our
own destiny.
And we already have the international footprint to leverage our capabilities at scale. Here
we capture our position by geography. Right now, the weight of our assets lies in our
home market. Much of this is our heritage book, but it also includes the Prudential retail
savings franchise anchored around PruFund and the bulk of our institutional business. At
the start of this decade, our UK mutual funds business grew rapidly. M&G was the bestselling retail house for four consecutive years. Since then, this part of the business has
contracted because of a combination of a deliberate effort to slow funds into some bestselling fund -- sorry, to slow funds in some best-selling propositions to protect customer
interests, changing buying patterns and frankly some patchy performance. Thanks to the
merger, we can start to attract new flows in this segment as we put M&G products on our
proprietary Prudential platform for UK advisors. And David will cover this off.
In Europe, including institutional business, today we manage GBP49 billion. Encouraged by
our success in Europe, we've also been quietly building out that presence in other chosen
international markets, opening up further avenues for growth. As well as a long
established South African business, we have had offices in Singapore and Hong Kong, for
almost a decade. More recently, we opened offices in Miami and New York to serve our
clients in Latin America and institutional clients in the US. Now, it's small-scale at the
Page 4 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

moment, but these are important early steps in scaling our business for the long term if
we choose to expand here. Together with our creation of the Luxembourg SICAV
platform, we have laid firm foundations for focused international growth.
I now want to talk more about transformation, merger and how we are organizing
ourselves for demerger. Now, I've said this before, but when Mike Wells, the Group CEO
asked me to run the UK insurance business three years ago, I agreed to do so on the
condition that shareholders made a substantial investment to rejuvenate it. As you know,
we have secured GBP250 million of shareholder capital to do just that. This five year
program will deliver cost savings of GBP145 million by full year 2022. Transformation is
already yielding benefits for colleagues, customers and shareholders alike. Roddy will
show how this work is reinvigorating our Heritage business, cutting service time for
customers and improving net promotion scores.

Bloomberg Transcript

Merger too has created many benefits. We now have a unified leadership team with a
common purpose, joined-up distribution and combined support functions. The result is a
more efficient decision-making, enhanced distribution strategies, better product design
and, of course, cost savings. Transformation and merger have given us strong and deep
foundations for future growth as we head towards demerger. Now, this slide shows the
responsibilities of each of today's speakers. The point I want to stress here is the
collaborative aspect of our business model. It is why we have chosen a circle to capture it.
Each of the business leaders has to work with the other to achieve the best outcomes for
customers and ultimately drive profitable long-term growth.
So as we head towards demerger, I think we are in great shape. Of course, it helps that
the structural market trends are so supportive. The demographics are on our side. We're
all getting older. This won't be news to any of you. The typical retirement is now close to
20 years. Obviously, when Otto von Bismarck introduced pensions for Prussian workers
over 70, the average life expectancy was 45 with von Otto.
It's taken a while for companies to adjust. Our political leaders have been even slower to
respond. If you were in any doubts about the future defined benefit pensions, take a look
at these charts. The key point here is that only 441 companies still have such schemes,
and none are final salary. Even governments are moving on this issue. Across Europe, they
are set to raise official retirement age by a year or two. It all adds up to a retirement
savings gap of a gargantuan scale.
The chart on the right-hand side is from the World Economic Forum and shows estimates
of the retirement gap for major countries. Right now, the UK has an estimated retirement
gap of $8 trillion, and it's growing. At the same time, people's expectations on living
standards are rising. This gap between expectation and reality creates a huge opportunity
for trusted providers of savings and investments. Yet, many savers continue to keep much
of their money in cash. The left-hand chart shows the proportion of household wealth held
in cash across Europe. In some countries, it's as much as 45%, even though at current
interest rate levels individuals are often losing money in real terms.

Page 5 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Across the European Union, there is an estimated EUR10 trillion sitting in cash, much of
which must surely be idle. Nudging a mere 10% of this cash into long-term savings
products would result in a EUR1 trillion inflow into the industry. So why would anyone come
to us rather than one of our rivals? Well, aside from our rich heritage, two well-respected
brands and a strong record of investment performance, we have the breadth and quality
of investment capability and the diversification of saving solutions to attract assets at
scale.
Now, this slide shows how we mix and match our investment capabilities, calling on our
balance sheet as appropriate to fulfill different customer needs. I want to make a few
points here. First, in PruFund, we have the ideal proposition for savers who want to take
the first step out of cash. Remember, there is EUR10 trillion of money sitting in bank
accounts across Europe. Second, the breadth of our investment capability means we can
pick and mix assets to design bespoke solutions. Institutional clients like our ability to
blend private and public assets in a single portfolio. Third, clients are happy to pay up for
such propositions because they directly meet a need, rather than offer a vague prospect
of returns sometime in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, this focus on high value-add solutions underpins the resilience of our profit margins
in our savings and asset management business. Now, given that we already have most of
the right capability under our roof and the large international footprint, our growth
strategy is largely about execution. Demerger gives us both opportunity and means to
broaden and scale our proposition in our chosen markets at pace, always focused on
solving a customer need, and always with our customary discipline on capital.
Here are the strategic priorities by geography. Let's start with the UK. In the retail savings
market, our priorities are to broaden our market-leading proposition and bring scale to
the Prudential advisor platform. For institutional clients, we need to continue to evolve our
bespoke solutions and improve our capacity for asset origination. And there will always be
tactical opportunities perhaps in areas such as cash-driven investment strategies. In
Europe, our priority is to introduce our smoothing capabilities to the wholesale market to
complement our range of mutual funds.
We will also accelerate the development of our sub-advisory business, collaborating with
financial partners to deliver a specific customer outcome. We will expand our institutional
franchise and build out our asset origination capacity. And beyond Europe, we will
accelerate the focused growth of our business in Asia by leveraging our existing
relationships with global banks. We have laid the groundwork for expansion in North
America with the new offices there. As in Asia, we have entered the markets to follow our
clients. And as we invest for growth, we will continue to take out disciplined and proactive
approach to capital management, always in the knowledge that good customer outcomes
lead to profitable growth and attractive returns for shareholders, using the capital
investment in our business to transform the customer experience and to bring scale and
efficiency to our business.
To sum up then, our ambition is to become an international leader in savings and
investments, achieving scale at pace in our chosen markets by always being relevant to
customers, whether they are individuals or institutions through the breadth and quality of
Page 6 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

our investment proposition and the differentiation of our saving solutions. We will also
continue to optimize our Heritage business, improving customer outcomes, creating
efficiencies and maximizing cash flow, while deploying its balance sheet selectively to
assist the growth of our savings and investments business, always taking a proactive, and
above all, a disciplined approach to capital management, supported by the demographic
shifts in savings and financial self-reliance, creating opportunities for our colleagues to
grow, but above all, to the benefit of customers and shareholders alike. And we must do
all of this without losing sight of what makes us different, the care we show customers
and clients, the care we show in how and where we invest on their behalf, always going
above and beyond to become an exceptional savings and investments business, because
caring for the customer is not only the right thing to do, it also makes commercial sense
for a business which wants to thrive for another 150 years.
To end then, M&GPrudential has a unique mix and compelling business proposition, a fund
manager with the balance sheet. We have a proven track record for growing new savings
and investment franchises both at home and internationally. Our move into high value-add
solutions means we are more closely aligned to customer needs and underpins our
resilient profitability. We are reinvigorating our Heritage business and we'll continue to
optimize it, taking our customary proactive and disciplined approach to capital
management. Demerger gives us both opportunity and means to grow at scale in our
chosen markets in a focused way, and so deliver attractive, profitable growth for our
future shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. I'll now pass over to Jack, who is going to talk about the investment engine.

Jack Daniels

{BIO 20973577 <GO>}

So thank you John. Good morning, everybody. My job today is to lift the bonus on the
M&GPrudential investment engine, and let you all have a good look at what powers our
business. In this session, I'll cover the following; our approach to investing, the span of
asset classes we cover, the market trends that play to our strengths and along the way
we'll go a little deeper into the competitive advantage arising from M&GPrudential as
asset owner and as asset manager.
But before we get stuck into the mechanics, I want to spend a little time explaining how
the investment engine has evolved over the past two decades. When Prudential acquired
M&G 20 years ago, it brought together an asset owner, the UK Life and Annuity Funds,
and an asset manager, a third-party funds business. And pretty quickly, it dawned on the
two teams that collaboration would be to their mutual benefits and to the benefit of
policyholders and investment clients.
On the one side, the deep pockets and a long-term investment horizon of the asset
owner has enabled the asset manager to develop and commercialize new capabilities.
On the other, the expertise and external focus of the asset manager has brought fresh
ideas and a keen awareness of competition to the asset owner. So this is how the
investment engine looks today. The combination of asset owner and asset manager and
the collaboration that goes with it is, in our view, a source of huge competitive advantage.
So set aside for one moment, the investment firepower that comes with being an asset
Page 7 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

owner at scale, what's really important for the commercial development of our business is
the client insight we derive from this arrangement.
Many businesses look for a cornerstone client or an investor, but we are lucky to have one
within our own company. This means we can credibly claim to understand the needs of
large and complex clients. You can see the value that this generates at work in the next
slide. This shows our European leveraged loans portfolio. Today, it tops GBP8 billion of
assets, spread across more than 200 clients. The green represents the internal funds and
the purple is third-party investors. As you can see, the original investment 20 years ago
was made by the life fund.
Over the following years, we built up a track record in the asset class and this gave us the
credentials to market our capability to others, initially to pension funds. The first client
making an investment in 2003 and then we launched a pooled fund version in 2005.
Today, the third-party investor assets outnumber the internal investor by a factor of 10.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move on to our approach to investing. There are five aspects to our approach. We
always start with the customer needs; what are they trying to solve, what problem have
they got, do we understand their real needs. Second, we look to constantly diversify our
active capabilities, often in combination with the strength of the with-profits fund.
Third, we innovate all the time, with a focus on high-value solutions or products for the
wider market. Fourth, none of this is possible to do consistently over time without a stable
and experienced team. And finally, we encourage our investments teams to act with
conviction based on the identification of long-term value, and informing every aspect of
our approach to investing is a sense of care; care in ensuring reliable outcomes for our
customers and clients, and care in the way we put their savings to work in the market.
Now, a lot of competitors can make these claims. What I'm going to do today is to show
you the evidence.
Now, our investment approach means we are a genuine industry leaders in some asset
classes. And that's just a few of our achievements and awards on the right hand side of
this slide. And what's really pleasing is recognition for our multi-asset capability. Our withprofits fund is not only the largest such fund by some distance in the UK, it's also one of
Europe's largest multi-asset portfolios for retail investors. Note two, our standing in
private assets, real estate and public fixed income in Europe. Here, we provide more
detail on the asset classes we cover and a breakdown of our multi-asset portfolio. I'll talk
a little more about our strategic approach to asset allocation shortly. But I just wanted to
point out the contribution of private assets to the mix, which of GBP57 billion is a little over
20% of the total.
This exposure is vital to our diversification efforts and helps underpin the reliability of the
returns we deliver for our customers, the breadth of our investment capability, the depth
of our expertise, combined with the insights we gain from being an asset owner, mean
we can remain relevant to our clients even when their needs change. And that's why right
now we think we are in all the right places given broad market trends. The search for yield

Page 8 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

is driving cautious savers from cash to public fixed income and it's driving the more
adventurous investors with long-term horizons from public to private assets.
And while as active investors, we might think of volatility as our friends, many of our
customers and clients view it as a foe. Growing demand for volatility management favors
our capabilities in private assets and in multi-asset, and the de-risking of defined benefit
pensions is creating strong demand for solutions to match cash flows. Again, this plays to
our strengths in private assets and in public fixed income.
So let's take a deeper look now at M&GPrudential as asset owner. Let me quickly recap.
Around GBP174 billion of the assets we manage are held on behalf of Prudential
policyholders. Some GBP115 billion are managed by M&G while the rest is managed by
others. We tend to talk of these as our life fund assets. They back our annuity book as well
as our with-profits and unit-linked saving solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall responsibility for the management of the life fund assets rests with the
investment office. You should think of it as the in-house fiduciary manager with the aim of
providing policyholders and other clients with the best returns in the most efficient
manner in line with their risk appetite. In reality, this means the investment office is
responsible for strategic asset allocation, fund manager selection and the implementation
of strategy. All of this happens within a governance framework with Prudential Assurance
Company Board is the independent body with ultimate accountability and oversight.
Now, these are the seven criteria we use in the investment process. You all know that
we're a conviction-led active manager with a long-term investment horizon, and an
emphasis on valuation. So I want to draw your attention to the last three columns. Again
here, our scale as an asset owner helps. We have one of the largest buyside credit
research teams in Europe. Our waterfront coverage of the fixed income markets means
we are ideally placed to identify and evaluate opportunities in the credit markets, likewise,
when it comes to the premium available from illiquidity.
The final column captures our determination not to stand still. Our asset mix needs to
evolve in line with markets, or better still ahead of markets. Most recently, we've added a
Chinese equity sleeve to the portfolio and exposure to African debt. And wrapped
around this is a strategic investment process. Now, our approach to strategic asset
allocation is critical to our success. It's dynamic, taking into account any material shifts in
capital market valuations which we review regularly. On the left hand side, the chart shows
how the with-profit fund's strategic asset allocation has moved over time. Equities are in
red, real estate in green, alternatives in yellow and fixed income in blue.
The graphic on the right hand side shows how well diversified the current portfolio is, both
by asset class and by geography. You can see, for example, how we've moved away from
developed market sovereign bonds to global credit and reduced exposure to the UK and
increased it to Asian equity and real estate. Our aim is always to give ourselves the best
chance to generate positive returns whatever markets do. And our size and diversity
helps us to achieve this. And of course, this is all aimed at delivering superior outcomes
for our customers. There's only been one five-year rolling period since the Second World

Page 9 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

War when the with-profits fund has failed to deliver a positive return. And that was in the
depths of the 1970s oil crisis and bear market.
On the right hand side of this slide, you can see the performance of PruFunds since 2006.
My point here is that it's done exactly what it says on the tin. It's delivered a smooth
performance over time. The grey almost horizontal line is cash. The green represents
inflation and the red shows the industry benchmark for similar multi-asset growth funds.
PruFund is comfortably ahead of all of them. Before I move on to talk about our role as
asset manager, I want to touch on our strategy to optimize the shareholder-backed
annuity book. We have steadily derisked this GBP25 billion portfolio seen here without the
assets transferred to Rothesay. The chart on the left shows how the risk profile has
changed over the past three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today, 79% of the portfolio is in risk-free or secured debt compared with 67% in 2016.
And credit risk remains good too, with 86% of the portfolio rated as A or higher. Note
two, the rising proportion of private assets possible because our extensive fixed income
coverage enables us to identify and value opportunities across the entire market, as well
as de-risking the portfolio, the change in profile has had a positive impact on our capital
position.
Now let's look at M&GPrudential as an asset manager. Again, a quick recap. We are an
asset manager specializing in active high value-add solutions. Our GBP265 billion of assets
are held on behalf of retail, wholesale and institutional clients, including the life funds.
Now, back in 1999, when Prudential acquired M&G, the overwhelming majority of our
assets under management were from the life fund. Today, the majority of assets we
manage are for third-party clients. Assets managed for third-party clients has grown from
GBP24 billion in 2003 to GBP147 billion last year. That's a fivefold increase entirely organic
in its nature. Behind our success has been the breadth of our investment expertise, lots of
product innovation always focused on customer needs and a consistent record of longterm investment performance. Now, this slide gives you an overview of our investment
capabilities, their scale and how they align with differing customer needs.
We've talked about our capabilities in public fixed income and private assets, but as this
slide shows, we have critical scale in other asset classes, such as equities and multi-asset.
While we're known in the institutional market for our fixed income capabilities, M&G's
origins lie in equities. For much of its near 90-year history, M&G offered a range of equity
strategies through mutual funds, often directly to save us. I think it's also worth
highlighting the size and the scale of our real estate capability. With assets of GBP28
billion, we are one of the largest investors in property and either Number 1 or Number 2 in
the UK, depending on whose data you look at. The diversity of our investment capability
allows us to
manufacture a wide range of products for both retail customers and institutional clients.
Now here you can see how we've successfully taken good investment ideas and turned
them into a series of multi-billion pound funds and strategies. We have no fewer than 14
distinct strategies with at least GBP2 billion of customer money in each. And you're

Page 10 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

probably familiar with Optimal Income, our best seller with our European retail customers.
Less well known is the similar success that we've had with Alpha Opportunities, a multiasset fixed income strategy in the institutional market. Now, while both have distinct
investment strategies, both managers call on the expertise and insight of our large credit
research team to inform their decision-making. Now, new ideas are the lifeblood of
investment, and the truth is, we are never short of ideas.
On the right-hand side of this slide, you can see some of our recent launches. Most of
them are solution type products, designed to meet a particular customer need. Some, we
believe, are firsts. As far as we can tell, the Impact Financing Fund for institutional clients is
the first social impact strategy applied to private assets. And because the recent crop of
new launches are either solutions or invest-in-private assets, they come with decent profit
margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, you can have the best ideas in the world, but what really counts is your ability
to commercialize them. Do they address a customer need? I'm pleased to say that the hit
rate of our new launches is almost twice that of the industry as a whole. 60% of our
mutual fund launches over the past decade have either been partially successful in that
they've raised GBP100 billion or entirely successful in raising GBP500 billion [ph] within
three years.
The Global Dividend Fund is a good example of this. Through Company meetings, one of
our fund managers realized that companies with progressive dividend strategies were
much more disciplined about capital management. As a result, they have good total
return profiles. So he set up a global portfolio of companies with long-term track records
for dividend growth rather than the classic approach of a spread of high yielders. It's been
a great success with European retail clients and today has GBP5 billion of assets under
management.
Now, of course, performance is crucial for any active manager. More than half of our
mutual funds have delivered top quartile returns over the past three years, and almost
three quarters are ahead of the average over the same period. In the segregated and
pooled fund market, around 90% of our products achieved their objectives year-in, year
out.
Now, as I mentioned at the outset, current market trends play to our investment
strengths. Then combine this with a focus on innovation to meet customers' changing
needs, and the result is that we have been in a far better position to protect our profit
margins when so much of the industry is under pressure from low-cost passives. We've
also been able to make the shift from being a provider of low value building blocks for
financial partners to also a provider of high-value investment solutions.
Margins across our assets under management have actually risen over the past three
years at a time when most active managers are being squeezed by the passives. Of
course, we're not complacent about this. There is margin pressure on some of our funds.
But it is evident that clients are willing to pay for solutions, particularly those which bring
some form of volatility management.

Page 11 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

And if you look at the forecast for global growth in asset management revenues, you can
see that we are strong in all the right areas, particularly alternatives and solutions. This is
industry data on forecast revenue growth, and I'd like to draw your attention to the
bottom box in green. While passive houses are attracting vast inflows, their share of
industry revenues will remain low and growth there is obviously slowing. Meanwhile,
alternatives and solutions will continue to account for a larger and larger share of total
revenues, 55% of the total. So that's a $60 billion growth in revenues over five years. And
that's one of the reasons why we are so confident about our growth prospects.
First, we are expert where it matters. We have an established presence in segments
where credible expertise is scarce and where the threat from passives is limited. Second,
our consistent track record. We have a reputation for meeting our clients' expectations
and often going beyond those expectations. Third, our focus on high value solutions.
While we still offer building blocks in terms of funds and strategies, more and more of our
business is in high value investment solutions. Fourth, the market dynamics are supportive.
Demand for our capabilities, particularly in multi-asset and private assets are growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that was a quick look under the bonnet at the investment engine of M&GPrudential.
And to sum up, I would like to ask a question. If you were running an asset management
startup, what capabilities would you want for the first day of business? And I can tell you
that my list would be pretty similar to the one we already have. I think we have the right
investment capabilities, with great access to customers and client insights, supported by
market trends and a track record for commercial innovation in sectors where margins are
healthy, all under one roof.
Thank you. I'd now like to hand over to Will Nicoll, who is going to give us a deep dive into
the Institutional business.

William Nicoll

{BIO 2031697 <GO>}

Thanks, Jack. Good morning, everybody. My name is William Nicoll. I run the Institutional
Fixed Income business here at M&GPrudential. I've been with M&G for about 15 years, so
I've been working here for a while. Now, the institutional business has been a core part of
M&GPrudential ever since Prudential bought M&G in 1999. Historically, this has mainly been
focused on the property and fixed income markets as these were the growing areas of
the institutional investment.
So today I'm going to discuss how we built the business with GBP70 billion of third-party
assets and why this is going to remain a key focus for the current business and the growth
prospects for M&GPrudential. I'd also go through some of the characteristics of the
institutional market, which are highly attractive to us, including the large barriers to entry,
the size of the market and clearly the good growth prospects.
However, before we go on, I thought it would be useful to stop for a few moments just to
agree on what we mean by institutional clients. We know that everyone defines segments
of the market slightly differently, and this is unlikely to be an exception. So when talking
about institutional clients, some of you might be thinking about pension funds, some

Page 12 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

insurance companies, some corporates. But rather than trying to draw a comprehensive
list of what is and isn't an institutional client, what we've decided do is categorize them
based on core characteristics that they all share. So these characteristics matter because
they affect the psychology of the buying process. You need a different approach to be
successful. And the main features of institutional clients for us are: first, they look after
their own assets; second, they're often looking at funding set liabilities such as pension or
insurance cash flows; and finally, there is usually a strong regulatory background with
some sort of fiduciary duty to someone or something.
And these characteristics mean that institutional funds do not act in the same way as retail
clients. The industry is set up to protect wealth and to make a small number of significant
decisions, which means that we need to build relationships of trust with our clients, given
that we hope to be working for them -- with them for decades. Indeed taking a couple of
years to work to build up to a mandate is not in any way unusual for us. And all these
characteristics mean that once you have a mandate from a large institution, it tends to
stay and it tends to grow.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, building such deep relationships takes a lot of effort. So, why do we bother? And
very simply, as shown here, it's because a relatively small number of institutions globally
control an enormous amount of money, and this is growing strongly even if one would just
to keep the same number of trusted relationships, then you still got significant growth.
Now, unfortunately we are not the only people to have noticed that. So it's important to
be able to offer service that clients actually want and are willing to pay for. And to
succeed, we believe, first you need to be different. Asset Managers tend to say that they
are fundamentally driven with a top-down macroeconomic overlay, the idea being that
they can achieve returns from all possible drivers within, say, the fixed income markets.
We tend to have a different approach for institutional clients. We have a fundamental
bottom-up approach, and that's it. We don't tend to use economists because they're not
always right. We mostly build up portfolios asset by asset. For example, another way to
think of us is, well, in the fixed income market especially, is as an operation to build credit
ratings, to find credit ratings on assets. Once you have credit ratings on the whole
universe of assets and you know the price, then it's much easier for portfolio managers to
build an appropriate portfolio for the clients' needs and that's the care that John was
talking about earlier.
And what that's meant is it's meant that we've built up a very large team of credit analysts
with highly detailed knowledge base and with a long experience in the market, which is a
fantastic barrier to entry for other -- for our peer group. The discipline of building
portfolios based on fundamental views of the long term is what has been at the heart of
our success, and it is much easier to produce predictable results, which is generally what
clients need. The other way to differentiate is to offer products that other people can't.
Again, the large team of analysts allows us not to be scared of new markets and different
asset classes. And that in turn means that we can innovate together with the sales team
to offer novel products that produce solutions for clients.
Finally, and I don't think this should be particularly surprising, complete honesty works
really well. We're happy to tell clients when we do not believe their strategy will work. That
Page 13 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

sometimes means that we did not get the mandate they are offering, but we do tend to
get them a few years later, especially if the strategy didn't work. At the very least, clients
want to hear our opinion and that's half the battle. To be clear, all of this is vital. Investors
need a reason to let you manage their money. Offering diversification of product is a very
good reason, whether it's from how we construct portfolios or because we have a wider
asset pool to offer or even just because we can combine the assets in different ways.
Once you have something that is different from the rest of the industry, then the second
condition for success is that you now need to know what your clients want and need. As
you can see from this slide, from the outside it looks like the consultants or the
gatekeepers roll this money, especially in the UK because they are an integral part of the
chain. However, it is quite clear that unless you've already worked out what the client
actually wants, then you run the risk of producing products that clients don't actually buy,
even when working closely with consultants. We found out the best way to do it is to find
out what's needed by the clients and educate consultants if necessary. We have more
success when we take ideas that we've worked out with a few clients to select
consultants and then build the propositions together. You will never be successful in
institutional fund management by telling people what they want. So, let's see that model
at work.
In 2014 we were the first people to set up dedicated multi-asset private credit funds, an
idea that came from client conversations. As I said before, in fixed income, we spent a lot
of time to put credit ratings on all assets whether public or private and it's therefore
relatively simple for us to start building pools of assets to produce the cash flows that
pension funds need. So, once we've worked out which pools of assets we were going to
use, we spent six months discussing the idea with a few clients and consultants and a
further six months educating the market.
Finally, we rolled out a fund and that took about six months to fund. The second fund was
much easier, with only a small amount of education and a short fundraising time. In both
cases, the success rate from pitching -- John said earlier -- was around 80%, which is
extremely high. Putting this in context, most (inaudible) for institutional investors will have
between three to five participants, so you'd really expect a 20% to 30% natural success
rate. Now, the next fund, which we hope will be quicker still because we've got GBP500
million of commitments already for a fund that does not yet exist. And this cumulative
buildup of mandates through innovation is we believe a key competitive advantage for
M&GPrudential. And this dynamic also explains why the external business has been able to
grow so strongly over the past decades. We have a differentiated set of strategies with
excellent long-term relationships that are growing faster than the market as we've been
offering clients what they need.
This slide shows the progression of our relationship with one particular client over the past
years just as a good example of what we're trying to achieve. As you can see, we start in
2011-'12 with standard benchmark type products, which -- they performed well and
allowed us to have a deeper conversation with the client about what they needed, which
led to them adding some bespoke portfolios in more liquid assets to better match their
requirements. This also has the effect of tying in the clients for a long time. This chart is
only for eight years, but some of these assets are not going to mature for decades.
Page 14 of 60



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

I realize in this room that I'm talking to equity analysts in the main, but I am by training a
credit analyst and a bond fund manager, so, apologies, I'm going to get back to my
comfort zone and describe what can go wrong with the approach. The two main threats
that we find to this approach are margin compression and irrelevance. Now, apart from
showing a growth of trust between us and the client, this slide also shows how to combat
margin compression. The more value that you add for a client, the better the margins.
The more -- the length [ph] of data you saw earlier from Jack, while we manage to
maintain margins and in many cases improve them, while the industry has seen margins in
general fall.
The second problem is irrelevance, and the way to attack this is through research and
development. We have consistently allowed our investors access to markets before the
majority of asset managers. They started with corporate credit and it's continued to a
wide range of investment areas, some of which are growing very large. And this means
that consultants and clients want to talk to us about -- whether it's about impact to
investment or private credit or residential property. As Jack said earlier, all of this is
irrelevant if you can't produce the goods in terms of investment performance. So these
charts show how we've done for our institutional clients.
As you can see, we believe we've done well for our institutional clients. When we look at
the charts, it's important to understand that the objective is not normally the same as a
benchmark. I mean, it normally includes the additional terms that the client would expect.
These numbers are very high, but they're also consistent so we know we have a strong
repeatable process. You can also see that we are consistently moving away from market
type funds to solutions, which has the dual effect of reducing turnover of clients, but also
means that we can take clients from market-oriented strategies to the next stage of their
investment cycle. And thinking about margin compression, it's vital for you to appreciate
that 95% of these strategies can't be replicated by ETFs. We do not have to be defensive
against very low margin funds.
So that's the business today. We work with our clients to build products that they need.
We then do what we said we were going to do, which means that they give us more
money to run. This builds the trusted relationship that means they will do more things with
us. We all understand this cycle and the inexpensive asset management and sales and so
take the discipline required to follow our process very seriously. We have built our
reputation slowly and carefully with clients and counterparties and are seeing profits flow
from that.
Now, on this chart -- slide, I mean, point three is something that makes us very proud.
There is no greater expression of trust from a client than when they give us money to run
for a new strategy. We are fortunate to have a number of clients eager to participate
alongside us in new markets as they develop and while they continue to offer supernormal return. But we're also here to talk about the future because that's where it gets
probably exciting. And this slide shows how we continue to grow in the UK and how longterm charter relationships have allowed us to grow the business. It's interesting that even
after 15 years of uninterrupted growth, we are still seeing more business coming into the
UK and coming to us as institutional cycle out of equities into fixed income and from
benchmarks to solutions, and this will remain a driver of growth.
Page 15 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

However we getting more excited when we start thinking of the other markets where
we're applying the same business model. You can see that we've been successfully
building in the Netherlands, in Nordics, Sweden and then just starting in Japan. The fact
that all these countries, areas show us the same sort of trajectory gives us cause for
optimism that as we make our relationships deeper and more profitable, we'll end up
with something that looks a bit like the UK. The really striking thing is the limited additional
resource that we have put into these countries. We're usually talking about putting a small
office of local distribution personnel who can represent the business and guide us to
possible clients. As we look to scale the business, then we expect to -- and have begun to
increase this coverage and step up investment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now when you start thinking about the places that we haven't even started to address,
then it gets even more exciting. And which the demerger now allows us to approach. For
example, we've just added distribution coverage to the US and Australia, and we've got
really good reasons to be confident these are good prospects. For example, the
Australian market has strong similarities to the UK, and we know a lot of the consultants
there already because they know us in the UK. This means, we've been able to generate
a lot of interest in our products very quickly with only a small office in Melbourne.
The US is completely different. There it's the deep specialisms that are likely to work best.
With the size of the market means that this can still make a significant difference to our
business. A disciplined, focused approach should give us good opportunities to attack
several niches at this very large market. So I hope that I've shown that we have built a
strong base over the last few decades, but that we have plenty of room to grow with our
existing clients, and our current set of differentiated products. Our aim after the
demerger is to expand that client base internationally and continue to innovate for a
whole new set of clients with the same level of care. And that's what we're preparing for.
Thank you. And I'd now like to hand over to David, who will then talk about some of the
distribution rights.

David Macmillan

{BIO 16195004 <GO>}

Thank you, Will. I've got two iWatch messages in the last 30 seconds. The first one is that
my heart rate is apparently dangerously elevated. So we'll see how that pans out. And the
second one said, remember to smile, which must mean that my mother (inaudible) or
delve into the WebEx, which is disconcerting to say the least. My name is David Macmillan,
I'm addressing you today in my role as Chief Customer and Distribution Officer. In this
section of the presentation, I'm going to talk specifically about the UK savings business
within the Retail segment, PruFund, the unique investment solution that anchors our
customer proposition, some of the early benefits that our customers are gaining from the
combination of M&G and Prudential, and explain a strong conviction that exceptional
customer care and experience will ultimately determine the winners and losers in this
market.
I'm also going to endeavor to tackle a few urban myths about our proposition along the
way. At the heart of our customer and distribution model is a clear and deliberate
purpose, to become the best loved and most successful savings and investment
Page 16 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

company. Now, that sounds like a lofty and surprising goal for an asset gatherer and
manager. But our customers are looking for something that feels genuinely different to
everything else in this marketplace. Our heritage is founded on client engagement,
products that solve real customers' problems and easy access to guidance and advice.
Today, we are carrying those same principles through into the design and execution of
our M&GPrudential proposition. And at the heart of that proposition sits a proprietary
manufacturing strategy that is focused clearly on utilizing our core capabilities to supply a
broad range of savings and investment solutions to our chosen markets.
As I will cover shortly, the merger of our two companies is already beginning to power a
new chapter and our evolution as a customer-centric business. Now, by means of recap,
we currently serve 700,000 retail investors, over 900 institutional clients, which Will has
already covered, and a Heritage book of over 4.8 million customers, looking after a
combined GBP321 billion of assets under management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the Retail business accounts for GBP127 billion of those assets. And that business
distributes insured and non-insured solutions to a wide array of financial advisors, wealth
managers, platforms, discretion intermediaries and smaller institutions across the UK and
Europe. It's worth pointing out, in the UK, this distribution picture is further augmented by
the in-house financial planning business that sits within Prudential UK. In addition to those
retail assets, we manage a further GBP71 billion for institutional clients through both
segregated and pooled mandates and GBP123 billion in our Heritage business through
traditional with-profits, annuities and corporate pensions.
I'm going to cover very specifically the UK savings business. And after lunch, when you've
had a good stretch, Joffy Willcocks, and believe me, you need a good stretch when Joffy
is up, will cover the asset management business within the Retail segment, and therefore
touch much more on Europe as well. Specifically to the UK then, in recent years, our
market has evolved dramatically in response to such developments as the retail
distribution review and pensions freedom. More often than not, regulatory and legislative
intervention has shaped the direction and pace of customer innovation, and rightly so. But
it is time that our industry take much more of a lead on the delivery of exceptional
outcomes for customers, and frankly got his head around best of build products and
services that protect customers by design as opposed to intervention.
Customer outcomes, as I will touch on, are at the heart of our transformation as a
company. They are the fuel in our tank -- in the tank, sorry, of our innovation agenda. Now,
traditional outcome drivers like product design, pricing and returns, they are no longer
sufficient to characterize the breadth and depth of what we must take into account to
deliver a superior proposition. Vulnerability, fraud prevention, cyber security and advice
play an increasingly powerful role in our design thinking. We see a significant opportunity
to further differentiate our proposition by moving beyond the ordinary on customer care
and experience.
By way of example. Any company are entering our market today can develop and launch a
personal pension product. But how many of them can also offer a customer (inaudible) the

Page 17 of 60



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

support, usability, security and accessibility to deliver an exceptional and truly personal
experience for that customer. With our transformative investment in digital technology
and design, this is exactly where we are headed as M&GPrudential. Just think for a minute
about the many sources of customer vulnerability that we could use to inspire our people
to build tailored customer journeys, products and services to the benefit of millions of our
fellow citizens. Also we are actively expanding our products, and our product choices. We
regard experiential innovation as the defining characteristic of a winner in our market. And
unsurprisingly, we are transforming our business accordingly.
Now turning to PruFund, our anchor solution. Jack has already covered the fact that it is a
truly unique investment solution and a significant source of differentiation for our business.
Customers in general don't like volatility, even those with good reason to seek it in their
portfolio, but those with a life-time of savings to protect or income to sustain are even
less inclined to turbulence. PruFund was designed and is clearly positioned to deliver good
relative returns while smoothing out the short-term peaks and troughs of investment
markets. It has driven significant growth in numbers of customers and assets into our
business over the last few years, (inaudible) a new small part by the annuitization -- sorry
the end of compulsory annuitization in the UK in 2014. As a result, our share of the
decumulation driving [ph] market has grown from less than 10% in 2013 to 35% by 2018.
That said, one of the myths that's grown up around PruFund is only really a drawdown
solution. Well, whilst it's absolutely the case that we have a leading share of the pensions
decumulation market in the UK, how many people in this audience know that PruFund is
available across multiple tax wrappers, including pensions accumulation, ISOs, on and
offshore bonds and trustee investment plans. PruFund inflows have grown from GBP1.8
billion in 2013 to GBP12 billion in 2018 across six different wrappers. And it's this multiwrapper dimension to PruFund that underpins the rapid growth and take up that we have
seen in recent years.
Now continuing with my mission to dispel a few myths, there is a general assumption at
large that we gather our customers and their investable assets through the plethora of
third-party open architecture platforms that sprung up across the UK over the last 20
years or so. An actual fact, PruFund is only available to our customers and advisors via our
own digital platform. As you can see from our asset gathering numbers, this is in no way
hindered our growth and competitiveness.
That said, I suspect there are a few people in the room wondering why in the wide world
we have not made PruFund more easily accessible by using these third-party platforms?
Fair question. So let me answer it in two parts. First, even if we wanted to utilize third-party
platforms, we can't. It is not technically feasible because of the way PruFund is actually
constructed. It is by design an insured, actively smoothed unit-linked policy retina of a life
fund as opposed to a standardized mutual fund or collective. And second, even if we
could, it doesn't immediately follow that we would. Being restricted to our own platform
confers a number of advantages for customers, partners and shareholders alike. We
retain control, for example, over customer care and experience. We don't intermediate
that away. We control pricing in general and the administration margin in particular. We
also retain responsibility for our platform technology, its performance, and its ongoing

Page 18 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

innovation, as well as unfettered access to thousands of different intermediary businesses
across the UK.
And it's perhaps worth remembering in the context of M&GPrudential because we're not
a one-trick pony. Through our newly merged retail business, we have a large range of
mutual funds that are available across all major open architecture platforms, which Joffy
will cover, that are designed to meet the needs of customers looking for something very
different to PruFund. So while it might fly in the face of current market wisdom, our
PruFund distribution model demonstrates quite starkly I think that it is possible for a
proprietary manufacturer with a truly differentiated offer to bypass open architecture
platforms and retain more control over the commercial value of our intellectual property.
Suffice to say there are transformation investments. We are very focused on what else we
can do to piggyback more customer solutions into the market, utilizing that same
distribution strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now turning, if I may, to the benefits of combining our two businesses. We'll have, I
believe, an unrivaled opportunity to take what we previously thought of as Prudential and
M&G and combining our collective strengths, capabilities and advantages to deliver an
exceptional customer experience. Being able to combine a deep and wide array of asset
building blocks, smooth and unsmooth strategies, insured and non-insured products as
well as a multi-channel distribution model with our very own multi-wrapper platform
represents a serious and solid foundation upon which we can build our future business.
And I could wax lyrical all day about our relative position in the value chain, something I
know you don't want me to do. But I would rather draw your attention to something quite
specific, the one capability we have, I suspect, will prove to be pivotal if we are to lead the
industry on delivering superior customer care. That capability is best defined as direct
access to a rich stream of live and on-demand data from customers and the advisory
community to help inspire, guide, shape and beta test our experiential innovation. Our
direct relationships with thousands of UK advisory firms as well as our own host [ph]
advice business, Prudential Financial Planning, generate a constant stream of data and
insight and experience derived directly from those who help real people deal with real
problems on a daily basis.
I know of no greater advantage in pursuit of unrivaled customer experience than access
to real customer intelligence, particularly when it's married to the wide set of capabilities
that we enjoy across the value chain as a direct consequence of the merger. We have the
opportunity to exert control over the customer experience in ways that few of our
competitors can touch or replicate.
To expand further on the benefits of the merger, we're already seeing the direct benefit
to customers and the shape of our expanding range of investment solutions. Earlier this
year, for the first time in our collective history, M&G OEICS were made available to
customers and advisers in the UK by placing them on the Prudential platform. In addition,
after several months of collaborative effort with Jack's guys, teams on both sides of this
merger came together and launched PruFolio.

Page 19 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

The PruFolio is made up of 15 risk rated funds. It's a unique blend of three investment
styles with active and passive options complemented by five smooth ones, giving
advisors the ability to tailor a multi-asset portfolio for their clients that nobody else in the
UK industry can do. Founded upon our longstanding multi-asset investment process,
PruFolio benefits directly from the underlying scale and diversity of the asset building
blocks that Jack and Will have talked at length about already.
Through the remainder of this year, we will launch further portfolio options directed in
particular at addressing demand for responsible investments and solutions designed to
impact particular social or environmental causes; in other words, products that give
customers unprecedented control over what their money is ultimately invested in. In
combination, the placement of M&G OEICS on Prudential's platform and the development
of PruFolio represent in my mind a truly seminal moment in the merger and point very
clearly to the art of what is now possible as a consequence of our collective focus on
delivering superior customer outcomes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to the business transformation that's currently underway, the cornerstone of
our agenda, as I've said, is focus on delivering superior customer outcomes. I want to
finish my presentation today by providing you with a powerful example of how we are
putting our money where our mouth is in relation to customer care.
In decades past, we helped to pioneer the democratization of financial services. The Man
from the Pru was launched on the back of penny policies to serve the needs of the
masses. But somewhere along the line, we and our industry became disconnected from
the masses, and today, there is arguably no greater risk to our future relevance than the
millions of people caught in what is known as the advice gap.
Now, we don't believe it's possible to deliver superior customer care without decisionmaking guidance or full financial advice. There are simply too many ways in which
customers who choose or are forced down a non-advice pathway can cause themselves
financial harm without active intervention.
Take the act of taking tax-free cash or income from a pension. That is one example of a
customer journey that could go horribly wrong without the right support. And this is the
reason that we have just completed the development of a digital service that embeds
algorithmic guidance directly into customer journeys and transactions. Think of it like the
brain in your car that monitors your driving that prevents you from hitting the car in front or
falling asleep at the wheel. Once complete and fully tested, our technology will also
monitor and sense and actively intervene to protect the customer from harm, this time in
support of their financial decisions rather than their driving abilities.
Now, that probably seems so obviously sensible that you're wondering why such
technology is not already the standard in an industry. The fact that it's not tells you just
how out of touch our industry has become. I give it to you as an example of why the
winners in our industry will be those that finally figure out that delivering superior customer
outcomes is a source of profitable growth and market leadership and not a box to be
ticked along the way.

Page 20 of 60



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

As for our guidance algorithm, that should serve today as a pointed illustration of our
intent to reconnect with our heritage and build the business that is centered on customer
care. The transformation underway in this business represents a very significant accelerant
to achieving those ambitions. We are investing right now in new skills and a diversity of
perspective to design and build a different way of doing business. Our infrastructure has
been completely overhauled to provide the foundations for rich, sensory and frictionless
customer journeys that are easily scalable. We are deploying digital technology to make
our products and services more convenient, accessible and safer to use.
We're also beginning to work on how we make our products smarter, so by augmenting
our current capabilities with AI and machine learning, we can see a way of opening up a
new frontier in the personalization of customer care. Our goal is to lead the market on
experiential innovation to the benefit of our customers, and the transformation
investments that Roddy will touch on later as well are putting that goal firmly in our sights.
Which leaves me just with a few key takeaways. We have a very unique and successful
anchor product, PruFund. It is multi-wrapper, not a single-wrapper solution, creating broad
market coverage. It is only available through our digital platform, bypassing open
architecture of competitors. The merger of M&G and Prudential has enabled a program of
proposition expansion, beginning with the placement of M&G OEICS on the Prudential
platform and the development of PruFolio with much, much more to come. The
transformation investment is creating a business with critical capabilities for the future,
particularly around digital technology. I've said it. I'll say it again. The winners in our market
will be characterized, I believe, by a resolute focus on superior customer outcomes. We
already have a unique and market-leading investment solution. Now we want to lead the
market on customer care.
Thank you for your attention, and I'm now going to invite Spencer to introduce, of course,
the most popular part of the session, lunch.

Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Welcome back, everybody. This is typically what's known as the graveyard slot, and I think
we possibly have the antidote to that, but let's see. So with that, I'd like to welcome Joffy
Willcocks on to the stage.

Joffy Willcocks
Thank you very much indeed, Spencer. Well, good afternoon, everyone, and welcome
back. I hope you managed to certainly recharge your batteries, and are now ready for the
afternoon session. So as you might have gathered from the photo, my name is Joffy
Willcocks, and I'm the Global Head of Distribution for Asset Management here at
M&GPrudential. What I'd like to do now is take you through the part of the business that
I'm responsible for, namely Global Distribution.
Our job consists of taking our full suite of investment management capabilities that Jack
and Will talked about earlier, to a broad set of wholesale and institutional clients globally.

Page 21 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

This ranges from high-end advisors and discretionary fund managers, private wealth
managers and banks to institutional clients and consultants, not just in the UK, but also
around the world.
As you heard John and Jack mention earlier, we currently have GBP321 billion of assets
under management, and we've gathered them from across 28 markets, thanks to a
distribution network of 20 offices. And what I wanted to do now is to give you a greater
flavor of where those assets have come from. With the UK being the headquarters of our
business since 1848, we naturally have the majority of our assets here in our home
market. Of the GBP260 billion shown above, GBP51 billion are retail savings assets that
you heard David speak about just now, and GBP123 billion are Heritage assets, which will
be covered by Roddy next.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to focus now on the assets from our global retail and institutional asset
management businesses. Our UK assets are split GBP55 billion from institutional clients
and GBP31 billion from retail customers. As you can see from the coloring of the charts, at
the moment, Europe, Middle East and Africa are for us predominantly retail markets, while
Asia and the Americas are predominantly institutional. In the Middle East and Africa,
M&GPrudential holds a 49.99% associate shareholding in PIMSA, Prudential International
Managers South Africa.
Now, after M&G was acquired by Prudential plc in 1999, we looked to expand
internationally, and in 2001, we launched into Europe. And over the last 18 years, we've
built up a European book of assets worth GBP49 billion. And in more recent times, we've
also led with our institutional offering in markets outside of EMEA. You can see from this
chart, in Asia where we have had offices since 2011 and have GBP7.8 billion of assets
under management, and our institutional clients there also include Prudential Corporation
Asia and the Asia Life Fund. And this is also true of our Americas business, which is
nascent compared to other markets, but we've established our offices in New York and
Miami late last year, and we've already raised GBP1.2 billion of assets.
So that is how we stand today, but how have we got to this point? This next slide shows
the evolution of our assets over the past 16 years and the countries labeled in grey at the
top represent the evolution of our distribution office footprint over that time. And as you
can see, we have grown from an asset base of GBP24 billion in third-party assets to
GBP147 billion today, and the number of offices used to service those assets have grown
too, from three outside of the UK and Ireland in 2003 to 16 offices today. Now, we started
in mainland Europe back in 2001, as I mentioned earlier, continuing to spread throughout
the region. And in 2012, we moved further afield into the APAC region and particularly
Singapore and Hong Kong with Japan coming in 2016. And last year, we opened office in
the US and Australia in 2018.
What is particularly pleasing throughout this whole period of time is the extraordinary
success that we have achieved right the way through this whole period of time. And we've
delivered that by growing all parts of our book from institutional to retail clients, both in
the UK and internationally. And the bulk of our success in retail asset management in
Europe has come from Italy, but I will talk more about that in a minute. And we also made
significant inroads in France, Spain, Germany and Switzerland.
Page 22 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

As you would have heard from Will earlier, the success we have seen with our institutional
clients has been in those markets, which typically favor institutional type assets. For
example, Switzerland, the Netherlands and the Nordics. But the main point I really wanted
to get across is that we have got proven experience in developing and externalizing our
manufacturing capabilities, not just to UK clients, but increasingly to international
customers.
But where did this big increase in assets come from? Well, we particularly enjoyed an
increase in mutual fund sales from the deposit rate collapse post the global financial crisis
mean that savers had to look elsewhere to make their money work for them, so they
turned to asset managers and the mutual fund universe. And mutual funds today no
longer just appeal to investors, but also to savers as well. But why do we particularly
benefit from this shift?
Well, let me first launch into Europe. We can effectively look after the wholesale market
with one or two people in each major city. In those days, the banks would not really let you
access their private or retail bankers, and essentially the primary route to market was
through their fund of funds or model portfolios. However, post 2008, with the financial
crisis and the matter of effect hurting many of those fund of fund structures, many of
these European banks began to open up to third-party distributors through partnerships.
But in order for us to win these key partnerships, we had to demonstrate not just the
breadth of products, that we also had a brand, and importantly, that we had people on
the ground, not just in cities in Europe, but also in Asia where we could offer the same
touch, feel, and service proposition. And so we started to hire more people in 2009 and
2010 when most other asset managers were actually reducing their footprint at that point
in time. This led to us being eligible for these key partnerships, but more importantly for
shareholders, this meant more funds on buylist and more assets coming into
M&GPrudential.
Now let me elaborate a little bit more on this point. There was one major bank who
specifically asked us to have a distribution presence in Asia and to register our funds
there. That was the minimum requirement needed for us to be considered as a global
partner. At the time, this particular client had around GBP750 million with us. However,
today we are a global partner of choice as a consequence of that, and this client has
almost GBP3 billion in M&G funds. And the importance of this is to understand that when
you are dealing with international wealth managers and private banks, they operate in a
global scale. So to be a successful partner, we need to service them wherever they are,
not just in the UK, but in Europe and in America and also in Asia.
Now, we have seen certain challenges in the past five years. As you will have probably
spotted from my previous slide, our retail asset base in the UK has seen some outflows
over the last few years, and this came off the back of some extraordinary period of
growth that we enjoyed between Q4 2008 and Q2 2012, where we were actually the
Number 1 fund group in the UK for net sales for 15 consecutive quarters. Never been done
before, and clearly that was not sustainable. We had experienced underperformance of
our key equity funds as well, which have had a more of a value style bias in what has been
a growth momentum environment, and we also decided to slow down flows into two of
our UK corporate bond funds in 2012 in order to protect performance for our investors.
Page 23 of 60



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

And also, whilst we've had huge success in multi-asset funds in Europe, the market has
been more challenging for asset managers in the UK who do not have their own platform.
The majority of flows into multi-asset funds in the UK have got into platforms with our own
multi-asset funds, which is seen as a default choice by many advisors once they selected
that platform. PruFund, as David mentioned earlier, has been the only real exception to
this. So of course, this is another great benefit of the merger. Now, we have an
M&GPrudential platform and the PruFolio range, where we can capture more of that multiasset market share in the UK.
Now, we can't go through a Brexit presentation these days without mentioning Brexit,
although it's not a Brexit presentation, but Brexit always crops up. And this has also been
a key factor because of the effect it has had on markets, and more importantly, on
investors' confidence and attitude to risks. So while our institutional flows have remained
more stable in the UK and the European retail space, the industry has endured political,
macroeconomic and market headwinds, which have affected investor sentiment
negatively. But as you can see from the charts, our flows have been in line with the
market.
2017 was a record year for mutual fund sales across the industry. As shown in the chart on
the right, this lasted until January 2018 before investor appetite for risk collapsed entirely
due to this political and that macroeconomic uncertainties that I just mentioned. And this
lasted for the rest of the year with Q4 2018 being the worst quarter for mutual fund sales
in the industry since Q4 2008. So 2019 has seen equity markets and industries rally, but
investor confidence has still not recovered. Equity and multi-asset funds in aggregate
remain out for across the industry this year. The market is also increasingly allocating to
sub-advised mandates, where we have not so far played in the UK, but I will talk shortly
about the great opportunity we have on the European and global stage.
Now let's talk about one of our biggest success stories in Europe, Italy. As I mentioned
earlier, our biggest market in Europe is Italy. Before the financial crisis, we had around
GBP700 million of assets under management in Italy. When the dust stopped falling from
the ceiling in the aftermath for GFC, we had dropped to less than GBP300 million, but we
didn't panic. We instead continued to invest in our Italian business and you can see the
massive growth in assets that we've enjoyed since then. This is of course helped by
having some fantastic products, one of which Jack has already mentioned, namely the
M&G Optimal Income Fund, which enjoyed some very strong relative performance in the
aftermath of the global financial crisis. And as deposit rates fell, we are well positioned
with our fixed income and multi-asset range to capture assets from savers that were
turning to investments rather than deposit accounts.
At the same time, Italian retail distributors also began to open up to the third-party asset
managers for the first time. And we made the decision in 2010 to enter the retail advisory
market, and you can see what followed. This has been a huge driver of growth for us over
the past nine years, now accounting for more than 50% of our total assets in Italy.
In 2014, we began to engage with institutional clients. As you can see now, we have
around 3% of our Italian asset base from institutional clients. But more importantly we also
entered the sub-advisory market in 2016 and now we have 11% of our Italian AUMs in subPage 24 of 60



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

advised mandates and we are projecting this number to increase in the future. In our view,
the sub-advisory market is changing the shape of distribution globally. So the key question
is, what is sub-advisory? This is a major theme spreading out across the globe driven by a
number of factors. Today most fund managers take their existing range of mutual funds
and sell them either as building blocks or in the case of multi-asset fund for example, as a
solution in its own right. But over the last three or four years, we've been adapting to a
new way of working as a result of MiFID II as we saw the same thing happen in the UK as a
result of RDR.
The distributors are now approaching us not just to buy existing mutual funds that we
offer, but are now increasingly focused on trying to access our investment management
capabilities to provide a product, a solution or an outcome that is specific to their needs
and to the needs of their clients. This is the world of sub-advisory. We're now tailormaking solutions for our distributors and their clients, accessing the broad range of
capabilities that you heard Jack and Will talk about earlier.
So what is driving this? Firstly, the regulatory environment is very much a part of that. As
we see in the UK, as we saw in the Dutch market, we are moving to a world where
rebates and retrocessions may eventually disappear. The market will need to change
shape because no longer can these bank distributors rely on retrocessions or rebates to
pay for their bank subadvisors. They now need to try and change the charging
mechanism. And rather them being reliant on a rebate from fund managers, what we are
now seeing is that third-party distributors are now creating their own fund ranges in order
to charge the fee to the client where they build the cost of advice into that fee structure
of their funds and then approach us as fund managers, to run the money on a mandate or
sub-advice basis for a specific fee.
Secondly there's a suitability angle. In the context of RDR and MiFID II, there's a greater
onus on distributors and advisers that need to make sure that the products that they sell
to their clients tick the suitability box. And clearly, if we're designing products in
conjunction with our distributors, then we can absolutely demonstrate that we have
designed products and outcomes specific to a client's need.
Thirdly, we are seeing the impact of negative cash rates in many jurisdictions, but
especially in Europe. Large banks would typically offer consumers, retail customers, 20 or
25 basis points for depositing assets with them. Now if the banks don't use those assets
for lending elsewhere, then they will probably launch that money with ECB at a charge
around 40 basis points to the bank. Altogether, this can result in a net cost of 60 basis
points to 65 basis points on banks' balance sheets, which you can imagine can run into
hundreds of millions of euros in aggregate.
So why is this driving the sub-advisory growth? Because the bank can now use these
products to offer alternatives to cash, and as such, the bank would no longer have to
deposit that money with the ECB. And many of the conversations we're having today with
banks are based exactly on this, alternatives to cash not just in fixed income, but in lower
volatility, multi-asset products as well.

Page 25 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Lastly, economics. Many distributors or banks that own their own distributors or financial
advisers have realized that there's actually greater economic value to their business in
owning their own fund range and not just advising on third-party assets. If they actually
have their own fund range and ask asset managers to run the mandates for them, then
their business model becomes effectively an adviser and asset manager vertically
integrated enterprise, and the market tends to recognize this for the higher multiple
awarded in the value of that business. So for me and for us, these four drivers are
absolutely changing the shape of distribution for us globally. We've seen it happen in the
UK, and whilst we did not fully capitalize on the trend here, we want to make absolutely
sure we capture this opportunity as it continues to take off in Europe, Asia and in due
course the Americas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now one of the key questions might be is how big is this opportunity? Well today, the
market in Europe is just under EUR600 billion according to instiHub. And this is projected
to grow to EUR1.7 trillion over the next 10 years. And this is not an unreasonable
expectation considering the US non-affiliated sub-advice market is now already
approaching $2.9 trillion.
So how do we plan to turn this into a business opportunity for M&GPrudential? We do
what we have done before and we use our proven ability to grow internationally and to
adapt to new distribution models. This distribution model will become far more
institutionalized in terms of amount of due diligence required by these global distributors
who are now looking to access sub-advice mandates. It's not dissimilar to traditional
institutional investor. And as you heard from Will before, we are experienced in this area
and we're going to apply the same institutional pitch process and logic to the wholesale
distribution business. And also thinking creatively about how we blend different parts of
manufacturing ability, we're going to effectively democratize what was hitherto called
institutional asset management by blending both public and private strategies into
products that can deliver the right customer outcome and this a clear benefit of the
merger.
Finally, to win this space, it is absolutely key to work hand-in-hand with our global
distribution partners. We have seen that once you've stated for a sub-advice mandate
with a global distributor, the chance is very high you'll be given the opportunity to pitch for
the next mandate. And working well together with our distributors can lead to
M&GPrudential becoming a partner of choice, often being their first port of call for all
future mandate business.
Now yes, the margin in this distribution model are lower for the asset manager, but
studies conducted by instiHub suggests statistically much longer five or seven years
perhaps, compared with persistency of funds held in a fund-to-fund structure which might
be a two or three-year persistency. And also the size of these mandates are often much
larger, meaning that the embedded value of these assets is much higher to
M&GPrudential.
So what do we see as the major drivers of growth going forward? Now I've already
spoken at length about subadvisory. The last thing I will say on this is that this is not just a
trend change, it's a fundamental shift to distribution model. And in 10 years' time, we
Page 26 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

predict that the revenue split between mutual funds and subadvisory will be vastly
different where revenue increasingly being derived from the sub-advisory space. So, it is
absolutely important to win here. And we are very well positioned to do this over the next
few years.
There is a chance to re-respond and to create products with our key global banking
partners, and to capitalize in this growing market. In order for us to maximize the
opportunity, we have now created a dedicated team, purely focused on investment
solutions. And in fact, to that end, we recently hired the Head of Investor Relations from
BlackRock to head up this team. Within a few years, we think ESG will be a given. Every
single asset manager will have had to integrate ESG into that processes.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the important thing for us to think about now is, how do we differentiate ourselves
from the competition in the future. It won't just be about returns. Increasing a generation
of investors, not just millennials, are focused on doing something good, making the world
a better place, as well as generating returns on their portfolios. In fact, Steve Kerr [ph]
one of the biggest names in investing, speaks about the three ages of investing. The list
appeared from 1920s was all about returns. This moves onto focusing on risk-adjusted
returns from the '70s onwards. And finally, post the JFC, we're now moving into the
investing for good era.
It's not just about avoiding certain stocks, but also investing in those companies that will
make a difference to the world, and this is corroborated by study conducted by Impact
Investing, which suggests that the state of all funds are set to attract around GBP330
billion of new money in Europe alone in the next five years. To this end, we have started
to think very deeply about the several last few years to ensure that we have a range of
products that suit the needs of future generations and that have a positive impact on
society. And this led to a creation of a range of sustainable and impacting team, and the
launch of various strategies across M&GPrudential already with more to come in the
future.
Moving on to smooth returns. Just smooth the products returns, asset managers would
need a large balance sheet. But as many of you will know, asset managers are typically
cash light businesses, and so hence struggle. Now, as David already mentioned, Prufund
has been a phenomenal success for us in the UK, delivering those smooth outcomes that
many investors want in retirement phase as alternative cash. And we now have a fantastic
opportunity to think collaboratively and work together as M&GPrudential to take a
successful proposition of PruFund into Europe, and hopefully to Asia, Americas in the
future. It has been a silver bullet for those sort of investors, and so the opportunity to
extend that internationally off the de-merger is a huge one for us as a business.
And lastly, cross-selling. Historically, we were organized as institutional management
business with institution distribution and a retail wholesale asset business with wholesaleretail distribution. Today, we have one investment engine and one distribution business.
And this gives us a chance to take all products, to all customers, subject to the usual
caveats of suitability, liquidity, price et cetera, but that should mean that from our
perspective, even if we're not to find a single new client, we have an extraordinary

Page 27 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

opportunity to extend our institutional success into the wholesale space and extend our
wholesale success into the institutional space.
And it goes back to what I referred to earlier. There are increasing numbers of global
wealth managers are looking for access to, and then liquidity premium to generate a
higher return they can get from just investing in the public markets, and again with
extraordinary depth and breadth of manufacturing ability, we have a wonderful
opportunity to build products that meet our customer needs in this space. Now that I
spoke about at the beginning of this section, the UK is immature, but significant market
for M&GPrudential, and we are leading player in both the retail and institutional markets
here. We look to maintain our existing position, solely our strength and involve the
products over time as the needs of our clients change.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the wholesale space, we have reached to refocus the distribution team to reflect the
change in business model of our clients, as a discretionary part of the market in the UK to
become increasingly important and influential. In the institutional market, increasingly the
focus now on specific opportunities that Will mentioned earlier such as cash flow driven
investing, solutions and private assets. And we use this strong base in the UK, and
revenue stream to drive our global expansion.
The European region continues to drive short and medium-term growth, cross selling
where possible to enhance the market share and capitalizing on the key themes, I've
touched on before. And the same can also be said for expansion plans in Asia. For our
offices in Hong Kong and Singapore, we will continue to focus on regional and private
banks while there remains strong demand for investment management capabilities. And
in Tokyo, we'll continue to grow our institutional client bank there. For Australia and the
Americas, we'll use our proven track record of expanding into international markets, both
institutional and in the retail space.
And we've now also set up an operation in Miami to service the US offshore and Latin
American markets. The world is now globally interconnected, key partnerships with
distributors will help us to broaden our distribution capabilities into these new jurisdictions
and to be able to offer a global service to these global wealth managers. And the US, it
still represents the largest asset pool in the world, especially in institutional space. And
now we're having a dedicated resource in New York, this will allow us to access that
market as well. So from my perspective as I look at the map, we have a fundamental core
strength in the UK where we're a leading player. While continuing to grow rapidly in
Europe, now over the medium term, this represents the strongest opportunity for us. And
this strength allows us to invest further into Asia, and to our chosen markets, the fastest
growing asset pool and the Americas I just mentioned.
So to conclude, we have a strong brand and presence in the UK, and a proven track
record of internationalizing our business. Through the merger, we now have a joined up
investment engine and we can take more products to more clients on a global basis. We
have a strong global and local coverage, with local people based in local markets. If you
want to be successful in any market, you need to be part of that local community. And
increasingly, regulators are also encouraging more local activity on the ground. It is my real
belief that asset management remains the pension chip inside. We have the responsibility
Page 28 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

for looking after people's long-term savings, and I think we're in excellent position to
capitalize on this and to grow internationally.

FINAL

Thank you very much. I'll now pass it back on to Roddy, to talk about the Heritage book.
I'm going to do this all day.

Roddy Thomson

{BIO 21307809 <GO>}

We got it. Let me just check the energy in the room. We struggled with Joffy. We're trying
to get him to be a bit less shy and come out of himself a bit more. I think it's a journey for
him, but we're getting there. And I sit in between you and the blockbusting finance
section, which I know you can't wait for. So sharpen the pencils and get the calculators out
and Clare will be on very shortly after me.

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, I am Roddy Thomson, I'm the Chief Operating Officer here at M&GPrudential. I've
been part of the team for nearly two years. And my role is all about setting up the right
operation, IT and supplier strategy to really get behind our transformation plan and
deliver that to enable our business to be successful. I'm accountable for ensuring that we
deliver all of our externally communicated transformation targets, but also that we build
the capability that really supports the growth of our business going forward.
I'm also accountable for the transformation of our Heritage business, which delivers
roundabout 20% of our overall transformation cost savings, and that's going to be the
focus of a lot of the presentation today. We really focused our transformation on
delivering for all of our customers and our customer segments be it retail, institutional or
to be Heritage segments, we are really looking at real things for those bits of business.
And as a set of transformation levers that we're really focused on to deliver improved
outcomes for those customers, and we've got to transform our operation and technology
environment to make sure we can serve those customers, the way they want, when they
want, how they want.
Let me just take you through each of these levers in turn. The first one is really focusing
on how we deliver a great customer experience by equipping our people and our
customers with the tools they really need to deliver great service, and this has required us
to look end-to-end our business in a different way. Moving away from more transactional
led process to a real understanding of that end-to-end customer journey.
The second one is about digital and digital enablement. That's really to allow our
customers to be served, how they want, when they want and also allows us to really
embed a lot of that richer guidance and support for customers that David talked about in
his slot, and we think that's vital.
The third one is simplicity. We've been in business for a long time, and we really need to
simplify our IT and operational estate. There is new cloud-based technology, new best-inbreed applications that really allow us to standardize and scale our business in a different
way. And we're doing that utilizing key partnerships to also significantly reduce our total
cost of ownership. In our Heritage book, this is also about allowing us to variabilize lot of
Page 29 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

that cost base and get ahead of policy run-off to move that fixed cost to marginal cost
that falls out ahead of that book in run-off. And the last one by no means least is about
how we produce a lower-risk business. And we're really looking at how we take risk out of
the business, but also increase the resilience of our business, looking at that processes
end to end, looking at how we make the manual controls automated and designed into
the process, and also looking beyond traditional business continuity and disaster recovery
to operational resilience and how we really create a safer, more shockproof business into
the future.
I'm sure that you agree that these levers are all fundamental to all aspects of our
transformation and about the customer outcomes we deliver, the level of efficiency, the
level of effectiveness we can operate at. And partnering with industry leaders to deliver
these outcomes really allow us to catch up and get ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today's focus is on the Heritage business where a lot of our corporate pension
customers, individual pensions and life customers are served. And we started planning for
this transformation around about June 2017. We've been in delivery now for over 18
months.
In the future, we'll share a lot more progress across all of our segments and a lot more
about the transformation there. So firstly the Heritage book, what is it? We have around
4.8 million Heritage customers. They have about 5.5 million policies with us. It's an
extremely strong and loyal customer base. Of those policies, over half relate to pension
products, both in accumulation and decumulation. Post the transfer to Rothesay, we have
about 1.2 million annuitants, 1 million individual pension policies and a further 500,000
corporate pension scheme members. Another 0.5 million policies are in investment bonds
with a similar number of other life and endowment type plans.
We also have 2 million industrial branch policies. These are the traditional Man from the
Pru policies sold door to door with premiums often collected in cash. These policies are
generally whole of life or endowment plans and we haven't sold them for many years, but
we continue to serve them.
Altogether, the Heritage book accounts for about GBP123 billion of assets under
management. It really is the bedrock of our business. Of this GBP85 billion, close to 70%
relates to traditional with-profits business. A lot of this business is really sticky with good
persistency rates. And some of the Heritage books whilst not open to new business, are
open to top up and contributions. On average, our individual pension customers are
around about 57 years old and our corporate pension customers are a little younger at
55. So a lot of life and a lot to manage and continuing to serve in those books.
Our challenge has been to really raise our game and ambition in service delivery. Post the
introduction of Pension Freedom, our world has changed, and customer expectations
have changed. And the transformation is about fundamentally upgrading our service
delivery and equipping the people and our customers with a radically-simplified, industryleading toolkit.

Page 30 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Up on this slide, we show the systems on which our Heritage book is currently run. There's
lots of them. It's complex, and many of them have been in place for over 30 years. And as
a consequence of this, our total cost of ownership for IT and in making change is
extremely high, and very, very significant. At the heart of the transformation is a
commitment to fundamentally simplify this estate, and in doing so transform our
customer, cost and control outcomes.
The cost equation here is really simple, variablizing that book ahead of policy run-off,
radically reducing the number of systems and applications, in which we're reliant, and in
doing so radically reducing the cost of delivering change and being regulatory compliant
going forward. To do that, we've really focused on the operation and what we need to
do. Prudential first outsourced the bulk of its operations to Capita in 2008. This is a fairly
typical first-generation BPO deal. And considered against the outcomes at the time, it
delivered fairly well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The primary ambition for the arrangement was one of cost certainty and the customer
contacts we now operate in is completely different. Delivery of a transformation program
with Capita was only partially successful. And we've been continuing to rely on these
legacy systems for far too long. And that's something we've really leaned into. When we
said about looking at how to tackle this challenge, we undertook a full market appraisal to
understand the right capabilities and the right partners. We spoke to their customers, we
really listened to what they had to say on what they delivered not in slides, but in action.
And that extensive process led to the appointment of TCS and Diligenta, who is the UK
regulated entity, to be our transformation partners in this space.
Our partnership is based on great operational capability, leading digital skills, real
technical expertise specific to the industry, and deep policy administration knowledge of
how to do these migrations gained from actually migrating 12 million customers. And it's
those learnings that really power us forward. We've also said how we operated with
Capita, and we've also said at the management of a relationship and how you really work
in partnership with someone. And that's been integral in looking at how we work with TCS.
As part of the strategy definition for the operating model, we've really looked at how we
streamline all functions and how we work together as one integrated operation to deliver
for our customers and deliver those customer outcomes. And that means we've really
simplified how we do things and really changed the way we oversee that partnership and
relationship. As you can imagine, doing that is not without significant people change. Over
2,400 colleagues have transitioned from Diligenta or TCS to Capita or from Prudential
over 600 have moved to also be part of that operation with Diligenta. That includes our
annuities team and our change in IT teams to look after a lot of these legacy estate.
We've already seen a significant step forward in operational performance for our
customers, and that has driven in no [ph] part by the great leadership and support in
operations that we've had since we've made that transition.
This is our roadmap for the transformation. A lot of it has been delivered rather than a
stuff we'd like to do. We've made some really good progress in a lot of the underpinning

Page 31 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

infrastructure. We've replaced our old Capita and Prudential telephony infrastructure with
a new single platform for customer calls. This includes an interactive voice response IVR
capability, automated identification and verification of customers. It also increasingly allows
customers to complete simple transactions without needing to speak to an agent.
Delivery of digital foundations here have also been really, really important, and I'll talk in a
minute about our new MyPru platform. And that digital functionality we're looking forward
to rolling out completely across all of our customer journeys in top-ups, in claims, servicing
bereavements and across our complaints journey. And at the heart of that is banks, which
is the industry-leading TCS asset, which will be a single policy administration and CRM tool
that also provides the workflow across all digital and servicing channels and really gives us
for the first time that complete 360-degree view of the customers and helps us move to
that journey-based thinking, improving the end-to-end experience and outcomes we
deliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have a commitment and capability through our partners and internally to deliver this
rationalization of the system infrastructure and that's forecast to reduce our IT cost of
ownership by over 50% by 2022, as part of the total cost savings in our Heritage business
that we're aiming for of GBP60 million in that time. Now, the first platform we're migrating
is the SALAS platform. It's been with us a long time. We inherited it at the start of the
ScotAm acquisition. It's the first to be migrated. It's the most challenging migration
because on it sits our highest value and our most complex products and we are well on
the way to that and looking to migrate that in the next couple of months. That will see 0.5
million customer plans migrated to the new bank's platform and we're leveraging TCS'
tried-and-tested methodology here, which really takes a lot of risk out of the migration.
In the first half of 2020, the next migration will then move through and be completed,
which is for our corporate pension customers who are currently administered of the
Capita Hartlink platform.
As we've been doing this transformation, we've been making real, real improvements in
our customer service. I'm going to share some of those with you. Moving to that customer
journey and end-to-end view has meant we are radically reducing our servicing times with
a lot more to do. Since service commencement of our relationship, we have taken over
44% of that customer wait time out of our service. A lot of that has just been working the
old process better as well as looking at how we move to that end-to-end journey
management, and that's been great to see. In the same period of time, if we just move
on, you'll see that we've also dramatically improved our customer experience and our NPS
scores. Some of that is from our new digital enhancements that we've put in and driven,
some of it has been customers really seeing the difference in that service performance
with an improvement of over 14 points in that score since last summer. And it's great to
see, when you do the kind of role that I do, that correlation between the service
improvement and the customer satisfaction moving together in detail.
I'm just going to take a little bit of time to talk through some more of the improvements
that we've been doing to drive this and set the infrastructure up for the next stage of the
transformation.

Page 32 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Let's talk about MyPru. The MyPru app and platform is central to our digital servicing
ambition for our heritage book customers. It moves us to a 24x7 operating model. The
previous infrastructure on which this was built and developed couldn't scale to the levels
we needed and wasn't great when you were looking at things and rendering them on
mobile devices. It didn't give you that kind of experience. The MyPru upgrade we've put in
place brings substantial usability improvements for our customers and really provides the
foundation and resilience built into that application with active, active processing on which
we will scale the journeys for all of our customers.
And for the first time in this technology, we also gain insights really into the customers'
use of the app and website, and it really helps us prioritize our future enhancements to
tackle what customers really need and where they're struggling. MyPru is a really crucial
pillar for developing all of our customer journeys going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Whilst we've been doing that, we haven't just been waiting for the infrastructure, we've
also been delivering some of those customer journeys in action. And one of the key ones
for us has been the bonds claims journey where we're trying to make it easier for
customers to withdraw and access the money they need when they want it. We launched
this in late 2018 and already we have a 35% take-up of this. And when you look at the
bonds claims journey and what we were doing traditionally, you'll see the evidence of that
transactional process. It was a source of customer frustration, relying heavily on paper,
multiple touch points across the servicing teams.
On average, a claim took 16 days to complete with 5% of cases taking 47 days or more.
Our new process now with MyPru, which we launched, like I said, in late 2018, and have
rolled out to advisers as well, radically reduces this end-to-end time by 80%. And where
each claim now taking on average three and a half days when it goes through and uses
that technology and that will improve even further when we get to the automation of
payments, when we've moved those policies on to BaNCS, too.
I think in doing this, we've really dispelled the belief that heritage customers don't want to
move to digital. It's simply not true. If you build good technology, they will embrace it. And
we design all of our customer journeys now with real customers, like David described. We
test their needs, we get hands on feedback, we build what really works. And to get digital
take-up at these levels of over 35% within five months, and this continues to rise with
more advisers and more customers using it, it really shows us what I think our ambition for
digital servicing can really look like. And we've improved MyPru registration. We're getting
swift at moving more and more customers to this way of working.
Now we've also done a lot of transformation that isn't quite so digital and exciting, but is
also absolutely vital. In looking at a lot of our propositions and how we modify them, a lot
of our customers rely on paper and really trust us in our products, so it's really important
we lean into those and we make a difference. I just thought, I'd also share some of those.
Our proposition team has really being focusing on how we enhance a lot of the product
features and how we improve those regular communications to make sure they're clearer
than ever to our customers. Improvements those propositions cover all aspects, including

Page 33 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

value of money, customer outcome improvements, update to customer lifestyle profiles,
strategic asset allocation changes and also additional product features that we build in. By
the end of 2018, the modernization of our annual benefit statements will have improved
communications to 1.7 million customers. Changes make the statement simpler, easier to
understand, more engaging, more informative, charges even clearer. We have another
500,000 customers who'll get improved statements by the end of this year and a further
500,000 as part of our migration from that SALAS system to the new BaNCS platform.
We've also removed exit charges from over 1 million of our individual pension customers
and also done a lot more of value for money, reducing charges for AVC customers. We've
removed policy fees and fund reviews to make sure that customers are invested in the
most appropriate and lower-cost funds wherever
we can. There's a lot more to come in the next two and a half years, just when you
thought it couldn't get any more exciting,

Bloomberg Transcript

but we're well on the way to the heritage transformation. And we've talked a lot about
digital. And for us, that's about providing the 24x7 service that our customers really need
and really want. The rationalization of our systems estate, I talked about, will result in the
consolidation of our policy administration systems from 14 to 1 and move it to that
industry-leading BaNCS platform.
Through our transformation and focus on customer journeys, we'll continue to see
hopefully those increased improvements in customer satisfaction scores. And we'll also
get more and more feedback and insight on how our service can get better and better,
shaped by our customers for our consumers.
And if we do that and if we move to this new infrastructure, you'll see continued
improvements in our resilience in how we operate and how we trade ongoing.
Thank you for time. Now for the highlight, I will hand it to Clare to take us to the finance
section.

Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

Thank you, Roddy. As many of you will know, I'm Clare Bousfield, the M&GPrudential CFO.
I'm going to complete today's formal presentation with the financials, as Roddy said, the
piece that you've all been waiting for. The financials of a life company, particularly with
profits, are not the simplest. So please bear with me, as I'd like to take the opportunity to
walk you through this as simply and clearly as I can.
To set some context, I'm going to start with our key financial priorities. First and foremost,
we'll run the company with capital discipline and efficiency whilst demonstrating financial
resilience to all our stakeholders. We plan to provide our shareholders with an attractive
return profile through a combination of sustainable dividends and long-term growth. As
you've heard from David, Joffy and Will, we can see significant opportunities over time to

Page 34 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

grow our savings and asset management business in a capital efficient way, and our
heritage book generates a steady stream of cash to underpin dividends.
To be successful, we need to deliver our transformation program, improving customer
outcomes and experience together with focusing on scalability and efficiency. These will
be pivotal in our ability to compete and thrive in the future. That's what I'll cover. I'll show
you our new segmentation and how it aligns the shape the business as you've heard all
about today. Then I'll provide you with an update of the merger and transformation
program and I'll then move on to describe how our capitalization looks and the mechanics
of how this will flow through to the day one balance sheet of the new M&GPrudential
Group. And
I'll also provide you with a preview of our capital management framework.
At the next event closer to the time of demerger, the focus will be on how we generate
capital, how we think about deploying it together with our policy on dividends.

Bloomberg Transcript

So to the segments. What you've seen in the past is a split between insurance and asset
management. That makes sense in the days when you could think about the businesses
as distinct. Today, we're simply focused on delivering great propositions and outcomes to
our customers no matter which legal entity we
do it in. Our first operating segment, savings and asset management is a key future
growth engine of our business. This segment holds all of our propositions that are open
to new customers from retail savings and asset management solutions through to our
tailored solutions for institutional clients. You've heard from David, Joffy and Will as to why
we're excited about the future growth prospects we see for each of those.
The second operating segment, heritage, is where we have business lines which are
closed to new customers. The stable and sizable earnings are driven by the shareholder
annuity and the traditional with profit books. The heritage with profit business is written
within the same fund and the same asset pool as PruFund. This is denoted by the dotted
box on the chart. The size of the with profit fund benefits both the traditional with profits
and the PruFund customers, allowing the asset managers to invest in a diverse range of
asset classes, as Jack described earlier.
The split of assets under management here gives you a sense of their relatives scale. The
savings and asset management segment contribute almost GBP200 billion of assets
under management. The institutional and retail asset management sub-segments of
third-party assets under management together amounting to GBP147 billion. The
remaining GBP51 billion is retail savings, of which 85% is the PruFund. The Heritage
segment has a GBP123 billion of assets under management, around 70% of which is the
with-profits business. Overall, this shows the diversity of the assets that we manage and
the customers that we serve.
In terms of net flows, what you see for Heritage is the pension payments we make to our
annuity policyholders and the withdrawals from traditional with-profit policies. Within
Page 35 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Savings & Asset Management segment, the retail savings has been steadily very positive,
driven by the strengths of our PruFund proposition. The flows of retail asset management,
on the other hand, are more sensitive to short-term relative performance and investor
confidence. That generates a higher degree of volatility. At the end of 2018 and into 2019,
investor confidence has been weak against the backdrop of various political uncertainties,
including Brexit. This has caused cyclically negative flows. As Joffy explained earlier, we're
confident of driving good growth over time through a number of new initiatives, including
sub-advisory in Europe.
Flows in the institutional business demonstrate relatively lower volatility. As Will set out,
they are long-tenured, sticky assets. Our clients have specific long-term goals usually
linked to liabilities and are not sensitive to short-term market movements. Here I'm
excluding one mandate of GBP6.5 billion, which left us last year as we referred to in the
2018 results release. This was a very specific and temporary case and, being very low
margin, will have limited impact on earnings. The historical flows demonstrate well the
diversity of the underlying businesses in different economic conditions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to profitability. Here you see a simple matrix of our adjusted operating profit, with
the row showing you the segments and the sources of earnings along the top. The total
adjusted operating profit of GBP1.6 billion is materially the same as the segment profit
shown in Prudential plc's 2018 results announcement. There are some small differences in
definition, and you find the details of those in the Appendix.
Two other things to call out on this slide. Firstly, the corporate center line, where you'll see
a higher number here for 2019 than the future years as it will include the interest cost
once the transfers and debt for Prudential plc is completed and the costs as we build the
infrastructure and capability needed for our new life as a public company. The second
item to mention here is the GBP59 million loss in the other column to Savings & Asset
Management. The main driver of that is a GBP56 million exceptional item related to one
of our international life insurance operations, which is not expected to recur in the future.
Turning to asset management. On the top left is the external assets under management
for the retail and institutional book, together with the internal assets we're managing
through the savings and heritage businesses. These amounted to GBP118 billion at the
end of 2018. The overall average fee margin, bottom-left, encompasses both those
internal and external assets under management.
Fee margins have been quite stable thanks to the fact we've always focused on higher
value services and bespoke solutions. On the right, you'll see the overall development of
our revenues with expenses and resulting operating profit. The overall cost-income ratio
has historically been in the late 50s. That compares favorably to our peers. But there is no
doubt that we need to continue focusing on cost efficiency in order to remain competitive.
Moving to the retail savings piece of the Savings & Asset Management segment, the part
that David spoke about earlier. The majority of the assets and earnings are coming from
PruFund. As he explained, having launched PruFolio earlier this year, we have the ambition
to grow the breadth of our investment proposition in this space. The growth inflows and

Page 36 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

outflows demonstrate how the PruFund, our smooth proposition, has gone from strength
to strength. The proposition is targeted at customers aged between 45 and 65. The early
PruFund customers are starting to access their savings and enjoy the investment returns
we've generated for them. As a result, the outflows are growing as the book matures
alongside the inflows, which remain very strong.
It's important to remember that we only recognize earnings on the PruFund business
when the customer accesses their money, whether it's regular or full withdrawal of their
funds. As I explained in Singapore, the way it works is, when a policyholder invests we
start to credit their accounts on a daily basis with the expected long-term growth rate.
This gives policyholders a smooth return over time so long as the actual returns don't
deviate outside of the pre-determined corridors. The earnings we generate will be oneninth of the investment return that we've generated for that customer booked at the time
that they take their money out. The cash is received and the earnings recognized at the
same time, and both are therefore inherently back-end loaded. That's why we have seen
the profile of shareholder transfers growing quite significantly over the last few years and
why there is significant future value not yet recognized.

Bloomberg Transcript

The traditional with-profits book in the Heritage segment is closed to new customers, and
so has negative flows. These have averaged around 6% of the assets under management
per year. On the other hand, the investment returns generated over the last three years
have more or less offset those flows, leaving the assets under management at around
GBP85 billion. These assets will not stay flat forever and they will decline over the long
term. But the dynamic on the outflows in the investment returns means that we expect
the runoff to be very gradual.
Policyholder value on these policies is driven both by the bonuses credited over the life of
the contract and by a terminal bonus when the monies are withdrawn. As before, the
shareholder transfer is simply one-ninth the bonus credited. As the terminal bonus is the
most significant element, there is also significant additional value yet to be recognized.
Although there can be some ups and downs depending on the performance of the fund
and the volume of policies maturing, we'd expect these shareholder transfers to remain
relatively flat, in line with recent history, for the next decade at least. Over the very long
term, they will decline as the book runs off.
One last element to explain on with-profits is hedging. We hedge across both PruFund
and the traditional with-profits, aiming to reduce the equity market risk associated with
the shareholder transfer. Although the returns being accrued to the policyholders are
subject to smoothing in the with-profit fund, this is only true within normal levels of market
volatility. More extreme scenarios can cause the smoothing to cease, with the policyholder
valuations thereby reduced or increased and the shareholder would see their share of
that market impact.
We've put in place a relatively simple mechanism to mitigate this by structuring equity
options to reduce downside risk of expense of future upside. In addition to protecting the
transfers, the program results in reduced capital requirements with a shareholder
solvency position by around 25% of the capital requirements in respect of the with-profits
business.
Page 37 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

We've used a broadly annual rolling program which aims to hedge transfers over the
subsequent five years. Recently, the equity markets have been positive on average.
We've seen losses as each tranche of the program comes to maturity. Conversely, if
equity markets were at a full, the hedges would increase in value. Of course, with -- as
with any hedging strategy, there are tradeoffs to consider, and we're currently assessing
what we want to do post-demerger in terms of whether we continue with this program,
do something different or simply let the current program run off.
Finally, I come to shareholder annuity and heritage earnings. The table shows you the
drivers, some of which are more likely to recur than others. Roughly, the table is ordered
with the more probable at the top. As common with annuity books and as you can see,
some of these drivers can be quite large and they move around from year to year. Also
recall that the numbers are impacted by the reinsurance of GBP12 billion of liabilities to
Rothesay in March 2018. The stable elements of the earnings are the investment return
we've generated on the assets, not backing the policyholder liabilities, and the release of
the margins on credit risk, mortality and expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the second row, it's asset trading and other optimization with some especially large
numbers in 2016 and 2017, as we re-position the book on the advent of Solvency II. The
ability to generate these profits is driven by our private asset capability and market
conditions. Next longevity, which has generated substantial positives in recent experience
as has been the case across the entire industry.
The last one I'll talk to here is the provision that we've put up for the FCA's review into
annuities sold without advice. We booked a total provision of GBP400 million over 2016
and 2017, and our expectations remain that this will be sufficient. In 2018, the positive of
GBP166 million relates to an insurance recovery from our professional indemnity insurers
in respect to this issue.
So focusing on longevity, the chart on the right shows you that including reinsurance
transactions we have executed, we've seen around GBP1 billion of positive earnings over
the three years ended 2018. The left-hand chart shows you the major cause. The stock
trends across the UK population is the deterioration in the rate of mortality improvement
over the last half decade. There are a number of plausible reasons for this, but no
definitive evidence that could confirm one theory or not. Some may be structural, for
example, the reduced impact of cardiovascular improvement, but some, for example, the
impacts of austerity or obesity may be more cyclical. Wider population trends are not the
only driver. We've been making substantial investments in technology, data quality and
research to further improve our understanding of the dynamics, supporting us informing
our views on the future when we concert our reserves. It's especially important since our
book of annuitants has a different social economic make up compared to the general
population. More often the emergence of enhanced annuity players resulted in our
annuitants being typically healthier than the average as we chose not to enter that market.
For the future, we believe the ongoing research and continued improvements in data
granularity, accuracy and analytical capabilities will be fundamental. It could well be that we
see more releases as we move forward, but the selection and mortality assumptions will
continue to be something, which we take great care over.
Page 38 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Moving onto merger and transformation, as you know by now, this program is driving real
improvements for our customers both in terms of outcomes and in the terms -- in terms
of the experience in dealing with us. It's also based on simplifying the way that we work,
which creates cost benefits, but reduces operational risk and improves our effectiveness.
We're very focused on driving a mentality of efficiency, scalability and simplicity right
across our business at all the time with a focus on our customer.
The program touches many areas. David explained how the digital transformation is
powering the way we create new solutions for customers and positioning us for growth,
and Roddy gave a number of examples of how the transformation is improving outcomes
from reduced wait times to improve communications, and at the same time, we incur
significantly lower costs, but these benefits go across the Group beyond the externally
obvious ones. Tech finance is an example. Here too, a substantial investment in
technology and modernization will generate tangible benefits, improving our insight,
reducing risk, minimizing manual intervention and saving money.

Bloomberg Transcript

You'll recall our 2017 announcement of a GBP250 million investment for a GBP145 million
of annual cost savings both from a shareholder view. Here you'll see what we're spending
the money on and where the benefits are expected to emerge. On digitalization, we're
investing heavily across a number of initiatives, and it's not only about the externally facing
projects that we spend much of today talking about; it's also substantial internal
modernization and streamlining. The finance example I gave is one, but similar things are
happening across HR, risk and other areas.
Outsourcing is another meaningful part of the project and a large proportion of this
relates to the new outsourcing agreement and legacy system migration project with TCS
that Roddy explained to you. And there are a large number of initiatives to improve the
efficiency of our operating model. Just one example would be the project, which we
announced internally last month. That is a significant reshaping and rationalization of our
office location strategy across the UK, which will save substantial real estate costs.
The chart here shows you the savings, which will flow through our cost base. Our cost
base reflects both the costs borne by the shareholders and the policyholders. And before
you get your rulers out, what we're trying to do here is just give you an indication rather
than a precise view. Starting from the 2017 cost base, which I've assumed will be inflated, I
see it as a basic display [ph] that we need to be able to offset inflation as part of our
business as usual efficiency.
The transformation benefits reflect both the savings attributable to shareholders of
GBP145 million and the benefits to policyholders. This creates capacity for two upward
pressures. The first is the creation of our head office and the building of the infrastructure
will need as we de-merge from the existing group. The second is the investment in
business growth. As you've heard earlier, we have ambitions for growth over the medium
term. Our transformation program also aims to make the costs more variable than fixed,
and so if our revenue ambitions didn't emerge, the associated costs should also not
emerge.

Page 39 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

On the right, you'll see the planned phasing of the run rate benefits, which pick up
significantly this year after the initial investment phase and the heavy lifting associated
with the de-merger, and then develop reasonably evenly from now out to 2022.
Now turning to Solvency, I'll begin by focusing on the main insurance balance sheet,
Prudential Assurance Company or PAC. PAC can be thought about as two distinct parts,
the shareholder balance sheet and the With-Profits Fund. The two are separate, but they
interact from a solvency point of view. There are two slides in your pack on this, one
explaining in words how it works and the other showing it diagrammatically. I'm going to
leave the diagram up on the screen to explain it with the other slide for reference.
The shareholder solvency ratio on the left is the primary focus for us in managing our
capital position. It was 172% at the end of 2018 with Own Funds of GBP8.8 billion on a
solvency capital requirement of GBP5.1 billion. Although the With-Profit Fund is separate,
the future cash transfers provide considerable value to the shareholders fund. And the
discounted value of those transfers are included within the shareholder solvency position
as an asset. Likewise, the capital requirement of GBP5.1 billion reflects the underlying risks
inherent in the shareholder transfers given the With-Profit Fund is invested in a range of
asset classes.

Bloomberg Transcript

The middle column shows you the With-Profit Funds in isolation. It had a very strong
solvency ratio of 231% at the end of 2018 with GBP9.6 billion of Own Funds. The future
shareholder transfers of GBP2.4 billion, which appears as an economic asset on the
shareholder balance sheet, are a corresponding liability for the With-Profit Fund.
There is one last view of solvency, the regulatory solvency ratio on the right. This takes a
conservative view of the combined position of the shareholder and With-Profit balance
sheets. To arrive at it, the shareholder capital requirements of GBP5.1 billion is added to
the With-Profit capital requirements of GBP4.2 billion for a total of GBP9.3 billion. For the
Own Funds, the GBP8.8 from the shareholder balance sheet is taken into account, but the
Own Funds from the With-Profit side can only be taken into the extent of its capital
requirements. In other words, only GBP4.2 billion of the total GBP9.6 billion With-Profit own
funds can be counted. The exclusion of the other GBP5.5 billion of capital results in a
solvency ratio of 140%.
The ratios have some sensitivity to financial markets, but as you can see here, they're
quite resilient. The shareholder view is on the left and the regulatory view is on the right.
These sensitivities are all typically what we expect to happen in markets once in every 25
years. A full letter downgrade across 30% of our credit portfolio is the most impactful,
reflecting the credit exposure within our annuity portfolio, although this is still very
manageable. As I explained before, the regulatory solvency ratio is lower than the
shareholder ratio. But as you can see on the right, the sensitivities are lower in terms of
percentage point change. That's essentially due to the higher denominator. In adverse
conditions, the regulatory solvency ratio will fall slower than the shareholder solvency ratio.
However, both will arrive at 100% at the same point in time.

Page 40 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

So that wraps up the solvency position of PAC. But how will the new M&GPrudential group
look post-demerger? The emerging group view of capitalization will also be Solvency IIbased due to the size of PAC within it. Simplistically, the own funds and capital
requirements will be the sum of PAC plus M&G and the other minor entities. PAC will be
the dominant part, and for this reason, you can expect the group solvency ratio to be
similar to PAC's prior to demerger.
Then at the time of demerger itself, M&GPrudential will assume its share of Prudential's
overall debt. This will flow in and count to solvency capital. In return, M&GPrudential will pay
to Prudential plc a predemerger dividend in order to bring the solvency back down to the
target level. We will confirm the exact magnitude of these numbers closer to the time of
demerger.
Let me finish by giving you a preview of our future capital management framework. And
as I said, I'll be going much deeper into this next time. The IFRS view, which I've explained
to you today, is an important view. But for us, it's also crucial to understand how our
business performance translates into capital generation and ultimately, cash remittances.
Simplifying a little, there are two main entities underlying the new group, which are only
insurance side, PAC, as we've discussed before and M&G.

Bloomberg Transcript

For M&G, assuming capital requirements do not change, the amount it can distribute is
broadly its after tax earnings. For PAC, in normal circumstances, the constraint on the
remittance is Solvency II related, and I've illustrated in a simple way on this slide how the
generation of Solvency II capital differs from IFRS earnings.
Next time, we'll deep dive more into this with some numbers and we'll give you regular
disclosure post demerger so you can track us against it because for us, this is an
absolutely fundamental measure. I expect you'll then ask me, does that mean the end of
embedded value? Yes, we'll be dropping the embedded value disclosure. We feel that
publishing two frameworks which are conceptually similar just adds complexity rather than
insight. We'd rather focus on the measure, which is actually the binding constraint and
provides a good economic insight into our business with the commitment to give you
helpful disclosure.
The translation of this through to the holding company cash is then relatively
straightforward. We would typically intend to take most of the capital generated each year
for both entities to the parent subject to a number of factors, including adequate
capitalization. Parent company cash generation will be the sum of these two dividends
less holding company overheads and debt interest cost after tax.
The resulting number is a key measure because that is really the tangible money that
could be deployed relatively freely. Those elements will be the key ones which flow into
our overall management of capital.
To wrap up, we will closely and proactively manage this balance sheet with a focus on
capital generation and how best to deploy it. We'll be disciplined. And if we have no value
creative opportunities, we're committed to returning any excess created over time so
Page 41 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

long as our key financial metrics around solvency, leverage and liquidity are in line with our
appetite.

FINAL

We're continuing to drive transformation across the group to improve customer
experience, enable growth and capture efficiencies, and we're on track to deliver.
Through a combination of these, we feel confident of producing an attractive balance
sheet, balance of dividends and growth for our future shareholders.
Now let me hand back to John to conclude.

John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

Thank you, Clare. So before we move to Q&A, I just want to sum up very briefly. I hope
today has given you a good insight to M&GPrudential, how we have a unique and
compelling business mix, combining diversified asset management with the capital
strengths of our heritage business. We have shown that we have a coherent and focused
strategy to grow our savings and asset management business by scaling and broadening
our diversified range of savings and investment solutions, leveraging our international
footprint and without customary discipline on capital and how our strategy is supported by
major structural changes in society in all our chosen markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have demonstrated how transformation is reinvigorating our business and how we will
continue to optimize our heritage business by improving customer outcomes, creating
efficiencies and maximizing cash flow.
We have shown, too, that we have a track record for successful growth over the past 20
years, building new savings and investment franchises from scratch and always with the
interest of our customers front and center of what we do because caring for the
customer is not only the right thing to do, but also makes good commercial sense.
And finally, I believe we have shown demerger gives us both opportunity and means to
become truly international leader in savings and investments, meeting customer needs,
creating opportunities for our colleagues and delivering long-term growth and attractive
returns for shareholders. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Ready. Let's begin the Q&A session. So if you would like to ask a question, please raise
your hand. You'll actually see there's microphones in the seat pocket in front of you, which
if you could please take a microphone out and press the button so that the people on the
webcast can hear you. Obviously, please do wait for me to indicate you because if you will
get on the microphones at the same time, it will be a big mess. If you -- when you ask the
questions, you can state your name and organization, again, for the website. And then
also to give everybody a fair chance, if we could keep it to two questions at a time,
please, the two questions including sub-questions of the same question. With that, who's
Page 42 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

first? I think -- I mean, in fairness, Greig, you are well out there. Press the button. Just go
for it.

FINAL

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. I'll keep it to two questions. I do have many. But the one is credit
events, which spins very low. Currently, the PRA is doing a credit stress test currently on
potential risks to the industry. You provide -- in your Solvency II sensitivities, you provide a
sensitivity about -- of higher spreads and a sensitivity on downgrades. But in reality, it's the
combination of those two, just a compounding impact, and I suspect it would be quite
dramatically higher, the hit to your Solvency II on that. I wonder if you want to talk about
the combination of downgrades and widening spreads and the impact on Solvency II? The
second question is when you look at your asset management -- are we allowed two
questions?

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Yeah, go on.

Q - Greig Paterson

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second one is when you look at your asset management performance on a oneyear view, I think it's on Slide 39, and in the footnote, the performance of -- dramatic drop
in the performance fees, it appears to me that your one-year performance has
deteriorated quite materially and that will have a knock-on impact on the three-year going
forward and pull it down. Isn't that a concern in terms of won't that hit new account cash
flows quite hard going forward?

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Greig. I mean -- so, Jack, do you want to take the second one first?

A - Jack Daniels

{BIO 20973577 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. If we look at the performance, it's true that the one-year performance is
down, which relates to -- specifically to the mutual funds own business. I mean the
performance in other areas, PruFund and the institutional side of the business is so strong.
But yes, the one-year numbers deteriorated. But the mutual funds, we take a medium
term view of our performance and we've been quite consistent in saying that, which is
why we produce the three-year numbers. We think they're the most relevant. If you take -if you look back over the last 10 or 15 years, we've had periods before where short-term
performance has been less than ideal or less than -- less good than what we wanted to.
But we think our approach to investing and our fundamental beliefs around investing have
been showing the test of time. And we're not going to certainly jettison that approach.
We clearly monitor it. It's important. And I think those numbers as well were particularly
impacted by the performance of markets towards the end of last year -- they're in the
2018 numbers, and there was a -- you remember that during December, particularly, a
very severe risk-off reaction from markets and I think in terms of our positioning, we were
more positioned as risk-on at that particular time. But as they say, I think it's important to
focus on performance over the medium term rather than the short term.

Page 43 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I mean -- I think that is impactful but -- and to your point, one-year performance is
impactful for the European market, but we've been in this position before, and it comes
back once the trends change. So we will expect that to happen again. Clare, do you want
to take this one?

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

Yes. So, Greig, on your question on the sensitivities in the overall portfolio -- so, we're
very comfortable with the overall credit strength of the overall portfolio. If you look at the
analysis that Jack showed earlier on in terms of just the -- the average credit rating but
also the security behind, the portfolio is very strong. And in terms of the stresses that we
show, yes, we absolutely we show the impact of downgrades in terms of the stress, and
that is very manageable. We're very comfortable in terms of the overall credit portfolio.
And I'm aware of the PRA stress test. Obviously, that's something that we need to look at
and work with the PRA.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

So maybe with this side of the room. Jon?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

So, Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Two questions, please. First of all, on the fee
margin slide you put up, can you talk a little bit about what the fees are on the internal
book versus the internal -- the external book and what the mix impact has been on that
sort of trend over time? So, is the fee margin going up a function of the external assets
growing relative to your internal? Or is it actually higher revenue strategies? And then
secondly -- I think somebody mentioned looking at smooth returns in Europe. So would
that be a sort of euro version of the with-profit fund? Or would you be using the
techniques you've got in multi-asset to build more of like a (inaudible) type product?
Thanks.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

Thanks, Jon. Jack, do you want to talk about the fees and then maybe, David, on PruFund?

A - Jack Daniels

{BIO 20973577 <GO>}

Yeah. The resilience of the fees is down to the mix of the assets really, and I think it's this
focus on solutions, on private assets and the shift really in that direction. So that's why
we've managed to maintain margins. We don't split out the difference between internal
and external, but you can be sure that the internal client gets institutional rates with the
appropriate discount for scale and captivity. So, although we don't split it out, you can
assume that's the level of fees that you would expect to see in that portion of the book.

A - David Macmillan

{BIO 16195004 <GO>}

Yeah, and on the second point on PruFund, that's actually we are looking at whether we
can take PruFund as a construct to Europe.

Page 44 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Johnny?

FINAL

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just the first question. I mean, if you take PruFund to
Europe, how does the regulator feel about you smoothing European policyholders and
how would this be impacted post Brexit? That's the first question. The second question is
just on the regulatory view of solvency. Given that is substantially lower, does it mean that
distributions can't exceed the capital generation because you will effectively eat away at
the solvency position of the regulatory view? Thank you.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

So, on the PruFund in Europe, I mean, these are conversations we're just starting to have.
The regulatory environment in Europe is pro this. We've had conversations with EIOPA,
and they've been going on sometime. We need to work through the detail.
Fundamentally, it's something that the Europeans have said to us in a variety of
jurisdictions that they want. So, as we said earlier on in the presentation, it's about
execution. Demerger will -- once we get through that whole process, we will be able to
crack on with some of this stuff. But at the moment, we see no impediment to PruFund in
Europe. Clare (inaudible)?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So, I'm not sure I totally understand your question, Johnny, on the regulatory solvency
rate. The regulatory solvency ratio and the shareholder solvency ratio are fundamentally
the -- as I said, they'll both converge to the same point. So, certainly the regulatory
solvency ratio doesn't cause any kind of constrain over and above the shareholder
solvency ratio from a capital generational dividend perspective.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

It just -- if you were to take out GBP1 billion and pay it out, then the regulatory solvency
position would fall. And the -- how low can you go on that? Does that limit your ability to
continue to pay out above (Multiple Speakers)?

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So, all of our risk appetite and all of our capital management framework is based off the
shareholder solvency ratio. And because effectively the regulatory one is just -- it's just a
function of how big the denominator is, there is no additional constraints as a result of the
regulatory solvency ratio.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Ashik?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Page 45 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Hi. Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just a couple of question. One on asset management.
I mean, you flagged about GBP60 billion of private assets, basically in the asset
management out of GBP320 billion. Is it possible to get some color as to how much of
that is institutional money, how much is retail money? I mean, the reason I'm asking this is
there is a lot of noise in the market about the private debt, illiquid assets and some funds
getting closed, et cetera, so just on the back of it.
Secondly, there was a slide where I just noticed that you have about 30% of your
shareholder assets in private assets as well for the annuities business. Any clarity on what
those assets are would be great. Thank you.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

Joffy will say first.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Joffy Willcocks
Well, if I begin on the private book of GBP57 billion, that's institutional clients who invest in
those private assets across a broad spectrum of all the different strategies that Will
referred to earlier. So, it's entirely institution. Some of the retail -- some of the real estate
private assets are also held by retail customers through a UK property fund that we have.
Clearly, over the long term, we'll look to try to diversify the investor mix, but I think it's very
important to separate out the question that you've asked about retail customers having
exposure to private assets and the issues about liquidity and mutual funds today. As Jack
looks at this stuff all the time through the -- perhaps we monitor this on a regular monthly
basis exactly how much unquoted or unlisted stocks that we have. And we have zero. We
do not invest in unlisted or unquoted stocks in our mutual funds. If we have one or two
stocks that may have been written down to zero going most of it [ph], then you effectively
would own that or carry that rating of the portfolio 0.00% to 1%. But as a principle, we
don't put unquoted or unlisted stocks into our mutual funds which are sold to retail
customers.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

The other one, Jack, was on the annuity book, specifically, whether we can say anything in
terms of the...

A - Jack Daniels

{BIO 20973577 <GO>}

I mean, the annuity book -- I mean, just to go on from what Joffy said, if you take the
private assets, a number of them are either in the institutional mandates or they are in the
annuity book of the with-profits fund. And there is a sort of usual range. We don't split out
any detail, but this is the usual range of private assets, so you'd expect to see in a
portfolio of that type. So their private loans and -- that are mostly secured and you've
seen the analysis on credit quality. The portfolio overall, including the private assets, have
strong credit quality.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Oliver?
Page 46 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions on PruFund. The first is, you talked about
crediting customers for the long-term investment return within a certain corridor. Can you
talk about what that corridor is? And I suppose the question I've got behind that is that,
unlike the old with-profit sort of bonuses where you had a reversionary bonus and a
terminal bonus, presumably this crediting rate that you're giving does actually apply a
legal liability. So then what happens if there is some sort of market event to that withprofits fund -- to the with-profits fund assets and liabilities? Second question is, the
PruFund has delivered very good returns in the past. To what extent are those returns
being used in the marketing of that PruFund to new customers?

A - David Macmillan

{BIO 16195004 <GO>}

I can take the last part. Interestingly, if you go and study how PruFund is sold as an advised
product -- because remember, we don't offer that without advice, the smoothing is by far
the biggest sales angle. Naturally, an adviser will reflect on the long-term performance of
that fund as would be their rate and their professional responsibility. But in marketing
terms, we ourselves don't market it on that basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So on the -- in terms of the way the mechanism works, it depends on the risk profile of
the actual sub-fund in terms of PruFund. So the higher risk elements, the PruFund Growth
has typically got a corridor of plus or minus 5%, which it operates within. Something like
the cautious fund, which is obviously the lower risk fund, has got a smaller corridor. I think
it's 3%, could be 2%, but is around about that sort of level in terms of the corridor. If the
markets and the return operates within that, then effectively that doesn't result in any
price adjustment. If it doesn't and it triggers outside of that, then there is a price
adjustment. And we've had a number over the last five to six years or as said, something
of the order of 14, 15, they've typically been upwards adjustments, not downward
adjustments in terms of where it goes. And yes, fundamentally, the customer is entitled to
effectively that daily crediting in terms of the amount of the return. But that price
adjustment allows you to effectively have an adjustment for any kind of market volatility.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

And if you look at Slide 31, actually you can go see it, where Jack showed you the
performance of the PruFund over time and you can see there's little chinks in the line
there, which are the price adjustments Clare was talking about.

A - Jack Daniels

{BIO 20973577 <GO>}

So that line is smooth PruFund return after fees.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

You had another question, Oliver, but I'm afraid I completely forgot. There was a third
piece.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}
Page 47 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Andrew?

FINAL

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi. Andrew Baker, Citi. Two questions, please. The first one on the internal assets. I think
about 65% to 70% are managed by M&G right now and with the balance looking like it's
other Prudential plc asset managers. Post-demerger, is there any opportunity to recapture
any of those other assets? Is that in the plans or not? And then secondly, just on the
annuity book. Obviously, you sold down some last year. Are you happy with the size of
that book right now and how it fits with your other segments? Or is that something you'll
continue to review going forward? Thank you.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So as far as the external managers or in the case of Prudential plc, internal managers are
concerned on the life fund. I mean we go through a rigorous process of management
selection and determining how well the management of those funds is performing. That
goes through a sort of separate sort of corporate process. So it goes through the WithProfit Committee and the PAC Board. So it is sort of at arm's length and candidly, over
time, it's up to us to determine whether or not those assets are being managed
appropriately. So that's -- so we'll see is the answer, but there are certainly no plans to do
that at this stage.
The second question was around annuities. Look, how will I say it, we have a very strong
capability to operate the annuity portfolio successfully. It's a pretty chunky book and I think
we manage it pretty well. It's rows of good earnings and that's a substantial underpin for
our business as we go forward. And it's going to run off over a long period of time. So we
will continue to be a scale operator. The other thing is it does give us crossover benefits,
as we've tried to convey to you today. That as we evolve asset strategies around whether
it's the annuity book or the with profit book, this is expertise that we can then sell to third
parties. And it's very important that we continue to do that because we've been doing it
for a number of years, which, again, is the point we tried to convey in the presentations.
Having said all of that, we like to keep our options open and we will continue to keep our
options open. So maybe to some of the questions you'll ask today, I'll say never say never.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

One from over this side. Yeah, Gordon? Yeah, it should be in the chair in front of you. Give
it a good yank. You could just chat if you want.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Okay. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions. One, first on with profits. I mean if you
go back -- and I hear this sort of chat on corridors and credit arrangement. If we go back
sort of 20 years, how companies talked to us about what they're paying out to
policyholders was and how they paid out versus asset shares, so maybe you can just tell
us what you're paying out relative to asset share in say each of the last five -- three years
or five years or whatever? And second on the annuity side and the mortality. Just can you - and I remember from a long time ago that you used to write annuities actually with the
with-profit funds. So you can just set out all the annuities, how much sits in the with profit
Page 48 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

fund, how much sits in shareholder funds? And just to finish off on mortality. Can you just
remind us why the GBP441 million was such a big number last year? I mean it was -- I think
it was 9% of the group profit and I think a lot more than any of us had expected. And
when you do move to the '18 table -- because, I mean, the '18 table, you're talking about
a six-month reduction in life expectancy, which is by far and away the biggest reduction
ever. Presumably, that's going to result in a very large release. What would you plan to do
with that? Thank you.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So I'm going to start with annuities, if that's all right. And I might need reminding what the
other questions were before we get to them. But on -- so on annuities, in terms of the
kind of long-term trend. So there were two big drivers behind the release last year. Firstly,
it was effectively the trend around improvements. Historically, what we've taken a position
of is until we are comfortable and we can see that trend, we haven't released longevity
reserves. So as part of that, what we saw last year was not only effectively the updated
CMI table, but also some mortality improvements from a base perspective. And the
combination of those two resulted in the GBP441 million release. The other piece that's
important on the CMI tables is the CMI tables now, they're not just a default table that you
just apply to your mortality assumptions. They're actually calibrated based off your own
experience. So that's -- it's actually quite difficult to just say I'll take CMI '18 and I can just
apply it and therefore say it translates into X number. The range of different outcomes is
quite broad. So I know I've seen some reports saying that the CMI '18 produces quite a
large number. That depends on the way that we calibrate in terms of the outcome. So it's
not just a straight outcome. I'm going to get back to the previous questions.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

How much annuities are written from with profits as opposed to shareholders?

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So we'll have to get you the exact number, but it's of the order of -- there's around
between GBP10 billion and GBP15 billion of annuities within the with profit fund. And I think
that was the first question on with profits. Can you remind...

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah, the first one was if you gave up 20 years and you look at the PruFund, effectively,
what's the payout of PruFund relative to asset share?

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So typically, what we've been paying out is around about asset share. So in a good year,
that means that typically we're paying out a little bit more than asset share. And in a bad
year, we're paying out a little bit less than asset share. But historically, that's what we've
been paying out over the last few years.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Over here, please. I'll leave you two to decide which one takes the mic.
Page 49 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Two for me, please. So firstly, going
back to annuity volumes. I mean you talked a lot about potential for bolting off elements.
But on the other side, do you have any interest in restarting your sales franchise for
annuities or doing more DBD rest in transactions there? And secondly is moving on to the
digital platform that you've talked a bit about. I just want to know a bit more about your
aspirations here beyond enabling PruFund. And where are you positioned in the realms of
platforms? Is it more the Emirates or Ryanair end of the platform space? Thanks.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Ryanair -- I will get the Ryanair question.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}

That was the second one. But for the first, look, I might say -- I might never say never, but
it's very unlikely we'll ever start writing annuities from scratch again. I mean when I first
took over the UK insurance business, it seemed it wasn't appropriate. There are other
things we could do without capital. The fact is that we own a big annuity book, and we've
reduced the size of that book and we feel very comfortable with the current level of
annuities that we have in overall proposition that is M&GPrudential. That could change, but
it's very unlikely to change.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah, my one's easier than (inaudible) I'll back that up there. Clearly, on the basis of the
presentation I gave. If you're focused on frankly customer care and experience in control
on and value chain, and in particular controlling the pricing and margin, we are very
focused on delivering a quality platform to advisors and customers, where we're adding
value as a proprietary manufacturer. We're not interested in being an open architecture
bucket shop.
Yes, please.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Just two questions please. Your PruFund on GBP43
billion, what sort of size -- what sort of size would you have to get to before you reach the
scale issue? Now the reason I'm asking is that you are also -- you've just launched the
portfolio. So that remind me many years ago when Standard Life sort of launched their
MyFolio when the cash reached a certain size and/or the flow they sort of running to
province on cash. So, I just want to know the scale of the PruFund.
And my second question is, your solvency ratio. What sort of range -- do you have a
comfort range that you would be in comfortable on in terms of with respect to any
dividend going forward?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 50 of 60



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

(inaudible) PruFund and absolutely no capacity. We've been GBP12 billion in the last year,
had no -- we had no issues with that sort of volume at all. So we think we can
accommodate significant flows even the higher flows in that without having capacity
issues. I think with new PruFolio range, the majority of those -- the investment is -- it stands
as much as anything to the strategic asset allocation in the mix, and most of the assets in
that as we said illiquid. And so we feel the important thing is to get the strategic asset
allocation right on those propositions, and so we feel the current and expected levels of
flows that we can do with them quite comfortably.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

On the solvency ratio, the guidance we put out was, the solvency ratio at de-merger
would be up to around 170%. We're comfortable with that. That is a fair reflection of the
underlying risks on the balance sheet, and obviously as part of the event that we've talked
about, I'll go into a bit more detail around capital generation and the capital framework.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Dominic of Paribas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Dom O'Mahony
Thanks. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Two questions for me. The first is back to
PruFund. Thinking more operationally, it is done phenomenally well in the UK. I can see the
attractiveness of bringing that product to other markets in Europe. If however your
competitors here or on the continent, I'd be very jealous and I'd be thinking maybe I
should do this as well. Could you just help us understand the (inaudible) trend that you
see there? Why for instance haven't the other very large With-Profits Funds in the UK reopened to replicate that product or (inaudible) successful in doing so?
And the second question is just on the capital generation from this. So you very clearly
explained that both the PruFund has a back-end loading of the earnings from capital
generation perspective, the suspect is slightly different. I wonder if you might be able to
explain that, and I'm presuming the same is true for traditional with profits as well, where
the final bonus is asymmetric to the regular bonuses. Is, for instance, the capital
generation more evenly distributed over the lifetime? Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I mean, so this is -- the situation with PruFund and the competitive environment around -has been around for quite some time, and we're not going to comment on what the
competitors (inaudible) try to do. The fact is, this is the big fund and to get this level of
performance it needs to be well established and we very large and we have managed
very well for a very long time. To replicate that is very, very difficult. And I think we're all
sitting here really quite smug, that we actually have this product line in our portfolio. So, I
don't really want to -- people will be trying to do that smooth returns and so on. But I think
it's very tough to break into that, and I think the barriers to entry are my view is at quite
high. And it's been proven to be quite high, because people have been trying and we
don't see that there has been much traction.

Page 51 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

FINAL

So on the capital generation for the With-Profit -- for the With-Profits work, yes, the
earnings profile is different, it's effectively from a Solvency II perspective, it's the
discounted value of the shareholder transfers, and the earnings is based off risk free.
Obviously, the reality is real returns are -- so although it's got a different profile, it's also
undervalued in terms of how the Own Funds are on the balance sheet, and I'll go into a bit
more detail on that next time.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Andrew?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Couple of questions. I mean, you were talking about
PruFund being back-end loaded. Is it possible to give us a sense of the future growth of
the transfers from PruFund, even if didn't sell any more product just as the bonuses
accrued and run through, and perhaps as part of that, you said I think that the With-Profits,
the legacy With-Profits book would be flat over the next 10 years. But if you included some
payment of the inherent to state, what would that look like?
And then second question more general. I mean you presented a company which on the
one hand, you're looking at terms growth coming out of the investment management
business and partly out of PruFund, and on the other hand, you want to retain the capital
and the cash earnings from legacy books, and both the annuity and With-Profit. I mean -what are you pitching yourself as -- what peers are you trying to pull yourself again,
because at one level, you seem to be an asset manager, on the other hand, you seem to
be Phoenix or even Reassure?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for that question. So what are we pitching us? I think the pitch we've tried to
convey today is that we are about asset manager with the balance sheet. We have a
heritage business that candidly, we could -- if we wanted to be a pure something like a
pure asset manager, we could sell the Heritage business, but the crossover between the
two, I mean, I've worked in M&G for the first 11 years of my career. And all I saw was the
capability of both the Life Fund and the M&G guys to create more value for both sides of
the house. So, we actually did -- and we launched a lot of product out of M&G in that early
period, where we -- because the Life Fund wanted that type of return and those types of
assets.
So, I (inaudible) calling a symbiotic relationship, but it actually is and it works very well. And
what price would you put on PruFund. I mean we've just had questions about, its people
want to replicate here. I mean you could come up with a numerical number, but then what
does it help build across the piece. So we are very comfortable with this portfolio of
businesses. We think it will help us to grow, and we've talked about that at late. So in
terms of where we are -- who we look like, and who appears might be, I guess that's
probably more for you to determine, but when we've done the analysis around all of this,
because we are de-merging so we've obviously look to this with a number of advisors.
Page 52 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

We can't find anybody who looks like us. It's the honest answer. There are people who are
at the edges, but they're not at the same as us, and we quite like the way we're set up.

FINAL

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

Then on your question on PruFund. So in Singapore, there's a charts in the slides that I
showed -- that basically shows you the projection of the underlying traditional With-Profits
business over the next 10 years and you have -- what that chart basically shows is broadly
flat. And I think from memory Andrew that the chart also shows the PruFund both showing
the existing business, and then an assumption around new business. I think those two
components are actually shown separately. You're absolutely right. They basically assume
that there is no distribution of the excess or the state in terms of the With-Profit Fund.
The With-Profit Fund is very strong and actually that is the one of the key reasons that
other companies will find it difficult to replicate it because in a lot of other companies
actually they went through an attribution of their state. So I can tell you, if we go through
that process, then we're going to loose some of the crown jewels in terms of what we
have. But what we look to basically provide customers with enhanced bonus rates
recognizing the strength of the fund, but over a very conservative and smooth basis.
Absolutely, that's part of our job in terms of managing the With-Profit Fund.
I suggest you get the ruler out.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver, I was trying to think if somebody hadn't asked a question (inaudible) Oliver a go.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel. Can I follow up on the question of scale limitations with the PruFund because
you answered it in the form of flows, and actually it seems to me there is more of a scale
question mark in terms of the balance sheet and sort of the extra protection that is
provided by the back book by the traditional with-profit fund. There must be -- you are up
at GBP43 billion of PruFund against whatever it is, GBP100 billion of total with-profits fund.
There must be a point where that PruFund cannot offer the same degree of protection as
it does at the moment.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

(technical difficulty) important here is that the PruFund is managed with one -- within one
asset pool that effectively reflects both the traditional with-profits and the PruFund. So
there isn't a separate ring fence set of assets that basically just relate to the PruFund. It's
managed within one fund and then in order to create the different risk profiles, what you
do is take an element of that fund and then with different asset allocation. So, it's not -any constraints on it would either come from a capital perspective in terms of the withprofit fund. It has a GBP10 billion estate. There is a long way we can go before that estate
gets nearer or it's to potentially the size of assets that you go into. And we've been able
to demonstrate that we can actually utilize that to invest in very sizable assets because
just the size of it in terms of how we are managing it. So we can't see any constraint out
there that's going to reduce the opportunity in terms of the volumes out there in the
Page 53 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

market both in terms of international growth or from a UK perspective, but don't think
about the PruFund as being a separate ring fence, it's not, it's one asset pool within that
with-profit fund.

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Abid.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi, Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Just two questions, if I can. Firstly, just coming back to
PruFund, just the potential misselling mistake given that is expanding at a rapid rate and
the secular history that we have had with with-profits funds in the UK in particular and
elsewhere in Europe as well. So just sort of what's the control environment around the
sales process for PruFund.
And then secondly, can you just give us an update on Part VII transfer, how that's
progressing?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Macmillan

{BIO 16195004 <GO>}

(technical difficulty) through the previous with-profits moment, PruFund is fundamentally
not like traditional products. But if you ask about the way it's sold and the way it's
marketed, we don't market and sell it direct, you have to take full financial advice, and
whether as a third-party intermediary or our own in-house financial advisors, they go
through rigorous training and assessment, second, third line order that annually because
it's not just a question of with-profit traditional versus PruFund, it's fundamental (inaudible)
and ensuring that any fund attains the suitability for the client.

A - Unidentified Speaker
As far as the Part VII is concerned, so that's been through the court process. The court is
now adjourned and we are waiting for the judge to give his opinion. So that should be
coming we understand seven days, 10 days. I don't know. Wee don't control that process.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good afternoon, David Law [ph] here from Santander. I would like to understand bit more
on product innovation, what are you doing for newer or younger customers? Is that a
target market for you? And will you be using digital channels to reach them? And just as a
part of that is for -- investment trust closed-end funds, is that the market you -- I know you
have one or two, but is that something of scale that you're looking at?

A - David Macmillan

{BIO 16195004 <GO>}

Yes, we're desperate for younger customers (inaudible). We have -- up until January, up
until recently, we have not sought to target below probably the age of 50 for obvious
reasons because we're heavily retail pensions drawdown, but research has told us for
years the demand for smoothing the lower age bonds in an accumulation or even in
(inaudible) is high. But if you said to me, are they likely to want to pay for advice or seek

Page 54 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

advice to do that, the answer is no, they don't. And so one of the things that we are
generally working on right now is how do we deliver through digital channels, with the
guidance I described earlier, a safe and secure route for someone frankly to invest
directly into PruFund or equivalent.

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
I can pick up the second point. In terms of asset management, if you look at the ONS
statistics from the UK, it was printed by the government in 2015, 83% of the investable
wealth in the UK is owned by those aged 45 and above. So naturally asset manager as a
whole has a fiduciary responsibility to look after that bulk of assets owned by those
looking towards who are retiring or beyond retirement. So that backs up David's point, but
essentially when you think about what we're trying to do, we also need absolutely to
connect to that younger generation and it goes back to what I talked about in my
presentation. So I'm trying to (inaudible) around behind the flowers [ph] as I'll step
forward a bit, so the (inaudible) doesn't kick in.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from a perspective connected to young investor, investing for good, not just invest to
generate returns but making the world a better place is a really important connection
point and we've talked about the fact that we're spending a lot of time last three or four
years building products in ESG space, sustainable space to try and connect investors who
want to, as I said, generate long-term savings and wealth, but also importantly connect to
making the world a better place. I think that's really, really important. So absolutely and
constantly evolving, talking to customers, evolving our product lineup in conjunction with
the feedback that we get from our customers.
You had a third question, which is about investment trust. I think a great, great example is
that we launched last year and Will was the brainchild behind that. So maybe I could hand
that one over to you.

A - William Nicoll

{BIO 2031697 <GO>}

So investment trust, I mean, yes, the answer always when you launch an investment trust
is why? Why would you do an investment trust because it is more expensive than the
mutual fund. So --- but if you've got an asset class that is illiquid, then it's the obvious way
you go through. When we launched the investment trust, the credit investment trust we
did last year, we did that on the basis that would be the start of a business to go forward.
So we will continue to launch that, as long as there are sensible assets that we can put
inside, as long as clearly the clients need and demand.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Just two requests. One is -- my first question, if you could -- your next presentation, if you
could reduce Solvency II sensitivity with -- for highest spreads in combination with
downgrades, that would be helpful. And the second thing is, I notice you made a
comment -- I don't know if there is a breakout. But of the GBP25 billion annuities, is it 50%
-- 56% secured debt profile -- I wonder -- secured debt. I wonder if you can give us a
credit profile of this. So we can understand the credit risk in it and that's a request. But
two questions is just also looking at credit -- those are two requests. So I'll get away. Just

Page 55 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

in terms of explicit questions, in terms of your third-party funds, I mean, it appears to me
that it's predominantly in fixed interest of some nature. I was wondering if you can give us
some kind of feeling how a credit event would affect that level of some kind of exposure
feeling and second thing is just IFRS 17 that you've done some work. I wonder how that
would -- IFRS profits will evolve under that new regime.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

I'll take the first one and the last one, and then I've forgotten (inaudible). On the request,
let me take that way and come back to you on that one. One at Spencer and I'll come
back to you in terms of what we will supply. On IFRS 17, bear in mind IFRS 17 doesn't come
in until 1st January 2022. So we're very much in the early stages of actually evaluating what
does it mean. And with the largest with-profit fund in the market open to new business,
that is one of the most critical -- or one of the most challenging and complex areas
around IFRS 17. So yes, we have started to do the analysis to understand what we think the
profit profiles will look like on an IFRS 17 basis, but there are probably more questions than
there are answers at the moment. So I think we need a bit more time to actually evaluate
it.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(technical difficulty) for the institutional side, it was about a credit event?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
(technical difficulty) I mean in general, because we're a bottom-up fund manager, you
tend to skew the portfolios away from fashionable areas because where the pricing starts
getting a little expensive, then the fund managers will seek to move the assets
elsewhere. So in the financial crisis, we had an extremely good financial crisis, because we
were underweight all the fashionable assets and then we're able to buy them afterwards.
So I don't want to give the wrong impression, but I have got quite a lot of bottom from
vendors out there who'd quite like a nice crisis.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Johnny?

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Sorry. Just a question on Heritage. I mean there is outflows of about GBP7 billion a year,
what's your recapture rate on those assets out the back, and what's your strategy on the
Heritage book in terms of capturing assets? And the second question is just on Page 104
in terms of the hedge result, why was that negative given the markets were down.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

The reason why it's negative is because the markets have been positive over the last
couple of years. So, because we're hedging that and we're giving away the upside, then
it's naturally negative in terms of costs.

Page 56 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

Do you want to take that?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
No, I mean the recapture, so with respect to the pensions group that sits within Heritage,
Prudential Financial Planning had an host advisory service, clearly supports existing
customers going through into the accumulation. So it has a long track record of
recapturing those customers who fundamentally want to shift into PruFund as their vehicle.
And there's lots of customers who do and there's lots of customers who fundamentally
don't, in most instances because they just want to take the cash. But we have a strong
recapture rate.
Moving to the new policy administration systems give us a lot more functionality for things
that we make customers take full withdrawal on and actually they would be quite happy
with partial withdrawal given the investment performance. They may not be at the case
size that we typically see in PruFund, but we think there's a lot we can do to strengthen
that recapture rate too.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Much better. So, a couple of questions. So the FCA's review into the past annuity sales at
GBP400 million just -- can you remind us -- is that set aside for the cost of redress only or
is the cost of redress on a potential fine and might there be a potential fine?
And the second question is on With-Profit, and there's plenty of small With-Profit Funds
out there, none of them of course are core to anywhere else, apart from you. I mean is
there any benefit, would there any benefit for you to be taking on acquiring some of
these With-Profit Funds and if there is any benefit, would you have any desire to do so?
Thank you.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

On the provision, so the provision cost includes the cost of remediation and the actual
redress itself. It doesn't include any provision for fine and that's obviously something that
is outside of our control in terms of where the regulator goes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
And are you in the market for small With-Profit books?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Again it's -- when you -- to sort of merge With-Profits is a very, very difficult thing to do,
and looking at the governance around out With-Profits book, it would have to be a pretty
compelling proposition that we will go through the exercise to actually do it. And so we've
kicked it around, but we think unlikely.
But again, never seen that.

Page 57 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

Andrew?

FINAL

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Hello, it's Andrew Crean with Autonomous again. It looks that your central costs are about
GBP100 million if I had measured the boxes roughly right. How much of those are
additional to old track just transferred from plc is one question.
Then the second question, could you give us a sense of the net flows and the relative
performance of your key funds in the first half of '19?

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So on the head office costs, you realize it's reasonably right, it's a little bit lower than
GBP100 million. Some of those costs are costs that already from Prudential plc, some of
those costs also relate to effectively functions that we were building up within the
organization and some of those is new cost, it expands those three separate areas.

A - Unidentified Speaker
In performance, I would say there have been areas of improvement, but I would not say
that, we would say there's been a massive turnaround in performance, but it's the
information we provided today.

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) I don't think we're in a position to comment until we get the results in August.

Q - Dom O'Mahony
Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Can I just ask a question about the administration, the
Heritage book. Firstly, is there sort of one unified administration sort of operating model
across both the shareholder and With-Profits annuities book? And I guess relatedly, could
you remind us, is it integrated with the book that transferred to Rothesay, where that
actually can be administered, if you do it separately.
And then secondly the arrangements with your outsourcing partners, I assume they are
very long dated, could you give us a sense of how long dated and whether there are any
sort of break clauses. Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Our Heritage platform sits together in one administration unit that we have with Diligenta.
So we don't differentiate on wavering the fund. Obviously, there is many, many different
products in there that we administer that go across many, many different investment
funds, but from a customer perspective, we service them in a general way, making sure
we cover all those products, and all the features.
In terms of what agreements we've signed and what they look like, I mean they are fairly
typical industry agreements. So you'll see on the BPO relationship which is with Diligenta,
Page 58 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

FINAL

which is the UK regulated part of TCS, that's a 10-year deal. As most of these deals are,
with the level of money you put in and then the profile you get out. And obviously there's
a lot of longevity in that customer base. So it makes a lot of sense for them and us. But
really we are working through all the upfront transformation of that to complete well in
line with the 2022 guidance we've given.
And then in terms of the IT piece, slightly different, but the IT relationship we have is with
the TCS parent, and they look after our legacy data center infrastructure. That typically sits
as a five plus two deal, again fairly standard in the industry. And there is lots for us to
evaluate through the life of that deal, we're looking at physical infrastructure, this is cloudbased infrastructure, what sort of synergies we can get, not just on the immediate run
cost but also future looking into growth and growth marginal cost. And really we're trying
to get a lot more of those costs are fixed and we grow without needing to scale those at
a similar kind of rate. So, long-term deals which allow us to really look at that innovation.

Q - Unidentified Participant
And sorry, just on the Rothesay piece?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So with Rothesay, when it all goes through, we'll continue to administer, and there's
relationship with Prudential. We'll continue to administer those policies for a period of
time. Rothesay when you look at what they do typically in the market, they use capital for
a lot of administration and a period of time, you can expect that to transfer.
We've gone through a fairly extensive process of making sure the information, the
branding and everything, the data and customer data is separate as part of doing that
and we're in good shape for that head of waiting for final feedback from the court.

A - Spencer Horgan

{BIO 4241901 <GO>}

All right. We'd just take a couple more, if there are any. Yeah, Andrew.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Andrew Baker from Citi. So I think you mentioned earlier, those of the transformation
expense savings, I think GBP60 million on the Heritage book. Has this been taken in the
Solvency II ratio yet through lower unit cost estimates or -- and if not, when do you
anticipate that will be recognized. And any idea or magnitude would be great.

A - Clare Bousfield

{BIO 16746072 <GO>}

So the cost savings, the GBP145 million is the cash savings in terms of -- from the
transformation. We have booked some capitalized savings from -- particularly from signing
the Diligenta agreement with TCS, in terms of the capitalized impact, but there is still a
reasonably significant amount to come through.

A - John Foley

{BIO 16905500 <GO>}
Page 59 of 60



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-07-06

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

One more, if there is one. No, we've exhausted you. Fantastic. So we'll wrap it up there.
Thank you so much to all of you for coming. It's been great to see so many of you here.
We really appreciate your interest in our story and we look forward to seeing you next
time. Thanks.

Page 60 of 60

