Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrea Novelli, CEO of BancoPosta
Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Marco Siracusano, CEO PostePay SpA
Massimiliano Riggi, Head of Investor Relations
Massimo Rosini - Head of Mail & Parcel
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and General Manager
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Alberto Villa
Analyst
Anna Adamo
Ashik Musaddi
Elena Perini
Federico Braga

Bloomberg Transcript

Gian Luca Ferrari
Giovanni Razzoli
Manuela Meroni
Matija Gergolet

Presentation
Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Good morning, and welcome to Poste Italiane Capital Markets Day 2019. I am
Massimiliano Riggi, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you for being with us. Today we will
focus on the ﬁnancial and operational results for 2018, and provide a guidance on 2019.
All within the context of our Deliver 2018 [ph] Strategic Plan. On screen, you can see our
agenda for today. In a few moments, you will hear from Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive
Oﬃcer and My General Manager, who will provide an overview of our progress on Deliver
2022. Then (inaudible), Head of Mail and Parcel will focus on the ongoing transformation
of our Core Postal Services. followed by Marco Siracusano, CEO of PostePay SpA, who will
give you an update on our payments, mobile, and digital activities. We will then have a
Q&A session, where we will take questions on the main parts certain distribution as well
as payments, mobile and digital presentations. After a coﬀee break of a 15 minutes, we
will resume at 10 to 11, Andrea Novelli, CEO of BancoPosta, will discuss the key
developments related to our ﬁnancial and insurance services activities. Then, Guido Nola,

Page 1 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Group CFO will provide more detail on our ﬁnancial results for 2018 and as well as our
guidance on 2019.

FINAL

We will then take all of your questions on the CEO, CFO, and Financial and Insurance
presentations during our ﬁnal Q&A session. During the Q&A, we will try and answer as
many of your questions as possible. Please keep to a maximum of two questions, and
please state your name and company before asking the question.
For each topic not covered -- prefer to contact me and my team and we will come back to
you as soon as possible. The event will conclude that around 12:40 London time,
following some concluding remarks from our CEO Before we start, I must ask you to read
disclaimer on screen. A copy of this is also included in the presentation that could -- that
you received on arrival. So let's get started and I hope you enjoy the rest of the day. Thank
you. Matteo, over to you.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Mr.Massimiliano. So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Poste Italiane Capital
Market Day. It is our ﬁrst one here in London. And delighted that you were able to join us
today, given the major events, so that are taking place in London today. So thank you for
that.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like to welcome also all my Poste Italian colleagues, who are joining us online
from our headquarters in Rome and from all our locations around Eagerly [ph]. So we're
getting (inaudible).

Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Thank you to all my colleagues institutions and social actors. Who supports the daily work
of our company.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

On progress against ﬁnancial and operational targets for 2018, and provide you guidance
for 2019. Across everything you see today, Deliver 2022 targets are unchanged from those
we are announced just a year ago in February 2019. And for the sake of clarity, you will see
targets for 2020 and 2022, shaded in gray. So that you can better identify the actual
ﬁgures and KPI for 2018. And then, the new guidance we'll provided for 2019.
Let's get started. On slide 2, I wanted to remind you of the key principle of our Deliver
2022. Our strategic blueprint which we launched just a year ago in the Milan. Our goal is
to build on our powerful network capabilities both in terms of physical and product
distribution. And ensure that, we remain the most eﬀective and trusted network in Italy.
Deliver 22 is built on clear market needs across all our businesses. The long-term market
trends remain unchanged and we creating a business that is better position to both
capitalize on market growth. And we stand the volatility.

Page 2 of 44



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Deliver 2022, is a transformation program and we have seen signiﬁcant progress in 2018,
across all segments. We now have many I believe of the core elements in place and can
focus on optimizing the business so to drive the future growth. And ﬁnally Deliver 2022
provides a clear ﬁnancial targets and KPI's and we will show you today, how we have met
those for 2018. And provide you guidance for 2019. On slide On slide 3 please, let me
remind you of the key consolidated targets, that we presented at our ﬁrst Capital Markets
Day last year. We committed to revenues growing organically based on conservative
assumptions. Most importantly, we committed to improve both the mix and the quality of
our revenue streams. The impact will be at the EBITDA and at the net proﬁt level with a
growth of 10% and 15% accumulated annually respectively. This supported by cost
eﬃciencies during the course of plan.
You'll also remember that, we announce a new dividend policy committing to a 5% annual
dividend for 2018, 2019 and 2020. And then to a minimum payout of 60% for 2021 and
2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now, look at slide number 4. Where we can say that they were very pleased that we
have actually met all our 2018 ﬁnancial targets, as you can see in the chart. Our CFO,
Guido Nola will go into more detail on our Q4 and 2018 ﬁnancials. But let me just focus
on a couple of points. We beat our revenue target with a more sustainable mix, with all
segments are contributing to an underlying operational progression.
This resulted in a EBIT of 1.5 billion versus our target of 1.4 billion. Net proﬁt was 1.4 billion
ahead of our target. This includes a 385 million one-oﬀ DTA aﬀect related to Poste Vita. As
anticipated we are proposing a dividend of $0.44 per share for 2018. Obviously subject to
approval of our forthcoming [ph] Annual General Meeting.
In summary, we are pleased with progress in the ﬁrst year. The remain focused on Delivery
given the signiﬁcant operational transformation of our activity. So which are still underway.
On slide 5, please. We look at our ﬁnancial performance at the segment level. Thanks to
market opportunities and Deliver 2022 initiatives we took, and we roll out last year. All
segments achieve the ﬁnancial targets for the ﬁrst year of the plan as you can see.
In Mail, Parcel & Distribution, B2C Parcel Growth drove revenues supported by better than
expected the Mail performance. While, our network transformation drove an acceleration
in cost eﬃciencies. In Payment, Mobile and Digital, growth in overall card stock and
transactions as well as mobile and landline users, drove revenues and supported the
bottom line. In Parcel services, we expanded our product portfolio and improve our
service oﬀer, resulting in higher TFAs. And in insurance services, we retain our leadership
in life products. While, continuing to rebalance our business to capital life products, and
PNC activities.
On slide 6. We have conﬁdence in our ability to meet looking forward, our Deliver 2022
targets. Thanks to the broader market trends that underpin our growth. Which we
highlight on this page. Our business leaders will go into more details later. But just to
remind you of the key market trends behind our growth paths. For Mail and Parcel, the
Page 3 of 44



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

long-term decline in Mail is oﬀset by accelerating opportunity in B2C Parcel, driven by
rapid growth in e-commerce. E-commerce now represent the 7% of total retail sales in
Italy, up from 4% in 2017. The average Italian last year receive 3.4 Parcel per year which is
one more than the receiver, will received in 2017. In ﬁnancial services and insurance
growing Italian wealth, low personal debt levels, and low P&C penetration creates
opportunity for our improved product range and service oﬀer. Additionally, we believe
(inaudible) and (inaudible) also create opportunities for Poste, given our reputation as a
cost eﬀective and transparent service provider.
Finally steady growth in card payments and faster growth in the innovative digital
payments arena is supported by high-end and European penetration of smartphone and
more and data usage in Italy. With at the same time, a non-cash payments lag in European
levels and therefore creating an interest opportunity for growth of our (inaudible)
business in Italy.
Before, we look more closely at our Deliver 2022 progress. Let's look at some of our Key
highlights for 2018, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now more detail of our business transformation. Starting with our core Parcel
business on the slide no. 9 please. In 2018, we achieve an important milestone, when the
increase in Parcel revenues, basically oﬀset for the ﬁrst time the decline in Mail revenues.
Our eﬀort to get to this point have been signiﬁcant.
We began, with a new focus on commercial leadership to optimize client penetration. We
then focus on our network logistic, which we transform to increase the Delivery of B2C
Parcel using the Mail network. In practice, what we did, we restructure the Mail Delivery
network with the aim of maximizing this share of the growing B2C volumes implementing
a full Joint Delivery Model on our logistic network.
In the traditional rigid world of logistic where global peers are now piloting Joint Mail and
Parcel Delivery in speciﬁc logistic areas, Poste Italiane was the ﬁrst to commit to a largescale Joint Delivery Transformation. Not only to Deliver Parcel by our Prestiti [ph], which
we were already doing. But also to capitalize on the rapid development e-commerce
transformation, through the transformation of the Logistic network with this speciﬁc aim.
Supported by a major network optimization program, that transformation has been
signiﬁcant and the impact immediate. In 2019 [ph], we successfully rolled out 50% 50% of
our Joint Delivery Model, and our target is to get to 100% by the end of 2019. Some
ﬁgures, 45 million Parcels were delivered by our postini [ph] in 2018. And we're planning
to increase this number to 60 million in 2019. Given that, the ﬁgure was 35 million in 2017.
And only 14 million in 2016. The progression is really impressive. We invested in state-ofthe-art automated equipment in sorting and introduced a new local manufacturing
model, delivering immediate results in productivity and capacity. We now have a stable
platform for signiﬁcantly improve customer experience, which we believe is the real key to
e-commerce growth. Massimo Rosini, our Head of Mail and Parcel, we take you through
the transformation in more detail, highlighting some service innovation we're working on.
From afternoon and weekend deliveries, which we already doing today to instant same
day and scheduled delivery that we're working on two service tomorrow.

Page 4 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Let's now move to slide number 10. Where we shift our focus from physical, to product
distribution. Our priority within Deliver 2022 is to maximize the unique value of our frontend distribution network, I remind you. The improvements we are driving across all
activities are a key factor of the trust, that people and clients having Poste Italiane and the
important role we were playing in communities across Italy. We actively embrace this role
and several recent initiative has demonstrated this.
Let me start with the ready to digital enhance, our citizen income a key program of central
administration were Poste Italiane provides application and issuance support clearly
demonstrating our strong capabilities in managing complex initiatives eﬃciently, thanks
to our stronger and reliable IT platform and our physical footprint. We're also the main
issuer of digital ID's that provide a single electronic platform access to government
services. We have 85 market share of those ID's on behalf of the Italian state. Another
major Poste Italiane project was piccoli Comuni or more communities.
Last November, we brought together in Rome over 3,000 may [ph] years from all around
Italy and more than a 100 government representatives, to share our commitment to Italy's
communities. And our (inaudible) and commitment to keep post oﬃces open in
municipalities, with less than 5,000 inhabitants.

Bloomberg Transcript

Retaining the trust of our communities is vital to the success of our business we believe. It
will always be a priority for us as well as a key driver of performance.
Moving to slide number 11. Our focus in ﬁnancial and insurance is enhancing the role of
the Post Oﬃce in our communities. We did this by expanding our product range to
become the ﬁnancial one stop shop for our customers. We made signiﬁcant progress in
this space in 2018. We have enhanced our oﬀer across wealth management, mutual funds,
life and P&C insurance, postal savings, loans and mortgage distribution. We are
particularly pleased to see in 2018, postal savings back at the heart of our oﬀer. Thanks to
the agreement with CDP, Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, that we signed on 2017, and our
renewed commetal [ph] focus on the product. Let me remind you, that Poste Italiane has
been collecting, state guarantee, retail savings since 1876. Why you have seen many
players reporting lower TFAs in a challenging market. Our TFAs have grown from 510
billion to 514 billion in 2018. Primary thanks to record retail network inﬂows as you will see
later. And market share increase, across Key asset classes and products. The other area of
focus has been the announcement of our commercial frontline. A Key component of this,
as being the strengthening of our relationship manager network. And today , we have
20% of our clients with a dedicated relationship manager. I remind you, that we started in
2017 with a 7% coverage.
In 2019, we will take the total number of Relationship Manager from 8000 to 9000. But,
given the scale of our network one area of focus has been on mobile coverage, where
specialists mobile Relationship Manager work on a IT optimized model, based both on
geographic eﬃciency and business potential. We currently have around 1,000 mobile
Relationship Managers and we will also increase this number by around 50% in 2019.

Page 5 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Our Relationship Managers all of them, will be supported by improve digital capabilities
from data-driven CRMs to real time investment proposal and referral tools. Andrea
Novelli, CEO of BancoPosta, will tell you more about the major steps we have taken and
we are taking in this space.
Moving to slide 12, we are maximizing the opportunities from payment and mobile
convergence, with over 26 million cards in circulation and 1.1 billion transaction managed
in 2018. We will build on our leadership in payments clearly on the issuance side, on the
card side, by adding new service and partnership that Deliver improve customer
experience.
We continue to grow our mobile customer base of over 4 million active SIM cards, and
landline contracts. Driving future proﬁtability through more sustainable, longer term
contracts and bundle oﬀers. The key events of 2018 was the launch of PostePay Connect.
An innovative, integrated oﬀer which bundle payment and mobile services including real
time Giga and instant peer-to-peer money transfer. All in one app, for a single annual fee.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our payment mobile and digital unit is also helping to accelerate our group wide digital
developments, always with the goal of improving customer experience. Marco
Siracusano, the CEO of the newly-built PostePay company will take you through these
developments in more detail later.
Looking at our investment in projects on slide number 13. We are accelerating our CapEx
deployments for 2019, as we continue to drive transformation and growth. Total CapEx will
increase by 12% and reached 600 million, we have highlighted on this slide. The key
investment areas on a segment by segment basis. In Mail, Parcel and Distribution the
focus is an additional investment in latest sorting and automation technology machines.
In Payment, Mobile and Digital the focus is on product and business developments we
look to continue our customer and market share growth. And in ﬁnancial and insurance
services, we will continue to invest in our product portfolio, and ensure our continuous
compliance with all regulatory requirements across our network.
To close my presentation today, let me focus on guidance for 2019. I start with the 2018
results so that you can see on page 15 as a reminder and our performance in meeting
those targets for 2018.
On slide 16, whereas some progression has we said of underlined operating proﬁt allow
us to beat our targets of the year. The growth in revenues that you see supported by cost
eﬃciency, at a meaningful impact of the operating level that with low leverage, and
ﬁnancial charges translated into an increase in net proﬁt. And this is through also stripping
out the 385 million one-oﬀ eﬀect of the DTA, we mentioned earlier related to Poste Vita.
We can now move to slide 17, where we present our guidance for 2019. In '19 you will see,
on page -- okay, a progression of our revenues, margins and proﬁtability also thanks to
our strong balance sheet. Our ﬁrst year result plus our second year targets of our ﬁve-year
Deliver 2022 journey clearly show we're heading in the right direction. My colleagues will
Page 6 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

provide you more detail on the initiatives, we're putting in place across all our segments
to make sure, we deliver another successful year of results. And Guido will provide more
detail on both the Q4 and full year 2018 results. So that you will then be able to look at the
2019 guidance targets for all business areas.
Finally, moving to slide 18. I want to repeat we're committed to closely tracking Deliver
2022 progress, and we will continue to update you on the key performance indicator
across all our business on a quarterly basis. And as you can see, on the chart, we're
moving in the right direction in all segments and in all indicators.
In May, Poste Italiana we'll receive next May, -- release -- sorry, our ﬁrst integrated group
ESG Report. Which will be built on our new strategic framework. Our plan is to build on 6
pillars which link Poste to the key 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The
focus on a couple or three areas. I would like to emphasize, the ﬁrst to the people. Which
includes in our targets health and safety, as well as the major training and development
initiatives. We are implementing to support to Deliver 2022. We perform almost 4 million
hours of training in 2018, and 20 million hours of training will be provided by the end of
the Deliver 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, the support to the system to the country and the territory, where we assess Poste
Italiane, social economic impact across GDP employment and public administration.
And third, Decarbonization [ph] , real estate and logistics. Where we focus on energy
savings in our real estate together with a signiﬁcant increase in electric vehicle within our
delivery ﬂeet and optimize capacity in transport Logistic. We look forward to the ﬁrst
publication of our ﬁrst integrated ESG report, as we further demonstrate our commitment
to retain the high level of thruster from our stakeholders at the moment. That's all for me
now, it is time to hear from our business leaders on the exciting progress taking place
around Poste Italiane. We have later two Q&A sessions, to answer a speciﬁc question from
the audience. And now I will hand over to my colleague, please Massimo Rosini, Head on
Mail and Parcel. Thank you all of you.

Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. Good morning everyone, thank you for being here today. In the next
20 minutes, I'm going to provide an update on our comprehensive network
transformation plan. I will be glad to take your questions during Q&A session. The
strategy I presented to you last February, remains the backbone of our plan. And now our
2018 results, demonstrate that this strategy is the right one.
Let me remind you, of the 3 main pillars of our Delivery 2022 Strategy. We are using our
unrivalled Logistic and Distribution network, to capitalize on the (inaudible) growth of ecommerce and counter the unavoidable declining Mail.
Second, we are transforming our network by leveraging our innovative Joint Delivery
Model for Mail and Parcels. This transformation covers the entire value chain, transport

Page 7 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

sorting and delivery it involves people technology and infrastructure. Improving eﬃciency
and addressing present and future growth opportunities.

FINAL

Third, this transformation will allow us to further improve our customer experience. A Key
step to meet evolving e-commerce needs. We are convinced of that, e-commerce and
B2C Parcel growth, are a huge opportunity for Poste. But the only way to deliver these
growth is to focus on e-shopper satisfaction.
As you can see on slide 2, we have achieved our 2018 targets and made solid ﬁrst step in
our long-term plan . To focus on the few key points, stable 2018 segment revenues are
driven by Parcel growth oﬀsetting Mail decline. We are to perform at the revenue target
for our segment. Thanks to a delay in the liberalization of a speciﬁc registered Mail
product. B2C Parcel revenues grew from 0.2 to 0.3 in 2018, and impressive growth rate of
28%.
As a result of this our B2C market share moved from 30% to 33%. Thanks to our improved
value proposition. 45 million Parcel were delivered by our postini, up 30% year-on-year.
Thanks to the implementation of the Joint Delivery model. These results allowed us to
improve our segment revenue on FDE ratio, a key measure to evaluate our network
transformation. It increase from EUR60,000 to EUR62,000.

Bloomberg Transcript

These encouraging results are enforced by the trend we have seen in the ﬁrst month of
the 2019. With the double-digit Parcel growth oﬀsetting the continued decline of Mail.
Let's move to slide 3. The long term market trend, presented last year are conﬁrmed by
the latest available data. Let's start with Mail. In 2018, the Italian market so a lower
declined that European average, but in the long-term Italy, remains one of the country's
most impacted by e-substitution. Mail per capital ratio is still well below the EU is on [ph]
average.
On the other hand, B2C Italian Parcel growth is conﬁrmed, with a year-on-year growth of
17% in 2018. Online sales as a percentage of total retail sales moved from 4% to 7% yearon-year. And the gap between Italy and the European average is still signiﬁcant. In
summary, the growth of e-commerce in Italy is happening today, and it is a great
opportunity for the future.
Now I'm going to take you through our network transformation in more detail. I will show
you progress in 2018, and outline our key priorities for 2019. Drive Five, summarizes the
key areas of our network transformation. Our overall roadmap is unchanged, and
progress is fully on track. The transformation is focusing on the whole value chain
transport sorting, and delivery. Starting with transport, we are optimizing our Air and
Ground network connections.
Second, sorting, we are streamlining operations by introducing new automatic equipment
building new sorton [ph] centers for all group Parcels and introducing a lean [ph]
manufacturing methodology in old sorting centers.

Page 8 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Third delivery, we are introducing our New Joint Delivery Model, to drive work shift
ﬂexibility in line with client needs. with a combined approach for Mail and Parcel. All
initiatives are underway, and our 23 performance conﬁrms that the long-term targets are
achievable.
Now I would like to dive into each segment of the value chain. Let's move to slide 6.
Transport optimization is a key to enabling us, to better save the e-commerce market with
faster end-to-end solutions. In 2018, we optimized aim transportation on a leveraging on
our joint approach for Mail and Parcel, improving overall vehicle situation from 78% to
80%.
During 2018 our A company shifted its focus completely to Cargo, exploding the
opportunities related to Parcel growth. We now have six dedicated eight cargo routes that
allow for next day delivery to Southern Italy and the Islands. This is summating other
players simply cannot oﬀer.
During the traditional busy Christmas period, we introduced an additional air connection
(inaudible) Italy. In order to meet increased demand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, overall transportation costs including ground have been reduced through ﬂeet
right-sizing, dropping from 29,000 to 27,000 in 2018. In 2019 we will continue to focus on
further improvements in our air connections driven by volume growth. We will also begin
to focus on ground cargo connections. Optimizing long goal eﬃciency and quality
through advanced IT solution.
Moving to slide 7, and a sorting. Here our focus is on automation and operational
excellence to improve our automated sorting capacity and eﬃciency. We are also
empowering our people to be the drivers of change. We introduced one new best in
class Mail and Parcel sorting machine in Milan, increasing our automated Parcel sorting
capacity by 25%. We also introduced the two new mix at the Mail sorting machine, in
Boloniya and Milan.
These can sort multiple Mail sizes that previously required diﬀerent machines. As a result,
we reduced overall Mail sorting lines by 60% and improved real estate usage. We also
began to introduce a lean [ph] manufacturing approach. I am pleased to say seven of our
10 sorting centers are already up and running. This methodology mainly used industrial
companies is a bottom-up approach, where all our people become the engines of
change, by suggesting continuous workplace improvements. The main pillars are safety,
quality and cost reduction.
The lean approach is a vital tool in changing the mindset of our staﬀ, improving overall
engagement and satisfaction. In 2019, we will introduce a new Parcel sorting center in
Boloniya this is signiﬁcant investment in the Logistic heart of Italy, will improve our
automated sorting capacity and driver further eﬃciency. We will also install four new Mail
and one new Parcel of sorting machine, and will complete the rollout of lean
manufacturing across all 10 sorting center.

Page 9 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Finally, I am pleased to announce that on the 8 of March, we signed an important new
agreement with our unions. This will be a Key enabler for all ongoing sorting
improvements, beneﬁting our people, our network, our customers. We achieve these
important goals thanks to the proactive and collaborative engagement with our unions.
Demonstrating they are aligned with our strategic plan.
Moving to slide 8. Let us now take a closer look after the most important component of
our network transformation, The Joint delivery model, I'm pleased to say that Poste
Italiane has been a ﬁrst mover among its global peers. We have completely reorganized
the way we deliver. In our delivery centers, we have introduced a morning shift for
traditional Mail, and the daily additional shift in afternoon for Parcel and Register Mail.
Given that the most important logistics issue to manage, is daily product variability. The
Joint Delivery Model allow us to maximize productivity by moving products between the
two daily shifts in a way that others cannot do. The implementation began in May-April
last year and by the end of 2018 almost half of Italy has been reorganized in line with our
targets.

Bloomberg Transcript

We expect total roll out by the end of 2019. As of today the results are very positive,
afternoon [ph] we can delivery is now in place improving delivery eﬃcacy, and customer
satisfaction. Sunday delivery was added during the Christmas period improving eshoppers experience. We saw improved productivity and the 10% reduction in FTEs in line
with plan yearly retirement initiatives.
The rollout of the Joint Delivery Model was also supported by the introduction of more
than 303 wheeled electric vehicles improving load factor, safety and sustainability.
In summary, the Joint Delivery Model gives us the possibility not only to deliver Parcel by
our postini, but also to capitalize on the rapid development of e-commerce.
Moving to slide 9, our network transformation at an operational level has created a strong
platform for us, to capture growth opportunities. I would like to spend a few minutes,
talking about our vision for quality and customer experience.
On slide10. We have outlined the steps taken in 2018 to improve our oﬀer based on
customer needs. Customers wanted to drop oﬀ or pick up Parcels at place is convenient
to their everyday lives. We now have been placed the most expensive proximity network
in Italy, called the PuntoPoste network. PuntoPoste oﬀers our customers easily accessible
service points and ﬂexible opening hours through locals and retail outlets. This is in
addition to Post Oﬃces.
In 2018, we introduced more than 400 alternative delivery points, and then we will add
around 8,000 more by 2022. In May last year, we signed an agreement with the
Federation of Italian Tobacco business. This is the largest network in Italy, with around
50,000 sales [ph] point and the agreement enables tobacconist shops to join the
PuntoPoste network. We launched the new Parcel of features in order to improve
customer experience.
Page 10 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

These includes safe place delivery, neighborhood delivery, change place and time and
old my Parcel during the day options. As a result of all these actions, we saw year-on-year
growth of 27% for B2C volumes well above the market. In 2019, we will announce our
PuntoPoste network with around 3500 additional delivery points. And, we'll continue to
introduce new Parcel features, such as same-day delivery. We will also carry out a pilot city
logistic project. This will test on food, and bicycle delivery options in town center's easing
environmental and traﬃc impact.
Let's move to slide 11. Now I want to share with you our perspective of the future
development of the e-commerce in Italy. In our vision the e-shopper will drive the
evolution of the market, by observing more mature markets we can better prepare for the
evolution of e-commerce in Italy. We know e-shoppers will look for faster, customized
ongoing solutions. For example, highly customized delivery solution at based such as a
step-by-step delivery visual monitor using GPS

Bloomberg Transcript

To meet this trend, we must embrace new disruptive service model, and lead the way we
need, when it comes too. Introducing new product features such as instant delivery
solutions, shifting from centralized warehouse into small urban storage points, that are
closer to these shoppers, or time deﬁnite options to deliver Parcel in agreed time slots
with full transparency on the driver journey.
To summarize, while our clients are the sender's, merchants and marketplaces. We
believe, the only way for us to obtain our business is to propose new solutions that need
and anticipate evolving e-shoppers needs. We are exploring all options to deliver this.
Now I want to play a short video that shows you our 2018 network upgrades. And the way,
we are improving e-shopper experience, enjoy.
Let's now look at our ﬁnancial targets and KPI evolution across the plan. Please move to
slide 14. After more than 10 years in 2018, Parcels revenues growth as oﬀset Mail decline.
We expect this trend to continue in 2019. In fact, in the ﬁrst month, we are experiencing a
double-digit Parcel growth oﬀsetting the continued decline of Mail. Our main goal for the
future is to achieve a sustainable business model, through stable revenues and eﬃciency
enhancements driven by our network turn around.
On slide 15, we conﬁrm our core targets. Stable total revenues for 2019 and throughout
the plan, signiﬁcant double-digit growth in B2C Parcels and market share increase. More
than 100 million Parcels to be delivered by postini in 2022. And segment revenue on FTE
ratio growing to EUR68,000 in 2022. This growth is fueled by a signiﬁcant investment
plan, focused on automation, new Parcel sorting centers, advanced IT solutions
infrastructure and safety.
Finally, it's time (inaudible) to our client today's key messages. First, our long-term
strategy is conﬁrmed and delivering early results. Second network turnaround is fully on
track, producing tangible eﬀects. And we take a solution risk fully under control. These as
improved , thanks to the union agreement sign on the 8 of March.

Page 11 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Third e-commerce development is a certainty in the present and the great opportunity for
the future. Today we are playing a key role and we want remain leader tomorrow,
contributing to the digital transformation of the country. Let me see a gain after one year.
We are changing the way Postal business is done in Italy, come and see us has deliver.
Thank you for your attention. Over to you Marco.

Marco Siracusano

{BIO 20101643 <GO>}

Thank you, Massimo. Good morning, everyone. I Marco Siracusano, Head of Payments,
Mobile & Digital, and CEO PostePay. Today I will focus on our progress in the digital
payments industry and our plans to maintain and build on our existing capabilities. To
give you a brief overview, Payments, Mobile and Digital is a dedicated business unit, that
was created to maximize synergies between Payments, Mobile oﬀering and Digital
services. Which had previously been spread across diﬀerent business units. Payments
covers, issuing [ph], where we aim to improve our digital oﬀer to identify and enable new
experiences and used cases, such as proximity and up based payments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Acquiring, where we aim to become the payment enabler, a both physical and digital
business growth for our SMEs and corporate clients . Mobile our focus is on the retaining
and growing mobile and landline business while creating a new integrated oﬀer with
digital payments and ﬁnally, regarding digital our goal is to develop the group's digital
ecosystem by exploiting cross businesses synergies from an open perspective, in terms of
services and partnerships.
Moving to slide 3, here we have outlined the key market trends that the underpinned our
strategy. The key market opportunities outlined last year still stand. Italy is quickly
bridging the gap with other European countries in the digital world. Electronic payments
are progressively replacing cash. Showing double-digit growth and this is especially to for
the innovative digital payments market, which is expecting growth of 50% by 2020. This is
also supported by the growing penetration of the internet via mobile and other devices.
And the massive usage of smart phones in Italy that are key enablers of e-commerce, and
other digital payments.
Go to slide 4, the traditional patterns of all industries both in payments and in mobile are
changing in line with new customer behaviors. And in this fast changing scenario Poste
Italiana created PostePay SpA. As unique company that manages and ecosystem of
integrated payment and Telco [ph] product and services.
Therefore last October, we completed the journey to create the new company. And in
November, we launched our Flagship product PostePay Connect, which I will better
described in the following slides.
Moving now to slide 5. Here we have outlined the key revenue drivers for both payments
and mobile. On the payment side, the key priorities are to grow , the PostePay card base a
continue to grow the number of card transactions at the rate higher than expected market
loan.

Page 12 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

On the mobile side in a competitive market, we have increased our stock. Thanks to a
combined actions of maintaining customer acquisitions, while reducing term. And the
measure opportunity for growth and a key driver for the decision to create, PostePay SpA
is to leverage both on the very large PostePay customer base to oﬀer mobile services. On
the loyal Mobile customer base to oﬀer payments product. There are also signiﬁcant
(inaudible) opportunities.
On the payment side, our goal is to transition customers from our standard prepay [ph]
PostePay card oﬀer to the PostePay evolution one which is a prepaid card with an IBAN
[ph] code which operates like a checking account. In Telco Business, we are driving
convergence of mobile and landline oﬀers, to increase overall average revenue per user.
Now, I'm very pleased to introduce you PostePay connect. Our Flagship product that
represent a unique digital framework let me show you a short video ﬁrst (Advertisement). .
PostePay connect is the distinctive digital solution to manage payment cards, and Mobile
SIM through one single PostePay up.

Bloomberg Transcript

The new platform is very powerful, in terms of creating a unique customer experience,
only one click and providing innovative features not currently available with other
providers. These include the ability to transfer Giga real time, a make instant payments
within the PostePay community. The immediate beneﬁt for our business is a boost in both
payments card and Telco SIM sales, and lower attritional mobile customer base by
transforming almost 40% of sales from monthly to annual fees.
Since, PostePay launched is in November we are already seeing a very positive impact on
daily sales ﬁgures from the ﬁrst few months of 2019. Up 19% on cards and 9% on mobile
SIM.
Let's turn to slide 8. On payment side, we have user innovation to boost digital payments
via new services. Both are consumers such as approximately payments in the PostePay up
and for merchants with (inaudible) on PostePay a new one click acquiring solution. We
established our renewed partnership, to further increase the reach and volume of our
payment services. As a result, we saw signiﬁcant growth in our performance key
indicators, 18% growth year-on-year in total card transactions. With that very positive
impact on market share and 22% increase in total payment revenues.
In 2019, we will continue to expand and ecosystem of user experiences and digital
payment services for the PostePay client community. We will also lead the change in
consumer SMEs and corporate usage by creating, new channels integrated product and
services in acquiring e-commerce and mobile payments. We will continue to develop
partnership to strengthen the PostePay ecosystem by expanding opportunities for
PostePay payments.
Let's now turn on Slide 9. Looking now at 2018 achievements for mobile from an
innovation standpoint, we launched fully online digital sales service, which enables
customers to get a new user experience through digital video identiﬁcation, online
payment and self SIM activation, plus 53% year-on-year of total online sales. We also
launched our multi monthly fees oﬀer, which reduced our customer churn and increasing

Page 13 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

the customer loyalty. We also saw good growth in our landline customer base. As a result,
SIM and landline stock grew by 7% year-on-year, while total mobile revenues grew by 3%
outperforming the market.
Our focus for mobile in 2019 can be divided into three key pillars. A reactive strategy in
the competitive mobile market with the focus on new renewal models such as multi
monthly and annual fee. A proactive strategy in the less competitive landline and digital
market, focusing on an integrated oﬀer to drive both seniors and youth segment sales.
And then active strategy in growing and innovative markets with the focus on Ultra
Broadband at the internet oﬀering services.
We will now focus on ﬁnancial and commercial KPI's on Slide 11. Let me give you ﬁrst
some update of the major 2018 PostePay commercial KPI's for our payment and mobile
business. PostePay portfolio cards growing by 8%. Payment card transaction increasing by
18%. Mobile and landline stock growing by 7%. Stock of digital wireless [ph] strongly
increasing by 64%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Move to Slide 12. In 2019, we expect to continue to grow as follows. PostePay Evolution
stock grows by 25%, with the net increase of 1.6 million cards. Payment and card
transactions will grow by 18%, exceeding 1.3 billion transactions.
Turn to Slide 13. Thanks to the previous commercial KPI's showed, 2019 revenues are
progressing well up by 14%, y/y are one the growth in card payments plus 25% and Telco
plus 2% and to contribution from other payments is expected to be in line. As you can see
all our results are progressing in line with deliver 2022 targets. Now, I would like to show
you a short video, which some apps why we created PostePay SpA (Video Advertisement)
Before leaving the stage, I would like to update you also on digital progress at a group
level. We are accelerating in three major areas. Group digital ecosystem to oﬀer a unique
selling proposition. Innovation by creating value through strong digital now [ph] and agile
methodologies.
Customer experience by creating a simple and secure digital experience recognized by
our customers and digital community. Our eﬀorts are not only on the consumer and
corporate side. But, as mentioned by our CEO also actively support the digitalization of
the Italian Public Administration.
Let's turn to slide 16, as you can see, we also add strong double-digit growth across all
group digital KPI's in 2018. The major one is up downloads which increased the by 44% to
21.6 million downloads.
Let's turn to slide 17, in conclusion I would say that the delivery 2022 initiatives are well on
track, increasing both revenues and transactions. We set up PostePay, SpA consolidating
our leadership in the payment market in Italy. And ﬁnally our ﬂagship product PostePay
Connect is the unique integrated platform innovating the payment and Telco markets.
Thank you for your time, and thank you for your attention.

Page 14 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

(Question And Answer)
We're now taking questions on the presentation from Massimo, from Marco. Matija?

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Matija Gergolet from Goldman Sachs. So two questions on my side. The ﬁrst one it's for
Mr.Rosini, Can you give us a bit more color on the recent agreement with the unions. At
this time there's a lot of say talking Europe about a shortage of Labor, maybe it -- isn't a
slightly diﬀerent situation. But what did you manage to agree, what can you share with us,
what's going to be able to say that to some extended ﬁnancial impact on Poste Italiane
wage costs going forward. And second question is on a page 12, of the PostePay or the
presentation of the payments and mobile. If I look at the chart in year -- you talking about
2022 delivery targets but on page 12 it seems to me that you are generally inline or ahead
of the 2022 targets is that a fair assessment or no should we expect a slowdown in the
coming years? Thank you. I think it's page 12, of the of the presentation of the payments
and digital. I mean if I look like at cards, transactions. Very good growth in '18. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Marco Siracusano

{BIO 20101643 <GO>}

Okay. I will start with the union and then ask Massimo, who give more details. Basically
every year before we commit to the budget, that goes to the board and then to the
markets. We have to ﬁnd the agreement with unions, because all the activities that then
we implement to reach what we are committing to today. For example, in terms of
operating margin need to have a pre agreed. So, last year remember we signed an
agreement on the 8 of February, February and we present it to markets on the March 28 -sorry February. This year is 8th of March to 28th of March. Last year the agreement was
mainly aﬀecting the last mile. So, the delivery portion of our distribution network, this year
the agreement is more related to the sorting centers and Massimo highlighted that we are
in the process of putting quarter-on-quarter eﬃciency through lean manufacturing
initiative in all our centers, and we are now I would say, half way in the process, but we
need their agreement to actually achieve the ﬁnal results for this year.
More speciﬁcally Massimo want to say the sickers and the -- Now you'll -- Okay, thank you
for the question and then the agreement of the 8 March as Matteo said these center on
the eﬃciencies on sorting, because on deliver we sign an agreement for the two years set
for the total implementation of our Joint Delivery Model. With this agreement, we shared
with the unions the part of eﬃciency in sorting, including all the introduction and
implementation of automatic machines, and also the lean manufacturing. So, we are
sharing with them the path of 2019, including the eﬃciency.
We want ﬁgures, we're talking around the 3000, which is more or less in that speciﬁc
space. So, what we achieved last year, if you look at my chart when I say, FTE reduction
last month minus 10%, that's exactly the 3,000 eﬃciencies that we found last year in the
last month.
Page 15 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

On the second question, Matteo, you want to take it? I think is a third question we want to
see how you're going to take it.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

We are performing for frankly very well, and in 2019 we will continue to grow maybe
better than in 2018 if you can see, because we are forecasting a growth on cards revenues
by 55%, compared to 22% on 2018, this is a very relevant for us.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Massimo Rosini - Head of Mail & Parcel
No, but I agree, there is a point you will see it in other ﬁgures the risk is that in a 19 steps
over, you know 2020 in some metrics and ﬁnancials and sometimes, but this is a bit more
speciﬁc steps into 2022, deliver 2022. But for the time being we announced the plan last
year, I think there is as I said a lot of transformation eﬀort that we're performing and I think
that the best use of management time is in execution, because there is a lot to do and you
know we will decide when is the right time to review our future that's I think the only
answer I can give you this point with this. Ashik?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. This is Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just a couple of questions. First
of all Massimo thanks a lot for showing those delivery models, the video was pretty nice to
understand. But, what I want to check is how much is the usage of delivery models like
lockers and like the tobacconist centers, are they -- are people using those things or is it
just too early stages because what I notice is you're clearly increasing the locker for
example, 400 to 8,000, that's a big jump, I mean that will involve cost as well.
So, are people really using those alternative delivery points so, that's my ﬁrst one. And
secondly, can you give us some dynamics about pricing, I mean clearly we can see that
distribution power you have for parcels business. But how does the pricing plays a role
here. Because I mean for example, for mass products, I mean are your pricing better than
your competitors. Any thoughts on pricing and the trend for that would be great. Thank
you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. There's no cost related to the third-party network, is purely a variable cost. So, we
have an agreement where they are going to receive as a revenues, which is because for us
per parcel ex amount of so, is purely added ﬂexibility and the use of this network we will
see certainly, is a very unique network in Italy compared to other major countries,
especially because the background is have an oﬃcial government license. And they're
open many hours during the day and weekend.
And so as it happened in other countries in Europe many years ago, they can be seen
over time as cozi [ph] franchisees for some transactional services and products, so we put
Page 16 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

in a big focus on this third party network.

FINAL

In terms of your second question of pricing, the pricing index goes down by 3% in Parcels
'18 over '17 purely for the change in mix. Busy [ph] in our Parcel business in 2018 is the ﬁrst
time where we go way above 50% in B2C We were not a B2C company two years ago.
We're now a B2C courier. So, the price index goes down by 3%, because you change the
mix. The actual price on the B2C products is relatively stable.

Operator
Next question, Gian Luca.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes, Hi. Gian Luca Ferrari for Mediobanca. Again on pricing, you said in B2C is kind of
stable but, if I have to look at the charts you showed, you are basically growing 20% per
year in terms of volumes, in terms of revenues I see only a kind of 10% per year growth.
So, is it B2C really that stable in terms of pricing, are you price taker in that respect?

Bloomberg Transcript

Are you having some weapons to defend pricing in parcel B2C?
Second question is for Marco. I think you ﬂagged a couple of times you want to play it the
acquiring business in SME's at the moment you have 27,000 clients if I spotted it properly,
there are 3.7 million of SME's in Italy. You have only more or less 1% market share. Now,
the market in Italy is intermediated by banks. So, I was wondering how can you increase
this penetration SME's? Are you planning to acquire some books, for example, from
banks or you just plan to grow organically at current growth rates? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think, you know on the ﬁrst question, we can go more into detail maybe oﬄine but, the
last quarter 2018 B2C price average was Apple [ph] versus 2017.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Okay.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So, we are experiencing lower growth than volumes, because of the change in mix. In
terms of the increase of SMEs clients on the payment side, obviously, the SMEs space is
interesting to pass the for the acquiring business side of the payment business. We are on
the issuing inside, on the card side, the market leader with 26 million cards issued and
around 22% of overall payments through our cards.
We have a much lower penetration of the SMEs max space. We are now improving that
penetration through marketing eﬀorts. And there is no speciﬁc plan to do it in any
diﬀerent way, and there is no speciﬁc meaningful increase in revenues in the plan that you
see today related to acquiring revenues.
Page 17 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you. It's Alberto Villa from Intermonte. Couple of questions from my side as
well. The ﬁrst one is on the breakdown of revenues you gave in mobile and digital. Can
you provide us with an indication also of the operating margin split between the two
business. And how you see it develop?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Special because it's quite interesting in the digital payment nowadays. And secondly, you
front loaded a lot of early retirement expenses this year more than 600 million. Can you
give us an indication of what this implies in terms of accelerating or from tending the
employees retirement, and if the pension reform would have any impact on your plans,
given that it may oﬀer some opportunities for you to accelerate on that. Thank you very
much.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Alberto. To be a bit short on this, because the operating margin of every
segment and the HR analysis are in part too of today's program. So, if you just need to
they're with us another few more minutes and then we'll go into the details. Giovanni.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Good Morning. It's Giovanni Razzoli from Equita. Just one question on the payment
mobile and digital space. I was wondering how shall we look at the PSD2 directive. Shall
we look at it as an enabler of further services that you can provide to your customer? Shall
we forget about it, because it's a non-material, or so how shall we consider the market
environment as it is going to be placed from this year? Thank you.

A - Massimo Rosini - Head of Mail & Parcel
Matteo, you want to answer?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

The PSD2 directive, the main eﬀect will be for sure to open the market, also to nontraditional players. We are working very hard on it, even though the starting point will be
in September 2019. And also we are well on track, both on compliant side and innovation
side, because due to the fact that the market will be hoping and also we are ready to put
in place our powerful brand, our IT capabilities, and our innovation capabilities in order to
provide value-added services that the new framework will be available.

A - Massimo Rosini - Head of Mail & Parcel
And I think the more strategic answer can probably be that the game we believe on PSD2
is going be in customer engagement, okay. So, whoever will be able to provide its clients
with the best answers and tools will win that race. So, we start with a very good footprint
Page 18 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

with relatively state-of-the-art product. But, the aim is to improve the customer experience
and the customer engagement. So, that is with the number of products and the number
of clients we have is going to be very hard for any entrants to come and take some of our
space, but clearly is that right an opportunity at the same time.

FINAL

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Yeah, it's right exactly. Thank you.

Operator
(inaudible).

Q - Analyst
This is (inaudible) from Picture 18 [ph]. I have a question for Mr.Rosini. To what extent the
3.5 billion revenue targeted for 2022, is sensitive to the discontinuation of the distribution
of judicial postal letters, as well as the possible discontinuation of the subsidies for
delivery of magazines which have to be discussed beyond 2019.

A - Massimo Rosini - Head of Mail & Parcel

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, the 3.5 billion in revenues is our goal for the plan to maintain the revenue stable. In
terms of USO, we are now with that -- on the January 1, 2020 we will add a new USO, now
we are negotiating the new contract with the government. We expect no negative impact
from the negotiation during our plan.
And for the rest, we are very conﬁdent that in terms of revenue we can maintain the result
of this year. So, we cannot set with Parcel growth the unavoidable decline in May. And
anyway, more speciﬁcally on the Judiciary Act, we have pricing in our project, the
decrease of revenues for a portion which we assume is a fair estimate on the Mail
component. Federico?

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Good morning. Federico Braga from UBS Just a follow-up on your Mail revenues, I mean
mail revenue targets for 2020-2022. If I'm not wrong, it seems that you have raised by
roughly 100 million your revenue targets for the mail division up to 2.4 in 2020, 2.2 in
2022, up from 2.3 and 2.1 in the original plan, but you kept ﬂat your overall target. So, this
is just a conservative approach or we should expect actually some upside on your total
revenue targets for these divisions? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Please, Guido.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

I can take this one. I think again you'll see more details in my presentation later on. I think
the answer you will hear from us throughout this presentation is that we will focus on '19,
Page 19 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

we have certain numbers that are particularly good this year. But, we feel very conﬁdent
that we will deliver on the plan but, we're not going to talk about anything that goes
beyond 2019, so from 2020 onwards.

FINAL

But I'm sure that you ﬁnd more explanation while you see my presentation.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Any question? So, thank you. We are now ready for a coﬀee break of 15 minutes and we
will be back at 15 to 11, the schedule. Thank you. . . . . . .
Okay. So, we start the second session, with Andrea Novelli, the CEO of BancoPosta. And
then, we have the CFO as he anticipated with all the ﬁgures. Let me take the opportunity
to say that Andrea from next month will take increase responsibility in the group, would
be in charge of the net worth of the solution of the postal oﬃces. So this is a good
opportunity to hear from the center the product what as a matter of fact is going to ask
her to be delivering, you know from next month on the ground. Please, Andrea.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Matteo. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today I'm very happy to
update you on our progress on the implementation of the Deliver 2022 plan across our
ﬁnancial and insurance distribution activities. And then, I will also give you some
perspective on our priorities for 2019.
Starting from Slide 2. Let me start by conﬁrming that we reached or exceeded our 2018
revenue targets set and Deliver 2022 for the ﬁnancial segment. Moreover, in terms of the
principle KPI's, we have lined at the launch of the plan last year, we had grown both total
ﬁnancial assets and product sales by volumes. This is a result as our strategy to leverage
on our market leading distribution network and despite macroeconomic headwinds and
increase ﬁnancial markets volatility.
Going to Slide 3. So, while we are seeing signs of European economic slowdown, we
believe that the long-term trends we outlined last year are still in place and continue to be
very favorable for our business model. First, while Italian house [ph] as well in the second
half of 2018 was temporarily aﬀected by ﬁnancial market performance. It continues to
grow and is expected to grow at a steady rate during the plan period.
We still assume moderate growth in interest rates, while the volatility in government
bonds trends can create an upside opportunity for us. And our CFO will show this in more
detail later. At the same time, we are ready for the impact of MiFID II and IDD
We believe that our commitment to a straightforward and transparent portfolio of
products clearly communicated is a major opportunity. Finally, for the other products we
distribute such as PNC [ph] insurance and loans mortgages, the Italian market is still
under penetrated when compared to the rest of the Europe.

Page 20 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Turning now to Slide 4. I would like to stress that our business model in ﬁnancial and
insurance distribution is resilient in all market conditions. This chart which looks at Poste's
retail net inﬂows in recent years helps demonstrate this fact. While Poste Italiane is seen
by Italian retail customers as a safe haven during periods of market turbulence, we also
perform well in more stable environments.
Of course, volatility can impact the mix of products we distribute on short-term basis, but
as we will discuss later, this does not change the long-term shift we see from capital
guaranteed products to mutual funds and unit linked insurance products, this is because
we start from a low penetration of those products, and so it is even more in the interest of
our clients to diversify their portfolios when faced with a more challenging economic
environment.
And while do you would expect loan and non-life insurance volume to be lower in a
slowing markets, Poste Italiane is a new entrant, so, we still have a signiﬁcant opportunity
to grow our market share.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going to Slide 5. So, our TFA performance in 2018 demonstrates the resilience that I just
spoken about. While many players in the ﬁnancial and insurance industry have reported
declining in TFAs in 2018, our TFA is increased from 510 billion to 514 billion. We saw
growth across all retail segments with the highest increase coming from private segment
customers. Here, we saw both an increase of net new customers, as well as a net
migration from other segments.
We also grew the overall number of customers. Thanks to the success of our payments
business, and to the issuing of PostePay to many young Italians. And this creates future
cross-selling and upselling opportunities.
On to Slide 6. Let's now review in more detail what we have achieved in 2018. Last year,
we say that the immediate focus of our Deliver 2022 plan was to expand our product
range to become a ﬁnancial one stop shop for our customers. We made signiﬁcant
progress in 2018. In wealth management, we build an eﬀective control open architecture.
Primarily, thanks to the agreement with CDP, and partners such as Anima and the new role
of our asset management company. This setup gives us the best of both worlds.
We get the ﬂexibility to pick and choose, the best in class asset management partners. But
we also retain full control of the relationship with our clients and we optimize our margins.
Our expanded platform includes new mutual funds and insurance products that are
playing a key role in the diversiﬁcation of our clients' portfolios.
I will go into more detail later with the steps that we are taking to continue the
development of our wealth management oﬀer.
We also further developed our capital light along distribution platform, by adding Intesa
and Unicredit as new partners. We now have a strong platform in this area, and very good
negotiating power when it comes to new and existing agreements.

Page 21 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Last but not least, in our life insurance, we successfully launched an innovative property
product and develop the complete welfare oﬀering both for Post employees and external
customers.
As you can see our partners are always amongst the best players in each sector. And
importantly, we now have a proven track record in successfully managing these
partnerships. And again I will provide more detail later on how we continue to develop
this platform.
Going to Slide 7. So, one of our major achievements in 2018 was the successful
implementation of our new (inaudible) agreement with CDP concerning Postal savings.
We exceeded the net inﬂow target set for the year, and this was stands to all the action we
put in place with CDP, which allowed for a renewed commercial focus by our network.
As a result, revenue was close to the upper end of the fee range and visiting [ph] the
agreement, exceeding 1.8 billion. This makes a signiﬁcant contribution to the substitution
of capital gains with recurring revenue.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Slide 8. Our more comprehensive portfolio is underpinned by major
operational changes across our network, as we enhance our service model and we
organized our business. We strengthen our network of relationship managers with a
particular focus on highly eﬀective mobile relationship managers, who cover Poste's
aﬄuent client base. Last year, customers with a dedicated relationship manager jump
from 7% to more than 20%. So, we are on track to achieve our target of 50% of customers
by 2022.
I will apply later our news mark coverage model that would be key to achieving this goal.
Thanks to the new investment plan part of Deliver 2022.
In Q4, we also released a major update of the IT platform available to our relationship
managers. This includes a robust for advisor tool, a data-driven CRM and enhanced front
end and is now MIFID2 and IDD compliant. Finally, as announced last year, we began to
delayer our structure but it using the number of regions from 9 to 6, and delivered
eﬃciencies in the network leading to savings in terms of FTE's.
But before we move ahead, I would like now to show a short video that shows one of our
1,000 mobile relationship manager at work. Please. (Audio-Video Presentation)
Moving now to Slide 10. So, as a result of the extraordinary commitment of our people
and all the action about line, we are proud to report record results for all product areas in
2018.
We grew TFAs faster than the market, despite headwinds in terms of performance aﬀect
in the life insurance business, mainly related to lower analyze capital gains of PosteVita's
government bond portfolio. And as already mentioned, we exceeded the target set for

Page 22 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

postal savings in our agreement with CDP, signiﬁcantly improving net outﬂows versus last
year.

FINAL

At the same time, we had a very large positive net inﬂow in life insurance and we're one of
the few asset gatherers to report positive net inﬂow for mutual funds. Thanks also to
strong positive ﬂows in deposits, total net inﬂows were almost 3x higher compared to
2017.
When looking at our life insurance volume, please remember that we have one of the
lowest lapse rates in the market. And also, as a policy we never advise our customers to
redeem capital guarantee its products before maturity. As such, we are continue to gain
market share in life insurance even if Gross Written Premiums in 2018 declined compared
to 2017.
Then in loan distribution, non-life insurance and payments, we achieved our highest ever
volume, gaining market share in line with the growth path set out in Deliver 2022. Of
course, this is just the ﬁrst step in our longer journey, but we believe that these results
demonstrate that they're moving in the right direction. And 2019 is the next step of our
journey.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, now let's focus on what lies ahead moving to Slide 12. Let's look at the key priorities
for 2019 in terms of organization and service model. We will start by adding around 1,000
new relationship managers to keep increasing client coverage. Most of them will be
young graduates hired from Italy's top universities.
In addition, we are going to retrain our best internal performance from across our
business. We would also create a new team of around 100 specialists to support our
relationship managers in accelerating our growth in PNC insurance. Then we already have
on average 1.4 million customers visiting our post oﬃces each day. So, we are also
focusing on increasing synergies between tellers [ph] and our relationship managers. To
do this, we have developed a real-time referral engine and now we are progressively
implementing this across the network.
To give you just one example, when an aﬄuent client enters into a post oﬃce and
identiﬁes himself, a dedicated message is sent in real time to his or her relationship
manager. Also in terms of IT development in 2019, we will provide our relationship
managers with automated real time investment proposals for all clients, so with this new
feature that will be able to spend more time with the clients rather than preparing
investment proposals themselves.
Moving now to Slide 13. I believe that it is useful to spend some more time demonstrating
how we are developing our network of relationship managers, using data analytics to
optimize coverage. So, our ﬁrst priority is to increase the number of mobile relationship
managers because they are the most eﬀective and eﬃcient solution to ensure
comprehensive coverage of high-value customers across Italy.

Page 23 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

So, the number of mobile relationship managers will increase by up to 50% in 2019. Then
to decide where to best our total focus our eﬀorts, we have developed a data-driven
model that optimizes the coverage area for each mobile relationship manager in terms of
both of distance covered, meaning less time is wasted in the car and market potential.
For example, in areas where our current market share is lower than our potential such as
area x. X that we can see in the slide, we will give our relationship managers a much
smaller customer portfolio business they can focus on the acquisition of new clients,
rather than just managing existing ones.
Moving now to Slide 14. I would like to share with you the next chapter of our wealth
management strategy. So, last year we said that the cornerstone of our strategy is to put
customer ﬁrst and to develop a closer relationship rather than simply sell products.
In work management, this means moving from a Single Standard Service Model to a
Diversiﬁed Interaction Model driven by customer needs. Of course, we will continue to
develop our traditional model, based on in-person interactions in our post oﬃces, and we
will add more and more support to our relationship managers. Thanks to investments in IT

Bloomberg Transcript

But in addition to that, in the coming months we will launch a fully digital advisory
platform, and a premium wealth management advisory service.
Looking ﬁrst at the premium oﬀer, we are already successfully attracting and retaining
private and aﬄuent customers, despite not historically having a dedicated premium
service model. These customers tend to have multiple relationships with other work
managers.
So, with the new simple and transparent dedicated proposition, we believe we have the
opportunity to increase our share of wallet and to attracting clients. We are creating a
network of highly skilled dedicated relationship managers, and supporting them with a
state-of-the-art advisory platform provided by a global asset manager. This will also
include real estate advisory and succession planning capabilities.
At the same time, we are developing new dedicated insurance and asset management
products, with an open platform approach as it is market standard for this segment. We
will oﬀer those services and products with the new fee on top scheme, whereby fees will
decrease in relative terms with increasing the TFA's. And in our 2019 targets, we are not
factoring in any meaningful revenue contribution for this business, because it is a major
innovation for us and we want to make sure we have the right model in place before
setting any target.
Turning to Slide 15. Before I introduce our new digital world management platform, let me
ﬁrst talk about what we are already doing in this space. In previous years, we began to
oﬀer existing customers the opportunity to invest online in postal bonds or term deposits
on pass books.

Page 24 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

More recently, we launched an end-to-end digital onboarding for new customers wanting
to invest in postal bonds. So, without any major marketing eﬀort, we were able to gather
around 1 billion of gross in so last year through our digital channels only. And now thanks
to a new multi-channel campaign this currently live, we have already gathered more than
400 million in the ﬁrst two months of 2019 alone. So, while the Italian digital wealth
management market is still at an early stage, we see a signiﬁcant opportunity to lead the
way.
As Marco showed earlier, we already have a signiﬁcant number of digital users for
transaction banking and payment services, most of them are young customers who own a
Postepay prepaid card, but they are mainly hidden aﬄuent customers among them. For
example, around 50% of customers who have invested in postal savings online are under
45, and more of these customers are aﬄuent compared with oﬄine customers.
So, we believe that our fully digital wealth management platform could meet the need of
young customers looking to begin their savings and investment journey, but we can also
meet the needs of smart aﬄuent customers looking from a simple transparent and costeﬀective way of investing their savings. And both groups are reassured by our trusted
bank.

Bloomberg Transcript

So to speed up, our title market we will embed the engine of a specialized ﬁntech [ph]
company. As we always do, will be entirely in charge of the relationship with our clients,
and we will use our own brand. This will be as well a ﬁnancial education tool with the
strong support of our central team for clients requiring assistance in the investment
process or after the initial investment.
Our revenue model will be based on a known in fee. And while we are -- of course very
excited about this new development, we are not factoring in any relevant contribution to
our 2019 targets, while this program gets oﬀ the ground.
Moving to Slide 16. In Deliver 2022, our priority for life insurance is changing the mix from
capital guaranteed products into unit linked and multi-class product. We want to meet the
need for additional diversiﬁcation in our clients' portfolios, while at the same time
beneﬁting PosteVita capital requirements. Now, thanks to the new multi class product we
launched last year, as well as the eﬀorts we put on training our salesforce and developing
our advisory platform, I am pleased to say that we are already in line with the mix we
targeted for 2022.
And in the coming months, we will continue to develop other multi-class products,
without aggressive pricing and an increasing level of customization based on clients'
needs.
Moving to Slide 17. I would also like constitute how client -- how we are preparing for the
ﬁnal stage of MIFID2 and IDD implementation. We have completed the (inaudible)
certiﬁcation of relationship managers, and we continued the extensive training eﬀorts
required. The robot for advisor platform that every dimension is

Page 25 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

fully MIFID2 and IDD compliant. So, when our relationship managers discuss an
investment proposal with the clients, they have the peace of mind that they are proposing
something that is full in line with the risk proﬁle of the client.
Finally, we are well below our benchmarks in terms of total cost of asset management and
life insurance products to the clients. So, all in all we believe that we are very well
positioned to capture opportunities that could arise from MIFID2 and IDD
implementation.
Moving to Slide 18. Now in loan and mortgage distribution, while we already have an
eﬀective open platform, we had the signiﬁcant room to improve activation and network
productivity as a result of Deliver 2022 initiatives.
In 2019, we will complete integration of new partners, and make signiﬁcant investments in
IT and marketing to support our growth. Thanks to these investments. We will launch an
end-to-end digital learning solution and we will further improve the use of data and
analytics for better targeting.

Bloomberg Transcript

To give you an example, we have already started a pilot project, where we are able to prescore selected customers. Based on our internal modeling, this is both creating and
higher propensity to complete the loan application and is resulting higher approval rates.
In this respect, we are already achieving an approval rate for higher-rated customers
almost twice higher, compared to lower rated ones. So, we continue to grow faster than
the market as we aim to become the leading distribution platform for personal loans in
Italy.
On to Slide 19. In non-life insurance, we currently have separate products for each
diﬀerent protection needs. And as the latest addition to our oﬀering, we can improve
both productivity and branch activation. This year, we work to evolve our separate
products into a simple modular oﬀer that our clients will buy through signing a single
contract to cover all their protection needs.
To support this, we are building an advisory platform that will help our relationship
managers to better assess the protection needs of the clients. And as I mentioned earlier,
that will also beneﬁt from the support of the new dedicated PNC specialist.
Also to update you on where we stand on motor insurance, let me remind ﬁrst that in
Deliver 2022, we are not factoring in any relevant contribution from this business before
2020. Last year, we started to look for potential partners. And after the ﬁrst round of
discussions, we decided to start a pilot project, whereby we will be distributing motor
insurance to our existing and former employees and their families, in partnership with
leading insurance companies.
Now, given that we are talking about around 500,000 potential clients, we believe it is
going to be a very good test before approaching external clients.
Page 26 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Let's look at Slide 20, now at the revenue targets for the ﬁnancial segment. Guido Nola
will cover later our targets for the insurance segment.

FINAL

In 2019, we expect to continue the steady growth of adjusted gross revenue, as we
continue to reduce the reliance on non-recurring revenue. The highest contribution to
revenue growth will come from interest income, and loan and mortgage distribution, both
thanks to higher volume.
As well from higher revenue from other segments that will increase signiﬁcantly, thanks to
the expected higher volume for the distribution of life, non-life insurance, as well as
PostePay products.
We also expect to remain the higher part of the range of the agreement with CDP for
postal savings fees. In asset management fees, we will grow faster than assets under
management net of Anima capital gain in 2018.
In transaction banking, we expect to grow core banking revenue with the launch of the
new current accounts oﬀering, mostly oﬀsetting the secular decline of bollettino payments
slips.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 21, you can see our targets and KPI's which are again conﬁrming full from Deliver
2022.
So to close on Slide 22. To sum up our priorities for 2019, we will further improve client
coverage and the IT platform supporting our relationship managers. We will develop a
diﬀerentiated multi-channel, wealth management service model, increase loan and
mortgage distribution, and launch a new tailored oﬀer in PNC insurance.
Now after delivering record results in 2018, we are conﬁdent that all these actions will
allow us to reach the target set for 2019, and continue our journey towards the successful
implementation of Deliver 2022. Thank you very much for your attention. I will now leave
the ﬂoor to our group's CFO, Guido Nola.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm Guido Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer of Poste Italiane. It's a
pleasure to present you in person for the ﬁrst time since I was appointed. I've met many of
you, since I joined and I look forward to connecting with you at the end of this
presentation.
I will start today by taking you through a quick overview of our ﬁnancial results for full year
'18 and Q4 '18 on a group and segment basis. A full result presentation is also available on
the Investor Relations website. I will then provide a Deliver 2022 ﬁnancial update looking
at 2019 guidance.

Page 27 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Moving to ﬁnancial results for 2018 on Slide 3. All segments have contributed to strong
growth in operating proﬁtability. Revenues were 10.9 billion, up 236 million or 2.2% versus
2017. Net of capital gain and other items revenues increased by over 4% for the year. Total
operating cost for the year was down 1.5%, aligned with our 2018 targets.
As anticipated with book the majority of early retirement charges for 2018 in Q4, as well as
high [ph] cost related to increase business activity in the last part of the year. I will provide
more details on cost both for 2018 and 2019 later on.
EBIT was 1.5 billion for 2018, up over 33% on year-on-year, demonstrating improved
operating leverage as increased revenues translate equally to EBIT, supported by cost
eﬃciency and net proﬁt. Thanks to our strong balance sheet with no leverage. This is to
even after stripping out 385 million one-oﬀ DTAs.
The strong progression of underlying operating proﬁtability is more visible on an adjusted
basis. Net of extra ordinaries such as capital gains, early retirement incentives and
provision, EBIT increased by over 50% in the year. Reported net proﬁt amounted to 1.4
billion for the year, and 1.2 billion on an adjusted basis, strongly increasing year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move to mail and parcel and distribution on Slide 4. We're accelerating
operating proﬁtability, was driven by early results from our ongoing network
transformation, combined with a better-than-expected performance in mail. Overall,
segment revenues increased by 2.1% in the fourth quarter, but were down 1.4% on a fullyear basis, broadly in line with Deliver 2022.
Let me highlight that combined mail and parcel revenues did not decline for the ﬁrst time
in the last 10 years. This is a signiﬁcant achievement in our strategy to stabilize revenues
oﬀsetting the secular decline in mail, while capitalizing on e-commerce growth.
Parcel revenues were up 22% for the quarter and 10% for the year, ahead of expectations.
These results validate the ongoing rollout of the new Joint Delivery Model and our focus
both on eﬃciency and quality.
Mail revenues were down 3%, ahead of expectations. Thanks to the delay in the
liberalization of speciﬁc register mail product which we currently deliver on an exclusive
basis. 2018, so signiﬁcant progression in terms of EBIT, supporting the acceleration of our
early retirement, that I will look at in more detail later.
Looking at EBIT on an adjusted basis, the underlying operating proﬁt progression is also
conﬁrmed on a quarterly basis.
Moving to Slide 5, we focus on volume and price trends. So, on Slide 5, record B2C parcel
growth countered the expected mail decline. Starting on the left, mail volumes decreased
by 7.6% in the fourth quarter and 5.5% for the year, broadly in line with Deliver 2022
expectations.

Page 28 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

The transfer mail volumes share with you early in the year continues. The lower margin
mail products decreasing, while higher margin products resilient. However, it is worth
ﬂagging that we do expect to see greater competition in these areas from 2019. Average
mail prices were up 5% in the quarter, and 4% in the year. And this is thanks to repricing
action to mitigate revenue decline.
Moving to the right hand side of Slide 5, parcel volume increased by over 21% for the
quarter, and 12.6% for the year, boosted by record B2C volumes up 27% for the year and
33% for the quarter. With a record 2.3 million parcel delivered during Black Friday week
and a one-day record of 1.2 million parcel delivered, we are clearly pleased with the
positive impact of Joint Delivery. With an increase in volume is just one element of our
network transformation, and maintaining high quality remains our priority.
Our average price index for parcel was down by 3%, both in the quarter and in the year.
This was due to volume mix, while average B2C prices were up in the fourth quarter, and
in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to Slide 6. Poste Italiana beneﬁts from leadership in fast-growing payment
market and so a strong progression in operating proﬁt. Revenue grew by over 11% for the
year.
Card payments were up 22% for the year, driven by a growing number of PostePay
prepaid cards, and higher transaction volume in both physical and digital channels. Other
payment revenues which include tax payments and money transfer were down 7% in the
fourth quarter, primarily impacted by the timing of certain tax payments, which shifted to
the third quarter.
Telecom revenues for the full year were up 3%, which was practically noteworthy in a
challenging competitive environment. Telecom revenues decreased by 5% in the fourth
quarter, primarily due to the ongoing business focus on transitioning clients to a more
sustainable yearly fee model.
Operating proﬁtability show continued progression on a yearly basis, while fourth quarter
results were impacted by 6 million one-oﬀ DTA charge, related to the startup of the new
PostePay company. This business will be a key driver of unlocking opportunities from
payments and mobile convergence. The new integrated product "PostePay Connect" is a
great example of what to expect going forward.
And now we move to Slide 7. The results for ﬁnancial services demonstrate process ability
to substitute non-recurring revenues with a more sustainable revenue mix. Segment
revenues increased by 13.6% in the fourth quarter, and by 4% for the year. Thanks to our
renewed commercial focus.
Let me highlight a few key elements. Postal saving fees were up 17% for the year,
increasing to the upper end of the range deﬁned with GDP agreement signed at the end
of 2017. Interest income was up 5% for the year, driven by higher than planned volume
and yields. Union mortgage distribution revenues, network accounting changes, group
Page 29 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

steady. In the appendix, we had provided adjusted ﬁgures for the segment to help
demonstrate the underlying trends.

FINAL

And now we can move to Slide 8. Well, you can see that we achieved positive results on
TFAs in spite of a volatile market. Total ﬁnancial assets increased by 4 billion in 2018,
driven by 1.6 billion net inﬂows. If we consider retailing inﬂows only, this number becomes
a much higher 3.5 billion from life insurance, mutual funds, and retail deposits.
Insurance products contributed with 5.6 billion of net inﬂows, of which 1.3 billion were
Unit linked and Multi Assets. Strong net inﬂows allowed us to oﬀset market performance
mostly related to government bond volatility. Postal savings net inﬂows improved
signiﬁcantly, supported by commercial initiatives and new digital oﬀers. Digital funds
posted positive net inﬂows of 0.5 billion, thanks to new product oﬀerings, leading to
higher market share in a very complex market environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to insurance services on Slide 9. Segment revenues were broadly stable in the
fourth quarter and up for the full year, driven by our expanded product and service oﬀer.
P&C revenues grew by 35% in 2018, as part of the ongoing diversiﬁcation of our oﬀer with
a signiﬁcant contribution from welfare products developed for employees which are now
ready to be fully distributed to the market.
Life insurance revenues were broadly stable in the quarter end in the year, and we
continue to increase our market share in life in 2018, while we are balancing the product
mix to Multi-Class. EBIT increased by 8.4% in the year, supported by higher revenues as
well as lower distribution costs. And ﬁnally, net proﬁt was in line with target for 2018, even
without the one-oﬀ 385 million DTA impact.
On Slide 10. I wanted to pose brieﬂy to focus on our unique business model for insurance.
We beneﬁt from 100% client base -- Italian client base, with limited churn and historically
low lapse rate, 50% lower than the market under all microenvironment.
This allow us to manage volatility through the cycle, with a solid asset liability
management approach and we started to diversify our portfolio. Moreover, let me
underline that even in current market condition, we still have signiﬁcant unrealized gains
amounting to 4 billion as of to date. In any case, we are rebalancing our life insurance
product mix from capital guaranteed products into unit linked and multi-class in the
interest of our customers.
Finally, let me stress the sustainability of our business over time. While we are not the
market leader by gross return premiums, we are by net inﬂows. Thanks to the loyalty of
our customers. We have an historical reinvestment rate above 60%. Please also bear in
mind that the guaranteed level of minimum guarantee returns is actually coming down
and is below our competitors.
Going forward, we expect an improvement, thanks to the increased weight of new
business.

Page 30 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

On Slide 11 now. On Slide 11, we look at PosteVita solvency ratio which on pro forma basis
6 at 235%. Thanks to decisive actions taken in 2018. As a result of the market deterioration
in the ﬁrst half of 2018, the ratio was down to 172% at the end of September. Although,
there was no business impact, we took proactive management actions in the third quarter
to restore solvency II, with no cost or dividend implications for the group.
Two of these actions were already accounted for in 2018. First, we limited the dividend
payout from PosteVita to Poste Italiane to about 50% for 2018. Second, the recognition of
385 million beneﬁt from deferred tax assets. In the meantime, market condition improved
both in terms of own funds and capital requirements, with a combine beneﬁt of 23
percentage points as you can see here, allowing PosteVita to end 2018 with a solvency
ratio of 211%.
In February, the regulator approved EUR 1.75 billion hard commitment from Poste Italiane
to PosteVita, of which about EUR 1 billion was accounted for here through capital, with the
beneﬁt of 24 percentage points.
Let me remind you that the balance will be accounted for tier-2, once our subordinated
bond expires in May, 2019. Looking back, these actions allowed us to reinforce our own
funds by 1.5 billion, a clear demonstration of our ability to manage market volatility within
the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our pro-forma ratio today is far more resilient than one year ago, considering that in the
meantime the spread of BTP to boom has almost doubled.
Let's move to Slide 12. With conﬁdence in the resilience of our solvency ratio, our
ambition is to maintain it around 200% through the cycle. We currently stand at 235%,
including the Ancillary own funds just approved.
On this slide, we have a line wise scenarios. It particular if the BTP boom spread widen to
450 basis points, our solvency would still be around 160%, well in excess of our risk
tolerance trigger.
Other sensitivities are also shown here for your beneﬁt so, we can move to Slide 13. Let's
ﬁnish our full-year review and look at cost and headcount reductions. Average account
decreased by 3,700 FTEs year-on-year, driven by turnover and early retirements, a key
enabler of workforce renewal. On the right-hand side of the slide, you can see the total
cost were down 1.8% for the year, despite accelerating early retirement charges.
On a quarterly basis, the trends are broadly conﬁrmed with the exception of ordinary HR
costs, increasing following the latest labor contract which will show its full impact during
2019.
Let's now look ahead with a focus on 2019 guidance on Slide 15. A quick reminder of the
ﬁnancial targets of Deliver 2022. As ﬂagged by Matteo, targets for 2020 and 2022 are as

Page 31 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

presented last February and clearly signposted. Our group 2019 ﬁnancial targets are both
pragmatic and achievable and in line with the trends for the plan.
Steady revenue growth in all segments contributed to the EBIT. 2019 targets are broadly
in line with the trend seen so far. When removing 385 million one-oﬀ DTAs, resulting in
ROE broadly unchanged year-on-year. In particularly, ROE for 2018 on an adjusted basis
stood at 15%. This numbers support our dividend growth for 2018 as planned in Deliver
2022.
And now moving to Slide 16, where we have mail, parcel and distribution. We're targeting
stable segment revenues in 2019, down 1% year-on-year with parcel revenues growing in
line with recent years and market trends oﬀsetting the ongoing mail decline. We conﬁrm
that operating proﬁt will continue to improve in line with the overall trajectory of Deliver
2022. The EBIT improvement will also be supported by increase of distribution revenues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to payments, mobile & digital on Slide 17. Card payments will continue to drive
2019 segment revenue growth up 14% year-on-year. We are targeting steady mobile
revenue growth up 2%, while contribution from traditional products are expected to slow
down. EBIT will grow by 9%, continuing the positive trend seen so far.
Moving to ﬁnancial services on Slide 18. We will continue to deliver an increasing revenue
quality by reducing the reliance on capital gains. Postal saving fees are conﬁrmed at the
upper end range of CDP agreement, as we continue to put postal savings back at the
center of our product oﬀer. Loan and mortgage distribution will continue to increase,
supported by the agreement signed in 2018, which will provide tangible results and value
on our network.
As you remember, we secured most of the capital gains planned for this year early in
2018, and secured the total amount early in the Q1, proving the eﬀectiveness of our active
portfolio management.
Let's move to Slide 19. On Slide 19, we show our strong track record in stabilizing the
contribution from our BancoPosta investment portfolio over time. Looking ahead to
Deliver 2022 targets, we conﬁrm that impact of volatility is manageable and we are
conﬁdent in achieving our targets in all realistic market scenarios. In particular, we will
continue to take active portfolio management approach to address volatility. So, while the
macro environment may change the underlying mix, it will not impact the end result.
Moving to insurance services on Slide 20. We will consolidate our leadership in life and
continue to grow the contribution from P&C We are targeting and increasing segment
revenues of 12%, driven by the shift from traditional life products to multi-cross products
seen ahead of schedule in 2018.
P&C will continue to grow as we increase our focus and dedicate more resources to this
business. EBIT forecast is stable due to high distribution cost pay to the network.

Page 32 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Slide 12 focuses on costs. Provision for early retirement incentives are expected to
decrease to 0.5 billion in 2019. We have also provided a chart another operating cost
guidance for 2019, in line with Deliver 2022, where we reinforce our focus on cost
discipline.
Regulatory changes, including (inaudible) are currently under assessment and may
increase the pool of potential beneﬁciaries of early retirement incentives. We will update
you further when more information is available.
Ordinary HR cost is expected to be higher in 2019, and bedding the latest label contract
salary increase for the full year. Non-HR costs including DNA will increase in 2019, due to
variable cost required to support growth and ongoing transformation initiatives.
On Slide 22, we looked at headcount evolution. Average headcount will decrease by
3,650 FTEs in 2019 to support ongoing workforce renewal. Early retirements as well as
natural turn over will continue to drive this process.

Bloomberg Transcript

Although, 2019 will see a signiﬁcant increase in new hires to support key areas of
industrial development such as, last mile delivery, relationship managers for ﬁnancial
services and group-wide IT and digital specialists. We saw a material growth in the value
added for employee from 60,000 to 63,000 per FTE between 2017 and 2018, and we
expect to go up to 66,000 in 2019, as a result of ongoing productivity enhancement.
Moving to CapEx on Slide 23. We will continue to deliver signiﬁcant and targeted
investments to support the ongoing Deliver 2022 strategic transformation. The total
amount of CapEx for the duration of the plan counts to 2.8 billion, 539 was deployed in
2018, and 600 will be deployed over the course of this year. We are showing here the key
areas of focus and let me underline that 2019 investments are already identiﬁed and
approved.
Let's move to Slide 24. To close, let me share with you my key takeaways. As you referred
from my colleagues today, 2018 has seen a great progress in activating the key initiatives
required to execute our plan signiﬁcantly reducing the execution risk of Deliver 2022. We
met all our ﬁnancial targets at both a group, and business unit level in 2018.
From both an operational and market perspective, we believe in our ability to continue
this process in 2019 and beyond. With good visibility on dividend growth, with a DPS of
0.44 for 2018, and further 5% in 2019, we are very conﬁdent about our commitment to the
future total return -- shareholders return.
On screen, I have highlighted our key priorities from a ﬁnance perspective. One, we'll
continue to focus on the ﬁnancial targets and KPI's established in Deliver 2022, pushing
all segments to meet their long-term targets. Our plan is made of many small steps and
we intend to consistently deliver on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Two, we will continue to
enforce cost discipline across the group, and use targeted investments to support
business transformation.

Page 33 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

And three, we will maintain an eﬃcient and strong balance sheet across all business
segments. Thank you very much for your attention. Will now be very happy to take your
questions. Gianluca ﬁrst.

FINAL

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes, hi. Gian Luca Ferrari from Mediobanca. First question is for Andrea. Very interesting
presentation on your asset gathering or wealth management platform. Just you can push
back we get is that the customer base of Poste is not very keen on having high exposure
to equities. So, I was wondering for your private banking kind of clients, which kind of
solutions are you expected to oﬀer? And which kind of exposure to equities do you think
your clients will get?
The second question is for Guido. Looking at the solvency, you just showed us -- I think
you're setting your managerial ambition at 200%.
So, you are ready above that but, the remittance you get from PosteVita is still quite low.
50% of PosteVita's earnings, so it seems you are quite conservative on the earnings that
PosteVita is up streaming, but you are happy with your solvency II position, so which is the
level you want to reach before having a stronger upstream of cash from PosteVita, a link to
these if you can tell us what is the eﬀect of the country VA embedded in the 25
percentage points decline in the solvency for spreads up 100 basis points. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Please Andrea.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. So, as I said -- I will say as a general remark, we are recommending
our clients to increase their equity exposure smoothly. As shown in my presentation, we
are transitioning from an exposure towards mainly capital guaranteed products, towards
other asset classes because, we believe it is in the interest of our clients to do that.
And if you look at the breakdown between segments, you would notice that the equity
exposure for upfront and in particular private customer is already higher, compared to the
overall customer base, because the data is shown these for the overall customer base.
And notwithstanding that, what we are doing for the new service model, as I mentioned
we are working on new multi-class insurance products dedicated for this speciﬁc
segment, where they will be a higher equity exposure, compared to the same kind of
products we sell to mass customers for example.
And we will also working to open up the architecture a little bit, for example; for clients
that wants to bring their own mutual funds or other products they already have
somewhere else, not to Poste to be managed within single relationship.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}
Page 34 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Okay, so on the 2 points which were very correct. If you go -- if you could put up page 12
of my presentation, actually 11 of my presentation, we showed that this year we retained
50%. And if you remember from last quarter's call what the CEO committed to is to
stabilize the solvency II ratio with the growth of the business. So, what we said during the
call is that we were reviewing the 90% payout to a more ﬂexible more than 50%.
So, what we are doing here is that we are assuming that we will keep using for '19 the
same approach and then obviously, we'll look how the market develops, and how the
growth develops. So, we're very conﬁdent and you can see the eﬀective of about 6-7
percentage points, which is broadly in line and our expectation of this year growth of the
business.
To the second point of country VA, what I can tell you is that last year so that 2018 doesn't
have in it any eﬀect from country VA Country VA was about ﬁve basis points away from
being triggered. So, the eﬀect of this slide that is now gone, you'd see that the ﬁrst 10%
increasing DTP has a lower eﬀect that the 200, because if he had removed 5% more at the
beginning went up before going down. So, that's to give you a sense of how the VA acts.
In the sensitivities included. Giovanni?

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. This is Giovanni from Equita. Thank you for taking my question. And the
ﬁrst one is on the NII, where in the 2018 now you are posting 1.6 billion of NII and -- sorry
1.6 billion target of NII in 2019, and you basically assumed as lack of trend up to 2022. In
fact to me seems a fairly prudent assumption.
So, in general I would like to know what that you share this comment. And if you can also
share with other what would be a nutshell [ph] trend in NII if we were to project the
current spreads reinvestment yields over the life of the plan. So, just to have an idea of
what could be the upside on this target, because if you're not -- if I remember correctly in
the plant in February last year, you were assuming something like 100 basis points of
lower reinvesting in. So, that's my ﬁrst question.
And the second question is on the average margin on the total ﬁnancial assets. You have
reported 4 basis points year-on-year increase from 92 to not mistaken to 96. I assume that
this is due to a mix eﬀect. So, if you can also comment on these are what were the main
component of all these trends? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Please, Andrea.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

So, on the NII, as you mentioned we are reinvesting maturities and new inﬂow coming
from retail deposits at a rate which is a bit higher compared to the expectation we had
originally in Deliver 2022, and this is a conﬁrmation what we said that during the course
during the year that a short-term volatility in government bonds spread could be positive
for Poste in terms of progression of NII
Page 35 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

Looking ahead, as a general remark as the CEO and we're looking for -- we are not
updating the targets for 2020 and beyond. In terms of our target is to manage the
portfolio activity in order to let's say stabilize as much as we can the overall return we get
from the portfolio.
Going to the second question on revenue over TFA there are both a mix eﬀect, and I will
say an yield eﬀect. The mix eﬀect is coming from the transition we were discussing earlier
from let's say low-risk towards equity products, which generally speaking have higher
revenue for us, when we sell a -- of course in equity fund that we have NII return compare
to a ﬁxed income fund like everybody in the market.
And in 2018, there was also an yield eﬀect coming from postal savings where in the
average return from Poste went up as the result of the new agreement with CDP.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

The next question.
I think if I can just add on the ﬁrst question. Andrea is correct to say this is more of a
strategic decision today of not updating 2020 and 2022 Deliver 2022 ﬁgures. Let's not
forget that the EBIT of 2017 was 1.1 billion, of which 532 million were made of capital gains.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, being able to date to have a discussion and Q&A, a way from capital gains, I think is
already in itself a very important result for the ﬁrm. Give us the time to come back with in
more structure. I'm swear on net interest margin going forward.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. This is Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Just a couple of questions. First for Guido. I
mean, is it possible to get some color on the cash ﬂows at the holding company, and
because you are expecting some lower dividend from insurance. So, how should we think
about the dividends to the shareholders? How safe it is? Do you have any buﬀers? Or are
you running at the is a kind of 100% level after CapEx, etcetera? So, any color on cash
ﬂows for next 2-3 years so there you look at it would be great.
Then secondly for Andrea. I mean Andrea, if I understand correctly continental customers
are very riskovers [ph]. I mean they are happy with 0% guarantees, but they typically don't
want to go into no guarantee or say micro-risk products. So, what gives you more
conﬁdence that you can switch 40% of your ﬂows into multi-asset, which I would say
would have capital I mean risk capital addressed.
So, what gives you that conﬁdence that customers will start switching into that, I mean this
is what I have noticed in Belgium and Holland and France that unit linked multi-asset is
still not that common and same in Italy so far, so that would be another question. Thank
you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}
Page 36 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

Okay, Guido.

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Okay. On cash ﬂow you can see, I don't know if you could put up page 33 of my
presentation where you can see our cash ﬂows for the year -- I think overall, what I can tell
you apart from just this slide is that this is a particular year it marginally we generate cash
normally. In this year you had a very small reduction given by the 50% payment from
dividend reduction from PosteVita or PostePay and from a capital increase at Poste -BancoPosta. So net of that it will be positively generating, but overall we start from a very
high position.
This year, we will pay an increased dividend out of this new setup with decreased
dividends from PosteVita and without aﬀecting any reserves. The other thing that I can tell
you is that I stress every time you have zero leverage. We currently have basically nothing,
when the bond is going to step oﬀ the PosteVita bond is going to expire, as we said we're
not going to renew it, that will take the overall indebtedness of the group down. So, I
think from a cash perspective, we feel extremely strong.
Manuela --

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

There was a second question.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

I'm sorry. Yeah, there was a second question pretty, please.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So, if you go back to page 16 of my presentation. To answer your question here we are
showing that we are already aligned with the needs we targeted in Deliver 2022 in terms
of switch from capital guaranteed towards multi-class products.
And if you look at the same ﬁgures for the overall Italian market, we are actually more
conservative compared to what the market is doing that. Broadly speaking is now 50/50
capital guaranteed and multi-class (inaudible). So, we're doing it. .

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Good morning. Manuela Meroni from Banca IMI I have two questions. The ﬁrst one is on
Mail, Parcel & Distribution. I'm wondering if you can provide us with a little bit of color on
the main drivers of the revenue evolution in 2019, divided by volume growth and the price
mix and within price mix, if you expect some changes in terms of total pricing or just a mix
that change the price index?
And the second question is just on a clariﬁcation on ﬁnancial services NII yield, do you
expect in 2019 to of a NII yield higher compared what we have seen in the last quarter of
Page 37 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

2018? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes. Andrea, you want to start with the NII and I'll ask (inaudible).

FINAL

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Yes, I think I will repeat what I said earlier we are -- our target is pretty much to stabilize
the yield by as a result of the reinvestments of expiring bonds and the new investments
we are doing.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

All right. I'll take the ﬁrst part -- Just the ﬁrst part if you want to go page 5 of my
presentation and then --

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

More focusing on '19, correct?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Yes, I'll start from '19 volumes, okay. With the trends what -- so basically I think I can say
that we conﬁrm the trends we've seen this year apart from the mail performance which we
said in a few instances that was better than what we expected and better than the trends
we've seen so far in the last years. So, this we expect for '19 going back to that trend
rather than repeating of 2019.
So, in mail, we expect to go back to a minus 0.5%. And in terms of pricing, we don't
expect to review pricings up again. I think we are going to have to stick with the ones we
have. What we have is that, from a positive side of things, as I said in my speech, the delay
in certain speciﬁc products, delay of the opening on the market in certain speciﬁc product
is also taking to account the plan might have some positive, if it takes longer than we
expected in to be seen in the numbers.
In terms of parcel, well you heard again several times we keep saying the same path of
growth, especially in B2C and in that you'll see a reduction again in pricing, but once
again only given by the volume mix, we're not expecting a reduction in the pricing of
speciﬁc products.

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Yes. Clearly, we are setting relatively ambitious targets of revenues in parcel for ourselves
this year. We gave our commercial frontline ambitious targets. And on the mail side, it's
going to be slightly worse in terms of decrease than last year, but to get there we still
need to make big commercial eﬀort.
So overall, as I said in my opening speech, the whole company is getting much more of a
commercial attitude, the SDA parcel unit, the express company of the group -- sales force
Page 38 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

from 2019 has been merge into the Poste Italiana and we're going to be oﬀering one
single parcel product, because; up to last year it was two separate product and two
separate sales force, and there is we believe will bring us a higher market penetration, but
it's correct, there is a -- we have set in ourselves ambitious targets in this space.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Elena?

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Elena Perini from Banca IMI I've got three questions. And one
clariﬁcation on the insurance business.
In particular, looking at the Slide number 20 of the CFO's presentation, I see a big jump in
the gross rate and premiums in 2019, then they go down again in 2020. I would like you to
provide if you can some more color on this movement and on the main drivers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then about the segment revenues of the insurance services. We have a signiﬁcant growth
in 2019, combined with a basically ﬂattish EBIT or a limited growth, so I was wondering if it
is due to higher inter-segment cost or other cost for side items?
And then on the motor business, if you are going to provide a pilot project to your
employees with -- the partners. So, I was wondering at what stage are your negotiations
with potential partners. And ﬁnally a clariﬁcation on the remittance of PosteVita. The 50%
level is only for 2018, or it is assumed to be stable going forward too? Thank you very
much.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe I can start with the last one and then let Andrea.
We set it at 50%, because we want to has a target that the growth of the company is
supported by capital. And therefore, we change it for 2018 and we have the target for
2019. But obviously, this is 100% fully owned company. So, we will assess depending on
growth of the business and level of the solvency, and clearly depending also on market
trends. And Andrea, if you want to start with page 20?

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Okay. So the gross written premiums are ﬁrst the trend pretty much depends on the
amount of maturities we have on each year. So, we expect to have it growing fast in terms
of '19 ﬂow. So, we are not expecting a declining net inﬂow, despite declining gross written
premiums. So, the diﬀerence is due to a diﬀerent amount of maturities here.
I can cover also the motor insurance question. As I said in my presentation, we are
discussing with leading insurance companies and we will announce in due course you

Page 39 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

know the departments [ph] we will use for this pilot. And I guess I will need to be though
the --

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

No, I think we'd play another one.

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Yes, all right.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Anna, Please.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Good morning. Anna Adamo from Autonomous. I have two questions. And ﬁrstly, can you
update us on your M&A strategy, and related to this point, are you still considering
increasing your stake in FSIA to become a vertically integrated player in the payment
ecosystem in Italy?

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly, I'm sorry I have to come back to the bond portfolio in BancoPosta, can you
update us what is the level of unrealized gains or losses in BancoPosta bond portfolio,
whether I'm right in assuming that in 2019 you have already secured the 300 million of
capital gains? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. I'll take the ﬁrst one and ask Andrea to take second one. There is no update on
M&A The plan is based on organic growth and we're not planning to become a vertically
integrated mobile -- sorry payment operator. And on the bond portfolio, the -- who wants
to take this one? Andrea?

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

Yes. So the -- I conﬁrm that we are -- we have mostly secured the capital gains we were
planning for 2019, as we already announced last year. And we are going to book them in
the ﬁrst quarter of 2019. Whereas in terms of a add or loss capital gain or capital losses in
the BancoPosta portfolio, the number at the end of December was minus 1.7 billion as we
said in the presentation.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Federico

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Good morning. Federico Braga from UBS Just one question again on the product mix for
your clients to the higher risk that you are trying to add to the portfolio of your clients. So,
to what extent in that this strategy could put at risk the trust from your clients that you've
Page 40 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

mentioned also the beginning of the presentation, which you deﬁne as a key asset for
Poste Italiane [ph] risk coming from this strategy? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Andrea?

A - Andrea Novelli

{BIO 15185958 <GO>}

I think it is useful to clarify one point. We have a diﬀerent strategy for each segment. For
example, for mass customers who have let's say EUR10,000 to invest, we never advise
them to buy anything else than for example a Postal bond or invest in turn depositing in a
passbook., because if you have a smaller wealth and a small portfolio, it doesn't make
sense to buy mutual funds or equity.
Whereas, when we are talking about private segment customers, we have customers with
the portfolio with us which is let's say EUR5 million or EUR10 million, they most likely have
the same amount with other work managers. I think it's the other way around. If we don't
advise them to diversify their portfolios and we have them keeping 100% of their portfolio
invested in a single product 100% capital guaranteed, we believe we are not doing the
interest of that clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the answer is really depending on what kind of customers we're talking about and we
adjust our proposition and strategy depending on that.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Matija?

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Matija Gergolet from Goldman Sachs. Two questions for me. One on numbers and one
more on strategy. So, on the numbers, just a quick one on the labor costs in the fourth
quarter up 2%, I didn't quite get why they were up 2% in the fourth quarter, but for the full
year they were down, so you can just a bit elaborate this was the some one-oﬀ or was
there -- I think on page 13 of your presentation.
And secondly maybe going back to the presentation earlier this morning, you're creating
PostePay like an SpA so I didn't ﬁnd the company, because there are some other IPOs in
the payment sector in Italy and it's a fairy is a hot sector. Are you also considering maybe
in the future to not bring that subsidiary to the market to maybe now bring out some
hidden value in the company? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay, I'll take the ﬁrst question. There is no IPO in the plan and not in the strategy of the
company. You have to consider that in that company today we have 26 million contracts
of card holders and over 4 million contracts and relationship of TLC clients. So, we believe

Page 41 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

FINAL

that there is so much value in cross selling to client base together with rest of the product
range of the company, that input -- I think the utility [ph] for us to consider selling.
We have a lot of -- you know on the other side we have a lot proposals of other product
factories that want to obviously get into some sort of agreement and then beneﬁt of our
network for distributing in other products. We -- you know, either we do a commercial
agreement there, where we select the partners, look at loan and mortgages, we select the
partner and then we distribute on their own name third-party, okay. Or we have our own
product in house and don't share the outside of the company itself.
And on labor cost that does increase -- Guido?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So, if you go actually to page 13, you can see what you're referring to. In order to come on
this, and we'll also go to page 21. So yes, in October, you're totally right, we announced
that the renegotiation of the labor contract was hitting us since October. So, this is why
you could also see on page 21, that between 2018 and 2019 we expect an increase in
ordinary HR cost, this is driven by the fact that this contract it says in full in 2019. So for
2019, only hit us for the last quarter.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Ashik for the last question.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Ashik Mussadi from JP Morgan. Just one quick question. I mean when you have done
really a good job in harvesting your distribution network by I mean getting into with
Anima, Verizon, Intesa looking for motor insurance as well. I mean what more is there in
the pipeline on your distribution.
I mean Matteo just alluded that in payments as well there could be some opportunities,
but is there any intangible things that are there on the horizon or is it a constant lookout. I
mean can you just give us a bit more visibility on what could be there or let's say twothree years? Or at the moment if there is nothing would be great to know as well. Thank
you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

At the moment there is basically nothing else, basically -- obviously we have sort of
medium-term expansion strategies, but the reality is that we are putting quite a lot at the
moment on the plate of the postal oﬃce, not only in terms of products. As I think,
Andrea's presentation has shown very clearly is a transformation that is happening inside
the operating model of the postal oﬃce which is coming from a cultural and people
transformation on one end, and a big which I think today was emphasized but I would like
to take the opportunity of your question to re-emphasize this even more.

Page 42 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

The digital support of this transformation is much stronger than you might proceed. When
you're talking 2.5 million transactions per day, 13,000 oﬃces, 60,000 front end people, if
you put a digital support to this huge day-to-day platform clearly, you know the
productivity gains that you get are very signiﬁcant.

FINAL

And that's what we're doing and we think is the best way to extract value from the
network.
Last question? Yes, the very last question.

Q - Analyst
The last question from (inaudible). A quick one. Given the 1.7 billion unrealized losses at
BancoPosta. Do you see any risk that dividends or proﬁts pro-forma from BancoPosta to
Poste Italiane have risen by the regulator in any environment in any scenario?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think the answer is easy. No, because they don't hate as anywhere and so, we nor on the
business side nor in the capital side so, that doesn't have any eﬀect.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We're ready for the closing remarks by CEO.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

So, thank you for all your questions and obviously feel free to contact Massimo and our
team if you need any additional clariﬁcation.
I just wanted to close today reiterating a couple of key messages. The ﬁrst one is that Post
Italiane, we have shown you has met all ﬁnancial targets both at the group and segment
level. Thanks to a strong progression of underlying operating proﬁtability.
What we're really proud of is the improvement of the quality of our revenues and our
revenue results. The reduced reliance on capital gains as I mentioned. The increase in
B2C parcel volumes and added value services in the space. The leadership in cards
payments and the broadening of our service and product delivery in postal oﬃces as
we've seen today. These are the key elements that's driving our company-wide
transformation.
The decision to put our clients at the center of our company strategy, coupled with
operating eﬃciencies are really creating a very powerful distribution network. I honestly
believe that we are only at the beginning of this journey. In 2019, we will consolidate the
transformation and we will show you that we are even more conﬁdent that we are clearly
on the right track.

Page 43 of 44



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2019-03-20

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thank you very much again for coming today. And I look forward to seeing all of you in
the nearest future. Thank you very much.

Page 44 of 44

